Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
October 24, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Debbie McDonald – Material Management Application Administrator – 16 years
Jason Steinmetz – Quality Control – 20 years
Special Recognition – Bus Roadeo
RTD Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – Jimmy Romero – Platte
RTD Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Ryan Gill, Matt Johnson, Randall Peterson – East Metro
RTD Service and Cleaning Winner
1st Place – Ralph Gonzales – Platte
Private Contractor Fixed Route Operator Winner
1st Place – Jose Ek Chan – First Transit Denver
Private Contractor Fixed Route Maintenance Team Winners
1st Place – Bor Baatar, Gerardo Cabrera, Curt Sarinopoulos – First Transit Longmont
Paratransit Operator Winner
1st Place – Jack Rowland – MV Transportation

Special Recognition – Light Rail Rodeo
Light Rail Operator Winners
1st Place – Robert Dennis
2nd Place – Narciso Garcia, Jr.
3rd Place – Diane Chavez
Light Rail Maintenance Winners
1st Place – George Sweeney
2nd Place – Mike Hubbard
3rd Place – Matt Jackson
Special Recognition – Snow Plow Rodeo
Single-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – David Waite and Raymond Wendt
2nd Place – Leo Dowd and Jusef Robinson
3rd Place – Chip (Richard) Seedroff and Mark Weifenbach
Tandem-Axle Snow Plow Truck Winners
1st Place – David Johnson and John Prather
2nd Place – Carlos Hernandez and Martha Guzman
3rd Place – Randy Wagner and John Oldham

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

2018 Salaried Benefit Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the 2018 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the General
Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.
B.

Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to extend an Agreement with Metro/Yellow Transportation, Northern Yellow,
and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-a-Cab services. In addition, it is recommended by
the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the
General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to add Green Taxi
Cooperative as a new provider for the Access-a-Cab program.
C.
Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate Demand Shift of Access-a-Cab
Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $505,000 from Yellow Cab Accessa-Cab service to Metro Taxi Access-a-Cab service and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab service in
the amounts of $340,000 and $165,000 respectively to adjust for the shift in customer
demand for these services in 2017.
D.

Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to exercise option years one and
two of the Via Mobility Services Contract 16DH048 for the provision of Travel Training
services. The cost of the two one-year option years shall not exceed $265,700. The
total cost of Contract 16DH048 shall not exceed $399,740.
E.

Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract for
$612,700 dollars with Geismar MTM for purchase of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract
Number 17DR002).

XII.

Recommended Action
F.

Salaried DB & DC Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of $5.1 million to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018

contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the
plan for each year of employment.
G.

Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the 20182023 Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal
Sustainability by effecting current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.
H.

Adoption of the Long Range Financial Plan

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the Long Range Financial Plan.
This action item meets the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal Sustainability by effecting
current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.
I.

January 2018 Service Change

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 2018 Service Change package as summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
J.

Approval of Budget Transfer between Access-a-Ride Service Providers

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to transfer budgeted funds
totaling $1,120,030.00 from MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053) and Via Mobility
Services (Contract 13-DH-055) to All Aboard Transit (Contract 13-DH-054) and Transdev
On Demand (Contract 13-DH-035) to account for changes in Access-a-Ride service
delivery during the period of January 1, 2017 through September 30,2017. Funds will be
transferred from the MV Transportation fuel line item ($240,000.00), from the Via
Mobility service line item ($672,030.00) and from Via Mobility fuel line item
($208,000.00) and will be transferred to All Aboard Transit (290,000.00) and TransDev
Mobility on Demand ($830,030.00).

XIII.

Executive Session
Negotiations with Denver Transit Partners concerning change in law claims. Negotiations
with Regional Rail Partners concerning construction claims. CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b)
(Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions); CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining positions relative

to matters that may be subject to negotiations; developing strategy for negotiations; and
instructing negotiators).

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

6.A

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Thursday, September 21, 2017
Board Conference Room
2:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Tina Francone
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Francone called the meeting to order at 2:30 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Francone, Committee Sisk,
Chair Hoy, Directors Anderson, Broom, Walker,
and Williams

Other members present:

Director Menten

Others Present:

General Manager Genova, Executive Manager Barbara
McManus, Board Office Administrator John McKay

B. Review General Manager's Mid Year Assessment
Committee Chair Francone thanked the committee members for attending and for
reviewing the packet.
Director Sisk asked whether the committee would meet with General Manager
Genova the following week and how the information from this committee would be
disseminated to him.
Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M

6.A

Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, said that the committee
members would fill out the goals chart, which General Manager Genova and the
remaining Directors would also receive.
Director Sisk stated that the meeting was open and that the information could be
shared.

Ms. McManus said that the committee’s review is an incremental measure of where
the General Manager stands to date. She stated that the committee would have the
opportunity the following week to meet with General Manager Genova and give him
direction. She said that previously staff would submit updates quarterly but noted
that Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Finance and Administration, had been collecting responses monthly in an effort to
keep everything current.
Committee Chair Francone started the review process with Core Goal #1.
Ms. McManus suggested that the committee read the goal and do a cursory review
of the accomplishments required for the General Manager to have met or exceeded
his performance goals, unless a Director specifically felt that he needed to improve
on a particular area.
Director Anderson stated that the G Line was supposed to be in operation in 2016.
She said she did not know whether that was the General Manager’s problem but
commented that her community was upset. She said she felt they did not receive
successful delivery of transit services but noted that the Federal Railroad
Administration did not approve the line.
Director Deadwyler commented on the noise from the University of Colorado A
Line. She said she did not know if that was the General Manager’s responsibility
but stated the agency did not give the local constituents the quiet zones that they
were promised.
Director Anderson said the quiet zones are the purview of the cities and not RTD.
She said the cities have to apply for quiet zones and would not hold the General
Manager accountable for that.
Director Broom said that the Board was properly notified of the reasons the G Line
opening was falling behind. He said that he was confused as to why the line was
so far behind. He attributed the delay to software problems with crossing gates on
the University of Colorado A Line and said it was the contractor’s responsibility to
fix the problems.
Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said that the goals chart is a dynamic document. He said that the
performance review is a process that takes a year.

6.A

Chair Hoy mentioned that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) was meeting
that day regarding the Eagle P3 Project. He said that the FRA had paralysis on
making a decision on the operation of the University of Colorado A Line, because
they have been doing things the same way since the 1800’s. He said there had
been some internal problems with the FRA because of how hard RTD had pushed
them.
Committee Chair Francone said that the agency was in the same spot last year
because R Line had not yet opened.

Director Broom stated that, from the City of Aurora’s perspective, the opening
went well.
Committee Chair Francone said that the members had discussed that certain lines
were not opened on time. She said that the evaluation criteria did not include a
specific criterion for the opening of a particular line.
Chair Hoy agreed and said that the goals were not that defined.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether the committee would agree that, while
some delays were based on issues with the University of Colorado A Line, there is
a question of responsibility. She said that, at the end of the day, the person
responsible is the General Manager.
Director Deadwyler said that the University of Colorado A Line gate crossings were
not fixed and that she had been stuck at one several times.
Committee Chair Francone said that she receives a text from her nephew every
time he sees a crossing at which the front gate lowers down but back gate does
not.
Chair Hoy said the gates operate that way by design in order to allow drivers out of
the crossing and that the gates’ operation depends on the timing of two trains
coming from two separate directions.
Director Anderson said that the gates come down too soon, before drivers can see
or hear the train.
Director Broom said that, from a practical standpoint, the crossings are not
completed, which means that General Manager Genova cannot receive the highest
score but rather scores somewhere in the middle.
Chair Hoy asked whether the goal would be achieved if the FRA said that the gates
are running as well as possible.
Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson said that the R Line was not scheduled to open until January.

6.A

Director Anderson said the goal would be achieved in that case.

Committee Chair Francone said that the five line openings were an issue from the
previous year.
Director Sisk said the agency is still dealing with that issue.
Ms. McManus suggested focusing on the “achieved” and “exceeded” goals as
General Manager Genova presented them in his self-evaluation.
Committee Chair Francone said that, for goal #1, General Manager Genova has
achieved at least 80% of Board-adopted performance standards.
Director Anderson stated that the Women’s March was a huge success and that
the event was larger than a Broncos game. She said that no one complained to her
saying that the agency did not meet their expectations.
Director Deadwyler stated that the Broncos Ride was a mess when buses did not
show up. She said the expectation was that buses would arrive and bring
passengers to the game, which did not happen.
Director Broom said that the transit system is built to meet its needs and that the
agency cannot have resources that are not used 90% of the time.
Director Anderson noted that, on the night Director Deadwyler referred to, the
agency also dealt with a Rockies game and rush-hour traffic.
Director Menten said that rider alerts were issued.
Director Sisk said that this occurred on September 9th, 2017.
Ms. McManus noted that the events took place after the General Manager had
submitted his self-evaluation, which the committee received on August 23rd, 2017,
and were not included in that document.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the agency was overpromising service.
Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk said that the committee was jumping ahead and must consider the
goals as they stand at that point. He said the committee was conducting a mid-year
examination. He said that he did not hear from the committee members that the
General Manager had exceeded expectations on that particular goal and that the
General Manager is ultimately responsible for the operation of the line. He said that
the Board should also take responsibility for setting standards that are too high and
accepting staff proposals to open five lines within a year.

6.A

Committee Chair Francone said that the delivery of service for special events is an
“exceeds goal” criterion.
Director Menten noted that the agency receives attendance estimates for certain
special events based on the number of people identified in the permit request. She
asked whether the agency had a process to identify other events with high
attendance and stated that, even with all the vehicles in the world, the agency does
not have enough drivers.

Committee Chair Francone noted that the City and County of Denver coordinates
with the police department on attendance estimates.
Director Deadwyler asked how long in advance the agency knew and whether the
agency should alert customers if it is known that the system cannot handle the
anticipated ridership.
Director Anderson said she heard such a warning on the radio.
Director Deadwyler said that there is an expectation that the buses will be there.
She asked when the agency should warn the public.
Director Broom said that there would not be a public announcement that certain
routes would be impacted and said that he could not see a way to get the
notification to each impacted individual.
Director Deadwyler said the agency could have put out an alert stating that
schedules had changed.
Committee Chair Francone noted that the agency does not have the resources to
make other arrangements.
Director Deadwyler responded that she would make other arrangements if she were
told in advance that Access-a-Ride service would not be available on certain dates.
Committee Chair Francone asked how the committee should go about completing
the General Manager’s performance review chart.
Ms. McManus suggested that the committee could go over the each of the items
listed on the chart from bottom to top and review General Manager’s answers on
his self-evaluation.
Chair Hoy explained that his individual vote would be included in the consensus
vote for a given goal.
Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said that RTD was aware of the number of people requiring service that
day.

6.A

Committee Chair Francone said that she felt General Manager Genova achieved
over 85% of Board-approved performance, and the committee agreed. She asked
whether the committee agreed that the General Manager “creates, collaborates,
explains, and implements” local area service standards and “presents a plan to not
reduce service standards”, and the committee agreed. She also asked about the
requirement to monitor the performance of Denver Transit Partners, and the
committee agreed he met this goal as well.

Director Anderson said the General Manager himself claimed to have met 85% of
performance measures. She said he has stated that he completed other
accomplishments but had not met the 90% mark.
Chair Hoy agreed and noted that the General Manager may yet achieve other goals
later in the year.
Committee Chair Francone noted that the General Manager’s review covered the
period up to August and has the rest of the year to achieve his goals, and the
committee concurred the General Manager had not achieved 90% of performance
goals.
Regarding the goal of providing “outstanding and noteworthy service for all major
RTD-supported special events…in addition to providing normally scheduled service”,
Committee Chair Francone asked whether anyone felt the General Manager had not
met that goal.
Chair Hoy said he felt the General Manager had not met that goal.
Director Sisk answered that he was ambivalent but did note the service the agency
provided for the Women’s March in January, which he felt would put the General
Manager over the top. He said he would be a yes.
Director Walker initially said he leaned toward a yes vote. He noted there had been
some problems with normal service but could not say how big of an impact there
had been. He said he would be a no on the goal.
Committee Chair Francone declared the committee’s consensus was that the
General Manager achieved the goal but did not exceed expectations.
Director Anderson commented that the term “mission creep” came to mind. She
suggested that the committee could focus more on the agency’s mission and not
on providing extra service. She said the Board expected top performance on
Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone asked whether the committee felt the General Manager
had exceeded 90% of performance measures.

6.A

everything the agency does but noted the systemic problems of being able to hire
enough people in an economy with a 2.4% unemployment rate.
Director Broom said that the hiring issue was a long-term problem.

Director Sisk said that he had a different impression, that special services affect
individuals who are also RTD’s constituents and who may have used RTD’s
services only once. He said that the committee need not pit constituents against
one another and that the last thing he wanted was for RTD to be seen as antiBroncos. He cautioned that the agency must be careful with its messaging. He said
there are concerns over mission creep and over-promising and stated that the
agency has an opportunity to do a better job announcing when services are
projected to be over capacity.
Director Walker said that he struggled with the special services review criterion. He
noted that every industry is having trouble filling positions. He said RTD does a
good job of providing regular service but noted that dropped services were unusual
until a couple of years ago. He said that, if this were unique to RTD, that would be
one thing, but he did not want to hold the General Manager accountable to
something beyond his control. He said the agency does a good job of
communicating capacity problems.
Director Anderson noted that she has constituents who only use RTD’s services to
go to Broncos games.
Director Deadwyler said her concern was that staff should do a better job making
strategic plans in advance, rather than last-minute adjustments.
Committee Chair Francone continued on to Core Goal #2, regarding strong ethical
leadership. She asked if anyone thought the General Manager needed improvement.
Director Deadwyler asked whether any new vision statement has been presented to
the Board.
Chair Hoy said that the Board established its strategic goals and policies and that
they remained the same from 2017 to 2018, because they were core to what RTD
does.
Chair Hoy and Directors Broom and Anderson agreed that General Manager Genova
achieved the goal, and Director Sisk suggested he had exceeded it.
Committee Chair Francone stated the committee agreed that he at least achieved
the goal and read the “exceeds expectation” criteria.
Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson said that hiring had not been that much of a problem until the
previous two years.

6.A

Directors Broom and Sisk and Chair Hoy agreed that the General Manager’s
achievements fit those criteria, and Director Walker noted his participation at the
Rail~Volution conference that had just taken place in Denver.
Committee Chair Francone noted that, while it is a feather in the agency’s cap to
receive national recognition, she questioned whether the agency is focused on the
delivery of its services. She asked whether national recognition is an attribute the
agency wants.

Director Sisk said that Committee Chair Francone’s point was well taken and
cautioned not to forget the people the agency serves. He said the committee could
incorporate local service into the next year’s goals.
Director Walker stated that one of the reasons the agency is so respected is that it
does provide great service. He noted that an overall on-time performance rating of
over 85% is something many other large transit agencies cannot claim.
Committee Chair Francone discussed Core Goal #3, regarding strong financial
management, and said there was no question that the General Manager had
achieved those goals.
Chair Hoy said the agency’s financial reporting and controls are the best he had
ever seen.
Director Broom commented that someone, somewhere had not anticipated the loss
of marijuana tax revenue.
Director Anderson stated that the agency’s lobbyists were asleep at the switch.
Chair Hoy said that may be true but stated that everybody had missed it.
Committee Chair Francone said that she had met privately with Brandeberry
McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) and rebuked them for missing the problem. She
said that BBMK admitted that they had missed it but said that had everyone else
had as well.
Director Deadwyler said she was glad that Committee Chair Francone had spoken
to BBMK. She said she had heard that other people told legislators about the
oversight but were ignored.
Director Sisk asked whether this changed the committee’s evaluation of Core Goal
#3.
Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom noted that federal grantors watch for such recognition.

6.A

Chair Hoy said no and pointed out that he had recently signed refinancing
documents that saved the agency $50 million.
Committee Chair Francone noted the agency’s aggressive pursuit of grants as well
and asked whether everyone agreed that the General Manager had exceeded
expectations on the goal, to which the committee agreed. She then moved to Core
Goal #4, regarding equal opportunity employment, affirmative action, and small and
disadvantaged businesses.
said she thought the General Manager had

exceeded

Committee Chair Francone said that he had achieved the goal.
Director Anderson noted that the agency’s triennial review pushed the General
Manager into “exceeds expectations”, because the review helps the agency to get
grants.
Director Deadwyler said that she wished the goal regarding the utilization of
disadvantaged businesses had been worded differently, stating instead that the
General Manager “employs” such businesses rather than “considers” them in
applicable purchasing decisions.
Chair Hoy relayed that he had spoken with a contractor who was very excited
about the program.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether the committee felt the General Manager
had achieved the goal, to which everyone agreed, and stated that she did not see
anywhere in the goal where he did not exceed expectations.
Director Sisk said that the General Manager only needed to reach one “exceeds
expectations” criterion.
Chair Hoy said that the head of the triennial review team called him personally to
say that RTD is a great organization.
Committee Chair Francone said that, looking at other agencies, RTD is good at
what it does and that General Manager Genova is honest about his assessment of
the agency.
Director Deadwyler agreed that General Manager Genova was transparent when
speaking about the agency’s finances at the Rail~Volution conference.
Director Sisk said he was not aware that the General Manager met the criterion that
stated that the district had been lauded locally or nationally.
Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson
expectations.

6.A

Chair Hoy stated that General Manager Genova may not meet enough in Jefferson
County but holds meetings in the north all the time. He said that stakeholders have
too many demands on the General Manager’s time, so he has to rely on team
members to get things done.
Committee Chair Francone stated that General Manager Genova has said he would
attend any meeting he is asked to.
Director Sisk said that the Directors should be careful of their individual demands
on the General Manager. He said there is a matter of balancing and stated that the
General Manager meets with Chair Hoy on a weekly basis. He said he has heard
time and again that General Manager Genova does a great job visiting with
employees.
Director Anderson said that General Manager Genova has responded to local
requests and that she does not like to take up his time, because he has a lot on his
plate. She noted that the Board can speak to the Chair if there are any problems.
Director Deadwyler said that General Manager Genova has been in his position for
almost two years and has met with him only once, but she noted that he has
always given her an immediate response by phone when necessary.
Chair Hoy said he thought that calls count.
Director Sisk asked whether the committee felt that the General Manager exceeded
expectations on this goal, and the members agreed.
Committee Chair Francone moved on to Task Goal #1, regarding fiscal
sustainability. She said that just because she did not like the budget that was
presented does not mean that it was not balanced. She said that the General
Manager had achieved his goal.
Director Anderson said that unbalanced budgets do not happen in Colorado in any
agency.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether everyone felt the General Manager had
achieved his goal, and the committee members agreed.
Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone proceeded to Core Goal #5, regarding community
outreach. She said she wished the General Manager met with the Directors more on
an individual basis but said it was probably her failing for not asking him to do so
more. She stated that General Manager Genova has always been responsive to
email and phone calls but said she would like it if he held more meetings in
Jefferson County. She asked whether anyone disagreed that he had achieved his
goals.

6.A

Director Deadwyler asked whether General Manager Genova has the final say on
service changes and said she hoped he had looked at them thoroughly.
Ms. McManus said that nothing gets to the Board without the General Manager’s
approval. She said that one item had slipped through, and it was a big one. She
stated that the General Manager moves items forward for review by the Executive
Committee.

Director Broom said that nothing is being done about the union pension plan and
that it will haunt the district. He said that he does not believe the agency would
earn enough money to operate additional light rail corridors after they are opened.
He said that there are not enough sales taxes to operate the lines and that the
agency will be forced to cut bus or rail service. He said that budgets can always be
balanced by cutting them down.
Director Sisk questioned whether Director Broom’s concerns would fall under the
next task goal.
Director Menten said that the district bears responsibility for the union pension plan
but has no oversight. She said she had heard from union employees that they are
not having an honest discussion about their financial situation. She said that union
employees only pay 4% into their pension plans, compared to 14% for RTD
employees.
Director Anderson said that it is the union’s plan and they have to step up.
Director Broom said the agency is not stepping up.
Director Anderson said that the union had to be convinced.
Director Deadwyler said that the union does not get it or pretends not to.
Director Broom said that it is not right when an employee works for 35 years and
only receives 40% of what was promised.
Director Menten stated that there needs to be a response from the other side, so
that the agency would have oversight over the union’s pension board.
Director Broom said that, in his time with municipal government, he faced the same
issue with the fire and police pensions. He said that it is not in anyone’s interest
not to fix those kinds of things. He noted that the stock market had 8 or 9 years of
good returns and that bad times are probably ahead.
Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone said that, by General Manager Genova’s own
assessment, has not exceeded in this area.

6.A

Director Deadwyler asked whether the Board should take a stand.
Director Anderson said she did not think so personally, because that is union
business.

Director Broom said that the Board could give the General Manager or negotiators
instructions to concentrate on talking to the union to fix the pension problems
together. He said there should be some agreement that the parties would work with
the district to deal with the problem.
Director Deadwyler said that the union wants more from RTD.
Director Broom said the union needs to come back to table.
Director Deadwyler said that things can go downhill during a five-year contract.
Director Broom asked how the union can renege if they agree to contribute more to
pension plan.
Committee Chair Francone said that the union pension fell under Task Goal #2,
concerning Workforce & Human Capital. She suggested that the union pension
could be an item for the following year.
Director Broom said that Colorado’s Public Employees’ Retirement Association
(PERA) is in the news all the time and said that RTD does not want to be in the
news.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether General Manager Genova had achieved
Task Goal #2. She said that the Board received an email from the union’s president
about a missed meeting with the union and asked whether it was relevant.
Director Sisk said he did not think so and that it is inappropriate to contact the
Board while he is negotiating with the General Manager.
Director Menten said that the email included a “Driver’s Bill of Rights”, which she
saw as a warning shot. She asked who was on the negotiating team.
Ms. McManus said that she would send that information to the Board.
Director Deadwyler said the email stated the operators’ work-life balance is off.

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone asked whether it is appropriate to issue a guiding
document or recommended action to issue a statement for individuals engaged in
contract negotiations.

6.A

Director Anderson said that operators are pushing up against the federal limits and
said that unfortunately they can work a lot before they reach the limit.
Director Deadwyler commented that operators say they are being forced to work.

Director Sisk said that it is important to send General Manager Genova a message
that the Board is concerned about this issue.
Committee Chair Francone said that the General Manager has not fulfilled the first
item under the goal but noted that, because the review is a mid-year assessment,
he has an opportunity to rectify his rating.
Director Sisk noted that the General Manager’s task his difficult because he cannot
tell the Board what he is doing.
Director Walker said that he had informed the Board in the past. He suggested that
going forward the Directors can include in the review that they have concerns
about the union pension.
Committee Chair Francone said that, when she looks at the agency’s employment
statistics, the ratio of salaried to represented staff is almost two-to-one, which she
said seemed to be an imbalance. She asked why two staff members are needed to
manage one driver or mechanic. She said she understands that it is difficult to train
and recruit operators and mechanics but suggested that it is time to try something
different. She said the General Manager has achieved but not exceeded this goal
and moved on to the last goal, Task Goal #3, State of Good Repair. She said there
was no doubt he had achieved his goal.
Director Deadwyler said she had an issue with the first criterion because of
something she heard regarding bus customers who use mobility devices. She said
that an RTD employee gave a presentation and stated that, in the event of an
emergency, the customer would be evacuated from the bus, but there was no
guarantee that the person’s mobility equipment would be evacuated.
Director Anderson said that bus operators should not be required to lift someone in
the event of an emergency in which emergency responders are called. She said
such a situation happened in Arvada.
Director Broom said asked whether a bus operator would be expected to help
someone off if a bus were on fire.
Packet Pg. 18

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone said that, by the General Manager’s own selfassessment, he has achieved the goal but not exceeded. She asked whether
anyone felt General Manager Genova had failed in any aspect of the goal, and the
committee members answered that he had achieved his goal.

6.A

Director Anderson said that operators do a great job of working with persons with
disabilities.
Director Broom said that, on the mall shuttle or elsewhere, operators have to put
the ramp down.

Director Sisk said the Board could ask the person who gave presentation what was
said. He said he has always thought of General Manager Genova of being safety
first and had no question that he had achieved the goal.
Committee Chair Francone said that General Manager Genova stated in his selfassessment that RTD had been recognized as an industry leader in asset
management and had initiated the International Standards Organization (ISO)
process. She asked whether the committee agreed that he had at least achieved
the goal.
Director Anderson agreed that the General Manager exceeded expectations because
RTD is a leader in the industry in State of Good Repair issues, because the agency
sets the standards, and because the General Manager has fostered a safety culture.
She said that Director Deadwyler’s concern is important but had nothing to do with
the goal.
Committee Chair Francone agreed.
Director Menten asked whether the Board received an update on the revised
performance management program.
Ms. McManus said the information was presented the previous year and was
implemented in January 2017.
Director Menten asked whether the Board received a household transportation
study in a Board agenda.
Director Francone said that the study may have been put out by the Denver
Regional Council of Governments.

C. Review Survey Results
Director Sisk asked which Directors did not respond to the survey.
Director Deadwyler said that she was one.

Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler reiterated that the RTD employee who gave the presentation
could not guarantee a person’s mobility equipment would be evacuated and said
that people are looking for answers about how to evacuate.

6.A

Committee Chair Francone said that Directors Deadwyler, Solano, and Archuleta
did not respond.

D. Review Timeline
Committee Chair Francone said the committee would be meeting with General
Manager Genova on Tuesday, September 26th to go over their comments with him.
Director Anderson said that would be the time to discuss the committee’s concerns
about the union contract among other concerns.

E. Questions
Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 21, 2017 2:30 PM (Committee Reports)

There were no additional questions.

F. Next Meeting Date - September 26, 2017 3:30 - 5:00 p.m.
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 4:23 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 20

6.B

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, September 26, 2017
Board Conference Room
3:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Tina Francone
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Francone called the meeting to order at 3:30 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Francone, Committee
Vice-Chair Sisk, Chair Hoy, Directors
Anderson, Broom, Williams, Walker

Others Present:

General Manager Genova, Executive Manager
Barbara McManus, Board Office Administrator
John McKay

B. General Manager's Mid-Year Assessment
Committee Chair Francone indicated that the General Manager had just been given
his mid-year review from the committee. She said the committee wanted to discuss
the review with the General Manager rather than giving him the document in
advance. She noted the committee met the previous week to go over his mid-year
summary, and the committee’s consensus was that the General Manager had
exceeded expectations on five of his goals and achieved expectations in three
areas. She said the results were consistent with the General Manager’s own selfassessment. She stated part of the purpose of the meeting was to help the General
Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M

6.B

Manager understand, in the areas where he achieved expectations, the committee’s
thoughts on ways he could improve.
Director Sisk commented that Directors Menten and Deadwyler attended the
committee meeting the previous week.

Committee Chair Francone noted that the committee’s meetings are open to the
rest of the Board but only Directors Menten and Deadwyler provided their
comments separately and in addition to the surveys. She said that the committee
felt the General Manager had achieved expectations for Core Goal #1.
General Manager Genova said Core Goal #1 was the only goal for which the
committee’s assessment and his did not align.
Committee Chair Francone said the committee’s discussion centered around the
delivery of special services. She said the committee questioned how RTD alerts
riders when services are delayed or are not provided.
General Manager Genova asked whether the committee was referring only to delays
in special services.
Director Broom answered that a constituent had complained about being left at a
stop because bus operators were being used to run other services.
General Manager Genova asked whether this incident took place on a Monday
night.
Chair Hoy noted there were several events going on at one time, and the agency
ran out of operators. He said there was an effort made to explain that the incident
took place after the date the General Manager submitted his self-evaluation to the
committee. He said the committee’s evaluation may have been influenced by the
discussion of the incident.
Director Williams said that the conclusion was that the person who was left at the
bus stop was not left because of other services being provided but rather because
the operator had called off that day.
General Manager Genova said it was a missed run.
Director Anderson asked for clarification on the details of the incident.
Director Williams explained that there was a passenger left on a run late at night
when the bus never came. She said the implication was that, at the same time,
Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy noted that only the committee members participated in the formal
evaluation.

6.B

Broncos Rides were being run, but after much discussion it was determined that the
Broncos Rides were operated by independently contracted operators and that the
operator in question had called in sick.
Director Anderson said the discussion in the committee was similar but from a
different person.

General Manager Genova said that specifics are always helpful and asked whether
there were other instances other than the one in question so that he could follow
up.
Director Broom said the committee had also discussed the agency’s policy on
whether regular service takes precedence over special service. He said that
committee members stated that some constituents only use special services, which
to them are just as important as regular services. He said the committee did not
reach a conclusion on that policy. He asked whether the agency provides special
services to the extent possible only after the regular services are provided or
whether special and regular services have equal pull on resources.
General Manager Genova said that his understanding is that the agency runs regular
service and regularly scheduled special service to the best of its ability. He noted
that contracted services are brought in to supplement special services, because
there is no way the agency could provide both services. As to whether the agency
prioritizes one service over another, he said the agency schedules and fills runs for
both regular and special services and does not move services around. He said that,
when the agency knows a missed run is inevitable, dispatchers attempt to schedule
work based on the anticipated impact.
Director Broom said there is no way to notify a person standing on the corner.
General Manager Genova responded that the agency uses a variety of mechanisms
to alert riders.
Director Williams said that customers can use RTD-created or third-party apps to
receive alerts. She stated that not everyone uses a smart phone but there are ways
to know that a bus is not coming.
Committee Chair Francone said that the discussion had circled around to the
question of how RTD pushes out alerts to customers about likely service delays.
General Manager Genova said that the agency announces when those kinds of
challenges are anticipated.
Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Williams noted that the issue of special services was separate from the of
a lack of operators.

6.B

Director Anderson said that people need to be responsible for themselves.
Chair Hoy said that he knows that some people who return home from the Broncos
Ride did not pay to go to the game via the Broncos Ride. He said that, on the day
of the incident in question, both the Broncos and Rockies were playing and
spectators started leaving the games in droves. He said that there should be
enough capacity to return everyone home on the Broncos Ride if they used the
service to reach the game.

Chair Hoy said it was a perfect storm.
Director Walker said that commuters who work downtown also use the Broncos
Ride to get home following a game. He said that all of the agency’s passengers are
special regardless of their destination and the agency does its best to provide
service to them regardless of how often they ride.
Director Anderson pointed out that several Directors spoke about the Women’s
March and what a success it was. She said that the General Manager had exceeded
expectations based on that event.
Director Sisk agreed with Director Anderson and said that the committee had
gotten off track because the incident in question regarding the Broncos Ride did not
happen mid-year. He noted the one Broncos game that would have been covered
during the period of the General Manager’s mid-year self-assessment was a playoff
game. He said that, to be fair, the Monday night game should not have been part of
the evaluation.
Committee Chair Francone noted that part of the reason the committee evaluated
the General Manager as having achieved expectations on Core Goal #1 was that
the agency had met between 80% and 90% of performance measures.
Director Sisk said that measure was the benchmark and that the General Manager
himself stated that he had hit 85%.
General Manager Genova said the delivery of special services was the reason he felt
he had exceeded expectations.
Director Walker said the review criterion for special services included the phrase “in
addition to providing normally scheduled service”. He noted the agency has had
problems with dropped service hours.
Committee Chair Francone said that the General Manager had exceeded
expectations on Core Goal #2.
Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova also noted that both games were affected by weather
delays.

6.B

General Manager Genova said that he and the committee were within alignment.

Director Broom questioned whether the agency had refunded everything that was
eligible for refunding.
General Manager Genova said the agency is looking at one item that is tied to
negotiations with Denver Transit Partners (DTP).
Director Broom noted that interest rates will probably rise.
General Manager Genova said there were three opportunities, including the $29
million refund from Denver Union Station (DUS).
Director Sisk stated that the agency had the strongest financial management he
had seen at any point in his time on the Board. He said he liked the fact that
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance
& Administration, and her staff are clear about their presentations and are
responsive to questions. He said that RTD had previously been plagued by a lack of
transparency. He stated that General Manager Genova should get a lot of the credit
for the improvement in financial statements and the way that answers are being
presented.
General Manager Genova said he thinks its valuable for stakeholders to know the
agency’s condition. He credited the Finance Department team for pushing the
envelope on their work.
Director Broom asked whether there was anything the Directors should be doing
with respect to the October 2017 special legislative session on marijuana revenue.
General Manager Genova said he would get back to Director Broom on that
question. He said he had spoken with the Governor three times and anticipated that
the agency may provide testimony or responses. As far as reaching out beyond
that, the General Manager said he would speak with Jenifer Brandeberry from
Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK).
Director Broom asked which committee the bill would be assigned.
Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone said the committee commented that national recognition
is important for consideration for federal funding and retention of employees. She
stated there was some discussion as to why the agency sought national recognition
as opposed focusing on local service. She said it is obvious that RTD is a national
leader in a lot of areas and that recognition is important. For Core Goal #3 regarding
strong financial management, she reported that the General Manager exceeded
expectations. She said the committee agreed that he had done the best he could
with what he had.

6.B

General Manager Genova said that there was some concern about the bill being
assigned to the Senate Finance Committee. He said that the votes were there for
the General Assembly to pass the bill if it could make it out of the Senate Finance
Committee.

General Manager Genova said that the marijuana tax revenue is not being collected
currently. He said there were questions about whether special districts would be
willing to pay for the special session.
Committee Chair Francone said she had tried to stay as far away from the issue as
possible because of the push to reopen Senate Bill 17-267. She stated the General
Manager exceeded expectations on Core Goal #4. She said that the results of the
federal triennial reviews are always stellar and are a lot of work for the agency.
General Manager Genova noted that the review also included enhanced review in
certain areas. He said that RTD participated in a one-day collaboration conference
with CDOT, the City and County of Denver, and Denver International Airport for
small and disadvantaged businesses (SBEs and DBEs). He said that he reported
during the conference that, of the $5.5 billion spent on the FasTracks project, $1
billion had been paid to SBEs and DBEs. He noted the agency has always been
strong in this area.
Committee Chair Francone stated that the General Manager exceeded expectations
on Core Goal #5, regarding communication. She said she was looking forward to
the rollout of the district-wide plans. On Task Goal #1, she said that goal was
achieved. She said that the committee agreed with the General Manager’s selfassessment and that it would be difficult to exceed expectations in that area. On
Task Goal #2, she again reported that the General Manager had achieved
expectations. She said the committee discussed what is being done about the union
pension plan.
General Manager Genova said that the pension trust analyzed various actuarial
models and came up with a solution that would be proposed to the union during the
collective bargaining agreement (CBA) negotiations that would over time improve
the plan. He said there was a funding pool programmed in the proposed 2018
budget. He said he would be happy to talk more about the proposal once he was in
a position to do so.
Director Sisk said that there had been discussion about the “Driver’s Bill of Rights”
the Board members received from the union. He said it was sent to the Directors
with some intent.
Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Broom asked whether the advantage to the legislature is that they can
keep the revenue and use it for something else if the bill does not pass.

6.B

General Manager Genova said that document was part of a larger initiative from
Amalgamated Transit Union (ATU) International that has been underway for some
time. He said the agency has known about it for some time. He noted that
employees’ quality of life issues would be addressed during negotiations, such as
recovery time, split shifts, mandating, and other areas. He said the agency has
acknowledged that wages are not the only issue and would make other
improvements using the pool of resources available.

General Manager Genova said the agency had not gotten a sense on the contract
duration from the union. He said RTD and the union would exchange proposals on
October 6th, 2017. He said there are pros and cons for pursuing a three-year or
five-year contract and noted that individuals within the agency have questioned
whether a five-year contract would be in the agency’s best interests financially. He
stated he would prefer a five-year contract, as long as it was workable, in order to
provide certainty for the agency and the employees and to avoid the constant
negotiation cycle. He noted the agency did not increase wages for three years,
which worked for the agency financially but held wages behind the market.
Director Broom asked whether a five-year agreement would contain provisions to
reopen the contract in the event of hard financial times.
General Manager Genova said that both parties could agree such provisions but
noted that such a provision could also allow the union to reopen the contract in
prosperous financial times as well.
Director Broom said that he was not used to seeing five-year contracts.
Director Anderson said that the economy was down during the last renegotiation
and thought that it would be a good thing to have another five years of labor
peace.
General Manager Genova said there are other five-year deals in the market and
noted that the agency has access to the provisions of other existing labor
contracts.
Director Broom noted that RTD had to compete in the local market rather than the
national market.
Committee Chair Francone said part of the challenge was that the agency had to
work with a union that has certain requirements, particularly with respect to its
pension plan. She said the agency’s hands were tied in some respects.
General Manager Genova said that attorneys representing RTD say the union
pension trust is responsible for the pension plan, not RTD, while the union’s
Packet Pg. 27

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Sisk asked whether negotiators would pursue another five-year contract.

6.B

attorneys say the pension is RTD’s liability. He indicated there is not a lot of case
law on similar pension issues.
Director Broom asked whether the union pension plan would fall under federal
guarantees in the event of a failure.

Director Broom said that he was the most vocal about the plan and that it needed
to be fixed. He said it would be bad for everyone if a person drove a bus for 35
years and then retired, only to learn that the plan is out of money.
General Manager Genova said that he and key leaders on staff feel that RTD has a
moral obligation to create a proposal to keep the plan going in the long term. He
said the question at the bargaining table would be whether the union can agree. He
said there are other tools in the pension trust, such as demanding arbitration. He
said the contribution to the pension is negotiated as part of the CBA but the plan
itself is managed by the trust.
Regarding the final goal, Task Goal #3 regarding state of good repair, Committee
Chair Francone reported that the General Manager had exceeded expectations. She
said she personally appreciated the safety culture within RTD, which made her feel
more secure. She stated that others have mentioned to her that seeing transit
security officers (TSOs) gave them a feeling of safety. She said there are two
feelings someone can get from seeing TSOs, either fear that something bad is
happening or the feeling that they are patrolling and keeping everyone safe. She
said she felt a lot safer knowing there were people she could talk to. She noted
that the committee had discussed RTD’s policy regarding evacuations of persons
with mobility devices.
General Manager Genova said that a person would be reunited with his or her
mobility device as quickly as possible following an evacuation.
Director Williams said that Denver Transit Partners (DTP), RTD’s Advisory
Committee for Persons with Disabilities (ACPD), and the Denver Fire Department
(DFD) would practice evacuations on the University of Colorado A Line the
following week.
Director Anderson asked whether multiple fire departments would be involved.
Director Williams said no, this was intended to be a pilot project to write procedure
and only DFD would be involved.

Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova said he did not think that there was a fallback or that the
union would go back into any other plan. He said there was room for the trust to
make changes if the plan were in serious trouble.

6.B

Director Anderson said the fire departments would be handling the evacuations,
rather than the train operators.
General Manager Genova said that was an important distinction, because the fire
department protocols would be in effect for an evacuation of that level.

Director Walker said that staff was exceptional in the way they helped out after
receiving a phone call from the principal of Denver’s South High School about
students being harassed. He said the principal and the parents are very
appreciative. He mentioned that he served on a nominating committee for the
governing board of the American Public Transportation Association (APTA), and
during their discussions, no one had anything but praise for General Manager
Genova.

C. Review Timeline
Ms. McManus said that the General Manager’s end-of year survey was due October
18th and that document, along with the survey, would be sent out to the Directors
on October 19th and would be due on October 31st. She stated the results would be
sent out on November 3rd, and the next committee meeting would be held on
November 7th.
Committee Chair Francone said the survey would have 100% participation this
time.

D. Questions
Chair Hoy stated that he anticipated a lot of public comment at the Board Meeting
that night. He said he would group individuals but would not stifle comment.
Director Anderson suggested asking for a spokesperson from the group and asking
individuals to refrain from repeating topics that have already been covered by
others.
Director Sisk said that he felt that going through the goals was valuable but noted
that the overriding issue is getting the University of Colorado A Line operating
without limitations. He stated that the committee noted its frustration with the
delays opening the G Line. He said that the flaggers are a constant reminder that
the agency has not done its job. He said that the General Manager could exceed
expectations on all of his goals when the committee reviewed his performance at
the end of the year but the operation of the University of Colorado A Line could still
have an impact.
Director Anderson agreed.
Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Williams said the policies that are decided upon through the pilot project
would go back to Ed Neuberg, ADA Manager, for review and dissemination to all of
the fire departments involved in the train lines.

6.B

E. Next Meeting Date - November 7, 2017, 3:30 - 5:00 p.m.
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 3:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 4:29 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 30

6.C

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, October 3, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
5:34 PM
5:10 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:07 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Present

5:02 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:38 PM
5:28 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:28 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:17 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Absent
Present
Absent

5:26 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Committee Chair
Director, District A

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:17 PM

5:33 PM

Packet Pg. 31

6.C

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Andrew Bates, Rachel Carson, Joe
Christie, Garrett Christnacht, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin
Diviness, Jeet Desai, Sherry Ellebracht, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Cheryl Graves, Pauline Haberman, John Hersey, Gary
Hougen, Jeff Kay, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Andy Mutz, Ryan Oge,
Thomas Papadinoff, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mike Peters, Michael Porter,
Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill
Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Rebecca Tate, Brian Thye, Mark Tieman,
Gary Turnquist, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Jeff Whiteman, Karen Young.

Others Present:

Terri Binder, Zac Brown, Shelley Cook, Mark Deven, Mike Dino, Stan
Edwards, Jean Gordon, Jeremy Gregory, William Gross, Hannah
Jackson, Tracey Kraft-Tharp, Bob Manwaring, John Marriott, Loren
Naftz, Roger Sherman, Peter Strange, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Megan Wagner, Walter Weart, Kami Welch, Bob Wilson.

Chair Hoy opened the meeting by taking a moment of silence to recognize the victims of
Hurricanes Harvey, Irma, Jose, and Maria and the attack in Las Vegas on October 1,
2017. He also welcomed Nicole Carey as the newest member of the Board Office team
and congratulated Tai-Shrae Parish on her acceptance into a master’s degree program.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
Roger Sherman, CRL Associates, spoke about the list he had provided to the
Board regarding candidates for local government office. He said the
candidates’ information is hard to track down and that not every jurisdiction
displayed the information on its website. He said that he would give Sherry
Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer, more information as it
became available. He stated that the Metro Mayors Caucus would be
meeting the following day for the last meeting of the year and would be
discussing statewide regional funding. He said a transportation sales tax
initiative would be put forward in 2018. He said the details had not been
finalized but stated that the mayors involved would discuss distribution
scenarios and amounts. He said the ballot measure would pick up where
House Bill 17-1242 left off, with a revenue distribution of 45% going to the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), 15% going to a mobility
fund, and 35% going to local jurisdictions, to be further split between cities
Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Deadwyler, Sisk, and Tisdale were absent.

and counties. He said that no money would flow directly to RTD but stated
the agency could receive funding through the mobility fund. He noted that
the revenues distributed to local jurisdictions would be fully flexible and said
RTD could partner with those jurisdictions. He said the measure would be
easier to pass via the ballot than by going through the legislature. He stated
the details would be finalized in time to gather signatures by February or
March of 2018. He said that he would leave the discussion surrounding the
legislative special session to Brandeberry McKenna (BBMK). He closed by
saying that the metro mayors supported the fix to Senate Bill 17-267
(SB267) and that, even though it did not happen, he wanted to acknowledge
that several mayors were present at the press conference and testified
before the legislature.

• State Update- Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK), stated
that the General Assembly convened on Monday, October 1 and adjourned
on October 2 without resolving the drafting error in SB267. She said that
RTD did not ask for the special session, though the special session could
have benefitted RTD and other special districts. She said, while the bill did
not pass, there was support for special districts and for fixing the problem.
She stated there was less consensus on the way to fix the error. She stated
that, despite strong support in the Republican caucus in the Senate and the
House, Senate Republican leadership sent the bill to a kill committee. She
said in the end only five people in the Senate actually voted on the bill on a
3-2 party-line vote. She said she believed there is an opportunity for a
remedy for RTD’s loss of revenue and that BBMK has been working with
legislative partners to find ways for the agency to be successful. She noted
that Directors Anderson and Solano spoke at the Capitol.
Director Broom asked what RTD’s position would be if the Senate were to
introduce a bill in January that would place the fix on the November ballot.
Ms. Brandeberry said that she would be opposed such a measure, because
the General Assembly’s attorneys and others say that doing so would not be
necessary. She said the merits would be debated, but the agency has a
strong case. She noted there are other options to restore the lost revenue
that would not require a ballot measure.
Director Francone asked how Governor Hickenlooper had gotten the idea
that RTD would pay the costs the special session. She recalled that the
agency did not entertain that idea.
General Manager Genova said that there was some discussion about
whether such a payment would even be legal and had consulted with
counsel. He said there is now law, rule, or case definitive on that question.
Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.C

6.C

Director Francone said she had heard from several people complaining that
the appearance of paying for the special session or any session would reflect
badly on the agency and would resemble a pay-to-play scheme. She said
that, going forward, the fix would come during a regular session and RTD
would not be asked to pay.

Director Folska asked how much an election would the cost the agency.
Ms. Brandeberry said that is a question that has come up. She said that the
cost for the most recent election for the Scientific and Cultural Facilities
District (SCFD), which has district boundaries similar to RTD’s, was over $1
million.
Director Folska asked how many different organizations would stand to
benefit from the legislative fix.
Ms. Brandeberry responded that eight to 10 special districts would benefit.
Director Folska asked whether the 10 organizations could split the cost of
the election.
Ms. Brandeberry said that RTD would have to pay for the election.
Director Folska asked why all of the beneficiaries of the tax revenue would
not be asked to pay.
Ms. Brandeberry responded that it would depend on how the legislation was
written.
Director Menten asked about a meeting with state Representative Steve
Lebsock and asked about he topic of the legislation he intends to run.
Julie McKenna, BBMK, said that her firm met with Representative Lebsock in
June to discuss his potential legislation. She said he had concerns regarding
costs and contractors and had inquired how he could be helpful.
General Manager Genova said that Representative Lebsock had spoken in
their meetings about the accountability of the North Metro Line and stated
that he had considered sponsoring a bill about FasTracks.
Director Menten asked which district Rep. Lebsock represented.
Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova said that was correct and that he thought the
notion of paying for the special session was a bad idea because of the
potential perception of a conflict of interest.

6.C

Ms. McKenna said that he represented Thornton and was also running for
State Treasurer.
Director Anderson said that RTD would have to pay the county clerk in each
county in the district to pay for election. She said RTD cannot do anything
else. She questioned why the legislature thought that it could overturn the
votes of citizens of the district that authorized a sales tax.
Director Walker thanked those who spoke on behalf of the legislation.

Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, reported that the FRA issued a five-year
waiver to RTD, which he said was a good development. He attributed the
FRA’s decision to RTD’s reputation and the administration’s relationship with
the General Manager and the Board, particularly since the March 2017 visit
during the APTA Legislative conference. He stated the federal government
would be able to operate through at least December 8, 2017, due to a
continuing resolution that was passed after Labor Day. He said the that
President appeared to be in a productive mood to work with congressional
Democrats and that it was unclear whether Democrats would be included in
the tax reform package. He noted there is an effort to diminish the tax
deduction from public and municipal bonds, such as those RTD uses to fund
its debt. He closed by stating that there had been little movement on the
President’s proposed infrastructure package but noted the President had
been meeting with local officials. He noted that the administration did try to
identify three areas to fund: Ready to go projects with significant local or
state funding, rural projects, and innovative projects such as public-private
partnerships like those used locally and around the country.
Director Archuleta asked when the G Line would see further movement.
Mr. Dino said that the delay has been frustrating for the community and
noted that the delay was largely predicated by the events surrounding the
University of Colorado A Line.
General Manager Genova said that RTD also submitted a petition to the FRA
to complete testing on the G Line. He said the agency heard back on the A
& B Line, but the G Line is still under consideration. He noted that the
opening of the G Line was subject to the processes of both the FRA and the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC).
Director Folska asked Mr. Dino to define what “significant” meant in relation
to the state or locally funded projects discussed in the infrastructure
package.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

6.C

Mr. Dino said that “significant” is not defined but stated his impression
would be that projects would be ranked by the percentage of state or local
funding, where the more funding committed by state or local entities, the
better. He said that the administration is leaving people guessing. He likened
the infrastructure package to the potential tax reform package, in that the
White House establishes the guiding principles, and Congress is left to enact
the legislation.
Director Folska asked whether transit agencies benefit from the vagueness.

Director Francone asked whether Mr. Dino had any information on the
FasTracks refund.
Mr. Dino said he had not heard anything new.
General Manager Genova said that the definition of “cohort” had been
circulating.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Finance & Administration, said the agency is back to where it was. She said
until a funding bill passes, as opposed to Congress being in a continuing
resolution, the progress is on hold. She said it is fairly clear that the U.S.
Department of Transportation (USDOT) would not act until it received
direction from above, which was anticipated.
Director Archuleta asked whether the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) could
experience the same problems with the Federal Railroad Administration
(FRA).
Mr. Dino said that he did not anticipate any problems and that light rail has a
good track record.
General Manager Genova clarified that SERE operates under the purview of
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) rather than the FRA.
Director Francone asked whether any of the agency’s unfunded corridors are
shovel ready.
General Manager Genova said some corridors, such as the Central,
Southwest, and Northwest corridors and the last six miles of the North
Metro Line, were ready to go or close to being ready.

Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Dino said no, vagueness is something everyone is dealing with.

6.C

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 7, 2017
F. Adjourn

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 6:00 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 37

6.D

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, October 3, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 6:08 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:05 PM
6:12 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

6:05 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Present

6:03 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:08 PM
6:07 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

6:05 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

6:05 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Absent
Present
Absent

6:09 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:06 PM
6:06 PM

6:06 PM

Packet Pg. 38

6.D

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Andrew Bates, Rachel Carson, Joe
Christie, Garrett Christnacht, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin
Diviness, Jeet Desai, Sherry Ellebracht, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Cheryl Graves, Pauline Haberman, John Hersey, Gary
Hougen, Jeff Kay, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Andy Mutz, Ryan Oge,
Thomas Papadinoff, Tai-Shrae Parish, Mike Peters, Michael Porter,
Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Ruth Seleske, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill
Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Rebecca Tate, Brian Thye, Mark Tieman,
Gary Turnquist, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Jeff Whiteman, Karen Young.

Others Present:

Terri Binder, Zac Brown, Shelley Cook, Mark Deven, Mike Dino, Stan
Edwards, Jean Gordon, Jeremy Gregory, William Gross, Hannah
Jackson, Tracey Kraft-Tharp, Bob Manwaring, John Marriott, Loren
Naftz, Roger Sherman, Peter Strange, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Megan Wagner, Walter Weart, Kami Welch, Bob Wilson.

Committee Chair Lubow noted that Director Anderson wanted to say a few words before
the meeting commenced.

Director Anderson stated that it was her pleasure to welcome State Representative Tracy
Kraft-Tharp, Arvada City Councilmember John Marriott, Arvada City Manager Mark Deven,
and Arvada Public Works Manager Bob Manwaring. She also wanted to welcome former
RTD Board member Terri Binder from Arvada and noted that there were people present
who want to emphasize how important the G Line is to the City of Arvada.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• University of Colorado A Line and B Line Grade Crossing Update
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, stated
that based on the outcomes last week with the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) and the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC)
staff felt it would be appropriate to provide the Board with another update.
He noted that staff wanted to get through the presentation quickly, then
open the floor for any questions.

Packet Pg. 39

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Deadwyler, Sisk, and Tisdale were absent.

Mr. Stopplecamp noted that Positive Train Control (PTC) included the
following:
 PTC is not a technology
 PTC is Federally Mandated for
o Train separation or collision avoidance
o Line Speed enforcement
o Temporary speed restrictions
o Rail worker wayside safety
 PTC is RTD’s primary train control system
o Network utilizes wireless & fiber communication
o Functions as a “moving” block system
 RTD’s current PTC Efficiency is at +98%
 DTP selected Wabtec I-ETMS system because it is an industry leader
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that Automatic Train Control (ATC) was:
 Conventional Train signaling system
 Has been utilized in the USA since the 1920’s
 “Fixed Block” system
 Utilizes Track Circuit Technology
 Incremental Speed Restrictions
 DTP selected Siemens/Alsom & GE because they are industry leading
suppliers
Mr. Stopplecamp commented that Grade Crossing Activations & Predictions
have:
 Conventional Activations
o Function of the ATC system
o “Fixed” approach lengths
o Based off Civil Track speed
o System Fails Safe and provides the minimum 20 second
warning time required by law
 Wireless Activations
o Utilizes the PTC system technology
o Constant communication with crossing equipment
o “Pings” approximately 10x per second
o Provides dynamic control of crossing
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that Types of Grade Crossing Activation Systems
include:
 Traditional Predictors
o Utilized by many freight rail roads
o Will not function with RTD’s system
o Low voltage AC current in rails
 Incremental Train Control System (ITCS)
o Utilized by some commuter rail roads
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D

Mr. Stopplecamp explained that RTD cannot use traditional predictors
because:
 RTD’s system is powered by 25,000-volt AC
 The residual AC current is returned through the track rails
 RTD’s system cannot distinguish between return current and the
predictors
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that effects of warning time on driver behavior
and safety at Grade crossings included:
 Warning times in excess of 30-40 seconds caused many more drivers
to engage in risky crossing behavior
 Most drivers expect a train to arrive within 20 seconds from the
moment the activation begins
 Drivers begin to lose confidence in the traffic control system if the
warning time exceeds approximately 60 seconds
 Suggested warning time guidelines are: 20 second minimum, 25-35
second average, 60 second maximum
 Four-quadrant gates should be used if 10% of warning times exceed
60 seconds
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that the FRA approved the new design and the
waiver request had been granted to RTD with a few conditions.
General Manager Genova noted that RTD filed three petitions at the same
time with the FRA, including a petition for a waiver to complete the
remaining testing on the G Line. He stated that the FRA wanted to get
through the University of Colorado A Line before the G Line would be
considered, but the petition is still under consideration. He added that the
previous week RTD met with the CPUC and submitted three applications for
the University of Colorado A Line as well as application amendments for the
G Line crossings in order to complete the remaining testing for the G Line.
He noted that the CPUC had scheduled RTD for their docket the following
day, but in terms of timing, staff would not have a good timeline until all of
the permissions from the FRA and CPUC were received. He stated that staff
is working on a funding recovery plan with the concessionaire and once that
is finalized it will be presented to the Board. He explained that timing
cannot be applied to regulatory processes, and that is the current unknown.
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)



o Will not function with RTD’s system
o Low voltage AC current in rails combined with track circuits
Inoperable Electronic Train Management System (I-ETMS)
o Technology utilized on RTD’s system
o Utilizes wireless technology
o Is an overlay to the traditional ATC System
o Functions in a AC electrified environment

6.D

Director Folska asked if PTC is the overall general idea for Diesel and Electric
Multiple Unit (EMU) trains.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that PTC is a mindset, not a technology. He
added that there are four goals and the FRA does not care how you get
there as long as the goals are met.

Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD’s PTC system is working, and 98% of
trips are on PTC. He noted that the wireless crossings conversations have
come down to what is the definition of an appropriate wireless crossing
time.
Director Folska inquired about the quiet zones along the University of
Colorado A Line and asked where RTD was with that process.
Mr. Stopplecamp remarked that the quiet zones can be implemented after
the FRA has approved the rail line. He stated that, as soon as the flaggers
are pulled off, the next step will be to prove that the line falls under the
requirements for quiet zones. He added that RTD’s goal is to push that
through as fast as it can. He added that RTD will have to submit
notification to the FRA that it has met all of the requirements and once the
CPUC also approves the application, the quiet zones will be implemented.
Director Archuleta asked why the B Line is not currently stopping at the 41st
and Fox station.
General Manager Genova explained that staff is working through waiver
conditions and additional documents are needed before the FRA will approve
the B Line stopping at the 41st and Fox station.
Director Anderson asked if the CPUC said that RTD could not test the G
Line.
General Manager Genova said that was the verbal decision that staff had
heard the previous week. He added that the CPUC had not provided that
ruling in writing, and staff is unsure as to what sort of action will occur at
the following day’s meeting. He noted that they did approve the initial
testing, but they have since denied the ability to continue testing.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that the CPUC only has control over the at-grade
crossings.
Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska commented that this seems more like a safety conversation
and the regulatory agencies should treat it as such.

6.D

Director Anderson inquired whether FRA’s approval to finish testing could
overrule the CPUC’s decision.
General Manager Genova commented that RTD would need approval from
both agencies since the CPUC has authority over the at-grade crossings.

General Manager Genova explained that unfortunately there is no public
comment portion during the hearing. He stated that the only way for
someone to speak is if they were a noticed party to the proceedings.
Director Anderson commented that her community is concerned about the
crossing flaggers that are stationed in Arvada 24/7. She asked if there was
a way to change their presence since the G Line is not running.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD had asked the CPUC if the attendants
could be removed and they said no.
Director Anderson asked the members of her community to fill out the
comment cards provided at the sign in table and submit them so that staff
could have an opportunity to answer all of their questions.
Director Menten asked what time the CPUC hearing would commence and
wanted confirmation of the address.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that it would begin at 9:00 a.m. at 1560 Broadway
in Denver.
Director Menten noted that, in the CPUC recording from the previous week,
there were questions raised by the City of Aurora. She asked if their
questions had since been addressed by staff.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that in the last meeting questions were raised by
Union Pacific, the City of Aurora, and the City of Denver. He said that staff
would not have had enough time to have addressed all of the concerns by
the next morning, but Aurora and Denver only asked for additional
information.
Director Menten asked that staff provide the terms and conditions of the
FRA waiver to the Board.
Committee Chair Lubow said that, as she listened to the CPUC meeting from
last week, it was not very flattering and she got the impression that RTD
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson questioned if it would be helpful if the CPUC had a public
hearing to hear from people that want the G Line to begin service.

6.D

General Manager Genova commented that he was surprised by the remarks
that were made by the CPUC and remarked that the previous CPUC meeting
was one day before the FRA waiver was received. He noted that the next
CPUC meeting would be a good opportunity for the commission to request
additional information from RTD as staff has a lot of additional data that was
not included in the applications to the CPUC.
He added that the
commission, like the FRA, is seeing things differently than they ever have
before, but he is confident that RTD can get through this with education and
information.
Committee Chair Lubow stated that she has been in touch with a
constituent about the University of Colorado A Line and how people are
going crazy with the constant train horns. She noted that it was not
unreasonable for RTD to hold a public hearing or outreach meeting so that
the people impacted can understand what is going on and the anticipated
timeline.
General Manager Genova said that he would review that and determine how
RTD could do a better job passing that information along.
Committee Chair Lubow asked that staff keep the Board apprised with the
outcome of the CPUC meeting.

• Southeast Rail Extension
Andy Mutz, Engineering Project Manager, stated that the E, F, and R Rail
Extension is part of RTD’s 2004 voter-approved FasTracks plan to expand
transit across the metro region. He said that the Southeast Rail Extension
(SERE) extends the E, F, and R lines 2.3 miles from Lincoln station to
Ridgegate Parkway station in Lone Tree. The extension will include the
addition of three new stations: Sky Ridge, Lone Tree City Center, and
Ridgegate Parkway. The project is 50% compete and the estimated
completion date is March 2019.

• North Metro Operations & Maintenance
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD received an updated proposal on
September 22nd and staff would provide an update during the Executive
Session.

• Continuous Improvement & Innovation at RTD
Ruth Seleske, Senior Manager of Continuous Improvement/Innovation,
stated that RTD is facing many challenges both external and internal to the
agency in terms of:
 Environment
Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

had not presented enough information. She inquired if staff had started to
think of a plan b.





o Population Growth
o Low Unemployment
o Customer Expectation changes
o Technology Changes
Industry
o Technology Changes
o Emphasis on Equity
Inside RTD
o Limited Revenue Growth
o Competing Needs of Capital Growth and Operations
o Data assets not Optimized
o Decreasing Ridership
o Aging Workforce

Ms. Seleske stated that RTD has already started a formal approach to
improvement. She noted that:
 RTD conducted 30 “Listening Sessions” at 15 facilities and received
nearly 1400 employee surveys in 2015
 Several employees attended the Peak Academy with the City and
County of Denver
 RTD began the E3 Program (Engage, Exchange, Empower), with the
primary goal of employee engagement to provide employees with
foundational skills and a framework to apply expertise and ideas and
solve problems
 RTD imported existing training from Peak Academy and adapted it for
the needs of the agency
 RTD implemented Pilots in Customer Care and Bus Maintenance
which led to meaningful increases in engagement and many local
improvements
 RTD emphasized front line training and coaching to support
engagement
 RTD established a base program for shared mindset and language
around finding solutions
 RTD created a new Continuous Improvement Division
Ms. Seleske explained that the vision for continuous improvement and
innovation includes:
 Training, Facilitation, Coaching, and Tracking
 Process Improvement and Process Data Analysis
 Mode Share, Customer Satisfaction, Employee Engagement, Asset
Availability Efficiency, Process Capability and Strategic Management
Ms. Seleske commented that for the remainder of 2017, the continuous
improvement and innovation division will help address critical challenges and
put into place foundations for future improvements which include:
Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.D

6.D






Recruiting
Scheduling
Benefits
As well as identifying and mapping core processes in preparation for
enterprise resources planning (ERP) system assessment

Chair Hoy remarked that one topic he has thought a lot about was employee
retiention. He said that retention rates are a serious problem for the agency
and it should be examined thoroughly.
Ms. Seleske noted that staff is beginning to review the whole life cycle and
is trying to determine where improvements can be made.
Chair Hoy indicated that there are hundreds of items that make people stay
and the Board has seen it at Board meetings where retirees are honored after
30-plus years of service.
Director Menten asked what “Stood up new Division” meant on page 6 of
the presentation.
Ms. Seleske stated that, the continuous improvement and innovation division
is brand new. She said that employees were borrowed from other
departments and cobbled to do the work.
Director Francone asked how many people were in the new division.
Ms. Seleske stated that she was the only full time employee, and there were
two consultants.
Director Francone inquired as to what type of trainings were being offered to
staff.
Ms. Seleske commented that various training options included process
improvements and safety issues. She added that most of the tools have
been centered on process mapping and similar work.
Director Francone asked how the continuous improvement and innovation
department will quantify its efforts.
Ms. Seleske stated that as of now, goals will be established as project goals
instead of delivery goals.

Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska stated that people applying for jobs have remarked that the
online application process is extremely cumbersome.

6.D

Director Francone commented that it is important to have a measureable
goal. She noted that the Board wants everything to run a bit leaner, but the
Board needs to see some type of measures to see improvement.

Director Solano remarked that RTD needs to step up and be the top
employer for the state. He said that RTD needs to offer its employees
excellent medical, education, and other benefits. He noted that if RTD pays
its employees well, they will produce more for the agency and it would pay
off.
Director Archuleta asked how RTD is going to come up with all of the
operators it needs when the N Line and SERE open. He stated again that
RTD needs to advertise its jobs on local Spanish radio.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone expressed her thanks to Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, for helping a constituent that was being continually
passed up by buses. She stated that the constituent had asked for a light pole to
be installed, but that was not something RTD could do. She added that staff has
been working with the constituent and appreciated their efforts.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 7, 2017
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Committee Chair Lubow stated that she would entertain a motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of discussing North Metro Rail Line Operations &
Maintenance: CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining positions relative to matters
that may be subject to negotiations; developing strategy for negotiations; and
instructing negotiators)
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purposes of discussing
CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I).
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Williams noted that there are 250 people a day that move to the
greater Denver metro area. She said that RTD needs to examine how it can
get 10% of those to work for RTD and added that RTD needs to be the
premier employer in the region.

6.D

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED [10 TO 0]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Walker,
Williams
Barbara Deadwyler, Chuck Sisk, Doug Tisdale
Lorraine Anderson, Paul Solano

The Board moved into Executive Session at 7:45 p.m.

G. Adjourn
Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 3, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m. directly after the
Executive Session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 48

6.E

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, October 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:29 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:15 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:25 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Absent
Absent

5:10 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:29 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:25 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:00 PM
5:29 PM
5:31 PM
5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:29 PM
Packet Pg. 49

6.E

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

4:59 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Nicole Carey,
Jessie Carter, Charles Castro, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, John
Flanagan, David Genova, Bob Grado, John Hersey, Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, Jeff Kay, Jim Maguire, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Mike Millage, Allen Miller,
Mike Nabhan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Ruth Seleske, Karl Shoemaker, Kevin Steele, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Brian Thye, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill
Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Daniel Delin, William Gross, Angie Malpiede, Robert
McNown, Mike Peek, Dave Sachs, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Richard Wobbekind,

B. Recommended Actions

• Salaried DB & DC Contribution
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of $5.1 million to
RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”),
which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.
It is also
recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of
9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified
amount to the plan for each year of employment.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, explained that the
Defined Benefit Trust (DB) Plan for salaried employees, hired
prior to January 1, 2008, and employees hired after that dates
are on the Defined Contribution Plan, which is a fixed
percentage. In 2012, for calendar year 2013 the calculation
for the closed Defined Benefit (DB) plan was $3.1 million
dollars at that time, it has since that time been determined
that the funding of $3.1 million is insufficient to fund the plan
Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Francone and Folska were absent.

6.E

in the timeframe that is expected, which is by 2030. The
actuarial recommendation for 2018 is $7.3 million, this option
has been deemed too costly to fund at this time. If RTD
contributes $5.1 million next year and into the future, RTD will
not achieve 100% funding until 2037, which is past the goal
date of 2030. This assumes a 7.5% return on investment. The
recommendation is to increase the annual fixed contribution by
$500,000 to $5.1 million.

Director Menten asked where would the increase comes from.
Ms. McKillop explained that the amount was assumed into the
budget when it was prepared and that we would use the
$500,000 and were able to use some additional funding from
the change in the budgeting forecast. RTD need to increase
that amount however, it was determined that it must be
achieved incrementally.
Director Menten
contribution.

asked

if

this

was

100%

employer

Ms. McKillop answered yes, both plans are 100% employer
contribution.
Director Lubow stated that the auditor recommends a higher
amount contributed to the DB Plan, however, RTD must
contribute to that fund incrementally. She then asked if there
will be a problem or issue with the represented side, and are
the monies competing at all.
Ms. McKillop stated that the plan that has been offered to the
union on the merits that plan and what was determined by
their actuarial. This plan at the 5.1 million is between 79 80% funded by adding the $500,000 to the fund. The union
plan, as previously discussed, is 43-46% funded which is two
very different situations. The $500,000 is a realistic goal. It is
expected for RTD to fraction the amount up each year in order
to reach the fully funded target date of 2030.
Director Broom asked if the calculations were assumed on the
DB Plan being fully funded by 2030.

Packet Pg. 51

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The recommendation for the DC Plan is to contribute 9%, or
$4,433,000.00 to the plan.

6.E

Ms. McKillop stated that the original assumption when the
plan was would be able to fund by 2030.
Director Broom stated that if the DB plan it is not fully funded
by 2030 that RTD would continue to pay into the plan after
everyone has retired.
Ms. McKillop agreed.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Ernest Archuleta, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED

• 2018 Salaried Benefit Contribution
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the 2018 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan
and authorizes the General Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into
agreements with the insurance carriers.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the October 24, 2017 Board
Meeting.
Director Tisdale and Deadwyler seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Finance & Administration, stated that based on
input from the Board in 2016, the Benefits Committee
reviewed the Medical Premiums and RTD and the Employee
share of the premium payment. The Benefits Committee is
moving toward the less expensive plans, Kaiser, as being the
base plans to which employees would buy up for Cigna. She
noted that in order to maintain options for employees, we will
maintain two medical providers: Cigna and Kaiser. Noting the
cost differences in the contribution between the Kaiser and
Cigna plans and that it would have been a large cost increase
Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten stated that there were no further questions
and moved to vote.

6.E

to employees the first year, and decided to phase the increase
for CIGNA plans over the next three years. Ms. McKillop
offered the following summary of the changes for the 2018
plan year.

-

Kaiser HDHP – No plan changes
Kaiser DHMO
o Increased Deductibles
 Individual from $600 to $800
 Family from $1,200 to $1,600
 Loss of grandfathered status on this plan
will result in deductibles and co-pays
being credited toward the maximum out
of pocket cost
o Add a new tier pharmacy benefit - 20% up to
$250 per script on specialty drugs

-

Cigna HDHP – No plan changes

-

Cigna PPO
o Increase office co-pay visit from $20 to $25
o Increase specialist co-pay from $20 to $50
o Increase emergency room co-pay from $250 to
$500
o Add a new tier pharmacy benefit - 20% up to
$250 per script on specialty drugs
o Loss of grandfathered status on this plan will
result in deductibles and co-pays being credited
toward the maximum out of pocket cost
o Utilize the Cigna Local Plus network vs the
Cigna OAP network

Dental
We are still in a rate guarantee period. There is no
administrative fee or plan change.
Life & Disability
There was a significant increase in rates due to
utilization. Due to the price increase, we are putting
this out to bid to see if we can get a better rate.
Vision/Business Travel Accident
We will be changing providers to Superior Vision.
Superior Vision has a larger network and a better
benefit for contacts. The rates are almost identical.
Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Medical

6.E

We recently renewed the organization’s Business Travel
Accident insurance for three years; there was no
increase in premium.

The 2018 estimate of the Salaried Employee Insured Benefits
is $13,864,043. The projected increase of 4% results in an
increase of $550,848 in 2018. The increase meets the
projected costs in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Director Broom asked if Kaisers Triple Option was considered
which allows people that were previously in Cigna to continue
to use their doctors but everything else goes through the Kaiser
system.
Ms. McKillop stated that options were examined under a Kaiser
only plan. It was determined that we still have enough of our
employees that use Cigna, and that by passing some of the
increased cost to the employee we may see a shift of
employees choosing Kaiser. We will then have to review our
options under the Kaiser plan.
Director Sisk congratulated the department for keeping the
costs down and that keeping the increase between the 2-5%.
Ms. McKillop stated that the benefits group spent a lot of time
looking for options.
Director Hoy commented on the great work and asked if in
three years would the full Cigna premium be shifted to the
employee.
Ms. McKillop stated that what RTD contributes based on what
RTD pays for Kaiser. Our portion will go up as health care
goes up, however, RTD will continue to benchmark that
amount based on Kaiser costs.
Director Solano asked how this change if the affordable care
act fee go away.
Ms. McKillop stated that we know what the fees are based on
what is estimated to be right now, as they have not released
Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The 2018 planned Salaried Employee Benefit budget is
projected to be a 2% increase over 2017 projected benefit
costs.

6.E

the new fee amounts, however, we believe the fees are close
to the amount listed in the packet.
Director Solano commented that there will be uncertainties
down the road with health care
Director Menten asked how many salaried employees at RTD/

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED Unanimously

• Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2018-2023 Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP) and the 2018-2023 Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s
goals of Fiscal Sustainability by effecting current and long-range
budgeting in a timely manner.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the October 24,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that, staff would provide an update on
both the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the Annual Program
Evaluation (APE).
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis, this SBP incorporates the 2017 amended budget and
includes all known adjustments and best estimates at this time.
Some highlighted information are as follows:


Fare revenue is showing a 10% increase every three
years and less than a 1% growth in ridership each year
Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop stated there are approximately 800 salaried
employees.

















Sales and use tax now incorporates the CU Leeds
September forecast, this is giving us a positive
difference of about $27 million over the 6-year period
versus the March forecast.
Ongoing Operating expenses are increased at area CPI
rates and then adjusted for other known items and
necessary reductions.
Diesel fuel has been budgeted at $1.80/gallon and
gasoline at $2.65/gallon.
Capital and expense projects (O&M) projects includes
specifically identified minimum/must-have operating and
maintenance projects based on State of Good Repair
(SOGR) priorities. These projects are detailed in Exhibit
III. Other projects may be added based on available
cash flow if sales tax revenue improves or there are
excess fund balances at year-end. Specific projects will
be determined from the deferred (non-critical) project list
in Exhibit IV.
No new debt has been issued over the SVP term, and
debt payments continue only on existing debt.
The SBP will require that we draw on reserves in order
to balance the plan. The staff recommends that the
Board-appropriated fund be funded at a minimum of $3
million each year in 2018-2019, not funded (not drawn)
in 2020, drawn by $7.0 million in 2021 to help balance
the SBP, and then funded at $5 million each year in
2022-2023. This fund is projected to reach a balance of
over $26 million in 2023.
The unrestricted operating reserve was established in
2017 and funded with available cash flow.
Staff
recommends that the unrestricted operating fund be
funded at a minimum of $5.0 million each year in 20182019, drawn by a total of $19.7 million in 2020-2021
to help balance the SBP, and then funded with available
cash flow in 2022-2023. The SBP will apply available
dollars toward the operating fund such that it reaches
nearly $29 million in 2022 and reaches over $59 million
in 2023.
The capital replacement fund be drawn entirely in 2018
for fleet purchases and then funded by $3.0 million
each year beginning in 2022. This fund is projected to
reach a balance of $6.0 million in 2023.
The total of these three funds is projected to be nearly
$92 million in 2023

Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E






The SVP is now balanced, which means we have a
positive unrestricted year-end fund balance over the sixyear period, we will maintain a minimum $2 million
balance in the outlying years while supporting minimum
capital expense projects and restore the reserve fund
balances.
There will not be a subsidy from the Base System to
FasTracks for this six-year period.
The SVP is used as a guide for the 2018 budget. As
part of our shift to an O&M environment, we will
continue to cost allocate to FasTracks operations and
we will have more acute spending on SOGR.

Ms. McKillop stated that we were we able to move state
highway 119 to 2023. We will talk about the potential
maintenance facility in the long range plan. She also added that
the $92 million in the reserves is significant but not the Board
recommended 3-month reserve.
Susan Cohen, Manager, FasTracks Program Control, the 2017
APE and the SBP are developed in concert, and the underlying
assumptions in the APE are consistent with those used in the
SBP. Ms. Cohen summarized the following:








Fare revenues are projected using the same fare revenue
model and fare increase assumptions
Sales and use tax projections for the 0.4% sales and use
tax incorporate the September 2017 CU-Leeds forecasts
Grant revenues are based on existing grant agreements and
past trends, adjusted at CPI as appropriate
Interest income on available balance is projected using the
same methodology as for the SBP.
The cost allocations to FasTracks from the SBP and the
FasTracks “rubber tire” service increase feed directly from
the SBP.
Operating and maintenance costs for the Eagle Project are
derived from the Concession Agreement

The total FasTracks project budget through 2020 included in
the APE is approximately $5.6 billion. The major changes
between the 2016 and 2017 APE involve the North Metro
Project Specific changes listed below:


Additional funding to cover the current scope to complete
o Additional RTD overhead
Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E

o
o
o
o

Head-end tie-in
Risks
Riverside grade crossing elimination
Additional parking at end-of-line station

The average annual operating and maintenance cost for the
first ten years of North Metro operations is projected at $25.9
million in 2017 dollars.







Savings from projected completion of the I-225 project
under the 2016 APE budget - $15 million savings
Reduce remaining budget for the Free Metro Ride to the
$1.5 million required for City and County of Denver capital
improvements - $1.8 million savings
Reduction in program wide capital costs - $0.7 million
savings
Additional funds required for project closeout staffing and
extension of project closeout to 2020 - $5.4 million

Future implementation of projects not included in the current
APE would require identification of funding sources for
construction and operations, and would require approval of the
Board.
The projected APE cash flow does not require Base System
funding to support FasTracks corridor operations and
maintenance. However, the FasTracks Capital Acquisition
Fund would have to be drawn down in 2021, and funding from
the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be needed
between 2021 and 2023, to fund FasTracks corridor
operations and maintenance. However, there will be a balance
left in the FISA in 2023.
Ms. McKillop followed up on the FISA stating that any saving
that are removed from project go into the FISA. In regards to
North Metro the $52 million regarding current scope has not
changed, however operations costs have changed. Originally
cost was based on the assumption that RTD would be
operating North Metro. Those are the differences from the
expenditure side of the previous document.
Director Broom asked if CU Leeds takes into consideration the
marijuana issue.
Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Outside of the North Metro Project, there are some net savings
of $12.2 million through 2020, as summarized below.

6.E

Ms. Scarpino stated that the September forecast specifically
notes that the marijuana tax is excluded for the next five years.

Director Tisdale observed that the approval of the APE with the
$33 million increase does not inferentially constitute a decision
by this board to have RTD assume the operations and
maintenance of the North Metro project, if it were to this is the
financial impact.
Ms. McKillop agreed that the assumption we made was based
on RTD operating and maintaining North Metro, but this is not
conclusive.
Director Lubow stated she will vote no because there is
nothing in the budget helping her district get the rail. She also
asked for an explanation regarding the $52 million that isn’t
included in the North Metro scope.
Ms. McKillop reviewed the items of the head in and tie in, the
risk assessment associated with the scope gap, additional
parking, and end of line, and riverside crossing are the main
items that constituted that number.
Mr. Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs stated the extended overhead and extending staff in
order to close out that was expected for 2018 and now is
going into 2019. The head end and tie in from Eagle Project
to the North Metro project. This was a responsibility oversight
Director Lubow reiterated that state highway 119 is included in
the SBP and is moved back one year. She also commented that
FISA was not brought to zero but was lower, and that this was
why she would vote no.
Director Anderson pointed out that the FISA is the FasTracks
plan and that money will go to build out the FasTracks plan,
and the FISA account is the plan savings account to build out
the FasTracks plan. No one actually loses.
Director Sisk thanked the staff finding a way to including
highway 119. He acknowledged that we did not have the
budget for some of the other projects.
Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop stated that current law does not have marijuana
sales tax coming to RTD. CU Leeds will be presenting the
September forecast.

6.E

Director Menten asked if the 15L route improvement that are
coming up will these be changes by the go bond vote, and if
contributions be affected.

Director Menten questioned the Public Utilities Commission
(PUC) issues with signs at Welton that is requiring RTD to
replace the current signage.
General Manager, Dave Genova responded that the signage is
part of the original system from 1994, and the Welton corridor
is one of a higher accident rate area between light rail and
automobiles. This project will replace and enhance the warning
lights that warn motorist of oncoming light rail trains. The
Welton corridor is a higher accident rate this project is to
enhance the signage in that area. Other complications to the
area is that this is a one-way street and the train operates two
ways, and these signs will improve the warnings and
awareness of approaching trains. This has been a high priority
area for the PUC for RTD to improve through the state safety
oversight program.
Director Menten questions the cost of $1.3 million in capital to
complete this project.
Mr. Genova stated that it is an involved project to replace
signal within a light rail corridor.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 2]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED

• Adoption of the Long Range Financial Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopts the Long Range Financial Plan.
This action item meets the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal Sustainability
by effecting current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.
Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop stated our contributions stay the same, that it
will not change, but compliment what we are doing.

6.E

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.

Discussion:

Ms. McKillop stated that this took more effort, but we were
able to get this balanced.
Ms. Cohen explained that the Long Range Financial Plan
(LFRP) covers the Base System and the FasTracks through
2040. It serves as an extension of the six-year Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) and Annual Program Evaluation (APE)
through the regional planning time horizon, which is currently
2040. It ensures that RTD can fund the ongoing operation and
maintenance of the Base System and the FasTracks corridors
while repaying its debt. Key elements of the plan for the years
2024-2040 include the following:




Base System Operations and Capital Replacement
o Continued operating costs based on the final year of
the SBP, escalated at the Consumer Price Index
(CPI)
o

Annual allowance for major rehabilitation assumed
based on 0.5% of installed cost of existing asset
inventory, escalated at CPI.

o

Additional service for the SH 119 project at its
completion.

o

Replacement of revenue fleet and other assets
based on current asset inventory and replacement
schedules, adjusted for major assets purchased in
the SBP period.

o

Replacement of a maintenance facility in 2026 to
meet projected capacity needs.

FasTracks Operations and Capital Maintenance
o Cost allocations from the Base System based on the
final year of the SBP, escalated at the Consumer
Price Index (CPI).

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

o

FasTracks-funded rubber tire service increase based
on the final year of the SBP, escalated at the
Consumer Price Index (CPI).

o

Eagle operating and maintenance costs derived from
the Concession Agreement

o

North Metro operations and maintenance costs
based on RTD operations, escalated at CPI
Annual allowance for major rehabilitation of
corridors outside the Eagle Project assumed based
on 0.3% of installed asset value, escalated at CPI

o





Revenue Projections
o Sales and use tax forecasts from the September
2017 Leeds forecasts
o Farebox revenues forecast using the fare model
used for the SBP
 Fare increases tied to the CPI assumed every
third year
o Future formula grants forecast based on historic
appropriations, escalated at CPI
 Assuming additional fixed guideway grants
assumed for FasTracks corridors beginning
nine years after corridors enter revenue
service
FasTracks corridor construction
o Additional projects to meet commitments included
in the environmental clearances for federally-funded
corridors

In order to balance, however, we had to the following:







Need to take a total of $166.2 million from the base
system in 2024-2030 to fund FasTracks expenditures
Need to issue COPs to finance selected Base System
capital expenditures in 2026-2028
o Bus maintenance facility in 2026:
o Bus purchases in 2027-2028:
Need to issue COPs to finance FasTracks vehicle
replacements and US 36 construction in 2027 and 2030
Reduce combined Board appropriated and operating
reserves on Base System to equivalent of one months of

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E



Reduce combined Board appropriated and operating
reserves on FasTracks to equivalent of one months of
operating expenses in 2024; restore to two months’
operating expenses in 2031



Use remaining FISA balance to fund FasTracks operations
and maintenance in 2024
o

Restore FISA balances starting in 2031, as funding
becomes available

Ms. McKillop reiterated that an assumption was made
regarding the FISA. We made a transfer between 2024-2030
from the Base system to FasTracks. After 2030 FasTracks
starts seeing some small balances, and by 2040 the balance
gets up to about $327 million. We did not make assumptions
about transferring money back to the Base System based on
the amount moved. We also made an assumption that any
money available or left over in FasTracks would be put back
into the FISA. The short years are a little more drastic than
previous years. We had to issue more debt than the previous
year, and the slightly higher transfer of base funds this year.
Director Williams posed a generic question regarding how
historically accurate sales and use tax have they been over the
years.
Ms. McKillop requested the Director to wait for the CU Leeds
presentation.
Director Menten questioned if the Board would like to hear this
prior to voting.
Robert McNown, Research Associate CU Leeds School of
Business, reviewed the page titled Error Tracking that presents
percent forecast errors. The report shows dates in which the
forecast was made and each cell is either for the quarter or the
year as a whole. When the forecast was presented in March
2015 there was a 1.8% margin of error, as we advance
through the year forecast errors go down as we gather more
information. By March 2016, the error is slightly above 1%.
This shows a remarkably small incident of error. It is important
that the forecast not be systematically biased in one direction
Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

operating expenses in 2024; restore to two months’
operating expenses by 2031

6.E

or the other. The record of forecasting is 50-50in positive and
negative errors, which balance out so that the average error is
zero.
Director Williams confirmed that the presentation shows that
the margin of error is miniscule. This forecast has been
historically accurate and to trust the estimated.

Director Broom stated that it appears that the total FasTracks
system, except Longmont rail should be up and running by 12
years, and that we will have level operations on the FasTracks
side and we can see whether all of the projections made were
correct.
Ms. McKillop explained that we will have addressed current
projects in this Long Range Plan, however we have not
addressed the four remaining corridors, the rest of the North
corridor, the North West Rail, or the extension of the B Line to
Longmont, the Central Platte corridor extension, as well as the
Southwest corridor will not be completed in this 2040
timeframe. We have made any assumptions about the
remaining balances of the $327 million or where that would
go. One or more of those project could get done but that
assumption has not been made in this 2040 plan. money
where that will go or as to what projects may be funded.
Director Broom asked will we build more than we can operate
Ms. McKillop stated that our plan says we can operate with
the assumption that have currently been made.
Director Solano asked about the Base System capital
replacement and what facility in 2026 will we be updating or
building.
Ms. McKillop stated that we do not know where we will either
be expanding or building a new facility, but that we are at
capacity currently our locations. We would not know where
this may occur until we began the highway SH 119 project.
Due to this a dollar figure was included to address this
eventuality.

Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McKillop explained that the forecast goes out to 2040,
and the near term estimates are sound.

6.E

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
NAYS: Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
AWAY:
Ernest Archuleta

C. Updates

• Sales & Use Tax Forecast Update - CU Leeds
Ms. McKillop introduced the team from the CU Leeds School of Business,
including Dr. Robert McNown, Dr. Rich Wobbekind, and Brian Lewandowski,
and said that CU Leeds presents to the Board each year following the
September forecasting period. She noted that CU Leeds has changed its
forecasting methodology for RTD to a consensus forecast with a low margin
of error.
Dr. Wobbekind, Associate Dean of the CU Leeds School of Business,
explained the context for their forecasting model, which represents the state
and national economy. He said he would speak about the forecasting
uncertainties and compare the CU Leeds forecast with those from the
Legislative Council (LC) and the Office of State Planning and Budgeting
(OSPB). He said that the consumers have been carrying the U.S. economy
over the past five years and that the government, business, and export
sectors have not contributed much toward gross domestic product (GDP)
growth. He noted that consumer spending, which represents 70% of the
economy, has allowed for a 2% GDP growth rate. He said that business
fixed investment was strong in the first two quarters of 2017 and looked to
be strong going forward, driven by potential corporate tax changes and
corporate profits. He said GDP growth of 2.2-2.4% percent was anticipated,
which was better than the previous year and the ten-year period of 2000 to
2009. He said there had been strong job growth for a fairly long time and
that September 2017 had been the first month of negative growth in seven
years’ time. He attributed the decline to impacts from hurricanes and said
the decline was an anomaly but noted that job growth had declined in 2017
from 2015 and 2016. He said job growth was constrained by a low
unemployment rate, a low labor force participation rate, and a lack of people
of prime employment age, both nationally and in Colorado. Compared to
other states, he said that Colorado was the fourth fastest growing state in
the country and had been doing very well according to several metrics
except for personal per capita income growth, average annual pay growth,
and home price appreciation. He noted that 43 of the 50 states had eclipsed
Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED

pre-recession employment peaks but noted that two of Colorado’s
neighboring states have experienced negative employment growth. In terms
of population growth, he said that Colorado’s rate would begin to slow but
would retain faster growth than the nation as a whole and that the state
would rely on net migration from the rest of the nation for future population
increases. He stated that Colorado had the fastest rate of population growth
by percentage and was eighth in terms of absolute population growth. He
said the regional job growth peaked in 2014 at 3.7% and has since
decelerated but has remained higher than the national average. He concluded
that CU Leeds was bullish on the Colorado economy but noted the state and
local economies were slowing down, which would in turn affect the
forecast.
Dr. McNown reiterated that national economic drivers affect the state and
district economies, which in turn drives sales and use tax revenues. He said
that CU Leeds uses different models for the short-term and medium-turn
forecasts than the long-term forecast. He said the variables used in the
forecasting model for the short-term and medium-term forecast were
employment, personal income, and retail sales and taxable model. He noted
the key variables for the long-term forecast were supply-driven, such as
constraints due to population growth and the aging of the population, the
number of workers of prime age, labor productivity, savings, investment,
and output growth. He said that the national and local economies should
anticipate steady but moderate growth over the next six years, particularly
in the short term, and that Colorado could expect growth at a rate higher
than the national average both in the short term and beyond. He cautioned
that the economy faces uncertainties from economic policies, international
affairs, commodity prices, and other factors, which is why the forecasts are
updated on a regular basis using up-to-date information. He noted that CU
Leeds changed to a more conservative medium-term forecast from Moody’s
Analytics, which is based on a consensus approach. He stated that Moody’s
baseline forecast had routinely been overly optimistic and had to be revised
downward repeatedly. He said that CU Leeds, in consultation with RTD
staff, changed in March to a consensus forecast based on national models of
government agencies, private firms, and international agencies such as the
International Monetary Fund. He stated the total revenue growth in 2017
was expected to be 5.9% and would be lower in 2018. He noted that CU
Leeds has tried to accommodate forecasting errors by performing scenario
planning using a comparison of the optimistic from Moody’s Analytics, the
consensus forecast now used by RTD, and a pessimistic forecast. He said
the pessimistic forecast is close to the growth seen in the consensus
forecast. He said his team worked with RTD’s Finance Department to
provide a range of options that capture uncertainty in the forecasting
models. Looking forward, he stated that, in real terms, there would be a
tremendous slowing in long term growth rates and revenues and that in last
decade of long-term forecast horizon, from 2036-2045, the annual rate of
Packet Pg. 66

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.E

6.E

Director Anderson asked whether the forecast differentiated between online
and storefront sales.
Mr. Lewandowski said there was no such differentiation, because the
Colorado Department of Revenue’s sales and use tax reports did not show
the source of the revenue reported. He noted that the sales tax reporting
from Amazon’s online sales was slowly being incorporated into the data.
Director Archuleta asked how the salaries of the additional operators and
employees needed to combat the agency’s operator shortfall and to operate
the North Line and the Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) would affect the
budget.
Ms. McKillop said that accommodations were made from a financial
perspective and that all of the budgets assumed the salary expenditures for
the lines anticipated to be in operation.
Director Tisdale asked whether the revenue projections excluded marijuana
sales and use tax data.
Dr. McNown said that was correct. He said that marijuana revenues were
extracted from the historical data in order to provide the data for the
projections.
Director Broom said that recessions would happen but could not be
predicted. He noted that the recovery period following the 2008 recession
was one of the longer ones in history. He said the agency should be
prepared to see another recession within four to five years and noted that
the projections would at that time be at odds with what is going on in the
real world.
Dr. McNown stated that CU Leeds had provided a recession scenario in their
report. He agreed that the timing of the recession could not be predicted.
Ms. McKillop said that the agency had decided to build reserves to help
offset a recession. She said her department had attempted to build up the
Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

growth was projected to be 1% lower than the current 10-year period,
which was due to a change in demographics and an aging population. He
said that CU Leeds compared its forecasts with those from LC and OSPB
and that the CU Leeds forecast projected lower personal income and
employment growth than the other agencies. He concluded by stating that,
in order to maintain the integrity of their forecasts, the CU Leeds team did
not change its predictions arbitrarily, because they believe in their
forecasting model. He stated that the team is independent, has no political
stake in its forecasts, and has no particular affiliation except by contract
with RTD.

6.E

agency’s fund reserves by drawing down the funds as little as possible in
future budgets.
Dr. Wobbekind noted that no one could have predicted a 2008-caliber
recession. He said that none of the indicators showed that the next
recession would be as severe as the one in 2008, and he noted that
reserves were better suited to handle a gentle dip rather than a dramatic
event.

Dr. McNown said that about 1% of RTD’s tax revenues came from
marijuana tax revenue.

• Quarterly Audit Update
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Internal Audit Manager, said the Board had copies
of the audits contained in the packet. She said the auditors provided a status
report of in-progress audits and noted the amount of work that still needed
to be done to complete the audits in the plan. She said that the auditors
were in progress on audits for the Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride programs.
She said a few of the audits from the plan would continue in 2018 and
stated that there would be several follow-up audits to ensure that their
recommendations were implemented.
Director Broom asked whether the internal audit team was involved at all
with external audits and whether the external auditor had started yet.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said that the internal auditors do interact with the external
auditor and provide all of RTD’s audit reports. She said the external audit
communications occur early in the year and later in the year. She said the
internal auditors had not yet made contact with the external auditor for
2017.
Director Broom asked whether the backlog of internal audits would affect
the work of the external auditor.
Ms. Isaac-Heslop said the internal auditors account for time spent working
with the external auditor into the audit plan.
Kevin Parker, Senior Internal Auditor, said that the external auditors select
certain audits, and the internal auditors provide all of the work papers for
those audits.

Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano asked what percentage of RTD’s budget was made up of
marijuana tax revenue.

6.E

Director Deadwyler asked where the audit team was with the audit of
Access-a-ride.
Mr. Parker said that the audit was in progress and that the auditing team
needed to speak with Directors Deadwyler and Folska. He said the auditors
had a high-level scope of the topics that would be covered.

Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
presented the 2018 requested budget. She said the requested budget is
distinct from the recommended budget and is a first draft. She said the
budget would see changes before the final recommended version. She said
the new capital in the budget for FasTracks is preliminary and the capital
carryforward had not yet been updated. She said that neither the expense
projects or expense project carryforward were included in the first draft. She
noted that staff typically combined Base and FasTracks funding into a
financial statement, which was presented to the Board. She said the
summary was included in the board packet and reviewed some of the key
economic indicators that impact the budgeting process.
Ms. McKillop spoke to the non-profit program that the Board had discussed
earlier in the year. She said that staff had left the funding of the program at
$6.8 million, which was unchanged from the amount budgeted in 2017,
because, based on the fact that the pass working group was investigating
the possibility of issuing discounts or passes for low-income passengers.
She said that staff wanted to see the result of the working group’s efforts
before making adjustments.
Director Menten said that Ms. McKillop had spoken previously about budgets
being project-based and asked her to speak to the savings that were found.
Ms. McKillop said that staff had attempted to tie the 2018 budgets to cost
drivers, which meant several areas received considerably less funding than in
previous years. She said that people tend to build contingencies into their
budgets, which is natural, and that staff tried to strip back those
contingencies and instead established a fund that could be used in if there
were a legitimate issue, rather than having significant underruns in the
budget. She said that was a new process for 2018 that would need to be
adjusted going forward. She said staff learned more about what the cost
drivers would be. She stated that, using the new method, staff reduced the
budget by$10 million overall, $5 million of which would be used for a
reserve fund, and the remainder would revert to the unrestricted year-end
fund balance and to other projects.

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• 2018 Requested Budget

6.E

Director Menten thanked staff for their efforts and said that the savings
found were substantial. She said that the new budgeting scheme was not
the same as zero-base budget but stated that the reevaluation was good.

Ms. Scarpino said that staff was seeing increases in principle payments and
decreases in interest payments, largely because of refunding measures. She
said that the refunding measures came with new reamortization schedules.
Ms. McKillop noted that the agency would pay off the T-Rex Project bonding
debt in 2024, and as the end of the loan term approaches, the agency
would pay more in principle and less in interest. She said that staff had done
a tremendous amount of work restructuring the agency’s debt, especially
with the refunding of the Denver Union Station loan and other measures
approved by the Board in 2017. She stated that millions of dollars had been
saved, which allowed staff to do more without having to transfer money
from the Base system accounts.

• August 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, said the report showed red than in previous
months. He stated that sales and use tax revenues were down 1.7%, which
still amounted to an increase of $3.8 million over 2017 revenue projections.
He noted that the lower tax revenues in August were attributable to the loss
of marijuana tax revenues and lower car sales compared to August 2016. He
said that ridership continued to be lower than expectations, which in turn
drove 0.7% lower fare revenue than expected. He said that, per request
from the Board, ridership information would be included in the report and
would be broken down by local, regional, and Call-n-Ride service. He said
that the monthly ridership for each light rail line and non-revenue service
was also included.
Director Menten thanked staff for reintroducing the ridership counts back
into the monthly financial reports. She asked when the annual subsidy report
would be presented.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, said that the report would be presented in November
2017. He noted that, due to changes in accounting methodologies, staff
would not be able to report the per-rider fare subsidy.

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Tisdale noted that debt payments for the Base system in the budget
increased from $50 million to $59 million, while the debt payments for
FasTracks were reduced from $8.1 million to $5.7 million.

6.E

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 14, 2017

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 71

6.F

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:54 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
7:48 PM
7:48 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

7:49 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent

7:49 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present

7:50 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:51 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

7:48 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Present

7:48 PM
7:48 PM
7:48 PM
7:49 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:48 PM
7:49 PM
Packet Pg. 72

6.F

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Nicole Carey,
Jessie Carter, Charles Castro, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey,
Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Martell Dyles, Terry Emmons, John
Flanagan, David Genova, Bob Grado, John Hersey, Ann Marie IsaacHeslop, Jeff Kay, Jim Maguire, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Mike Millage, Allen Miller,
Mike Nabhan, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Ruth Seleske, Karl Shoemaker, Kevin Steele, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Brian Thye, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Bill
Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Daniel Delin, William Gross, Angie Malpiede, Robert
McNown, Mike Peek, Dave Sachs, John Thompson, Joe Triplett,
Gary Van Dorn, Ruth Wallsgrove, Richard Wobbekind,

B. Recommended Actions

• January 2018 Service Change
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the January 2018 Service Change package
as summarized in Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, stated that staff was
seeking the committee’s approval to move forward with the
January 2018 service changes. He stated that these changes,
which occur three times a year, allow staff to right-size
service delivery based on need and use.
Mr. Abel said that staff had made a variety of
recommendations to either add or re-adjust service based on
ridership. He remarked that the two main items on the rail
side were to create the L Line, or downtown loop, and to
adjust the R Line and W Line on evenings and weekends. He

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Directors Francone and Folska were absent. Director Deadwyler left the meeting early.

6.F

added that the compromise for the W Line was formulated by
the City of Golden.

Mr. Carter noted that staff changed the frequency of the 42
and 45 to every thirty minutes because those routes were not
achieving the 25 boardings per hour. He added that this
change had been put through an equity analysis and this
represents the least discriminatory alternatives.
Director Deadwyler thanked staff for all of their help. She
noted that the 89 had struggles for several years with low
ridership. She asked if the 34 now reached Mercy Housing,
did that mean that there would not be a bus going to
Anschutz.
Mr. Carter stated that was correct, but those riders could be
directed to the University of Colorado A Line via the 34. He
added that one of the best things about the University of
Colorado A Line was that it was much faster in comparison to
the bus.
Mr. Abel commented that with the proposed elimination of the
89, the 34 would extend its route to serve Mercy Housing,
which would also go to the University of Colorado A Line.
Mr. Carter remarked that when staff talked to the constituents
in Stapleton about Mercy Housing, their focus was access to
the King Soopers on MLK and Iola. He also noted that the 34
during peak service would be every thirty minutes which was
more often than the hourly service it currently had on the 89.
Director Deadwyler asked that staff discuss this with her
further offline.
Director Menten explained that she would be a no vote for this
item because she supported the original efficiencies. She said
that she had received several comments from people who
Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jessie Carter, Service Planning and Scheduling Manager,
commented that there were over 200 people that attended the
public hearings. He also stated that there were quite a few
comments from stakeholders and other groups and because of
that, additional changes were made based off of their
feedback. He stated that staff is looking at ending the 84 and
using the 34 to pick up some of the stops, including going to
Mercy Housing.

6.F

have said that they do not see people use the W Line. She
added that the R Line’s performance at this point in time is
less than ideal and boosting the weaker system on the
shoulders of the bus riders is not fair. She added that RTD
needs to be running lean and as Mr. Abel had indicated, RTD
can always adjust service based on need. She further added
that she attended many of the public meetings and a lot of the
letter writers are not riding the system.

Mr. Carter stated that on the R Line, the original proposal
saved $2.8 million and the current proposal saved $1.5
million.
Director Lubow asked what the changes to the BOLT would
look like.
Mr. Carter commented that the changes would reflect a timing
issue, not a frequency issue.
Director Broom thanked staff for listening to the public and
reviewing the original proposal. He said that he still thought
that six months was not enough time to attract ridership and
RTD’s marketing focus should be adjusted. He added that
RTD needs to address street traffic and get people out of their
cars. He stated that he commuted for 20 years and he saw
the ebb and flow of traffic. He remarked that RTD needs to
change the mind-set of the public because RTD is not
efficiently moving goods and people.
Director Tisdale commended staff on their collaboration with
the City of Golden. He said that it was his understanding that
the Mayor and City Council approached RTD with a proposal
that was workable. He stated that the changes now proposed
to the R Line are not severely dramatic, and are similar to
changes on bus schedules for weekends. He added that these
schedules are always up for review and change, and this
accommodation appears to be responsible and addresses the
issues that staff had to look at.
Director Solano said that in order to increase demand, the
system has to be reliable and in addition, staff did not give the
R Line enough marketing time. He noted that he would be a
Packet Pg. 75

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow asked what was the difference in cost
between the original proposal and the new.

6.F

no vote, and asked if the problem laid in the fact that RTD
was short manpower.

Director Solano commented that demand will grow if the
service is given more time.
Mr. Carter remarked that in comparison to the University of
Colorado A Line which has 23,000 passengers per day, the R
Line is only running at 40 passengers per hour. He stated it
was difficult to say that advertising and or service time was an
issue.
Mr. Abel recognized that RTD’s greatest demand potential was
on a weekday and said that poor ridership manifests itself on
weekends.
Director Williams remarked that RTD is trying to do its best as
an organization to balance its financial situation with its image
and added that RTD is about moving people, not vehicles.
Chair Hoy noted that the City of Golden came up with and
paid for a flex route to do what staff was trying to do. He
commented that it seemed wrong to take away the 15 minute
headways from them after they committed funds. He added
that between the last proposal and the current proposal, staff
and the City of Golden have come up with an agreeable
proposal that is a win win for both parties. He further added
that the City of Aurora seems to be pleased that the weekday
headways will remain at 15 minute intervals, but noted that
those headways might not last forever. He explained that if
ridership continues to dip, staff may need to address this one
more time. He remarked that he would be voting in favor of
this item because if not, RTD will continue to provide more
service than is needed and RTD will end up spending money it
does not need to spend. He said that RTD will be saving
money and satisfying stakeholders, so he will be voting yes.
Director Archuleta commented that RTD should advertise for
the R Line on TV and Radio. He said that it would not take a
Packet Pg. 76

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel explained that the driving force behind the
recommendation was that RTD does not have the passengers.
He remarked that RTD has limited resources in terms of
operators, vehicles, and money. He added that mandating
cannot be sustained especially when there are not enough
passengers to warrant the service.

6.F

lot of money, and if there are going to be savings it should be
applied to advertising.

Director Mihalik noted that when the first iteration of the
service cuts was published he was shocked that the R Line
performance was so low. He said that because ridership has
been increasing he would suspend his belief in the service
standards until the next service change, and if the R Line and
W Line are up for changes again, they should be changed to
the standard service levels.
Director Walker stated that he supported the recommendation.
He commented that staff had shown its flexibility in working
with local governance and while the area along the R Line is
not built for this type of service today, ridership will grow in
time. He added that the multiple years of construction should
have been a good advertising agent.
Director Broom remarked that RTD does the service change
exercise three times a year, and stated that there is not going
to be significant changes to ridership on the R Line in four
months until the next service change. He noted that the W
Line has been in operation much longer, and the R Line has not
been given enough time to build its ridership. He also stated
that the Board should be given adequate notice to prepare for
conversations with constituents if another recommendation
comes up like this again.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for always being
willing and able to listen to the public. She noted that they
attend meetings that can at times be unpleasant.
Director Solano commented that in some areas, the University
of Colorado A Line still has a bad stigma in terms of its ontime performance.

Packet Pg. 77

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow said that this is a complex issue because there
are a lot of different needs and requirements. She added that
while she would prefer to save money, it is important to show
people that they are listened to and their needs are addressed.
She noted that this was a good compromise and she would be
supporting it.

6.F

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 3]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Bob Broom, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler

• Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to extend an Agreement with Metro/Yellow
Transportation, Northern Yellow, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Access-aCab services. In addition, it is recommended by the Operations and
Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors authorizes the
General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
add Green Taxi Cooperative as a new provider for the Access-a-Cab
program.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel commented that this is a housekeeping item. He said
that the Board should be aware that RTD’s Access-a-Cab
program has the customer pay for the first two dollars, and
any fare remaining after $14.00. He remarked that RTD’s
legal team had asked that these contracts be entered into
annually, so this will be the first of an annual contract.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano

ABSENT:
AWAY:

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Packet Pg. 78

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

6.F

• Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate Demand Shift of Access-a-

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that this request was only to move money,
and not for additional funding. He commented that when staff
budgeted this service, it was done by the company and not by
the program. He reiterated that this action will only move
funds from one budget line item to another.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten

ABSENT:
AWAY:

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
exercise option years one and two of the Via Mobility Services Contract
16DH048 for the provision of Travel Training services. The cost of the two
one-year option years shall not exceed $265,700. The total cost of
Contract 16DH048 shall not exceed $399,740.
Motion:

Director Solano made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.
Packet Pg. 79

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Cab Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer in the amount of
$505,000 from Yellow Cab Access-a-Cab service to Metro Taxi Access-aCab service and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab service in the amounts of
$340,000 and $165,000 respectively to adjust for the shift in customer
demand for these services in 2017.

6.F

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that RTD currently has a contract with VIA
Mobility to provide travel training to RTD customers who
typically use Access-a-Ride. He stated that the training helps
teach those individuals how to use fixed route services.

Mr. Abel explained that staff would like to have more people
move through the program in order to generate additional
savings.
Director Mihalik inquired as to how many people had gone
through the program.
Mr. Abel remarked that 19 people had completed the program
so far.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 0]
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Budget Transfer between Access-a-Ride Service Providers
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
transfer budgeted funds totaling $1,120,030.00 from MV Transportation
(Contract 13-DH-053) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055) to All
Aboard Transit (Contract 13-DH-054) and Transdev On Demand (Contract
13-DH-035) to account for changes in Access-a-Ride service delivery during
the period of January 1, 2017 through September 30,2017. Funds will be
transferred from the MV Transportation fuel line item ($240,000.00), from
the Via Mobility service line item ($672,030.00) and from Via Mobility fuel
line item ($208,000.00) and will be transferred to All Aboard Transit
(290,000.00) and TransDev Mobility on Demand ($830,030.00).
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Packet Pg. 80

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Mihalik commented that in the Board Report, there
was a statement which indicated that participation had been
lower than expected.

6.F

Director Archuleta seconded the motion.
Mr. Abel stated that in 2016 and 2017, RTD was having
challenges in the Access-a-Ride program as service providers
were not able to hire employees to provide service delivery.
He added that during the re-bid of the contract, cab drivers
were able to provide some of the services that dedicated
providers could not. He noted that there was no financial
impact with this action item and it was only a reallocation of
funds.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into a contract for $612,700 dollars with Geismar MTM for purchase
of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract Number 17DR002).
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 24, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
stated that the Platform Hyrail truck will improve Maintenance
of Way’s (MOW) ability to perform inspections and repairs to
the overhead energized wires. He noted that the truck is
considered specialized equipment and it has been vetted
through the procurement process.
Director Lubow asked if the truck was absolutely necessary
and how much RTD would be saving by using this vehicle.
Mr. Emmons explained that this vehicle would be more
efficient as it could do the job of two bucket trucks and a
Packet Pg. 81

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Discussion:

6.F

boom truck. He added that this truck would allow staff to be
more efficient and safer on the rails.
Director Lubow asked if in RTD’s current tight financial time if
this was a luxury or a necessity.
Mr. Emmons commented that this truck would allow staff do
perform work with less operators, but staff could do the work
without it.

Karl Shoemaker, Track Maintenance Senior Engineer and
Supervisor, it is a single axle vehicle and has a 33,000
chassis, which is comparable in size to the current bucket
trucks.
Director Solano noted that was the size of a regular bucket
truck and asked what the benefit was of this purchase.
Mr. Shoemaker said that the Hyrail had a 7x14 platform which
could accommodate multiple people. He noted that instead of
three trucks on the rails to complete one job, this vehicle
would limit that need to just one.
Mr. Emmons added that over the weekend, a contractor who
had a similar vehicle was able to complete work five hours
quicker by utilizing this type of truck.
Chair Hoy said that this truck can drive on and off the tracks
and it has a large platform stage on a scissor type jack. He
remarked that it would allow for repairs to occur quicker, and
it would be a more efficient and safer way to work.
Mr. Emmons added that this vehicle is safer because bucket
trucks have to be maneuvered around, and buckets can limit a
worker’s mobility.
General Manager Genova added that it will also have an arm
on it as well.
Chair Hoy noted that Director Deadwyler left the meeting
early, but she had asked him to relay a comment on her
behalf. She said that this was a very expensive item and felt
that it was a luxury, and if she had been here she would have
Packet Pg. 82

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Solano inquired as to how big the truck was.

6.F

voted no. However, Chair Hoy said that in his opinion, this is
a tool that is necessary for efficiency and worker safety.
Director Mihalik inquired as to what was the expected useful
life of the vehicle.
Mr. Emmons stated that the useful life is 15 to 20 years, and
noted that in comparison, one bucket truck is $300,000.

Mr. Emmons said yes, it would replace the need for three
trucks performing work on the rail.
Committee Chair Anderson said that anytime staff can work
more efficiently and safely it is worth the cost.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Lost Service Hours Update 10 17 17
Mr. Abel commented that lost service hours for September equaled 1568
hours. He explained that that figure was the worst since staff had begun to
keep records of lost service hours several years ago. He noted that it was
reflective of RTD’s current challenges and this service loss came in spite of
the need to mandate operators. He added that September 2017 was also
the worst in terms of mandates and staff had to mandate over 36 shifts
over the course of the month, which translated to 90 shifts per day. He
further added that staff is currently 120 drivers short of headcount. He
remarked that continuing to mandate operators is not sustainable nor
acceptable to this extent. He noted that this was a report he was not happy
to present, but staff continues to work with the Human Resources group to
hire additional operators.
Director Lubow stated that when this was first brought up months ago, staff
addressed the steps being taken to manage the operator shortage. She
Packet Pg. 83

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Mihalik asked if this truck would replace the need for
three bucket trucks.

6.F

noted that staff has seemed to have run out of steps and inquired as to
what other avenues staff would pursue to manage the operator shortage.

General Manager Genova added that staff is also working on modeling
different scenarios which include limiting split shifts, recovery times, and
other items. He stated that a lot of what management has heard is that it is
more than just wages, and staff is weighing different approaches.
Director Lubow commented that this is a conundrum that is unsolvable,
especially when the Board receives letters from people who stated that their
bus had standing room only. She asked what other transit agencies were
doing.
Mr. Abel stated that hiring operators is an issue across the nation, and other
transit agencies are having the same problems.
Director Menten indicated that there was a state statute which limits RTD’s
ability to contract out routes. She asked if RTD was close to that cap.
Mr. Abel said that RTD can contract out 58% and is currently at 56%.
However, he noted that RTD’s contractors are in the same boat that RTD is
in.
Director Menten noted that the legislation, as currently written, could be a
barrier to RTD’s operations. She also discussed Director Deadwyler’s
previous commentary about recruiting retirees who might want or need a
part time job and asked if the union would prevent such an action.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD has a retiree bus operator program which
allows retired bus operators to work part time, and RTD offers part time
employment regardless of age.
General Manager Genova added that within the Collective Bargaining
Agreement (CBA) with the union, the maximum percentage of part time
employees is limited to 21%.
Director Williams commented that when she was in Atlanta for the American
Public Transportation Association’s (APTA) Annual meeting, she told every
Packet Pg. 84

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Abel explained that there is a $2000 sign on bonus which is paid out
incrementally, as well as a $2.00 per hour split run incentive. He added that
staff has also implemented a $2.00 per hour incentive to work beyond
scheduled hours, and staff worked with the union to increase operator
wages by $1.00 per hour. However, he said that staff will need to discuss
right-sizing service and determine which services are attainable.
He
remarked that the current situation is a difficult conundrum.

6.F

bus driver that she met that they should move to Denver. She added that if
there were any recruits from Atlanta, she wanted the credit.
Director Archuleta stated that everyone is skirting the issue, which is that
operators are not paid enough. He said that if they were paid $21 or $22
dollars an hour, RTD would have a plethora of operators.

Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer and Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Security and Asset Management, said he along with Lou Cripps and Ruth
Wallsgrove would present. He said that with RTD’s ongoing efforts to
assess and improve how the agency functions, and in keeping in line with
the General Manager’s goal to achieve the International Organization for
Standardization (ISO) 55000 certification for asset management RTD asked
an external consulting company to provide support. He said that company,
AMCL, is a leading asset management consulting firm and has working with
over 200 similar organizations around the world, including current work with
New York’s Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), the Transport for
London (Tube), Singapore’s Land Transport Authority (LTA) and others. He
added that they bring a wealth of experience and best practices from around
the world that RTD is benefiting from. He noted that the presentation this
evening would be the first in a series of informational briefings as RTD
continues its journey to asset management excellence.
Ruth Wallsgrove, AMCL, stated that AMCL is a dedicated infrastructure
asset management company that works across five continents and a whole
range of sectors. She noted that she, along with her colleagues, work with
many different transit agencies across the world. She noted that the base
of this is that RTD is asset intensive, and assets are critical to meeting
RTD’s core mission. She added that many transit agencies around the world
are facing the same challenges as RTD, and it could be summarized as the
need to do more with less. She commented that her organization would be
bringing some of those lessons with them and highlighted the context in
which her organization would be working. She noted that the Federal
Transit Administration (FTA) had mandated good practices of asset
management to all federally funded transit agencies. She said that this
centers on the requirement to have a good, and coordinated long term asset
management plan. She noted that this new legislation will be a problem for
many transit agencies in the United States who are just realizing what
exactly asset management entails. She stated that RTD has been working
on this for some time, and is in fact recognized as a leader in the industry.
She added that there is also an international standard for asset management
which lays out a framework for good asset management. She commented
that the current asset management plan is a good base on which to build
value, and the intention is to go beyond that measure.

Packet Pg. 85

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Asset Management & ISO Update 10 17 17

6.F

Director Williams said that this is a great plan, but noted that the late hour
to hear all of this information was poor planning. She asked that that the
next presentation occur earlier in the evening.
General Manager Genova explained that the presentation had been on the
schedule for a very long time and it was strategically planned for this date,
and apologized for the late hour.

Director Walker noted that he worked for an engineering firm that went for
the ISO 9000 certification and it was a very intensive process. He added
that this is something that the Board needs to keep their eyes on.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten noted that the address for RTD’s administrative offices had
recently changed and it was now 1660 Blake Street.
General Manager Genova remarked that the official effective date of the address
change is Friday, October 27th. He noted that because of the development on the
block, the city required that RTD change its address.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for taking care of late night route that left
people at a bus stop with no driver. She stated that staff made sure a driver was
dispatched to that route so that the people stuck at the stop who were transit
dependent could get home that night.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 14, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 9:47 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 86

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 17, 2017 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Anderson said that the ISO standard is the ultimate
certification to receive.

Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

6.G

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
October 19, 2017 at 12:00 PM
I.

Call to Order

Chair Hoy called the Executive Committee to order at 12:00 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone, 2nd
Vice-Chair Deadwyler, Secretary Walker,
Treasurer Menten

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive
Manager Barbara McManus, Board Office
Administrator John McKay

October Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy discussed the draft October Board meeting agenda. He said the winners
of RTD the bus, rail, and snowplow competitions would be announced and that 40
certificates would be handed out during the Board meeting.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, said that only the first
place winners would be acknowledged for the bus competition while the first,
second, and third-place winners would be announced for the for the snowplow and
light rail competitions.
Chair Hoy asked whether all the winners would attend, and General Manager
Genova said probably not. Chair Hoy asked if the winners would be announced all
at once.
General Manager Genova said that the bus competition winners would be
announced first, then light rail and snowplow winners.

Packet Pg. 87

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

6.G

Chair Hoy said a photo would be taken with each group.
Director Deadwyler asked if retirees would be in attendance.

Director Deadwyler asked how many individuals were anticipated for the public
participation segment.
Director Francone said that she had received several emails from concerned
individuals.
General Manager Genova asked whether the emails addressed any particular
service, and Director Francone said they were concerned with the R Line. General
Manager Genova said that he spoke with the mayors of the cities along the R Line.
He said that Mayor Hogan stated he was not excited about the prospect of the
amended service changes but could live with them. He said that the other mayors
gave more positive feedback. He stated that he had spoken to the mayor and staff
from Golden and was working with them to get word out as fast as possible on
what committee approved the previous Tuesday night.
Director Menten suspected that a few constituents and two to three elected
officials from her district would attend. She noted that she voted against the
service change action item because she stood with the original proposal.
General Manager Genova said he did not anticipate an overwhelming number of
participants.
Ms. McManus said that she had received a number of phone calls about the service
changes and that she had asked the callers if they planned on attending. She said
that most of them were satisfied with the answers she provided and did not
anticipate many of them coming.
Chair Hoy stated that the agency did solve some of the controversy. He said he
would go on record that the agency was not done reviewing the schedule. He
quoted Bruce Abel, Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, by saying that the RTD’s job was to move people, not vehicles.

Packet Pg. 88

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said two retirees were listed on the agenda. He asked whether the
General Manager’s Oversight and Performance Management Committee would have
an update, and Director Francone confirmed she would.

6.G

Director Francone said she had conversations with Aurora’s City Council and Mayor
Hogan. She said that Mayor Hogan complained that RTD had not done marketing in
anticipation of the opening of the R Line and that business were being constructed
along that corridor that are not yet finished yet. She said that the recommendation
from RTD staff was to reduce service, which would not be a permanent change.
She said the agency could increase the service when ridership increased. She said
that Mayor Hogan’s responsibility was to be a good partner with RTD to explain to
businesses and residents that the changes were not permanent. With respect to
marketing and ridership, she stated she had received calls from people saying that
RTD was running empty trains. She said she hoped that Mayor Hogan received
similar calls and needed to help explain the situation rather than placing blame on
RTD. She reported that she would be a no vote on the service changes because she
liked the recommendation from staff and that she appreciated Golden’s efforts to
help fund enhanced service.
Chair Hoy said that Golden was different in that they reached into their own
pocketbook. He said the city had worked hard to establish a flex route.
Director Deadwyler said that she had never seen an empty train and had seen
areas, as the General Manager pointed out, with low ridership, particularly in the
area south of the Florida Station. She said some trains had standing room only. She
agreed that something needed to be done. She stated that some constituents have
said that RTD’s schedule did not meet their needs but questioned how that could
be if the service ran at 15 minute intervals. She noted that her own children and
grandchildren used the R Line to get to school and work and that they were
satisfied that the service reductions in the amended service change proposal were
limited to the weekends.
Chair Hoy said the Board needed to ensure that staff kept them apprised of
ridership in order to avoid surprises.
General Manager Genova said that the monthly financial report would show
information on per-line ridership on a monthly basis going forward.
Chair Hoy said that report might be enough.
Director Menten said it was important that ridership information was added back
into the report.

Packet Pg. 89

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker said that service changes take place every four months and that
certain runs were considered for elimination each time. He said that all services
were up for review.

6.G

Chair Hoy said that stop-by-stop analysis was not necessary and that, in order to
anticipate problems, the agency needed to know whether ridership goes up or
down.

General Manager Genova said that staff could report changes to the Board in
between the service changes.
Chair Hoy said he received numerous emails about the R Line. He stated that most
came from people asking for the service not to be cut but others were from people
thanking RTD for reducing service.
Director Deadwyler said that she received over 300 emails and that none of them
were in thanks for reducing service.
Director Menten said that people attending the Board Meeting may speak to the
North Line.
Chair Hoy said that he had been approached by many people about the status of
the North Line. He said he had seen in the news recently that RTD is 18 months
late in constructing the line, though he noted that the Board announced the delay
six months prior.
General Manager Genova said he had been contacted by stakeholders about the N
Line provisions contained in the Annual Program Evaluation (APE). He said that
people are concerned that staff had already considered reducing service on the R
Line even before its opening. He said that would not happen. He said others are
concerned with the State Highway 119 bus rapid transit project.
Chair Hoy said that two people at most may speak at the Board Meeting about the
North Line. He noted the agenda contained several recommended actions and
unanimous consent items.
Director Francone said she would abstain on item E on the unanimous consent
agenda.
Ms. McManus said that an abstention would be a no vote.

Packet Pg. 90

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler said the whole route was being penalized because of a couple
of stops.

6.G

Chair Hoy asked whether Director Francone wanted to pull item E off of the
unanimous consent agenda.
Director Deadwyler said she did not understand one of the items on the agenda
regarding contracts.

Director Deadwyler said she thought that the contract with All Aboard Transit was
going away.
General Manager Genova said that the item was a budget transfer to pay
obligations on existing contracts.
Chair Hoy reiterated that the agency still owed money to All Aboard Transit. He
said that, in the future, the budget for Access-a-Ride should be a line item rather
than budgeting for a specific vendor.
Director Francone said she would abstain from voting because a family member
worked for Via Mobility Services. She said she did not disagree with the
recommended action.
Chair Hoy restated that Director Francone was asking for item E to be pulled out of
the unanimous consent agenda.
Director Francone said she could abstain from voting on the entire consent agenda.
Chair Hoy said that she did not need to abstain from the entire agenda and asked
whether she would be a yes vote if item E were not included.
Ms. McManus suggested that item E be pulled from the unanimous consent
agenda.
Chair Hoy asked whether the item could be pulled during the Executive Committee.
The committee agreed by unanimous consent, and Ms. McManus said that the item
would be a recommended action, item J, going forward
Chair Hoy said that there would be five recommended actions. He felt the Board
had a great last committee meeting on Tuesday, especially for being so long, and

Packet Pg. 91

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova said that the action was recommended to allow staff to
budget by contract rather than having to do administrative transfers.

6.G

said that the Directors asked good questions and were involved. He said the chairs
of the committees did their jobs well.
General Manager Genova said that staff had attempted to shorten the agenda but
most of the items were necessary.

Chair Hoy stated that other Directors have stated their preference for having a few
longer meetings instead of having short ones more often. He asked the General
Manager to address the upcoming executive session.
General Manager Genova said that staff would try to keep the executive session as
brief as possible. He said the session would be update to the Board on legal claims
from Denver Transit Partners (DTP) and Regional Rail Partners (RRP). He said that,
during the last executive session, Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, presented a
comprehensive briefing on DTP’s claim and RTD’s position on it, and staff asked for
direction from the Board. He said the update on that item should take five minutes
to explain DTP’s standing and RTD’s and to seek additional direction from the
Board. As for the RRP claim, he said staff would update the Board as briefly as
possible on the next step in the claims process.
Chair Hoy said that it was the General Manager’s intent to keep the Board as
updated as necessary.
Director Deadwyler asked whether new information would be presented.
General Manager Genova said that staff would share the proposals from DTP and
RRP and staff’s proposed responses. He said the Board would be able to provide
input and that RTD had spent time negotiating in good faith.
Director Deadwyler asked if staff could update the Board on what was being done
to correct the problems. She said that constituents did not want to hear about
litigation but rather what RTD is doing to fix the problems.
General Manager Genova said that the technical work on the grade crossings and
the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) regulatory process was complete. He said
the next step would be going through the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC). He said RTD did not plan on doing anything differently unless the CPUC
ordered the agency to do so. He noted that the agency was on the on docket on

Packet Pg. 92

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler said that the Board had considering having fewer meetings, but
when the agendas are overly long, the meetings should be split up.

6.G

Director Francone stated that Director Deadwyler’s question was whether the
problems have been fixed and whether the FRA’s decision to grant a waiver would
impact the decision. She said the fix was good enough for the FRA.
General Manager Genova said that the FRA accepted RTD’s crossing design.
Director Deadwyler asked why RTD was operating under a waiver.
General Manager Genova said that was how the FRA wanted to proceed. He said
that the FRA would have allowed RTD to remove the flaggers. Going forward, he
said that the FRA would need to approve the agency’s forthcoming safety outreach
plan. He said that the FRA approved the removal of flaggers from the B Line, but he
noted that the only at-grade crossing on that line was not a public crossing. He said
that the flaggers could be removed following the PUC process.
Director Deadwyler asked what she could tell her constituents.
General Manager Genova suggesting telling them that the FRA has approved the
design but the PUC did not. He said he would be meeting with the chair of the PUC
and the staff of the Governor’s Office staff to make sure they understand the
project, the quiet zone process, and the fact that RTD built a corridor the agency
could not operate. He noted that DTP had ramped up its communications and was
doing things without asking RTD’s permission, such as conducting their own
interview. He said DTP was doing things to escalate the situation that RTD was not
involved in.
Director Deadwyler asked whether RTD could issue a cease and desist order.
General Manager Genova said that the contract with DTP was silent on the issue of
communications. He stated that the agency would send DTP send written letter
about the matter. He said the Mayor of Arvada and Arvada’s City council have
signed a letter and submitted it to the CPUC questioning how the CPUC could have
denied RTD’s submittal when the FRA had approved it.

Packet Pg. 93

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

September 27, 2017, and stated at the CPUC had not yet issued a written ruling.
Based on conversations with their staff, he said that the CPUC would likely
maintain their denial for additional G Line testing and for the at-grade crossing
operations. He said the agency would then file a request for rehearing and would
likely go through a hearing process before an administrative law judge, which could
take a long time.

6.G

Chair Hoy said that the CPUC felt blindsided by RTD’s application. He said the
commissioners questioned what information they had missed, given that the FRA
approved the agency’s long-term waiver.
General Manager Genova said that the CPUC was stuck on their own process.

General Manager Genova said the CPUC process is different from the FRA process.
He said the FRA and RTD had a collaborative process wherein the agency spoke
directly to decision-makers within FRA, as opposed to the CPUC process, where
the commissioners received recommendations from staff who were more
knowledgeable on the issues. He said he was surprised that CPUC staff would
recommend that the commission deny RTD’s application.
Chair Hoy said that the CPUC staff knew at some point how the FRA would decide.
Director Menten said that, from what she heard, the CPUC stated that the crossing
timing was outside the window of time drivers expect to wait. She said FRA did not
concern itself with at-grade crossings. She asked why RTD should expect the
CPUC to change their mind and asked how long of a window was acceptable.
General Manager Genova said there was only a minimum and no specific regulation
that sets an upper limit on warning times. He noted there are acceptable standards
and guidance documents. He said that the CPUC was hung up on the issue of
timing and that, if a gate crossing was designed to be closed for 30 seconds, the
CPUC expects operation close to that time. He stated that CPUC staff was
reluctant to allow a 15 second buffer for the gate arms following the passing of a
train, though the FRA had approved the buffer. He said CPUC was concerned that
RTD was backing into a result rather than providing an engineering solution. He said
that, at the same time, CPUC staff could not point to anything other than nonregulator guidance documents to back up their assertion.
Chair Hoy said the problem was that the agency was doing something nobody else
anywhere in the country had done before and regulators are stuck. It’s not the old
school signaling tech.
Director Menten mentioned the FRA letter on the remaining conditions for RTD. She
said the General Manager stated the agency was through the FRA process, but she
noted that certain steps remained, such as removing flaggers, doing safety
outreach training, and other items.

Packet Pg. 94

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Hoy said the commission was pleading for a way to say yes.

6.G

Director Francone said that the FRA had approved RTD’s plans.

Director Menten said she had reached out to the City of Arvada to make sure they
are on schedule once the G Line was approved. She said her contact had not
regularly dealt with rail crossings and was unfamiliar with the quiet zone process,
which would require another set of steps following G Line approval.
General Manager Genova said the agency was already in talks with the FRA about
the quiet zone process.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the gate crossings were functioning as intended.
General Manger Genova stated that they were.
Director Deadwyler said that drivers were not used to anticipating long delays at
the crossing gates when two trains passed in opposite directions.
General Manager Genova said the delay in such instances had been part of the
design.
Director Deadwyler said that at times freight trains also add to the delay, which is
what the public did not understand. She said the public thought there was a
problem with getting the gate arms up.
General Manager Genova said that the crossing gates were designed not to activate
for a second train at the crossing unless the second train arrived shortly after the
fist. He noted there are two RTD tracks in the corridor along with two freight
tracks.
Chair Hoy asked whether the committee approved the agenda as amended.
Motion:

Chair Hoy made the motion to approve moving
the October 24th Board agenda to the full Board.

Packet Pg. 95

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

General Manager Genova clarified that the FRA had approved RTD’s plan for the B
Line but noted that RTD had not yet submitted the request for the University of
Colorado A Line. He said that the FRA would claim to be a safety organization,
though they do not have specific regulatory authority over grade crossings, which
lies with PUC. He said the FRA does have broader authority over commuter rail.

6.G

Director Walker seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion:

Other Matters
General Manager Genova said that the committee may have already seen an email
from the National Western Center requesting a station change. He said staff would
review the Board’s established policy and report back.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the Board should speak with the National
Western Center about naming rights.
Director Menten said that there were two other neighborhoods served at that
station that were not included in the station name, which was already long.
General Manager Genova said that the station is located in the Elyria neighborhood.
Director Francone said that surveys for the General Manager’s performance had
been sent out. She said she would contact the Directors to ensure a good response
and said that staff can assist if anyone had problems.
Director Menten handed out Director Lubow’s proposal for a Board-only retreat. She
suggested that the committee members could take it home and think it over.
Chair Hoy said he had been moving toward a Board-only retreat for months and
anticipated that it would happen. He stated everyone had thoughts on how it
should be run or whether it would be of value, but he stated that the retreat would
be separate from the annual joint Board and Senior Leadership (SLT) retreat.
Director Menten said she would send out an email with her own thoughts.
Chair Hoy said that he had socialized the idea with the Directors to get a sense of
how they felt and had received a range of responses.
Director Francone stated the retreat would be effective only if whole Board
participated.
Chair Hoy said that even those Directors who said the retreat would be a waste of
time said they would show up.

Packet Pg. 96

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed.

6.G

Director Deadwyler said that the Directors often did not show up for meetings.
Chair Hoy said the retreat probably would not happen in 2017 and may not happen
at all if the next Chair did not approve it.

Director Deadwyler said that the Board could vote on holding the retreat, which
decision the future chair would have to abide by.
Ms. McManus noted that the dates could change if the retreat were held during
work hours.
Chair Hoy noted that the Board-only retreat did not preclude the Board sitting down
with SLT.
Director Deadwyler said the Board-only retreat should be held before the joint
retreat.
Ms. McManus said that the General Manager had socialized the proposed Board
calendar in SLT and asked the Assistant General Managers think strategically about
the whole year strategically to spread the work evenly across meetings. She said
that doing so would not necessarily preclude long meetings and that, even with
weekly meetings, long meetings just happen because of the timing of certain items.
Chair Hoy said that the Board should simplify how it approves and moves certain
budget items. He said two or three of the items from the last meeting were
bookkeeping matters and should not have required Board action.
Director Deadwyler asked why Directors speak about items that are not worthy of
comments.
Chair Hoy said that what the Board did on Tuesday had nothing to do with Board
other than the Board’s authority regarding contracts.
Director Menten said she was not bothered by the length of meetings.
Chair Hoy said she was not the only one to say that.

Packet Pg. 97

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Ms. McManus handed out the proposed 2018 Board calendar and noted that
possible dates for a Board-only retreat. She said the joint Board/SLT retreat would
likely be held on March 3.

6.G

Director Francone said that in a perfect world every meeting would take about an
hour and that, for a night with three meetings, the Board should be done by 8:30
p.m.

Chair Hoy said that was a problem with Access-a-Ride that the Board should
address. He said the Board would discuss later on if the change in the frequency of
meetings was better or worse.
Ms. McManus said that the Board could create meetings based on the needs of the
business.
Chair Hoy said that study session could function as placeholders for meetings. He
said that in the past staff provided recommended actions and updates simply
because a meeting was scheduled. He said that meetings were scheduled 12
months in advance and that the change was an effort to have real meetings with
real accomplishments.
Ms. McManus said that a committee meeting could be held in place of a study
session and that the idea was to be fluid for the needs of business and make
committee meetings less invasive.
Director Deadwyler said she would not mind early morning meetings.
Chair Hoy said that county commissioners work all day long.
General Manager Genova noted that committee meetings used to take place during
lunchtime and that committees of the whole were not used at that time.
Director Francone said that evening meetings allow people to attend.
Chair Hoy asked how meetings could be made more accessible.
Ms. McManus said that the next topic would cover that matter. She and John
McKay, Board Office Administrator, presented a preview of the video recording and
closed captioning software that the Board would use to capture and display its
meetings in the near future. She said the front end of the video project was nearing
completion and that the Public Information team was in the process of putting out a

Packet Pg. 98

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler said that she typically budgeted an hour for each meeting when
making Access-a-Ride arrangements and that she did not like missing meetings.

6.G

request for proposals (RFP) to select vendors to operate the video cameras and to
provide captioning and transcript files for each meeting. She said that the video
recordings of meetings would be hosted alongside the agendas and minutes on the
Board of Directors website and would allow viewers to review meetings at a later
date.

Ms. McManus stated that the software vendor that provided archival storage of the
Board’s agendas and minutes was selected to hose the video content.
Mr. McKay noted that the security system would be available to provide backup
audio and video files in the event of an interruption of the main audio/video system.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 99

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Oct 19, 2017 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked whether the meetings would be archived.

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

8.A

Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 26, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District F

Status
Present
Present
Present

Arrived
5:25 PM
5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM
5:33 PM
5:29 PM
5:25 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Absent
Present

5:38 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:34 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:23 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:26 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 13 members present at roll call. Director Menten
arrived late, and Director Mihalik was absent.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

Board of Directors

Packet Pg. 100

IV.

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Gina Callahan, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Martell
Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, John Ewy, Steve
Gieske, David Genova, Bob Grado, John Hersey, John McKay,
Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Allen Miller, Todd Nikkel,
Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Tom Smyth, Yong Song, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Audrey DeBarros, William Gross, Elise Jones, Joan Peck, John
Thompson, Joe Triplett

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy stated there were no retirees for the month of September. He recognized
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, Todd Nikkel, Manager
of Cost and Budget, and Tom Smyth, Cost and Budget Analyst, for receiving the
Distinguished Budget Presentation Award from the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA). He noted that the award is the highest form of recognition on
government budgeting, represents a significant achievement by these individuals, and
reflects the commitment of staff to meeting the highest principles of government
budgeting. He added that these great employees do a lot of hard work.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, echoed Chair Hoy’s statements and said that the budget staff has
improved on the budget book each year. She remarked that receiving the award means that
RTD has met all the rigorous criteria established by the GFOA. She added that the work of
the budget staff reflected well on the organization and thanked them for their hard work.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated public participation was open to anyone who wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
Joan Peck, Longmont City Council, spoke about the State Highway 119 (SH119) Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT) Project. She said that the system is vital to Longmont economic
vitality and quality of life. She added that she urged the Board to keep the $30 million
funding for the project as listed in the Strategic Business Plan (SBP). She stated that the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) has over $100 million planned for the
SH119 corridor, and RTD’s $30 million is needed to leverage CDOT’s dollars. She further
added that, as a cost savings measure, she encouraged staff to look into the Volkswagen
settlement fund to purchase buses for the corridor. She stated that, now that US Route 36
is almost complete, she said that SH119, per the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS),
should be the priority. She said that this project also fits the DRCOG Metro Vision Plan,
Regional Multimodal Vision Plan, and Urban Renewal Plan for Longmont. She added that

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

8.A

Packet Pg. 101

8.A

Elise Jones, Boulder County Commissioner, read the following statement:
Honorable Members of the Regional Transportation District Board of
Directors,
Thank you for the opportunity to speak. I am Elise Jones, a member of the
Boulder County Board of County Commissioners, and am speaking on behalf
of our full Board.
I am here to express our continued support for timely funding for the State
Highway 119/Longmont Diagonal Bus Rapid Transit, and to urge you to keep
the $30 million for its implementation in the Strategic Business Plan.
It is critical to keep this funding in the current Strategic Business Plan for a
number of reasons:
1.

The ongoing commitment of RTD funding for this project is key to
leveraging over $100 million in CDOT dollars currently planned for the
corridor. This project has been identified as a high priority project by
CDOT and maintaining the committed RTD funding for this corridor is
critical if we are to successfully leverage the additional monies from
CDOT necessary to implement this project. Delaying RTD's funding
would put these opportunities for partnership at risk.

2.

There is regional consensus that this project is the highest priority
BRT corridor. It was identified through the Northwest Area Mobility
Study (NAMS), and in the associated 36 Mayors and Commissioners
Coalition consensus statement, which is also supported by the
Commuting Solutions Board of Directors.

3.

This project has momentum and community support. The recently
initiated collaborative NEPA/design process includes a broad range of
interests, including Longmont, Boulder, Boulder County, Commuting
Solutions, the Northwest Chamber Alliance, the MCC, RTD and
CDOT. This effort is anticipated to be completed in the next few
years. Pushing funding timelines even further in the future could put
the NEPA clearances at risk.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

there is both business and community support in Longmont for the project to address the
congestion on SH119. She said that, as improved forecasts from the Leeds School of
Business come in, she urged the Board to make SH119 a priority.

Packet Pg. 102

4.

We continue to strongly support completion of FasTracks, however
we are also concerned about the proposed diversion of the base
operating system to fund FasTracks construction and operations
elsewhere in the region. The use of base system funding for
FasTracks sacrifices the current and future quality of the bus system
that serves the greatest number of people at a lower cost per
passenger in order to build the more expensive rail portion of the
system that serves fewer people at a greater cost per rider. It is
important in times of fiscal constraint to put available revenue
towards the most cost effective elements of the current and future
transit system, which includes arterial bus rapid transit services such
as the SH119 corridor.

Thank you in advance for your consideration.
Aubrey DeBarros, Executive Director of Commuting Solutions, stated that she wanted to
express her agency’s concerns with RTD’s proposed deferment of SH119 capital funding.
She said that, while Commuting Solutions appreciates the agency’s commitment to
balance the financial forecast for the next six years, it is important to Commuting
Solutions’ regional partnership with RTD for the project to remain in the current SBP and
not be postponed. She noted that several of the Directors were not serving on the Board
back in 2014 when the NAMS study was approved by the Board, and she thought it
would be helpful to inform the Board of the partnership efforts between RTD staff, the
Board, and Commuting Solutions’ correlation that went into moving the SH119 BRT
project forward. She stated that Commuting Solutions’ Corridor Coalition group strongly
recommended the project as the number one priority for Commuting Solutions’ region for
the short term. She said that at the time of the study the SH119 project was not in the
DRCOG Fiscally Constrained Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), which it needed to be
eligible for future DRCOG funding. She said that Boulder County took the lead and worked
with RTD to make sure that the planned amendment took place. She noted that, in order
for the project to be placed in the DRCOG RTP, it is necessary for at least partial funding
to be identified, and RTD made that commitment through the $30 million in the SBP. She
further stated that the US36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition and Commuting
Solutions worked with RTD to apply for the DRCOG National Environmental Protection Act
(NEPA) environmental planning funding and that planning effort got started the previous
March. She added that Commuting Solutions and US 36 Metro Mayor’s Caucus worked
over the past few years with several congressional members to make sure that, under the
2015 FAST Act, the federal definition of “BRT” for projects such as SH119 would more
favorably compete for small starts funding. She noted that Commuting Solutions was
working at a federal level to make sure the project could compete for funding. She said

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

8.A

Packet Pg. 103

that Commuting Solutions is counting on RTD’s funding to leverage local, regional, state,
and federal funding to make this corridor investment happen by 2023. She added that, in
light of the commitment to Commuting Solutions’ region that has been broken due to
Northwest Rail funding, Commuting Solutions would greatly appreciate the Board’s
commitment to proceed with SH119 corridors in the short term.
Doug Gragg, Denver, stated he is a proud resident of Capitol Hill. He questioned how the
agency intends going to salvage the G Line and said that he would advocate for open
rebellion against the federal authorities by opening the G Line. He said that RTD could
have the G Line running for 10 years before being taken to court. He noted that something
has to be done to prevent wildlife and weeds from overtaking the agency’s platforms and
tracks. He added that the agency has been experiencing a lot of safety instances lately
and said that an incident a day will start keeping the passengers away. He said that people
think there are some routes in the city that are too dangerous to ride.

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Francone advised the Board that the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management committee were in discussion with General Manager Genova to
present the committee’s findings and suggestions as to the General Manager’s mid-year
review. She stated that General Manager Genova has done a wonderful job and noted the
committee had some constructive criticism for him. She further stated that General
Manager Genova would submit his final performance evaluation on October 17th. She
added that, shortly thereafter, the survey will go to the rest of the Board Members, who
would be asked to complete the survey by October 31st, followed by a meeting in
November to discuss the final review.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 15, 2017
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting minutes of August 15, 2017.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

8.A

Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 104

8.A

Director Solano stated that he would abstain from voting
because he was unable to review the minutes.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams), 0 against, and 1
abstention (Solano). Director Mihalik was absent.

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

IX.

ACCEPTED [13 TO 0 WITH ONE ABSTENTION]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Paul Solano
Ken Mihalik

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
ATTENDED EVENTS AND AWARDS


August 16th – Directors Anderson, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams, and I, along with several members of the
Transportation Commission, attended the annual RTD/CDOT collaboration
dinner at Piatti Restaurant.



August 19th – Directors Sisk and Tisdale attended the Light Rail Rodeo at the
Elati Light Rail Division.



August 23rd – The Mobility Choice Blueprint Board held a meeting at the
Arrow Electronics Building in Centennial. Directors Francone, Menten,
Mihalik, Tisdale, and Williams attended.



August 24th – Director Francone attended the MAX Program Graduation
Dinner.



August 25th – Also as part of the MAX Program, Director Walker mediated a
panel of transit agency CEOs, which included former RTD General Manager
Phil Washington.



September 5th – A Rider Appreciation Event was held at US36 and Sheridan
Station in Westminster, which I attended.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

Discussion:

Packet Pg. 105



September 6th – Directors Solano and Williams attended the Denver Metro
Chamber of Commerce Annual Meeting.



September 7th
o

Directors Solano and Francone participated in the Transportation Girl
Luncheon held in Denver.

o

That same day, the Denver Union Station Project Authority held an event
at the Oxford Hotel, and Directors Folska, Francone, Lubow, Solano,
Williams, and I attended.



September 12th – The Denver South Transportation Management
Association held their “Constructing the Future of Denver South” event at
the Madden Museum of Art. Directors Francone and Williams were in
attendance.



September 14th
o

Director Sisk participated in the Rider Appreciation Event held at
McCaslin Station in Superior.

o

The Employee Recognition Awards were also held that day, and Director
Tisdale and I were there to congratulate our outstanding employees.



September 16th – Directors Solano, Tisdale, and I were on hand for the RTD
Bus Roadeo at District Shops.



September 17th-20th – As I’m sure you are all aware, the Rail~Volution
conference was held in Denver this year. Several Directors participated,
including Directors Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, and myself.



September 19th-22nd – Director Williams meanwhile attended the annual
Colorado Association of Transit Agencies (CASTA)/CDOT Fall Transit
Conference and Expo in Telluride.



September 26th – A Rider Appreciation Event was held at the Westminster
Station this morning, which I attended.

ONGOING AND UPCOMING EVENTS
Chair Hoy announced the following upcoming events:


For September 27th:
o

The next Mobility Choice Blueprint Board Meeting will be held at the
Panasonic building in Denver. Director Menten will attend, and Director
Williams has said she will be calling in; and

o

A celebration will be held at the Lincoln Station Parking Garage in Lone
Tree to commemorate the 50% completion mark of the Southeast Rail

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

8.A

Packet Pg. 106

8.A



Director Francone will be attending the 11th Annual Jefferson County
Economic Development Council Luncheon in Lakewood on Thursday,
September 28th.



Commuting Solutions will host its “How to Ride RTD” event in Lafayette,
and Director Lubow will be there.

Director Archuleta noted that he, along with Directors Solano and Menten,
attended a legislative meeting on transportation.

X.

General Manager's Report


Gave opening remarks at the Autonomous Vehicle Demonstration, Wednesday,
August 16th



Meeting with Tampa group regarding P3 Deals Thursday, August 17th



Conference Call with DTP Board Thursday, August 17th



Attended quarterly meeting with Denver Mayor Hancock and staff Thursday,
August 17th



Speaker on Panel for Eno Transit Mid-Manager Seminar Friday, August 18th



Attended and presented awards Light Rail Rodeo Saturday, August 19th



Speaker at TransComm Monday, August 21st



Meeting with Joe Reed, Balfour Beatty Vice President Monday, August 21st



Meeting with Sean Bradley of Denver Urban League and Dr. Freeman of Community
College of Denver, Tuesday, August 22nd



Attended Mobility Choice Board of Directors Meeting Wednesday, August 23rd



Attended Visit Denver Board of Directors Meeting Thursday, August 24th



Presented 2017 Employee Recognition Awards Thursday, September 14th



Attended and presented awards Bus Roadeo Saturday, September 16th



Presenter/Participant at Rail~Volution Opening Plenary Monday, September 18th



Presenter on Panel at Rail~Volution Monday, September 18th



Meeting with David Rushton, DTP Board Chair Tuesday, September 19th

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

Extension project. Directors Folska, Mihalik, Tisdale, and Walker will be
attending.

Packet Pg. 107

XI.



Smart Cities Lab Meeting Tuesday, September 19th



Conference Call with Kelly Leid of the Mayor’s Office and Gretchen Hollrah of
National Western Stock Show Tuesday, September 19th



Presenter/ Panelist for Rail~Volution Denver Regional Day Workshop Wednesday,
September 20th



Heather McKillop, RTD CFO, presented SBP at the DRCOG Board Meeting
Wednesday, September 20th



Speaker at Colorado Small Business Collaboration Conference Thursday, September
21st



Meeting with DTP Thursday, September 21st



Presenter/Panel Discussion with Oregon Metro (Portland’s DRCOG) Friday,
September 22nd



Quarterly meeting with Herman Malone of Business Action Coalition (BAC) Friday,
September 22nd



Meeting with Downtown Denver Partnership Board Members Friday, September
22nd



Attended 16th Street Mall Monthly Partners meeting Monday, September 25th



Meeting with DTP Tuesday, September 26th



Meeting with Cindy Terwilliger, FTA Region VIII Administrator Tuesday, September
26th

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy stated that there were three items on the unanimous consent agenda. He
commented that if any Director had a change, or questions, they should request that
action item be pulled from the Unanimous Consent agenda and moved to Recommended
Actions.

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve
items A-C on the unanimous consent agenda.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

8.A

Director Francone seconded the motion.

Packet Pg. 108

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, stated that he and Barbara McManus, Executive Manager
of the Board Office, were working on a document that lays out understood procedures to
assist the Board. He said one of the topics covered in the document would be the process
for taking a vote in the event that the voting system went down.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 0 against. Director Mihalik
was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
A.

PASSED [13 TO 0]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Tina Francone, Director, District N
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Williams
Ken Mihalik

Budget Transfer for Router Upgrades

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to approve a budget transfer
from the Garage Concentrator Upgrade capital project and the Information Technology,
Data Processing Services expense budget to the Network Equipment and Switches
Upgrade project to fund the replacement of the network equipment needed on the rail
lines. The targeted rail lines include the Southwest, Southeast and Central Platte Valley
rail lines.
B.

ITS Work Order Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract to Apex Design, PC (Apex) for an Intelligent
Transportation Systems (ITS) Work Order Contract (Contract Number 17DH010) for an
amount not to exceed $10,000,000 over 5 years. Work is administered on an asneeded, work order basis. Funding for these Work Orders will be included in the budgets
of the projects on which the work is performed.
C.

Approval of Contract Extension for Special Event Ticket Sellers

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise
the final option year and increase the contract amount by $172,000.00 to extend the RTD

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

8.A

Packet Pg. 109

8.A

XII.

Recommended Action
There were no recommended actions.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
There was no new business.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 26, 2017 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of September 26, 2017)

contract with Central Parking System, Inc. to provide ticket selling services for special
event fares through April 15, 2019.

Packet Pg. 110

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

October 12, 2017

Subject:

2018 Salaried Benefit Contribution

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 12, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approves the 2018 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the General Manager/CEO or his
designee to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.

BACKGROUND
Annually the staff brings the proposed Salaried Employee Benefits plan for approval to the Board of
Directors. Approval of the plan by the Board establishes the rates for Open Enrollment and provides
costs for the 2018 Budget. The Open Enrollment period for salaried staff begins November 5 through
November 20, 2017.
DISCUSSION
The goals for the 2018 plan year are: 1) Achieve the 2018 budget goals, 2) Continued focus on
containing cost and emphasis on improving health and wellness consumerism, 3) Maintain market
competitiveness, and 4) Insure compliance with PPACA – Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act
(Health Care Reform provisions as applicable to RTD).
Following is a summary of the changes for the 2018 plan year.
Medical
-

Kaiser HDHP – No plan changes
Kaiser DHMO
o Increased Deductibles
 Individual from $600 to $800
 Family from $1,200 to $1,600
 Loss of grandfathered status on this plan will result in deductibles and co-pays
being credited toward the maximum out of pocket cost
o Add a new tier pharmacy benefit - 20% up to $250 per script on specialty drugs

-

Cigna HDHP – No plan changes

-

Cigna PPO
o Increase office co-pay visit from $20 to $25
o Increase specialist co-pay from $20 to $50
o Increase emergency room co-pay from $250 to $500
o Add a new tier pharmacy benefit - 20% up to $250 per script on specialty drugs

Packet Pg. 111

11.A

o
o

Loss of grandfathered status on this plan will result in deductibles and co-pays being
credited toward the maximum out of pocket cost
Utilize the Cigna Local Plus network vs the Cigna OAP network

Based on input from the Board in 2016, the Benefits Committee reviewed the Medical Premiums and
RTD and the Employee share of the premium payment. The Benefits Committee is moving toward the
less expensive plans, Kaiser, as being the base plans to which employees would buy up for Cigna.
- Year one (2018) participants on the CIGNA plans, HDHP and PPO, premiums will be
calculated as follows:
o RTD will pay (full Cigna premium – like Kaiser premium)/3
Dental
-

We are still in a rate guarantee period. There is no administrative fee or plan change.

Life & Disability

There was a significant increase in rates due to utilization and coming off a rate guarantee- we
are putting this out to bid.
Vision/Business Travel Accident
-

We will be changing providers to Superior Vision. Superior Vision has a better network and a better
benefit for contacts. The rates are almost identical.
We recently renewed the organization’s Business Travel Accident insurance for three years; there
was no increase in premium.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The 2018 planned Salaried Employee Benefit budget is projected to be a 2% over 2017 projected benefit
costs.

Packet Pg. 112

11.A

The major cost impacts in 2018 are due to an increase in Cigna life insurance. The premiums are higher
based on projects increases in salaries. Basic Life is 1.5 x annual salaries. There was also a significant
increase in life and long term disability claims. Due to the price increase, we are putting this out to bide
to see if we can get a better rate. This is the eighth year we have achieved strong cost containment as
a result of our shift in carriers, plan offerings, plan design and funding models.
The 2018 estimate of the Salaried Employee Insured Benefits is $13,864,043. The projected increase
of 4% results in an increase of $550,848 in 2018. The increase meets the projected costs in the
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Affordable Care Act (ACA) Employer Fees:
PCORI = Patient Centered Research Institute, these fees fund a government agency that studies patient
outcomes. We pay a set fee per plan member annually; the fee goes up each year, indexed to the CPI.
Members include all persons covered under our self-funded plans.
TRI = Transitional Reinsurance fee the last payment was paid in November 2016
NOTE: All projected costs are based on the current employees enrolled in 2017
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the 2018 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan and authorizes the General
Manager/CEO or his designee to enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.
2. Further modify the salaried employee benefit plans to be offered in 2018. This is not
recommended since it would require additional negotiations with benefit providers and delay
the employee enrollment period.
3. Do not approve the recommended salaried employee benefit plans. This is not recommended, as
this will result in the Agency being unable to provide competitive and cost effective benefit
plans to the salaried employees.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 113

11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval of 2018 Access-a-Cab Agreements

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to extend an
Agreement with Metro/Yellow Transportation, Northern Yellow, and Union Taxi Inc., to provide Accessa-Cab services. In addition, it is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to add Green Taxi Cooperative as a new provider for the Access-a-Cab program.
BACKGROUND
In March of 1997, the RTD Board of Directors introduced the Access-a-Cab program to our Access-aRide program participants. The program offers flexibility in transportation services for individuals with
disabilities. Passengers would be permitted to schedule same day trips with Metro/Yellow
Transportation, Northern Yellow, Union Taxi, and Green Taxi.
The subsidized Access-a-Cab program has proved to be very popular. Trips that are taken using the
Access-a-Cab service involve a smaller RTD subsidy per ride than trips taken on the regular Access-aRide service. All persons using Access-a-Cab are certified as eligible to use our Paratransit service. Trips
taken by those passengers on the regular Access-a-Ride service costs RTD an average of $49.00 per
trip, as opposed to$12.00. At the current meter rates, RTD’s subsidy allows passengers to travel an
average of 4 miles. Passengers are responsible for covering any charges beyond a $14.00 fare.
DISCUSSION
During 2016, Access-a-Cab provided 175,797 cab trips at a cost to the District of $2,109,564. Those
same trips on Access-a-Ride would have cost the District approximately, $8,614,053. Funding for the
Access-a-Cab service is budgeted annually based on ridership and anticipated demand.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for the Access-a-Cab service are included in the 2018 recommended budget. Funds for Access-aCab service in future years will be requested as part of the budget process.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended action for the Access-a-Cab program.
2. Do not approve the recommended action for the Access-a-Cab program and attempt to absorb
the increase in ridership onto the Access-a-Ride program at an increased subsidy per boarding.
This alternative is not recommended.

Packet Pg. 114

11.B

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 115

11.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval for Budget Transfer to Accommodate
Demand Shift of Access-a-Cab Service

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a budget transfer in the amount of $505,000 from Yellow Cab Access-a-Cab service to Metro
Taxi Access-a-Cab service and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab service in the amounts of $340,000 and
$165,000 respectively to adjust for the shift in customer demand for these services in 2017.
BACKGROUND:
RTD currently has agreements with three (3) taxi providers, Yellow Cab, Metro Taxi, and Union Taxi, to
provide Access-a-Cab services for ADA eligible customers. In February, 2017, Yellow Cab sold a portion
of its operation to Metro Taxi, which included a number of the Yellow Cab taxi cabs. Since that time,
Yellow Cab has limited its operation to providing Access-a-Cab service only in the northern parts of the
RTD District (Boulder and Longmont). Consequently, Metro Taxi and Union Taxi have been picking up
the additional Access-a-Cab service demands in the Metro area.
DISCUSSION:
When preparing the 2017 recommended budget, RTD staff was not aware of the pending agreement
between Yellow Cab and Metro Taxi. The budget was prepared using projected service demands based
on historical data. In the months following the sale of operations/vehicles between Yellow Cab and
Metro Taxi, the number of Access-a-Cab trips operated by Yellow Cab dropped substantially, and the
number of Access-a-Cab trips operated by Metro Taxi and Union Taxi increased substantially. Although
the total number of trips to be performed in 2017 is still within the projected total for 2017, it is
necessary to shift funds from the Yellow Cab budget account into the Metro Taxi and Union Taxi budget
accounts in order to pay for services through the end of 2017.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
There is no financial impact. This action simply provides authorization to move funds from one budget
account to other budget accounts.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Approve the recommended action item so that funds will be available to pay invoices for Metro
Taxi and Union Taxi Access-a-Cab services through the end of 2017.
2. Do not approve the budget transfer. This course of action is not recommended as it will not allow
RTD to pay for Access-a-Cab services provided by Metro Taxi and Union Taxi.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services

Packet Pg. 116

11.C

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 117

11.D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval to Extend Travel Training Contract

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to exercise option years one and two of the Via Mobility
Services Contract 16DH048 for the provision of Travel Training services. The cost of the two one-year
option years shall not exceed $265,700. The total cost of Contract 16DH048 shall not exceed
$399,740.
BACKGROUND
In March, 2017, RTD entered into a Contract with Via Mobility Services to provide Travel Training
services. The program is designed to train individuals with disabilities to use fixed route services for one
or more trips in lieu of using ADA paratransit services, Access-a-Ride. Via Mobility Services, an
established ADA paratransit service provider and nationally recognized travel training pioneer, has
provided travel training services for Access-a-Ride customers for several years. With the current
contract, Via has been focusing its attention on Access-a-Ride passengers who voluntarily agree to
participate. Unfortunately, the participation has been lower than desireable. Consequently, RTD staff is
working to re-design the travel training program to better use the available resources and have a greater
impact on Access-a-Ride service. Due to complexity of the program redesign and the desire to fully
engage the disability community, we are seeking the authority to extend the current Travel Training
Contract by two years in order to facilitate the program’s redesign. The redesign should improve the
effectiveness of the travel training program in terms of transitioning passengers from Access-a-Ride to
fixed-route service.
DISCUSSION
During 2018 and 2019, staff will work with the ADA Paratransit Advisory Committee (APAC) in order to
modify the approach of Travel Training. In the redesigned Travel Training program, Access-a-Ride
customers will be trained to use fixed-route service so that Access-a-Ride can potentially incorporate a
fixed-route service component into an Access-a-Ride passenger’s trip. For example: Access-a-Ride will
pick up a passenger at their home, transport them to a Park-n-Ride where the individual will transfer to a
fixed-route bus. Then, Access-a-Ride will meet them at the tail end of that trip and transport them to
their final destination. The APAC members have agreed to this service concept and to share their
recommendations for the new travel training design. This two-year extension of the current Travel
Training Contract will provide RTD staff adequate time to fully analyze and develop the Scope of Work
for the modified Travel Training and will allow individuals to continue to receive Travel Training services
through 2019.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for 2018 have been included in the proposed 2018 budget. Subsequent funding for 2019 will
be requested in the proposed 2019 budget.

Packet Pg. 118

11.D

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended action to extend the Travel Training Contract.
2. Do not approve the recommended action to extend the Travel Training Contract. This will
eliminate the Travel Training program. This alternative is not recommended.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 119

11.E

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 9, 2017

From:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager,
Rail Operations

GM

Date:

October 9, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Purchase of Platform Hyrail Truck

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract for $612,700 dollars with
Geismar MTM for purchase of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract Number 17DR002).
BACKGROUND:
RTD’s overhead wire infrastructure is aging on existing corridors. Acquiring a platform truck will improve
Maintenance of Way’s (MOW) ability to perform inspections and repairs to the overhead wire, allowing
MOW to maintain a state of good repair. Currently MOW utilizes small bucket trucks to perform
inspections and repairs. If a major incident occurs involving the overhead wire or if a section is found to
be out of compliance, then MOW is required to use multiple trucks to make the repair. Acquisition of a
platform truck will allow MOW to minimize the number of trucks on the track and allow more employees
to work on the repairs. Minimizing the number of trucks on the track increase safety as there is reduced
risk to vehicle collisions. Typically wire repairs use 3-4 trucks (boom trucks and bucket trucks),
depending on the repair the use of a hyrail platform truck could reduce that number by 2-3.
DISCUSSION:
RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP 17DR002) on May 17, 2017. The criteria to evaluate were
cost- 50%, conformance with specifications- 30%, history and proven track record with this equipment10%, and quality of references- 10%. RTD’s evaluation committee consisted of Karl Shoemaker, MOW
Senior Supervisor, Track Engineer; Brian Farris, Manager of MOW; Robbie Hunter, Senior Equipment
Engineer; and Leo Fautsch, Senior Buyer.
RTD received three proposals; one from Geismar MTM, one from Diversified Product Development LLC,
and one from Autotruck Group. The evaluation committee recommends Geismar MTM, the proposer that
met our specification.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The cost of the platform truck is funded in the Board approved 2017 RTD budget.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract for $612,700 dollars with
Geismar MTM for purchase of a platform Hyrail truck (Contract Number 17DR002). This is the
recommended alternative.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Geismar MTM to
purchase needed platform truck. This action would result in RTD’s continued use of multiple
trucks to repair the overhead wire. This is not the recommended action as it would not allow us
to improve efficiency, safety and service.

Packet Pg. 120

11.E

Prepared by:
Mike Smith, Senior Administrative Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 121

12.F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

October 12, 2017

Subject:

Salaried DB & DC Contribution

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 12, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
adopt a 2018 contribution of $5.1 million to RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust
(the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to
the Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount
to the plan for each year of employment.

BACKGROUND
In December, 2007, the RTD Board of Directors closed the DB Plan to new employees with new
employees hired on January 1, 2008 and later participating in the DC Plan. From January 1, 2008 to
December 31, 2012 both the DB and DC Plan had been funded on a 9% of salaries basis.
DISCUSSION
DB Plan
In 2012, the Board of Directors agreed that beginning in 2013, annual contributions to the DB Plan
would be made at a fixed annual amount of $3.1 million rather than as a percentage of salaries as a
result of the actuary’s recommendation at that time. The fixed annual contribution of $3.1 million to the
DB Plan was determined by the plan’s actuaries to be the annual contribution necessary to maintain a
“fully funded” status for the plan in the future.
The actuaries have updated the DB Plan projections to reflect the final 1/1/2017 valuation assumptions
for the DB Plan. The 2018 Actuary recommended contribution is $7.3 million. If RTD contributed $5.1
million in 2018, and $5.1 million each year thereafter, 100% funding could be reached in 2037. If RTD
contributes $5.1 million in 2018 and the recommended contribution each year thereafter, 100% funding
could be reached in 2031. Under this scenario the recommended contribution is $5.1 million in 2018,
$7.0 million in 2019, $7.2 million in 2020 and starts to decrease thereafter, falling below $5.1 million in
2028. This also assumes an annual rate of return of 7.5% per year. This option has been deemed too
costly to fund at this time.
The recommendation is to increase the annual fixed contribution by $500,000 to $5.1 million.
DC Plan
Section 4.1 of the RTD Salaried Employees’ DC Plan adopted by the RTD Board provides that the
Employer may, at its sole discretion, set a contribution rate between 7 to 9% per year for participants.
The contribution rate has been 9% each year to the DC Plan from 2008 through 2017.

Packet Pg. 122

12.F

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Below is a summary of the current and recommended DB Plan and DC Plan funding scenarios:
Salaried DB Plan
2018 Projected
$5,100,000

2017
$4,100,000

Change
$500,000

Salaried DC Plan
% of Salaries
9%
8%
7%

2018 Projected
4,043,023
3,593,798
3,144574

Recommended

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2018 contribution of $5.1 million to
RTD’s Salaried Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified
monthly benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a
2018 contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the plan for
each year of employment.
2. The RTD Board of Directors could certify an amount to be contributed to the RTD Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust or the RTD Salaried Employees’ Defined Contribution
Plan at amounts other than $4.6 million and 9%, respectively.
3. Do not authorize a contribution to the RTD Salaried Employees’ Pension Plans. This is not
recommended because the DB Plan’s funding status would deteriorate and the liability would
increase.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 123

12.G

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

October 12, 2017

Subject:

Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and
Annual Program Evaluation

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 12, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopts the 2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and the 2018-2023 Annual Program
Evaluation (APE).
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal Sustainability
by effecting current and long-range budgeting in a timely manner.

POLICY REFERENCE
Fiscal Policy Statement – Capital Improvement Policies 1 and 7, Budget Policies 13 and 14
BACKGROUND
Capital Improvement Policy 1 of RTD’s Fiscal Policy Statement states that “On an annual basis, RTD will
prepare and update annually a six-year Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) including projected capital
construction and improvements, service levels and operating costs, and revenues to fund the capital and
operating programs.” Capital Improvement Policy 7 states that “RTD will prepare an annual update of
the FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation (APE) which will be integrated with the SBP incorporating
actual costs incurred and the most recent available projections of capital improvement costs, service
levels, and operating costs and revenues to fund the FasTracks capital and operating programs.”
The SBP and APE are RTD’s six-year financial plans. Updated annually, they provide important cash
flow planning information used to determine the District’s operating, investing and financing activity as
well as services that the District can provide using projected financial resources. The first year of the
SBP and APE serve as the basis for the preparation of the annual budget.
Each year during the planning process, operating costs are estimated and capital projects are developed
to support the goals and objectives of the District. Estimates of other expenditures, such as principal
and interest payments on long-term debt, are also developed as part of the overall costs to the District.
The other major component of the plans is the estimate of available revenues during the six-year time
period. These estimates of costs and revenues are brought together to insure that RTD will have
adequate resources to meet cash flow needs.
Per RTD Fiscal Policy Statement, RTD will contract with a qualified third party to provide sales and use
tax forecasting containing projections for the short term (one year), medium term (SBP and FasTracks
APE) and long term (financial plan). RTD has contracted with the University of Colorado-Leeds School of
Business for this service. See “sales and use tax” in Discussion below.

Packet Pg. 124

12.G

Capital and operating/maintenance projects are evaluated based on their relative costs and benefits,
relative need, and to what extent they meet the RTD mission statement and State of Good Repair
priorities; projects are constrained to operate within the forecast of revenues and funding sources
available for their completion and operation.
The SBP and APE also provide the basis for the District’s application for federal transit funding through
the Transportation Improvement Program (TIP), prepared by the Denver Regional Council of
Governments. The TIP is a list of all roadway and transit projects in the region that receive federal
funding. RTD cannot receive federal funds for projects unless the SBP/APE qualifying projects are
included in the TIP.
The 2018-2023 SBP includes service and projects funded from the Base System 0.6% sales and use
taxes. The 2018-2023 APE includes service and projects funded from the FasTracks 0.4% sales and
use taxes. Projected Base and FasTracks future expense and projects for the period 2024-2040 are
presented separately in the Long-Range Financial Plan.
DISCUSSION
Strategic Budget Plan
The attached SBP incorporates the 2017 amended budget and includes all known adjustments and
best estimates at this time. The SBP was presented to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee on May 16th, July 18th, and August 8th for discussion. The final presentation follows in
this document on October 17th with staff recommendation for Board adoption on October 24th.
Exhibit I
Exhibit I (attached) summarizes the 2018-2023 projected cash flow through the extension of the
2017 Amended Budget.
The column titled “Adjusted Amended Budget 2017” in Exhibit I
incorporates revenue and expense adjustments approved in the Amended Budget and subsequent
known items.
The SBP is balanced through the six-year period after incorporating into the projections 1) the
September sales/use tax forecast from CU-Leeds School of Business, 2) minimum/must-have SBP
requested projects, including minimum fleet requirements, within State of Good Repair (SOGR)
parameters, 3) reductions, eliminations or deferrals of non-critical SBP requested projects, 4) use of
the capital replacement reserve fund to support planned fleet purchases, 5) contribution to reserve
funds, and 6) no new debt issued. No service reductions other than reprogrammed fixed route
service are proposed in the SBP through this period.
Exhibit I summarizes the 2018-2023 projected cash flow activity based on the staff recommendation
incorporating the following:
 Revenue estimates:
 Fare revenue of $115.2 million in 2018 is projected to be slightly higher over 2017. The fare
revenue is forecast using the fare model and current data on average fare paid per boarding.
Fare rate increases in the fare model are assumed in conjunction with Board policy. (Line 1)
 Sales and use tax incorporates the September semi-annual update from the CU-Leeds School
of Business for the years 2018-2023. In all years of the SBP, the medium baseline forecast

Packet Pg. 125

12.G

from CU is used. Of the total forecasted amounts, 0.6% is apportioned to the Base System.
(Line 2)
o The CU-Leeds forecast contains confidence bounds on total RTD revenues. The mean
forecast for 2018 of $626.2 million is bracketed by 67% confidence bounds of $584.4
million on the low side and $666.9 million for the upper bound. The upper bound
estimate is 6.5% higher than the medium baseline forecast, reflecting more robust
economic conditions that could materialize. It is not impossible or unrealistic that revenue
could grow somewhat strongly over the next year. Likewise, economic threats pose
downside risk to the forecast, with a 6.7% lower bound. The values of the high and low
forecast bounds are computed as 67% confidence bounds, meaning that a 0.67
probability exists that the interval between low and high forecast values will contain the
actual value of the variable being predicted.
 Grant revenue estimates are based upon past trends, formula allocations, known proceeds,
and recent congressional actions. Amounts are escalated at the area Consumer Price Index
(CPI) (obtained from Moody’s) or as identified. (Line 3)
 Other income consists of on-going advertising revenue, joint venture revenue, and IGA and
miscellaneous rental income, escalated at the CPI beginning in 2018. (Line 4)
 Operating expenses (excluding depreciation):
 Operating expenses are increased at area CPI rates and then adjusted for known items and
necessary reductions.The area CPI rates follow:(Line 6)
2018: 2.8%
2019: 3.1%
2020: 2.9%
2021: 2.7%
2022: 2.6%
2023: 2.6%
 Service increase consists of the cost of new CMAQ-funded service projects to be operated by
RTD in years 2016-2019 to include service enhancements on Routes L and 324, Route 73
extension, Superior and Broomfield call-n-Ride services, and Anschutz Medical Campus
Shuttle. These services are included in the DRCOG TIP. RTD costs will be reimbursed in full
by CMAQ grant funds and contributed funds from the applicable municipalities. Determination
will be made in future years whether to continue such service at RTD’s cost. (Line 7)
 Costs of operating the West Line, R Line, DUS Bus Concourse, Free MetroRide, BRT, the HLine extension and SERE are allocated from Base to FasTracks based on resource drivers on a
full-allocation basis for all years of the SBP, thus, Base total expenses are reduced by the
amount of the allocation. Prior to 2017, the allocation was made on an incremental basis; it
was changed to full allocation including administrative and support costs beginning in 2017.
(Line 8)
 Expenses include the Collective Bargaining Agreement at a negotiated amount through 2017
plus an adjustment to capture current and anticipated higher costs, and then escalated at the
CPI rate for 2018-2023. (Line 9)
 Diesel fuel is forecast at an estimated lock price of $1.80/gallon in 2018 and then escalated
at the national CPI rates as follows: (Line 10)
2018: 2.5%
2019: 3.0%
2020: 2.7%
2021: 2.4%
2022: 2.3%
2023: 2.2%

Packet Pg. 126

12.G













Gasoline is forecast at $2.65/gallon in 2018, which is same cost per gallon used in the 2017
budget, and then escalated at the national CPI rates above. (Line 10)
 The line item for expense projects (O&M) includes specifically identified minimum/must-have
operating and maintenance projects based on SOGR priorities. These projects are detailed in
Exhibit III. Other projects may be added based on available cash flow if sales tax revenue
improves or there are excess fund balances at year-end. Specific projects will be determined
from the deferred project list in Exhibit IV. (Line 11)
 The FasTracks service increase, or “rubber tire” service based on the 2004 FasTracks
Financial Plan whereby FasTracks will fund enhanced bus service on the Base System,
increases by the CPI rate serially each year. (Line 12)
Interest income is based on current yields adjusted for expected changes in investable balances
and forecasted interest rates per forward rate curves. (Line 15)
Interest expense is calculated by individual debt instruments outstanding during each year (for
current debt and future debt as applicable) by using debt amortization schedules. Interest
expense is forecast only on existing debt balances because the plan assumes no new debt issued
through 2023. (Line 16)
The line item for capital expenditures includes specifically identified minimum/must-have capital
projects based on SOGR priorities, plus the minimum required new fleet, detailed in Exhibit II.
Dollar amounts of the new fleet are determined so as not to exceed cash flow constraints
determined in the SBP model. Other projects may be added based on available cash flow if sales
tax revenue improves or there are excess fund balances at year-end. Specific projects will be
determined from the deferred project list in Exhibit IV. (Line 19)
The Fiscal Policy Statement establishes a Board-appropriated fund, capital replacement fund, and
unrestricted operating reserve.
 Staff recommends that the Board-appropriated fund be funded at a minimum of $3 million
each year in 2018-2019, not funded (not drawn) in 2020, drawn by $7.0 million in 2021 to
help balance the SBP, and then funded at $5 million each year in 2022-2023. This fund is
projected to reach a balance of over $26 million in 2023. (Lines 20 and 33)
 Staff recommends that the capital replacement fund be drawn entirely in 2018 for fleet
purchases and then funded by $3.0 million each year beginning in 2022. This fund is
projected to reach a balance of $6.0 million in 2023. Per the 2017 Amended Budget, the
capital replacement fund was replenished to $2.7 million in 2017 after having been used in its
entirety in 2016 for fleet acquisition. (Lines 21 and 34)
 The Fiscal Policy Statement in Fund Balance Policy 4 allows for the designation of an
unrestricted operating fund used to respond to unanticipated events, including revenue
shortfalls. The unrestricted operating reserve was established in 2017 and funded with
available cash flow. Staff recommends that the unrestricted operating fund be funded at a
minimum of $5.0 million each year in 2018-2019, drawn by a total of $19.7 million in 20202021 to help balance the SBP, and then funded with available cash flow in 2022-2023. The
SBP will apply available dollars toward the operating fund such that it reaches nearly $29
million in 2022 and reaches over $59 million in 2023. (Lines 22 and 35)
 The total of these three funds is projected to be nearly $92 million in 2023.
A transfer to FasTracks for Base System support of FasTracks operations is not anticipated to be
necessary over the course of this six-year SBP. (Line 23)
Financing proceeds represent COPs issued for bus and light rail vehicle acquisition in accordance
with fleet schedules, net of grant funding and use of capital acquisition fund. No new debt is
issued during the SBP term in order to maintain required debt service coverage. (Line 25)

Packet Pg. 127

12.G

 Principal payments on debt are derived from individual debt instruments outstanding during each
year (for current debt and future debt as applicable) by using debt amortization schedules.
Principal payments are forecast only on existing debt balances. (Line 26)
 Other line items consist of the roll-over of the unrestricted fund ending balance at 12/31/17,
estimated changes to restricted reserves, and the use of previously-issued COP-bond proceeds for
future year capital expenditures. (Lines 29, 30, and 31)
 The SBP is balanced during the six-year period as shown by the positive unrestricted year-end
fund balance. The objective is to maintain a minimum unrestricted year-end fund balance of $2
million each year through 2023 while supporting a minimum critical level of capital and expense
projects and building reserve fund balances. (Line 32)
Exhibit II
Exhibit II attached to this document is a detailed listing of planned capital projects during the SBP period
in uninflated 2017 dollars.
Exhibit III
Exhibit III attached to this document is a detailed listing of planned operating and maintenance projects
during the SBP period in uninflated 2017 dollars.
Exhibit IV
Exhibit IV attached to this document is a listing of capital and operating projects (not including minimum
projects or fleet) in uninflated 2017 dollars that were submitted for consideration during the SBP
development process and are deferred from the six-year term 2018-2023 to a future period. The SBP
was balanced in part by postponement of these non-critical projects. Projects may be selected from this
list based on available funds generated by the SBP in 2018-2023 after all other objectives are met.
Exhibit V
Exhibit V attached to this document is a chart of (minimum) capital projects by type for the current and
last three SBP periods.
Exhibit VI
Exhibit VI attached to this document is a chart of (minimum) operating and maintenance projects by type
for the current and last three SBP periods.
The 2018-2023 SBP planned capital and expense projects are totaled below, inflated at the area CPI rate
starting in 2018:
(in millions $)
Capital and Operating Projects
Capital Projects
Operating & Maintenance Projects
Total SBP Projects

2018
$83.7
$13.7
$97.5

2019
$48.7
$9.5
$58.2

2020
$48.5
$12.2
$60.7

2021
$45.8
$19.6
$65.3

2022
$23.6
$17.6
$41.1

2023
$82.4
$11.8
$94.2

As required by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), RTD must review its SBP for any Title VI
impacts (disproportionate impacts on minority and low income communities). Any service changes
specified in the SBP will be reviewed for Title VI impacts during the service planning process prior to
final recommendations on service changes. For the capital component of the SBP, Title VI impacts are
reviewed on improvements that are over and above the state-of-good-repair elements (repairs,
replacements and rehabilitations) of the capital program. The Title VI review will be provided and a
statement from the Planning Department to this effect is attached.

Packet Pg. 128

12.G

Annual Program Evaluation
The underlying assumptions for the 2017 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) are consistent with those
used in the SBP:
 Fare revenues are projected using the same fare revenue model and fare increase
assumptions, adding revenue for new lines at their projected opening dates
 Sales and use tax projections for the 0.4% sales and use tax incorporate the September 2017
CU-Leeds forecasts
 Grant revenues are based on existing grant agreements and past trends, adjusted at CPI as
appropriate
 Interest income on available balance is projected using the same methodology as for the SBP.
 The cost allocations to FasTracks from the SBP and the FasTracks “rubber tire” service
increase feed directly from the SBP.
 Operating and maintenance costs for the Eagle Project are derived from the Concession
Agreement.


The total FasTracks project budget through 2020 included in the APE is approximately $5.6 billion.
Project-by-project costs and the changes from the 2016 APE are included as Exhibit VII.
The major changes between the 2016 and 2017 APE involve the North Metro Project. The proposed
APE assumes RTD operation and maintenance of the corridor, with DTP maintaining the vehicles, and
includes mobilization and startup costs to support RTD operations. Additional funding also is required to
complete the current scope of construction of the corridor to 124th Avenue. Specific changes are
detailed below:
 Additional funding to cover the current scope to complete - $52.7 million
o Additional RTD overhead
o Head-end tie-in
o Risk associated with scope gap/betterments
o Riverside grade crossing elimination
o Additional parking at end-of-line station
 Capital costs for mobilization for corridor operations - $19.9 million
 Other costs for mobilization for corridor operations - $12.8 million
The average annual operating and maintenance cost for the first ten years of North Metro operations is
projected at $25.9 million in 2017 dollars.
Outside of the North Metro Project, the project cost changes to this APE are relatively small. These
changes primarily reflect updates to project scope and timing, or work that has been completed under
budget. These changes result in a net savings of $12.2 million through 2020, as summarized below.






Additional funds required for project closeout staffing and extension of project closeout to
2020 - $5.4 million
Savings from projected completion of the I-225 project under the 2016 APE budget - $15
million savings
Reduce remaining budget for the Free Metro Ride to the $1.5 million required for City and
County of Denver capital improvements - $1.8 million savings
Reduction in program wide capital costs - $0.7 million savings

Future implementation of projects not included in the current APE would require identification of funding
sources for construction and operations, and would require approval of the Board. Therefore, the APE is

Packet Pg. 129

12.G

a dynamic tool, which is updated annually as projects move towards completion and any changes
approved by the Board are incorporated.
The projected APE cash flow through 2023 does not require Base System funding to support FasTracks
corridor operations and maintenance. However, the FasTracks Capital Acquisition Fund is drawn down
in 2021, and funding from the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be needed between 2021
and 2023, to fund FasTracks corridor operations and maintenance. The cash flow by year through 2023
is presented as Exhibit VIII.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The staff-recommended SBP and APE provide RTD with a plan for maintaining a positive unrestricted
year-end fund balance in each year of the SBP while growing reserve fund balances. However,
uncontrollable economic factors, such as sales tax revenue, cost of fuel, materials, and supplies, as well
as economic conditions will continue to have an impact on the SBP and APE, and may challenge staff to
present new options and solutions during the 2018 budget period.
Current key financial (fund balance) indicators for the SBP are:
(in millions $)
Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance
Board-Appropriated Fund Balance
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Operating Reserve
Balanced in Budget Year

2018
$33.8
$20.4
$0.0
$14.7
Yes

2019
$11.0
$23.4
$0.0
$19.7
Yes

2020
$2.0
$23.4
$0.0
$10.5
Yes

2021
$2.0
$16.4
$0.0
$0.0
Yes

2022
$2.0
$21.4
$3.0
$28.8
Yes

2023
$2.0
$26.4
$6.0
$59.4
Yes

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

$33.3

$44.3

$48.3

$30.2

$30.8

$32.2

$162.0
$15.9

$76.7
$15.9

$14.8
$15.9

$2.0
$15.9

$2.0
$15.9

$2.0
$15.9

$67.1

$80.4

$95.8

$92.2

$73.8

$21.7

Current key financial indicators for the APE are:
(in millions $)
Board Appropriated / Capital Replacement
/ Operating Reserves
Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance
FasTracks Management Reserve Balance
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Balance – Year-End

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP) and the 2018-2023 Annual Program Evaluation (APE).
2. Defer the adoption of a 2018-2023 SBP and 2018-2023 APE to a later date. This is not
recommended because the SBP and APE identify the capital programs, expenditures, and service
guidelines for the 2018 budget process and adoption of the plans serves as a confirmation of the
Board of Directors' vision for the 2018 Budget.
3. Provide staff additional direction in the selection of assumptions for the projected 2018-2023 SBP
and 2018-2023 APE. This is not the desired action and will result in delay of the SBP and APE
adoption and possible delay in the 2018 budget process.
ATTACHMENTS:


Exhibit I-2018-2023 SBP

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 130

12.G


Exhibit II-SBP Capital Projects

(PDF)



Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects

(PDF)



Exhibit IV-Deferred Projects

(PDF)



Exhibit V-Capital Projects by Type



Exhibit VI-O&M Projects by Type (PDF)



Exhibit VII-2017 APE Project Costs



Exhibit VIII-2017 APE Cash Flow (PDF)



Title VI Guideline-SBP Attachment

(PDF)
(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 131

12.G.a

EXHIBIT I

CU-Leeds Baseline forecast (Sep-17)

1
2
3
4
5

Revenue and Other Income
Fare Revenue
Sales and Use Tax
Grant Revenue
Other Income
Total Revenue and Other Income

$

5.9%

4.9%

3.5%

2.9%

2.9%

4.0%

4.1%

Adjusted
Amended
Budget
2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

2023

114.2
358.1
150.4
8.1
630.9

$

Adjustment to Balance

115.2
375.7
91.4
8.4
590.7

$

127.7
388.9
93.7
8.6
618.9

$

128.5
400.1
93.6
8.9
631.0

$

129.3
411.6
96.1
9.1
646.1

$

142.9
428.1
98.7
9.3
679.0

$

143.7
445.7
136.6
9.6
735.6

-

-

-

-

-

-

(400.8)
(2.4)
37.3
(116.2)
(24.4)
(13.7)
18.4
(501.9) $

(409.9)
(2.5)
42.4
(119.7)
(25.2)
(9.5)
18.9
(505.4) $

(421.4)
43.6
(123.1)
(25.8)
(12.2)
19.5
(519.5) $

(432.9)
44.8
(126.5)
(26.5)
(19.6)
20.0
(540.6) $

(444.3)
46.0
(129.8)
(27.1)
(17.6)
20.5
(552.3) $

(455.9)
47.2
(133.2)
(27.7)
(11.8)
21.0
(560.3)

88.8

113.5

111.5

105.5

126.7

$

175.3

6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13

Operating Expenses Excluding Depreciation
Service Increase
FT Operations Allocation
CBA - Bus/Rail
Fuel Expense (diesel + gasoline)
Expense Projects (O&M)
FT Service Increase
Total Operating Expenses

$

(398.0)
(2.4)
35.7
(113.0)
(22.5)
(12.1)
17.9
(494.5) $

14

Income Before Interest Income / (Expense)

$

136.4

15
16
17

Interest Income / (Expense)
Investment Income
Interest Expense
Total Interest Income / (Expense)

$

1.3
(26.0)
(24.6) $

1.8
(21.8)
(19.9) $

1.8
(19.4)
(17.6) $

1.8
(16.8)
(15.1) $

1.3
(14.4)
(13.1) $

2.4
(12.1)
(9.7) $

3.5
(10.3)
(6.7)

18

Change in Net Assets / Income

$

111.8

68.8

95.9

96.5

92.4

117.0

168.6

19

Capital Expenditures

(95.7)

(83.7)

(48.7)

20
21
22
23
24

Use of / (Increase to) Funds
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Operating Reserve
Transfer to FT
Total Funds Change

$

(7.0)
(2.7)
(9.7)
(19.4) $

(3.0)
2.7
(5.0)
(5.3) $

25
26
27

Financing Proceeds
Principal Payments
Net Increase / (Decrease) to Debt Balance

$

(50.0)
(50.0) $

28

Increase / (Decrease) Fund Balance

$

29
30
31
32

Beginning Unrestricted Net Assets / Fund Balance
+/- Restricted Reserves + Other Reconciliation
Bond Proceeds Used for Capex
Unrestricted Year-End Fund Balance / (Deficit)

$

33
34
35

Cumulative Fund Balance - Board Appropriated Fund
Cumulative Fund Balance - Capital Replacement Fund
Cumulative Fund Balance - Unrestricted Operating Reserve

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

(48.5)

(45.8)

(23.6)

(82.4)

(3.0)
(5.0)
(8.0) $

9.2
9.2

7.0
10.5
17.5

$

(5.0)
(3.0)
(28.8)
(36.8) $

(5.0)
(3.0)
(30.6)
(38.6)

(59.0)
(59.0) $

(62.6)
(62.6) $

(65.8)
(65.8) $

(64.7)
(64.7) $

(58.2)
(58.2) $

(47.0)
(47.0)

(53.3) $

(79.2) $

(23.4) $

(8.7) $

(0.6) $

(1.6) $

0.6

43.5
24.6
67.3
82.1

82.1
(0.5)
31.5
33.8 $

33.8
0.6
11.0

11.0
(0.4)
2.0 $

2.0
0.6
2.0

2.0
1.7
2.0

2.0
(0.6)
2.0

20.4
0.0
14.7

23.4
0.0
19.7

23.4
0.0
10.5

16.4
0.0
0.0

17.4
2.7
9.7

$

$

$

$

21.4
3.0
28.8

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2018-2023 SBP (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Regional Transportation District
Strategic Budget Plan Cash Flow
Base System Capital and Operations
2018-2023 (Rounded Millions)
FINAL

26.4
6.0
59.4

Packet Pg. 132

12.G.b

EXHIBIT II
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
CAPITAL PROJECTS

Title

Location

Project Description

FLEET MODERNIZATION & EXPANSION
Transit Buses
Bus Operations
Transit Buses - 40 Foot

Districtwide

Purchase a total of 242 40-foot transit buses from 2018 through 2023. This
consists of 198 replacements and 44 expansions. The 25 expansion buses in
2018 are offset by retiring 25 30-foot Gillig Transits. These buses will all be
equipped with wheelchair ramps and automatic passenger counters.

$ 26,204,000

$ 20,141,277

$ 15,731,788

$ 33,249,340

$ 9,617,585

$0

$ 104,943,990

Bus Operations

Transit Buses - 30 Foot

Districtwide

Project is to retire seventy-five (75) and replace fifty (50) 30-foot low floor
transit buses over the term of this SBP. Major spares are not needed for this
procurement since they will be operated by our contract carriers. The cost per
bus is estimated to be $412,000 per bus based on 2017 pricing.

$0

$ 10,355,000

$ 10,355,000

$0

$0

$0

$ 20,710,000

Bus Operations

Call-n-Ride Cutaway
Buses

Districtwide

Request is to purchase fifty-four (54) replacement call-n-Ride vehicles over the
term of this SBP. The cost of each of these vehicles based on 2017 pricing is
estimated to be $68,600 per vehicle.

$ 2,219,200

$ 486,200

$ 761,600

$0

$ 276,900

$0

$ 3,743,900

Access-a-Ride Cutaway
Buses

Districtwide

Project request is to purchase three hundred fifty-two (352) access-a-Ride
vehicles over the term of this SBP, consisting of three hundred thirty-two (332)
replacements and twenty (20) expansion. The estimated cost based on 2017
pricing is $64,000 per vehicle plus $15,000 per vehicle for expansion units for
IT equipment.

$ 797,000

$ 797,000

$ 6,604,000

$0

$ 4,871,965

$ 4,936,070

$ 18,006,035

$ 29,220,200

$ 31,779,477

$ 33,452,388

$ 33,249,340

$ 14,766,450

$ 4,936,070

$ 147,403,925

At the Thornton PnR, this project will replace standard bus shelters with BRT
style canopies, similar to US36, that provide better illumination and protection
from the elements, improve the transit plaza areas with concrete replacement,
update the urban furnishings and landscape design - all following the principles
of Crime Prevention through Environmental Design (CPTED).

$ 110,000

$ 485,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 595,000

Project is purchase of fifty-nine (59) trucks and vans over the term of this SBP.

$ 1,212,000

$ 1,041,000

$ 696,000

$ 980,000

$ 154,000

$0

$ 4,083,000

ADA Vehicles
Bus Operations

Total Bus Fleet
PARK-N-RIDES
Capital Programs

Transit Plaza Upgrades
@ Thornton PnR

Park-n-Ride

CAPITAL SUPPORT EQUIPMENT / PROJECTS
Vehicles & Maintenance Equipment
Bus Operations
Districtwide
Support & Service
Vehicles

Capital Costs
2018

Capital Costs
2019

Capital Costs
2020

Capital Costs
2021

Capital Costs
2022

Capital Costs
2023

Total Capital
Costs

Bus Operations

In-Plant Vehicles &
Equipment

Districtwide

Project is to purchase thirty (30) replacement units in Bus Operations during
this SBP period. The type of equipment being replaced includes but is not
limited to electric carts, street sweepers, snow blowers, forklifts, etc.

$ 217,000

$ 210,500

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 427,500

Bus Operations

Administrative & Pool
Vehicles

Districtwide

Project request is to purchase twenty (20) replacement vehicles over the term
of this SBP. All of these vehicles will be at the end of their useful life at the time
they are replaced. Attached to this request is a list of all the vehicles we are
planning to replace with the use for each vehicle, age, miles per year,
replacement cost and the maintenance cost for the previous five (5) years.

$ 139,000

$ 161,000

$ 228,000

$ 25,000

$ 152,000

$0

$ 705,000

Capital Programs

Materials & Supplies Light Rail

Districtwide

This funding would be used to purchase materials and supplies needed in the
event of a catastrophic failure of the existing rail lines (C, D, E, F, G) as well as
the four new lines in 2017.

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 300,000

$ 300,000

$ 600,000

Rail Operations

Heavy Equipment for LR Districtwide
Maintenance

$ 1,000,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 1,000,000

Purchase of heavy equipment specific to Light Rail infrastructure and track
maintenance to include: Speed Swing, Loader, Back Hoe, Rail Transport
Truck, Bucket Trucks, Track Trucks, Welder, Compressor, Rail Handler,
Crane, Platform Truck, etc.

Page: 1

Attachment: Exhibit II-SBP Capital Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department

Packet Pg. 133

12.G.b

EXHIBIT II
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
CAPITAL PROJECTS

Title

Location

Information Technology, Computer Equipment for Operations
Communications
Civic Center Plaza (CCP)
Enterprise Customer
Relationship
Management System
(CRM)

Project Description

TrapezeCOM has been the only customer complaint and commendation
tracking tool in use for the past 8 years at RTD and most departments find it
difficult to use and limited in its functionality. Various departments/projects like
Communications, FasTracks, and the SmartCard system use their own
customer issue tracking/management tools to collect customer data and
feedback that is not integrated. Reporting from TrapezeCOM is also not
conducive to the needs of the District. Customer Care and other departments,
including Legal, are unable to pull reports to view a customer's overall
interaction/relationship with RTD. Also, the current system has no analytics
capabilities, so we are unable to pull reports to understand complaints about
specific routes, lines, stops, etc.

Capital Costs
2018

Capital Costs
2019

Capital Costs
2020

Capital Costs
2021

Capital Costs
2022

Capital Costs
2023

Total Capital
Costs

$ 600,000

$ 500,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 1,100,000

$ 500,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 500,000

$ 250,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 250,000

The recommendation from studies like the SmartCard Business Process Reengineering (SMT BPR) and Fare Systems visioning exercise is that RTD
procure and implement an Enterprise Level CRM system that would meet the
needs of all departments and projects. The first phase (2018) of this project will
be to implement a contact center customer relationship management tool for
servicing customer needs and to replace the TrapezeCOM functionality as a
customer service case management need. The future phases (2019 and
beyond) will be to integrate and implement the service module to other needs
of RTD towards marketing/sales, etc. SaaS (Software as a Service) market
solutions like salesforce.com/Oracle CX/Microsoft Dynamics are top Cloud
CRM leaders. IT management of the CRM product will suffice with one cloud
administrator to administer and manage the cloud subscription and support
implementation.
General Counsel

Enterprise Content
Management

Districtwide

This project will implement a District-wide comprehensive Enterprise Content
Management (ECM) solution to consolidate identified existing systems that
create, capture or store content at RTD to create a single point of access. The
project scope will include the development of policies, procedures, taxonomy
and metadata for the consistent identification, use, maintenance, retrieval,
retention, and destruction of data. The project also will include identification of
personnel and tools required to implement the policies and procedures,
implementation of the system, and the development of training and audit tools
to support the ongoing utilization of the system.
The current project cost estimate beyond the approved scope for IQBG
assumes that RTD will own and maintain the hardware and software in-house.
As part of its scope, IQBG will recommend a path forward for procurement of
ECM tools, which could include externally hosted systems or software-as-aservice (SaaS) systems instead of in-house tools. If a hosted or SaaS system
is selected, the cost structure of the project and future staffing levels will
change.

General Counsel

Law Practice
Management Integrity
Systems

Blake Street Office

The proposed project would allow the Legal Services division (“RTD Law”),
which functions as RTD’s in-house law firm, to come into compliance with its
legal and ethical obligations. There are three components: (1) secure
management and sharing of legal records along with case management of
those legal matters; (2) docketing and calendaring of court-mandated
deadlines; and (3) collection, review and production of electronically stored
information (“ESI”) for purposes of executing and enforcing legal holds and
producing documents in litigation and in response to other requests.

Page: 2

Attachment: Exhibit II-SBP Capital Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department

Packet Pg. 134

12.G.b

EXHIBIT II
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
CAPITAL PROJECTS

Title

Location

Project Description

Oracle ERP Upgrade
and/or Alternative
System

Civic Center Plaza (CCP)

RTD currently is on version 12.1.3 of Oracle E-business suite. This current
version of Oracle E-business suite support will end in 2021. RTD would need
to upgrade to the next version starting 2019 or start looking at alternatives in
2018. Project is to implement the future of business applications such as
finance, HR, procurement, recruitment, and so on. The project will assess the
need to upgrade existing technologies and/or investigate/implement new
technologies for these business functions. The project will analyze the need to
move/segregate the business functions as necessary in order to upgrade
existing application or move to the cloud or SAAS (software as a service)
services. Under the project IT will upgrade the components needed to be
upgraded on premise applications and/or help move functions to the cloud and
build integrations to allow for hybrid implementation between cloud and onpremise.

Capital Costs
2018

Capital Costs
2019

Capital Costs
2020

Capital Costs
2021

Capital Costs
2022

Capital Costs
2023

Total Capital
Costs

$ 3,000,000

$ 3,500,000

$ 3,500,000

$0

$0

$0

$ 10,000,000

$ 300,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 300,000

$ 500,000

$ 500,000

$ 500,000

$ 500,000

$ 500,000

$0

$ 2,500,000

The key focus of this assessment should include at least the following
functions:
1. Human Resources and Payroll - Recruitment, Performance Management,
Learning Management, Core HR (Benefits, Time and Attendance, Self Service,
Manager Self Service), Payroll
2. Procurement - Vendor Management and Vendor Self Service, Contract
Management, Sourcing
3. Finance and Accounting - Financial Accounting, GL, AP, AR, Asset
Accounting, Legal Consolidation, Controlling
4. Project and Grants - Project Accounting, Grants Accounting with Projects
5. Inventory Planning and Forecasting

Safety & Security
Safety, Security &
AM

Qognify VMS Server
Replacements

Districtwide

Request is to replace Video Management Servers that are near sunset phase
and will no longer be covered under the existing maintenance plan. In order to
maintain a good state of repair we would like to remove and replace the
following Qognify VMS Servers. These will be redeployed into less critical
operations at various park and ride facilities.
Recorder Name - Year Put Into Service
Boulder Maint SVR 45568715 2010
AurariaWest SVR 10218857 2011
DUS - BUS 2 SVR 525612576 2012
East Metro SVR 45568716 2010
Garrison SVR 24215170 2011
Louisiana SVR 69117412 2011
Mile High SVR 342159555 2010
OPS Center SVR 207085670 2011
Pepsi SVR 546911430 2011
Treasury SVR 367917927 2011

Safety, Security &
AM

CCTV Retrofit on LRV

Districtwide

This project is requested to replace 189 LRV CCTV recorders and cameras
that have surpassed their useful lives. This retrofit has been designed to match
CCTV systems that are currently specified within the new bus orders for
standardization. These modern systems also provide the ability to remotely
retrieve video from the Security Command Center. In addition, the LRVs are to
be outfitted with forward facing and cab operation cameras to aid in the
investigations of accidents. Forward facing cameras will assist by providing
information as to the status of signals, switches and crossings as vehicles
move along the rail system. This request is to provide funding to complete the
upgrades over a period of 3 years.

Page: 3

Attachment: Exhibit II-SBP Capital Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Information
Technology

Packet Pg. 135

12.G.b

EXHIBIT II
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
CAPITAL PROJECTS

Title

BUS MAINTENANCE FACILITIES
Bus Operations
Engine & Transmission
Dynamometers

Bus Operations

Water Jet Cutter @
District Shops

Location

Project Description

Capital Costs
2018

Capital Costs
2019

Capital Costs
2020

Capital Costs
2021

Capital Costs
2022

Capital Costs
2023

Total Capital
Costs

District Shops - Operations Project is to add a console and upgrade the engine and transmission
Center
dynamometers located in the Unit Shop at District Shops to allow us to rebuild
the engines and transmissions in the buses that were acquired in 2014, 2015
and 2016.

$ 200,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 200,000

District Shops - Operations Project is to purchase and install a water jet cutter in the Body Shop at District
Center
Shops to replace the existing plasma cutter.

$ 200,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 200,000

This project would replace the three (3) oldest Light Rail Operations SCADA
Communication Houses in the Rail System alignment at Mineral, Littleton, &
Alameda and add one (1) new Communication House at Elati Yard to act as a
back-up data center.

$ 440,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 440,000

RAIL MAINTENANCE FACILITIES
Rail Operations
Central Rail Line
SCADA Light Rail
Communication Houses

RAIL TRANSIT & INFRASTRUCTURE
Capital Programs
Blank Out Signs Welton Street

Central Rail Line

Project is to replace existing blank out sign and install additional signs per the
PUC on Welton Street.

$ 1,325,618

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 1,325,618

Rail Operations

Central Rail Line

This project will include all of the downtown track and infrastructure from 7th
Street to 30th and Downing. This alignment is 23 years old and has been in
service since inception. For the most part this infrastructure has reached its
potential lifespan. There are several projects in place to make repairs and
replace the worst of the defects but an overall plan is needed to replace all
track, turnout switches, street crossings, concrete flat work, etc. Please see the
attached report from MOW and SGR, highlighting the condition of the
infrastructure in the area. This is a six year plan. The alignment will be divided
into segments that can be completely refurbished within the span of one
construction season. Our estimates are at a cost of $3,000,000 per year for 6
years.

$ 3,000,000

$ 3,000,000

$ 3,000,000

$ 3,000,000

$ 3,000,000

$ 3,000,000

$ 18,000,000

Downtown Track &
Switches Replacement

Due to rising costs of construction materials and labor we are re-submitting this
request with an increased dollar per year value of $1,000,000 for a total of
$3,000,000 per year.
Capital Programs

Rail Replacement @
Central Corridor

Central Rail Line

The Central Corridor is over 22 years old. For the most part this infrastructure
has reached its potential life span. This repair project will replace existing rail,
switches, concrete flatwork and items associated with the existing rail
alignment which have deteriorated over the past 22 years. The work will be
broken down into zones based on the priority of conditions of the rail and
location. All work will include coordination with City and County of Denver
(CCD), traffic control, and public information (bulletins, radio and TV
announcements).

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 9,000,000

Capital Programs

Burnham Yard Lead
Land Purchase

Central Rail Line

This funding would be used to acquire a 40’ swath of Union Pacific Burnham
Yard property adjacent to the RTD Right-of-Way between 4th Avenue and 13th
Avenue, for a total of 222,982 square feet (5.12 acres). If acquired, the 40’
swath of property would be utilized for additional trackage. This property would
allow for a future 3rd and 4th set of tracks along the Central Corridor. At this
time the two tracks on the Central Corridor are operating at maximum capacity.
Every train in the Central, Southwest, Southeast and CPV uses the Central
Corridor. With additional service tracks we can do heavy maintenance and
increase the capacity of the Central Corridor for future growth. To not purchase
this land and to let it be developed by others will permanently hinder the future
of light rail. This purchases will without doubt make the difference between a
successful rapid transit system and a congested failed light rail system.

$ 6,690,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 6,690,000

Page: 4

Attachment: Exhibit II-SBP Capital Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department

Packet Pg. 136

12.G.b

EXHIBIT II
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
CAPITAL PROJECTS

Title

Location

Project Description

Cab Signaling on LRVs

Districtwide

The proposed Cab Signaling project would enable RTD Light Rail Vehicles
(LRVs) to constantly display, on the dash of the cab, the maximum speed a
train is permitted to operate based on signal indications and track conditions
ahead of the train. The wayside signal logic transmits a 100 hertz pulsed signal
into the rail using 7 unique pulsed rates, each having a different speed limit
associated with it. If an Operator fails to comply to a reduced speed limit zone
and begins braking within a predetermined grace period, the LRV will
automatically apply brakes and come to a complete stop. The project costs are
estimated to provide for new software and hardware for all 172 of our current
LRV fleet and the additional 29 LRVs on order. Additionally the project funds
would provide for new signal software for each of our existing corridors that
currently have Automatic Train Stop (ATS) functionality.

$ 500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$ 1,500,000

$0

$0

$ 5,000,000

Request is to proceed with the Colfax Avenue Transit Priority Project. RTD has
received a Federal Ladders of Opportunity grant to fund a capital project to
reduce travel time and increase security and ridership for 15L bus route. The
project includes: stop amenity improvements (repair and replace existing
amenities, lighting, shelters, security cameras), bus bulbs at a few locations,
transit signal priority (TSP), and bypass lanes/queue jumps. The project
includes East Colfax from Broadway east to Potomac (near I-225). It is
important to note that from Yosemite to Potomac, the project will only include
improved stop amenities.

$ 4,638,103

$ 1,625,000

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 6,263,103

Project is to construct approximately 18 miles of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in
the SH 119 Corridor to connect Boulder and Longmont in accordance with the
recommendation of the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS). It is anticipated
that approximately half of the total costs for this project would be grant-funded.
The establishment of BRT in the corridor would raise ridership from
approximately 1,900 to approximately 5,000 daily weekday riders in 2035.
Detailed cost estimates and design will be established through the upcoming
environmental clearance and preliminary engineering, beginning April 2017.
The project is anticipated to take two years to construct.

$0

$0

$0

$0

$0

$ 60,000,000

$ 60,000,000

$ 150,000

$ 150,000

$ 150,000

$ 150,000

$ 150,000

$ 150,000

$ 900,000

$ 55,691,921

$ 45,951,977

$ 44,526,388

$ 40,904,340

$ 20,522,450

$ 69,886,070

$ 277,483,146

SYSTEMS PLANNING
Planning
15L Route Improvements Colfax - East - ITS

Planning

Bus Rapid Transit @ SH Northwest Rail Line
119

UNALLOCATED CAPITAL
Executive Office
General Manager's
Discretionary Account

Report Totals

Districtwide

Capital Costs
2018

Capital Costs
2019

Capital Costs
2020

Capital Costs
2021

Capital Costs
2022

Capital Costs
2023

Total Capital
Costs

Page: 5

Attachment: Exhibit II-SBP Capital Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Rail Operations

Packet Pg. 137

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Title

SYSTEMS PLANNING
Planning
15L Route
Improvements

TRANSFER STATIONS
Finance &
TVM Replacement Administration
Open Bid

RAIL STATIONS & INFRASTRUCTURE
Rail Operations
Track Rail Grinding

DISTRICT-WIDE
Bus Operations

Location

Project Description

Colfax - East ITS

Request is to proceed with the Colfax Avenue Transit Priority Project. RTD
has received a Federal Ladders of Opportunity grant to fund a capital project
to reduce travel time and increase security and ridership for 15L bus route.
The project includes: stop amenity improvements (repair and replace existing
amenities, lighting, shelters, security cameras), bus bulbs at a few locations,
transit signal priority (TSP), and bypass lanes/queue jumps. The project
includes East Colfax from Broadway east to Potomac (near I-225). It is
important to note that from Yosemite to Potomac, the project will only include
improved stop amenities.

$

Platte Division

Project is replacement of 108 Ticket Vending Machines (TVM) that have
several components that are at the end of life and are no longer supported by
the vendor. The replacement TVMs will be an open bid for machines with the
latest technology. 40 TVMs on the SE corridor need to be replaced in 2018
and 68 TVMs on the SW, Central and West corridors will need to be replaced
in 2023.

$

Districtwide

Project is to grind the track rail to restore the original profile (shape) and to
eliminate the various forms of wear caused by years of service, such as
corrugation, flange wear and flaking.

3 FTEs: 1 Dispatcher & 2 District Shops Operations
Street Supervisors
Center

O&M Costs
2018
-

O&M Costs
2019

O&M Costs
2020

O&M Costs
2021

O&M Costs
2022

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

$

125,000

$

250,000

$

250,000

$

250,000

$

250,000

$

1,125,000

2,245,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

2,064,000

$

4,309,000

$

150,000

$

150,000

$

150,000

$

150,000

$

150,000

$

150,000

$

900,000

Project request is to add three new positions to Street Operations: one (1)
dispatcher and two (2) street supervisors. These positions are all grade EXD.
Estimated cost for each position at mid-point is $63,919 for salaries and
$24,698 for fringes. Annual cost for all three (3) positions totals $265,851 for
salaries and fringes.

$

265,851

$

265,851

$

265,851

$

265,851

$

265,851

$

265,851

$

1,595,106

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

9,000,000

$

100,000

$

$

100,000

$

-

$

300,000

Bus Operations

Cost Increases for
Access-a-Ride Service

Districtwide

This request adds additional funds to the access-a-Ride budget to properly
fund this service.

$

1,500,000

$

Capital Programs

Ped Bridge & Tunnel
Inspections - Biennial

Districtwide

$
Request is for funding of biennial pedestrian bridge and tunnel inspections
throughout the District. Every other year we need to perform these inspections
that increase our funding needs by $100K over the annual allocation in the
operating budget.

100,000

$

-

-

Page: 1

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department

Packet Pg. 138

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Title

Location

Project Description

1 FTE: E3 Management
Analyst II

Districtwide

$
The RTD Continuous Improvement and Innovation Division leads the E3
Innovation program, a "lean process improvement for government" initiative
undertaken in response to employee concerns voiced in the 2015 Employee
Survey. To address the GM Core Goal to “Successfully Deliver Transit
Service” and the Task Goal for “Workforce/Human Capital,” these initiatives
have met with exceptional early success. The E3 program’s aim is to improve
communication and collaboration by addressing employee frustrations through
training in process improvement and continued support from staff to employ
tools that identify and eliminate waste – improving morale and the service we
provide both internal and external customers. After successful 2016 pilot
efforts focused in Platte Bus Maintenance and Customer Care, the division
has developed a two-year work plan with the GM and Senior Leadership to
engage every department. The E3 model deploys in-house management
analysts to train and support employees using process improvement tools to
deliver small innovations and provides facilitation and project management
support for larger issues affecting the agency through Workshops and "Rapid
Improvement Events". To date, these efforts have used consultants as
management analysts supporting a portfolio of over 350 employees trained
and supported in using these tools. Senior Management suggests the
program should continue to educate and support E3 tools to improve the
service we provide each other and the public, becoming “Just the way we do
things at RTD.” To mature the program, it is recommended to transition from
embedded consultant support toward full time staff, saving money over the
cost of external consultant services (approximately 20% additional cost).

85,000

$

85,000

$

85,000

$

85,000

$

85,000

$

85,000

$

510,000

Planning

1 FTE: E3 Management
Analyst III

Districtwide

$
The RTD Continuous Improvement and Innovation Division leads the E3
Innovation program, a "lean process improvement for government" initiative
undertaken in response to employee concerns voiced in the 2015 Employee
Survey. To address the GM Core Goal to “Successfully Deliver Transit
Service” and the Task Goal for “Workforce/Human Capital,” these initiatives
have met with exceptional early success. The E3 program’s aim is to improve
communication and collaboration by addressing employee frustrations through
training in process improvement and continued support from staff to employ
tools that identify and eliminate waste – improving morale and the service we
provide both internal and external customers. After successful 2016 pilot
efforts focused in Platte Bus Maintenance and Customer Care, the division
has developed a two-year work plan with the GM and Senior Leadership to
engage every department. The E3 model deploys in-house management
analysts to train and support employees using process improvement tools to
deliver small innovations and provides facilitation and project management
support for larger issues affecting the agency through Workshops and "Rapid
Improvement Events". To date, these efforts have used consultants as
management analysts supporting a portfolio of over 350 employees trained
and supported in using these tools. Senior Management suggests the
program should continue to educate and support E3 tools to improve the
service we provide each other and the public, becoming “Just the way we do
things at RTD.” To mature the program, it is recommended to transition from
embedded consultant support toward full time staff, saving money over the
cost of external consultant services (approximately 20% additional cost).

95,000

$

95,000

$

95,000

$

95,000

$

95,000

$

95,000

$

570,000

Safety, Security &
AM

Security Officer Contract Districtwide
Award Increase

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

1,500,000

$

9,000,000

This request is for the contract renewal that will take place in 2017 for all
Uniform Security Services performed by the awarded contractor to RTD. This
will be a 3 year contract with 2 option years.

O&M Costs
2018

O&M Costs
2019

O&M Costs
2020

O&M Costs
2021

O&M Costs
2022

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

Page: 2

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Planning

Packet Pg. 139

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Title

Safety, Security &
AM

1 FTE: Safety
Compliance Officer Bus

Location

1 FTE: Safety Manager - Blake Street
Office
Rail

Blake Street
Office

Project Description

O&M Costs
2018

O&M Costs
2019

O&M Costs
2020

O&M Costs
2021

O&M Costs
2022

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

Request is for a new position (1 FTE) to be responsible for safety
management of the RTD Rail transit. Supervises the work of safety technical
staff and contractors, manages all aspects of safety for the RTD including
system safety, occupational safety, and construction safety.

$

118,800

$

118,800

$

118,800

$

118,800

$

118,800

$

118,800

$

712,800

Request is for a new position (1 FTE) to be responsible for system safety,
occupational safety, and construction safety for the organization’s transit
systems, facilities, and properties.

$

106,000

$

106,000

$

106,000

$

106,000

$

106,000

$

106,000

$

636,000

300,000

$

500,000

$

500,000

$

500,000

$

500,000

$

500,000

$

2,800,000

INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY, COMPUTER EQUIPMENT FOR OPERATIONS
$
Communications
Civic Center
TrapezeCOM has been the only customer complaint and commendation
Enterprise Customer
Plaza (CCP)
tracking tool in use for the past 8 years at RTD and most departments find it
Relationship
difficult to use and limited in its functionality. Various departments/projects like
Management System
Communications, FasTracks, and the SmartCard system use their own
(CRM)
customer issue tracking/management tools to collect customer data and
feedback that is not integrated. Reporting from TrapezeCOM is also not
conducive to the needs of the District. Customer Care and other departments,
including Legal, are unable to pull reports to view a customer's overall
interaction/relationship with RTD. Also, the current system has no analytics
capabilities, so we are unable to pull reports to understand complaints about
specific routes, lines, stops, etc.
The recommendation from studies like the SmartCard Business Process Reengineering (SMT BPR) and Fare Systems visioning exercise is that RTD
procure and implement an Enterprise Level CRM system that would meet the
needs of all departments and projects. The first phase (2018) of this project
will be to implement a contact center customer relationship management tool
for servicing customer needs and to replace the TrapezeCOM functionality as
a customer service case management need. The future phases (2019 and
beyond) will be to integrate and implement the service module to other needs
of RTD towards marketing/sales, etc.
SaaS (Software as a Service) market solutions like salesforce.com/Oracle
CX/Microsoft Dynamics are top Cloud CRM leaders. IT management of the
CRM product will suffice with one cloud administrator to administer and
manage the cloud subscription and support implementation.

Page: 3

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Safety, Security &
AM

Packet Pg. 140

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Title

Location

Project Description

Rider Alert System

Blake Street
Office

This project was approved in the 2017 SBP. After further analysis, it has been
determined that the project will require $225,000 in Operating and
Maintenance Costs rather than the approved $75,000 in on-going Operating
and Maintenance. The additional funds are necessary because the cost of the
product is higher than we originally scoped. In addition, it has come to light
that there is a need for a new email service and text messaging provider in
order to send out the customized, targeted messages to riders. We are
resubmitting this request to ask for additional Operating and Maintenance
funds to maintain and build upon the product going forward.

O&M Costs
2018

O&M Costs
2019

O&M Costs
2020

O&M Costs
2021

O&M Costs
2022

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

$

-

$

225,000

$

225,000

$

225,000

$

225,000

$

225,000

$

1,125,000

$

-

$

50,000

$

50,000

$

50,000

$

50,000

$

50,000

$

250,000

615,000

$

801,500

$

833,000

$

633,000

$

383,000

$

383,000

$

3,648,500

Communications is looking to implement a Rider Alert System in order to
communicate up-to-the-minute service alerts for our riders in timely manner.
The system will include a web-based interface that allows staff to create and
manage the thousands of service alerts that are sent out each year. The
Alerts System will be intuitive and fast to use, allowing simple alerts to be
created in seconds. At the same time, the system will offer fine grained control
over selecting the specific route, branch, trip, or stop an alert applies to, when
an alert is in effect, and by what channels (like emails, text messages,
electronic signs, agency website, General Transit Feed Specification real-time
feeds and third party apps) the alerts should be disseminated. The system will
use templates to automatically generate appropriate messages for all the
dissemination channels. This alert system will aid RTD in answering the one
question every rider wants to know: Where is my bus? This alert system
coupled with real-time information delivery will allow RTD to notify passengers
quickly and preemptively, leading to greater customer satisfaction.

General Counsel

Law Practice
Management Integrity
Systems

Blake Street
Office

The proposed project would allow the Legal Services division (“RTD Law”),
which functions as RTD’s in-house law firm, to come into compliance with its
legal and ethical obligations. There are three components: (1) secure
management and sharing of legal records along with case management of
those legal matters; (2) docketing and calendaring of court-mandated
deadlines; and (3) collection, review and production of electronically stored
information (“ESI”) for purposes of executing and enforcing legal holds and
producing documents in litigation and in response to other requests.

General Counsel

Enterprise Content
Management

Districtwide

$
This project will implement a District-wide comprehensive Enterprise Content
Management (ECM) solution to consolidate identified existing systems that
create, capture or store content at RTD to create a single point of access. The
project scope will include the development of policies, procedures, taxonomy
and metadata for the consistent identification, use, maintenance, retrieval,
retention, and destruction of data. The project also will include identification of
personnel and tools required to implement the policies and procedures,
implementation of the system, and the development of training and audit tools
to support the ongoing utilization of the system.

The current project cost estimate beyond the approved scope for IQBG
assumes that RTD will own and maintain the hardware and software in-house.
As part of its scope, IQBG will recommend a path forward for procurement of
ECM tools, which could include externally hosted systems or software-as-aservice (SaaS) systems instead of in-house tools. If a hosted or SaaS system
is selected, the cost structure of the project and future staffing levels will
change.

Page: 4

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Communications

Packet Pg. 141

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Title

Location

Project Description

Oracle ERP Upgrade
and/or Alternative
System

Civic Center
Plaza (CCP)

RTD currently is on version 12.1.3 of Oracle E-business suite. This current
version of Oracle E-business suite support will end in 2021. RTD would need
to upgrade to the next version starting 2019 or start looking at alternatives in
2018. Project is to implement the future of business applications such as
finance, HR, procurement, recruitment, and so on. The project will assess the
need to upgrade existing technologies and/or investigate/implement new
technologies for these business functions. The project will analyze the need to
move/segregate the business functions as necessary in order to upgrade
existing application or move to the cloud or SAAS (software as a service)
services. Under the project IT will upgrade the components needed to be
upgraded on premise applications and/or help move functions to the cloud
and build integrations to allow for hybrid implementation between cloud and
on-premise.

O&M Costs
2018
$

O&M Costs
2019

O&M Costs
2020

-

$

-

$

1,000,000

O&M Costs
2021
$

1,000,000

O&M Costs
2022
$

1,000,000

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

$

1,000,000

$

4,000,000

The key focus of this assessment should include at least the following
functions:
1. Human Resources and Payroll - Recruitment, Performance Management,
Learning Management, Core HR (Benefits, Time and Attendance, Self
Service, Manager Self Service), Payroll
2. Procurement - Vendor Management and Vendor Self Service, Contract
Management, Sourcing
3. Finance and Accounting - Financial Accounting, GL, AP, AR, Asset
Accounting, Legal Consolidation, Controlling
4. Project and Grants - Project Accounting, Grants Accounting with Projects
5. Inventory Planning and Forecasting
Information
Technology

Smart Media Technology Blake Street
Office
- Administrative Portal
Enhancements

$
This work is for enhancements to the SmartCard Administrative Portal.
SmartCard Program team stakeholders have identified over 150 requirements.
Functional requirements elicitation continues in 2017 with teams ready to
design and implement the enhanced SmartCard Administrative Portal in Q1Q2/2018. This team plans to work in conjunction with the Pass Program
Working Group as needed.

300,000

$

300,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

600,000

Information
Technology

Smart Media Technology District Shops Operations
- Off-Site Hosting
Center

Request is the on-going expenses and expansion for going live with the
Administrative Portal for hosting of SMT program.

$

530,000

$

380,000

$

380,000

$

380,000

$

380,000

$

380,000

$

2,430,000

BUS MAINTENANCE FACILITIES
Capital Programs
District Shops In-Ground Hoists
Replacement in Bays T-1 Operations
& T-2 @ District Shops Center

Request is to replace in-ground hoists in bays T-1 and T-2 at District Shops.
Replacement consists of a three post hoist and one table hoist

$

-

$

-

$

380,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

380,000

Capital Programs

-

$

205,600

$

$

-

$

2,775,600

2,612,352

$

-

$

-

$

3,936,652

$

-

$

-

$

320,000

$

-

$

-

$

6,427,144

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Steel Inspection Pits
Replacement @ East
Metro
Roof Replacement @
Platte

East Metro
Division

Project will replace/rebuild the existing inspection pits at East Metro.

$

-

$

-

$

Platte Division

Project is to replace the roof at the Platte Facility. Year 1: design the roof
replacement. Year 2: replace the roof over the maintenance repair area and
the transportation/drivers end. Year 3: replace the roof over the bus storage
garage.

$

-

$

20,000

$

1,304,300

$

In-Ground Lifts (6)
Replacement @ District
Shops
Roof Replacement @
East Metro

District Shops Operations
Center
East Metro
Division

Project is to replace 6 in-ground lifts thoughout the District Shops Operations
Center, including support vehicles and chassis wash areas.

$

-

$

-

$

320,000

$

Project is roof replacement at the East Metro facility.

$

-

$

-

$

35,000

$

-

6,392,144

2,570,000

Page: 5

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Information
Technology

Packet Pg. 142

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

Title

Location

Project Description

Underground Tank
Replacements @ East
Metro
RTU 03 Replacement @
District Shops

East Metro
Division

Project is to replace the underground tanks at East Metro.

$

822,400

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

822,400

District Shops Operations
Center
Platte Division

Request is to replace RTU 03 in the Operations Center at District Shops.

$

300,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

300,000

Particulate Sensors
Replacement with CO
NO2 Sensors @ Platte
Platte Division
Exhaust Fans (13)
Replacement
Maintenance End @
Platte
Platte Division
Infrared Heater
Replacements in Fueling
Lanes @ Platte

Project is to replace existing particulate sensors with CO NO2 sensors to
monitor air quality and activate ventilation systems at Platte facility.

$

-

$

200,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

200,000

Project is to replace thirteen (13) exhaust fans at the maintenance end at the
Platte facility.

$

-

$

9,000

$

90,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

99,000

Project is to replace the infrared heaters in the fueling lanes at the Platte
facility.

$

24,672

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

24,672

Platte Division
Makeup Air Units
(MAUs) (4) Replacement
@ Platte
Platte Division
HVEC Unit
Replacements @ Platte

Project is to replace four (4) makeup air units MAU-9, 10, 11, 12 serving the
bus storage area at the Platte facility.

$

10,280

$

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

1,038,280

Request is to replace the HVEC units at the Platte facility.

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

30,000

$

$

-

$

3,030,000

700,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

$

-

$

700,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

$

-

$

1,644,800

$

822,400

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

822,400

Overhead LRT Doors
(20) Replacement @
Elati
Bus Wash Replacement
@ East Metro

O&M Costs
2018

Elati Light Rail
Division

The overhead doors for LRT at the Elati facility are in need of replacement and $
are getting deformed due to usage and age.

East Metro
Division

Project is to replace the bus wash at East Metro.

O&M Costs
2019

1,028,000

O&M Costs
2020

O&M Costs
2021

O&M Costs
2022

3,000,000

-

1,644,800

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

Capital Programs

Boulder Division Project is to replace bus wash systems and upgrade existing wash system
Bus Wash Two Lanes
infrastructure at the Boulder facility.
Replacement @ Boulder

Capital Programs

Air Handling Unit
Replacement (4) @
District Shops
Overhead Sectional
Doors (34) Replacement
@ District Shops

District Shops Operations
Center
District Shops Operations
Center

Project is to replace four (4) air handling units AHU-201, 301, 401 and 501 at
District Shops.

$

495,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

495,000

Request is replacement of 27 large and 7 small overhead sectional doors at
District Shops.

$

-

$

-

$

500,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

500,000

Roof Top Furnaces for
the Paint Booths @
District Shops

District Shops Operations
Center

Request is to replace the three (3) roof top furnaces for the paint booths at
District Shops.

$

-

$

175,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

175,000

This project consists of removing and replacing the Blake building's heating
water boiler. This project was identified as far back as 2013 as part of the
Facilities Maintenance needs assessment due to the age and inefficiency of
the boiler.

$

500,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

500,000

Reallocate existing headcount to provide in-house staff support of Base
System activities within the Capital Programs Department, including
Engineering, Systems Engineering and Construction, and Budget/Project
Controls functions.

$

1,265,827

$

$

1,265,827

$

7,594,962

Capital Programs

Capital Programs

ADMINISTRATION & ADMINISTRATIVE FACILITIES
Capital Programs
Blake Street
Boiler Replacement @
Office
Blake

Capital Programs

Staff Reallocation Capital Programs

Civic Center
Plaza (CCP)

1,265,827

$

1,265,827

$

1,265,827

$

1,265,827

Page: 6

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Capital Programs

Packet Pg. 143

12.G.c

EXHIBIT III
Regional Transportation District
2018-2023 Strategic Budget Plan
OPERATING AND MAINTENANCE PROJECTS

Title

Location

Contracted Services for Blake Street
Office
IT Audit

Project Description

O&M Costs
2018

O&M Costs
2019

O&M Costs
2020

O&M Costs
2021

O&M Costs
2022

O&M Costs
2023

Total O&M
Costs

$

100,000

$

100,000

$

100,000

$

100,000

$

100,000

$

100,000

$

600,000

APTA has chosen RTD to host the International APTA Conference and Rodeo $
in 2018. The District will need to provide significant support from Marketing,
SLT and Facilities, as well as hotel accommodations, numerous bus shuttles,
tours, events, signage, publications, scheduling; and hold the Rail Rodeo
events for Transportation and Maintenance. This event will take up two weeks
and will require planning from 2017 through the conference date in June of
2018. This event will happen regardless of any outside or internal influences
and must be supported financially.

400,000

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

400,000

In an age where organizations across markets and industries depend heavily
on technology to operate successfully, the IT Auditor plays an increasingly
important role in helping to manage and respond to risks. Information
Technology (IT) Audit was introduced in 2015 to ensure that RTD was
prepared for the current global scenario of Information Technology.
IT Audit was introduced with Board of Directors support, but the resources that
accommodate the successful introduction and ensure efficient and effective
work are still needed. This request will ensure that RTD Audit has the
resources needed to provide assurance on the protection of assets, data
integrity, system reliability and information security as required by the Board of
Directors.

Rail Operations

Report Totals

International APTA
Conference & Rodeo

Elati Light Rail
Division

$ 13,351,230

$ 8,999,978

$ 11,153,778

$ 17,464,574

$ 15,289,278

$ 10,038,478

$ 76,297,316

Page: 7

Attachment: Exhibit III-SBP O&M Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Requesting
Department
Executive Office

Packet Pg. 144

12.G.d

EXHIBIT IV
2018-2023 SBP
Deferred Projects
Capital Projects

Total Capital Projects

Page 1

$

5,000,000
5,500,000
650,000
125,000
220,000
350,000
85,000
10,000,000
100,000
50,786,000
10,510,000
1,600,000
450,000
44,500,000
2,490,000
1,000,000
1,940,000
9,700,000
4,850,000
450,000
2,250,000
2,100,000
1,820,000
450,000
115,000
130,000
2,020,000
300,000
250,000
2,600,000
210,000
1,050,000
20,000
150,000
3,250,000
350,000
3,098,500
3,000,000
120,000
150,000
700,000
82,240
2,350,000
850,000
60,000
5,850,000
200,000
50,000
479,480
10,150,000
$ 194,511,220

Attachment: Exhibit IV-Deferred Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Heavy Equipment for LR Maintenance
Security Command Center - University Project
Local Government Capital Requests
Mobile Routers on Light Rail Vehicles
Motorola MCC7500 Elite Radio Consoles
Parallelogram Hoist in Support Vehicles Area @ District Shops
Currency Counter/Sorter/Strapper
Power Switching on Emergency Crossovers
Radio Equipment for Armed Security Officers
115re New Rail and Components for New Track - Burnham Yard Lead
Redevelopment of Weston Property
Burnham Yard Environmental Clean-Up
Vehicles (12) for RTD Police & Viedeo Investigation Unit
Smart Media Technology - Next Generation Electronic Fare Payment System
Transfer Center - Hampden & Federal
HSMR iPhone Replacements
Oracle Engineered Systems End of Life Replacement
Central Loop Extension - 14th & Stout Pocket Track
US36/Broomfield PnR - North Side
Transit Police Vehicles
LRV Communication Retrofit
Information Storage Unit Replacement
Mezzanine Addition (2nd Floor) for Operator Training @ Elati
Navajo Z Warehouse Upgrade
Scanners (4) Replacement for Accounts Payable
Electrical Panel on South End @ District Shops
Oracle Hardware Engineered Systems End of Life Replacement
CDL Training and Testing Lot @ Quail Yard
Secondary Operations Control Center (Rail) Back-Up Area
Drivers Training Facility (New) @ Weston Property
Large Frame Straightening Table @ District Shops
Traveler Information Systems (Real-Time) Development Support + 1 FTE
Open Street Maps Implementation for Public Information
Bike Parking and Accessibility Plan Implementation
North Boulder PnR and Bus Transfer Center
Open Trip Planner (OTP) Phase 2 Implementation
DVR Replacement on 2005-2008 Buses
Mineral Overflow Parking Improvements
Labor Relations Software
Web Content Management System Enhancements
Budget Module Upgrade
High Speed Roll Up Door Replacements @ East Metro
Park-n-Ride (New) - North Longmont
Pinery PnR
HVAC Equipment and Roof Replacement in Bldg Z @ District Shops
Facilities Maintenance Facility (New) @ Weston Property
Learning & Innovation Center
Format Plotters (2) Replacement @ CCP
Station Removal @ 29th & Welton
Park-n-Ride (New) - I-25 & 144th Ave.

Packet Pg. 145

12.G.d

EXHIBIT IV
2018-2023 SBP
Deferred Projects

Security Command Center - University Project
System Optimization Plan
Mobile Routers on Light Rail Vehicles
Transit Plaza Upgrades @ Thornton PnR
Corporate Rebranding, Imaging, and Education
Motorola MCC7500 Elite Radio Consoles
Mobile Ticketing (Operational Expenses)
Web Content Management System Enhancements
Currency Counter/Sorter/Strapper
Stray Current Mitigation Measures
Stray Current Recommendations and Design Efforts
Canopy Gutter @ DUS
115re New Rail and Components for New Track - Burnham Yard Lead
Brake Hoist Replacement @ East Metro
UNCC Memberships
Armed Security Officers - Light Rail (adj 1/2 to FT)
LRV Maintenance Facility @ I-225 (R) Rail Line
1 FTE: Analyst, Criminal Data Technician
Highblock Replacement @ Southwest Corridor
Boulder Operating Facility Study
3 FTEs: Public Safety Dispatchers
SCADA Programming
Highblock Replacement @ Central Corridor - 20th & Welton to 30th & Downing
Concrete and ADA Tactile Replacement @ Southeast Corridor
2 FTEs: Transit Police Officers
Fire Control System Replacement @ District Shops
Transfer Center - Hampden & Federal
Concrete and ADA Tactile Replacement @ Southwest Corridor
Dry Fire Sprinkler System Piping Replacement @ Platte
Building Electrical System Evaluation @ East Metro
Fire Protection Upgrades – Alarm Panel @ Platte
Pedestrian Bridge Maintenance & Repair @ Mineral PnR
Central Loop Extension - 14th & Stout Pocket Track
Train Hoist Rams (16) in Service Pits @ Mariposa
1 FTE: Security Systems Software Specialist
Elevators (3) Replacement @ District Shops
Smart Media Technology - Project Staffing for Replacement System
1 FTE: Safety Data Analyst
LRV Communication Retrofit
1 FTE: Security Systems Technician
Information Storage Unit Replacement
Mezzanine Addition (2nd Floor) for Operator Training @ Elati
Whole Building Electrical Study @ District Shops
Cybersecurity Assessment, Mitigation, and Monitoring Services and Equipment
CDL Training Course @ Weston Property
Scanners (4) Replacement for Accounts Payable
1 FTE: Union Accounting Clerk
Electrical Switch Gear Upgrade & Capacity Increase @ Boulder
Oracle Hardware Engineered Systems End of Life Replacement
Metal Roof Repairs @ Platte
CDL Training and Testing Lot @ Quail Yard
Wall Coating and Lighting Upgrades in the Chassis Wash @ East Metro
Overhead Product Reels @ East Metro
Wayside Track Lubricators
Fiber Optic Cable As-Built Documentation
Systems Engineering Standard Drawings
Building Automation Upgrade @ Boulder
E3 Innovation - Embedded Consultant Support
Traveler Information Systems (Real-Time) Development Support + 1 FTE

Page 2

$

480,000
2,600,000
85,000
40,000
3,600,000
10,000
1,605,000
375,000
9,500
750,000
300,000
20,000
300,000
308,400
268,600
10,140,000
600,000
510,000
1,890,800
400,000
1,230,000
3,000,000
2,142,800
2,052,400
1,020,000
1,100,000
240,000
1,026,200
472,880
25,700
620,000
100,000
100,000
265,000
840,000
410,000
1,215,000
712,800
250,000
600,000
400,000
75,000
25,000
6,350,000
975,000
30,000
282,300
411,200
570,000
40,000
60,000
32,896
311,544
600,000
520,000
300,000
565,400
350,000
2,630,000

Attachment: Exhibit IV-Deferred Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Expense Projects

Packet Pg. 146

12.G.d

EXHIBIT IV
2018-2023 SBP

Open Street Maps Implementation for Public Information
Smart Media Technology - Enhancements (Sales Devices, High Speed Card Encoder)
Biennial All Employee Survey
1 FTE: TOD Associate Position
Bike Parking and Accessibility Plan Implementation
North Boulder PnR and Bus Transfer Center
Exterior Wall Panel Caulking Replacement @ East Metro
Office Conversion of Battery Storage Room @ East Metro
Mineral Overflow Parking Improvements
Labor Relations Software
2 FTEs: Convert Part-Time to Full-Time
Managed Services Contract Tier1/Tier2 Support for Oracle Platform (Prior Year)
Remodel Quiet Room in Operations @ Boulder
2 FTEs: Digital Communications Expansion
Wheel Set Turntable in Wash Bay Removal @ Elati
E3 Innovation - Program Support
Fuel Pumps Upgrade @ District Shops
1 FTE: Information Security Analyst
Restrooms Remodel @ Blake
Budget Module Upgrade
1 FTE: Revenue Analyst
Snow & De-Icer Containment Walls and Slab @ Weston Property
Hoist Reploacement in Small Engine Bay @ District Shops
Park-n-Ride (New) - North Longmont
Site Drainage Improvement - SW Corner @ Zee Building
Site Drainage Improvement at Loading Dock @ Mariposa
Entrance Gates Replacement @ Platte
Remodel Restrooms, New Carpet, Install Windows in Bldg Z @ District Shops
Demolish 3 Buildings @ Weston Property
Air Curtains at Bus Entry and Exit Doors @ East Metro
Parking Expansion for Mariposa, Zee, and Navajo Facilities
Rio Court Miscellaneous Modifications
Boilers Conversion from 2 Pass to 4 Pass @ East Metro
Remodel TIC Area @ District Shops
Canvas Wash Bay Doors (4) Replacement in Car Wash @ District Shops
Remodel Lockers, Partitions and Restrooms for Mechanics End @ Boulder
HVAC Units Replacement @ SCC Facility
Fare Data Availability: Trip Planners and Bus Operators
Restrooms Remodel 1st & 2nd Floor Operations @ Boulder
LED Replacement of Explosion Proof Lights @ District Shops
Roll-Up Doors (3) Replacement in Landscape Building @ District Shops
Facilities Maintenance Shop Expansion @ Elati
Learning & Innovation Center
Sponsorship and Naming Rights Commission Payments – Univ of Colo A Line
Drivers Lounge & Restrooms Upgrade @ Boulder
1 FTE: Marketing / Events Coordinator
Split Systems AC Systems (3) Replacement @ Blake
HVAC 601 Replacement in Upholstery Shop @ District Shops
Office Remodel - First Floor @ Mariposa
Carpet Replacement in Operations Administration Area @ Boulder
Yellow Tile Re-Install @ DUS South Entry
Domestic Hot Water Boiler Replacement @ District Shops
On-Vehicle Advertising Repairs
Art-n-Transit Public Outreach and Events
Breakroom/Copy Room Upgrades @ Blake
Park-n-Ride (New) - I-25 & 144th Ave.
Supervisors Office Remodel @ Boulder
Landscaping of North Berm @ Boulder

Total Expense Projects

Page 3

210,000
780,000
180,000
470,000
150,000
90,000
82,240
154,200
240,000
120,000
134,598
2,100,000
51,400
1,366,800
26,500
200,000
60,000
720,000
70,000
795,000
540,000
80,000
50,000
144,000
263,000
168,000
50,000
60,000
75,000
77,100
336,000
226,000
154,200
581,000
121,000
308,400
263,000
225,000
257,000
240,000
100,000
615,000
5,328,000
735,088
51,400
486,888
120,000
40,000
136,000
41,200
35,000
330,000
305,000
60,000
30,000
390,000
360,000
25,000
$ 77,651,434

Attachment: Exhibit IV-Deferred Projects (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

Deferred Projects

Packet Pg. 147

12.G.e

220,000

SBP Capital Projects
$000s

200,000
180,000
160,000
140,000
120,000
100,000
2016-2021
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
0

2017-2022
2018-2023

Attachment: Exhibit V-Capital Projects by Type (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual

EXHIBIT V

Packet Pg. 148

12.G.f

SBP Operating & Maintenance Projects
$000s
40,000

35,000

30,000

25,000

20,000
2016-2021
15,000

2017-2022
2018-2023

10,000

5,000

0

Attachment: Exhibit VI-O&M Projects by Type (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual

EXHIBIT VI

Packet Pg. 149

12.G.g

2017 Annual Program Evaluation
FasTracks Program Costs Through 2020
(millions of dollars)
Project

Total Project Budget
$314.2
$2,286.5
$678.2
$836.9
$28.0
$677.1
$24.0
$232.4
$11.7
$190.1
$17.2
$12.6
$297.1
$5,605.9

Denver Union Station
Eagle Project
West Corridor
North Metro
Northwest Rail
I‐225
Southwest Extension
Southeast Extension*
Central Extension
US 36 BRT
Light Rail Maintenance Facility
Free MetroRide
Misc. Projects
Total Program

* Additional $0.7M to be spent after 2020 on an FTA‐required study.

Attachment: Exhibit VII-2017 APE Project Costs (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

EXHIBIT VII

Page 1
Packet Pg. 150

12.G.g

2017 Annual Program Evaluation
FasTracks Miscellaneous Project Costs Through 2020
(millions of dollars)
Project
Southeast/Southwest/Central/CPV Corridor Projects
Programwide Railroad ROW
Communication Systems Upgrade
Northeast Area Transit Study
Light Rail Storage Tracks
Peoria Interface Coordination
Additional Light Rail Vehicles
Programwide Capital Expenditures
Environmental Mitigation Contingency
Railroad Compliance Contingency
Total Miscellaneous Projects

Total Project Budget
$71.5
$80.8
$5.7
$0.2
$12.1
$1.0
$7.8
$116.5
$1.0
$0.5
$297.1

Attachment: Exhibit VII-2017 APE Project Costs (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

EXHIBIT VII

Page 2
Packet Pg. 151

12.G.g

2017 Annual Program Evaluation
FasTracks Project Cost Changes Through 2020
(millions of dollars)
Project

Cost Increases

North Metro
Current Scope to Complete
Mobilization for Corridor Operations ‐ Capital
Mobilization for Corridor Operations ‐ Other
I‐225
Free Metro Ride
Miscellaneous Projects

Net Program Cost Increase Through 2020

Cost Savings

$52.7
$19.9
$12.8

$5.4

$73.2

$15.0
$1.8
$0.7

Attachment: Exhibit VII-2017 APE Project Costs (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

EXHIBIT VII

Page 3
Packet Pg. 152

Regional Transportation District
2017 Annual Program Evaluation Cash Flow
2017-2023 (Rounded Millions)
FINAL
Forecast
2017
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

Revenue and Other Sources of Funds
Fare Revenue
Sales and Use Tax
Grant Revenue
Local and Third Party Contributions
Other Income
Bond Proceeds
Base System Funding to FasTracks
Revenue and Other Sources of Funds

9
10
11
12

Operating Expenses Excluding Depreciation
Corridor Operating Expenses
FT Rubber Tire Service Increase
FT Expense Projects
Total Operating Expenses

13
14
15

Capital Expenditures
Initial Expenditures
Post-Opening Capital Expenditures
Total Capital Expenditures

16

$

$

$

26.4
238.8
246.1
88.2
14.3
17.3
630.9

2018
$

$

2019

31.6
250.5
60.6
28.1
14.9
385.5

$

$

2020

41.2
259.3
0.9
15.4
316.7

$

$

2021

44.3
266.7
15.9
326.9

$

$

2022

46.0
274.4
0.3
14.5
335.2

$

$

2018-2023
Total

2023

52.3
285.4
4.5
15.0
357.2

$

$

54.0
297.1
4.7
13.7
369.5

$

$

269.3
1,633.4
70.9
28.1
89.3
2,091.0

(80.4) $
(17.9)
(42.9)
(141.1) $

(105.9) $
(18.4)
(9.3)
(133.5) $

(148.4) $
(18.9)
(7.4)
(174.7) $

(166.2) $
(19.5)
(5.7)
(191.4) $

(153.0) $
(20.0)
(4.1)
(177.1) $

(157.7) $
(20.5)
(4.2)
(182.5) $

(165.7) $
(21.1)
(4.4)
(191.1) $

(896.8)
(118.3)
(35.1)
(1,050.1)

$

(618.8) $
(618.8) $

(159.5) $
(159.5) $

(33.6) $
(10.3)
(43.9) $

(1.1) $
(0.7)
(1.8) $

(0.7) $
(3.5)
(4.2) $

$
(5.4)
(5.4) $

$
(5.6)
(5.6) $

(194.9)
(25.4)
(220.4)

Debt Service and Lease Payments

$

(170.7) $

(158.6) $

(168.3) $

(176.0) $

(188.1) $

(186.6) $

(220.0) $

(1,097.5)

17

Change in Net Assets / Income

$

(299.7) $

(66.0) $

(70.2) $

(42.2) $

(34.2) $

(17.2) $

(47.1) $

(276.9)

18
19
20
21
22
23
24

Use of / (Increase to) Funds
Board Appropriated/Capital Replacement/Operating Reserves
TABOR Reserve
Prior Year Financing Proceeds
Other Restricted Reserves
FasTracks Management Reserve
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Total Funds Change

$

$

(16.9) $
(1.2)
295.9
12.8
2.9
293.6 $

(4.0) $
(0.5)
47.8
9.1
(26.5)
25.9 $

(11.0) $
(0.6)
9.8
(13.3)
(15.1) $

(4.0) $
(0.3)
(15.3)
(19.7) $

18.1 $
(0.2)
3.6
21.4 $

(0.7) $
(0.5)
(0.0)
18.4
17.2 $

(1.3) $
(0.4)
(3.3)
52.1
47.1 $

(2.9)
(2.6)
47.8
15.6
18.9
76.8

25

Increase / (Decrease) Fund Balance

$

(6.1) $

(40.1) $

(85.3) $

(61.9) $

(12.8) $

(0.0) $

-

$

(200.1)

26
27

Unrestricted Fund Balance
Beginning Balance
Year-End Balance / (Deficit)

$

202.1
162.0

162.0
76.7

76.7
14.8

14.8
2.0

2.0
2.0

2.0
2.0

$

202.1
2.0

28
29
30
31
32
33

Cumulative Fund Balances at Year-End - Restricted
Board Appropriated/Capital Replacement/Operating Reserves
TABOR Reserve
Prior Year Financing Proceeds
Other Restricted Reserves
FasTracks Management Reserve
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)

$

$

$

208.2
202.1

29.3
8.4
47.8
90.7
15.9
40.6

$

$

33.3
8.9
81.6
15.9
67.1

$

$

44.3
9.5
71.8
15.9
80.4

$

$

48.3
9.8
71.8
15.9
95.8

$

$

30.2
10.1
71.8
15.9
92.2

$

$

30.8
10.6
71.8
15.9
73.8

$

$

32.2
11.0
75.1
15.9
21.7

$

32.2
11.0
75.1
15.9
21.7

Attachment: Exhibit VIII-2017 APE Cash Flow (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual

12.G.h

EXHIBIT VIII

Packet Pg. 153

Attachment: Title VI Guideline-SBP Attachment (3288 : Adoption of the Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Program Evaluation)

12.G.i

Packet Pg. 154

12.H

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

October 12, 2017

Subject:

Adoption of the Long Range Financial Plan

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 12, 2017
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
adopts the Long Range Financial Plan.
This action item meets the General Manager’s goals of Fiscal Sustainability by effecting current and
long-range budgeting in a timely manner.
BACKGROUND
The RTD Long Range Financial Plan serves as an extension of the six-year Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
and Annual Program Evaluation (APE) through the regional planning time horizon, which is currently
2040. This plan is submitted to the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) for inclusion in
the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP), and projects must be included in order to receive federal funding.
RTD’s lenders also utilize the plan to ensure that RTD has the financial capacity to repay its debt.
DISCUSSION
The Long Range Financial Plan focuses on ensuring that RTD can fund the ongoing operation and
maintenance of the Base System and the FasTracks corridors while repaying its debt obligations. Key
elements of the plan for the years 2024-2040 include the following:






Base System Operations and Capital Replacement
o Continued operating costs based on the final year of the SBP, escalated at the
Consumer Price Index (CPI)
o Annual allowance for major rehabilitation assumed based on 0.5% of installed cost of
existing asset inventory, escalated at CPI
o Additional service for the SH 119 project at its completion
o Replacement of revenue fleet and other assets based on current asset inventory and
replacement schedules, adjusted for major assets purchased in the SBP period
o Replacement of a maintenance facility in 2026 to meet projected capacity needs
FasTracks Operations and Capital Maintenance
o Cost allocations from the Base System based on the final year of the SBP, escalated at
the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
o FasTracks-funded rubber tire service increase based on the final year of the SBP,
escalated at the Consumer Price Index (CPI)
o Eagle operating and maintenance costs derived from the Concession Agreement
o North Metro operations and maintenance costs based on RTD operations, escalated at
CPI
o Annual allowance for major rehabilitation of corridors outside the Eagle Project
assumed based on 0.3% of installed asset value, escalated at CPI
Revenue Projections
o Sales and use tax forecasts from the September 2017 Leeds forecasts

Packet Pg. 155

12.H

Farebox revenues forecast using the fare model used for the SBP
 Fare increases tied to the CPI assumed every third year
o Future formula grants forecast based on historic appropriations, escalated at CPI
 Additional fixed guideway grants assumed for FasTracks corridors beginning
nine years after corridors enter revenue service
FasTracks corridor construction
o Additional projects to meet commitments included in the environmental clearances for
federally-funded corridors
o



Exhibit I shows the projected cash flow for the Base System and FasTracks by 5-6 year increments
through the year 2040, including the current projections from the SBP and the APE. The plan shows
positive fund balances on both the base system and FasTracks in every year through 2040.







Need to take a total of $166.2 million from the base system in 2024-2030 to fund FasTracks
expenditures
Need to issue COPs to finance selected Base System capital expenditures in 2026-2028
o Bus maintenance facility in 2026:
o Bus purchases in 2027-2028:
Need to issue COPs to finance FasTracks vehicle replacements and US 36 construction in 2027
and 2030
Reduce combined Board appropriated and operating reserves on Base System to equivalent of one
months of operating expenses in 2024; restore to two months’ operating expenses by 2031
Reduce combined Board appropriated and operating reserves on FasTracks to equivalent of one
months of operating expenses in 2024; restore to two months’ operating expenses in 2031
Use remaining FISA balance to fund FasTracks operations and maintenance in 2024
o Restore FISA balances starting in 2031, as funding becomes available

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The recommended Long Range Financial Plan provides RTD with the means to maintain its current
system in a state of good repair through 2040. Between 2024 and 2030, RTD would not have the
capacity for service expansion or new projects beyond those needed for state of good repair.
Beginning in 2031, positive fund balances begin to accumulate on the Base System and in the restored
FISA. Funding from the FISA would be used to fund the remaining unfunded FasTracks corridors, which
have not been prioritized.
Key financial indicators for the Long Range Financial Plan are:
(in millions $)
Base System
Unrestricted Period-End Fund Balance
Combined Period-End Balance: Board
Appropriated / Capital Replacement / Operating
Reserves
COP Proceeds
Base System Funding to FasTracks
FasTracks
Unrestricted Period-End Fund Balance
Combined Period-End Balance: Board
Appropriated / Capital Replacement / Operating
Reserves
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)

2024-2030

2031-2035

2036-2040

$6.2

$289.7

$531.2

$88.9

$139.8

$169.0

$261.3
$166.8

$0.0
$0.0

$0.0
$0.0

$2.0

$2.0

$2.0

$25.1

$59.3

$68.0

$0.0

$153.6

$327.6

Packet Pg. 156

12.H
Balance – Period-End
COP Proceeds

$68.1

$0.0

$0.0

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the Long Range Financial Plan.
2. Adoption of the Long Range Financial Plan with changes from the current recommendation.
This is not the recommended action.
3. Defer the adoption of Long Range Financial Plan to a later date.
recommendation action.

This is not the

ATTACHMENTS:


Exhibit I - 2017 Long Range Plan Cash Flow

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Susan Cohen, Senior Manager, Finance and ECM
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 157

Regional Transportation District
Long-Range Financial Plan Summary Cash Flow - Base System
2017-2040 (Rounded Millions)
FINAL
Forecast
2017
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

Revenue and Other Sources of Funds
Fare Revenue
Sales and Use Tax
Grant Revenue
Local and Third Party Contributions
Other Income
Bond/COP Proceeds
Base System Funding to FasTracks
Revenue and Other Sources of Funds

9
10
11
12

Operating Expenses Excluding Depreciation
Ongoing Operating Expenses
FT Rubber Tire Service Increase
Expense Projects
Total Operating Expenses

$

$

$

2018-2023

114.2
358.1
150.4
9.5
632.2

$

$

787.3
2,450.2
610.1
66.4
3,913.9

2024-2030
$

$

1,141.4
3,759.6
691.3
97.3
261.3
5,950.9

2031-2035
$

$

994.8
3,426.6
575.6
101.0
5,097.9

2018-2040
Total

2036-2040
$

$

1,139.6
4,032.8
654.7
136.1
5,963.3

$

$

4,063.1
13,669.1
2,531.7
400.8
261.3
20,925.9

$

(485.6) $
17.9
(26.7)
(494.5) $

(3,213.9) $
118.3
(84.4)
(3,180.0) $

(4,472.3) $
163.5
(194.3)
(4,503.1) $

(3,759.3) $
136.1
(161.7)
(3,785.0) $

(4,306.7) $
154.9
(184.1)
(4,335.9) $

(15,752.3)
572.7
(624.4)
(15,804.0)

13 Capital Expenditures

$

(95.7) $

(332.7) $

(988.7) $

(812.3) $

(1,238.1) $

(3,371.7)

14

Debt Service and Lease Payments

$

(74.3) $

(452.1) $

(282.4) $

(161.3) $

(132.3) $

(1,028.1)

15

Base System Funding to FasTracks

$

-

-

(166.2) $

-

$

-

$

(166.2)

16

Change in Net Assets / Income

$

(32.3) $

(51.0) $

10.5

339.3

$

257.0

$

555.9

17
18
19
20
21
22
23

Use of / (Increase to) Funds
Board Appropriated/Capital Replacement/Operating Reserves
TABOR Reserve
Prior Year Financing Proceeds
Other Restricted Reserves
FasTracks Management Reserve
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Total Funds Change

$

$

(19.4) $
(0.4)
67.3
0.1
47.6 $

(62.0) $
(3.6)
31.5
5.0
(29.2) $

2.9 $
(5.7)
(3.6)
(6.4) $

(50.9) $
(4.9)
(55.8) $

(29.2) $
(5.6)
19.3
(15.5) $

(139.2)
(19.8)
31.5
20.7
(106.8)

24

Increase / (Decrease) Fund Balance

$

15.3

$

(80.1) $

4.1

$

283.5

$

241.5

$

449.0

25
26

Unrestricted Fund Balance
Beginning Balance
Year-End Balance / (Deficit)

$

66.8
82.1

$

82.1
2.0

2.0
6.2

$

6.2
289.7

$

289.7
531.2

$

82.1
531.2

27
28
29
30
31
32

Cumulative Fund Balances at Year-End - Restricted
Board Appropriated/Capital Replacement/Operating Reserves
TABOR Reserve
Prior Year Financing Proceeds
Other Restricted Reserves
FasTracks Management Reserve
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)

$

29.8
14.5
31.5
34.6
-

$

$

Page 1

91.8
18.1
29.6
-

$

$

$

88.9
23.8
33.2
-

$

$

139.8
28.7
33.2
-

$

169.0
34.2
14.0
-

$

169.0
34.2
14.0
-

Attachment: Exhibit I - 2017 Long Range Plan Cash Flow (3289 : Adoption of the Long Range Financial

12.H.a

Exhibit I

Packet Pg. 158

Regional Transportation District
Long-Range Financial Plan Summary Cash Flow - FasTracks
2017-2040 (Rounded Millions)
FINAL
Forecast
2017
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8

Revenue and Other Sources of Funds
Fare Revenue
Sales and Use Tax
Grant Revenue
Local and Third Party Contributions
Other Income
Bond Proceeds
Base System Funding to FasTracks
Revenue and Other Sources of Funds

9
10
11
12

Operating Expenses Excluding Depreciation
Corridor Operating Expenses
FT Rubber Tire Service Increase
FT Expense Projects
Total Operating Expenses

13
14
15

Capital Expenditures
Initial Expenditures
Post-Opening Capital Expenditures
Total Capital Expenditures

16

$

$

$

26.4
238.8
246.1
88.2
14.3
17.3
630.9

2018-2023
$

$

269.3
1,633.4
70.9
28.1
89.3
2,091.0

2024-2030
$

$

482.1
2,506.4
207.8
91.5
68.1
166.2
3,522.1

$

$

490.0
2,284.4
224.2
79.5
3,078.0

2018-2040
Total

2036-2040

2031-2035
$

$

587.0
2,688.5
255.1
98.9
3,629.5

$

$

1,828.4
9,112.7
758.0
28.1
359.3
68.1
166.2
12,320.6

(80.4) $
(17.9)
(42.9)
(141.1) $

(896.8) $
(118.3)
(35.1)
(1,050.1) $

(1,449.1) $
(163.5)
(33.8)
(1,646.3) $

(1,226.5) $
(136.1)
(28.1)
(1,390.7) $

(1,458.4) $
(154.9)
(32.0)
(1,645.2) $

(5,030.7)
(572.7)
(129.0)
(5,732.4)

$

(618.8) $
(618.8) $

(194.9) $
(25.4)
(220.4) $

(33.3) $
(89.2)
(122.5) $

$
(71.6)
(71.6) $

$
(632.4)
(632.4) $

(228.2)
(818.6)
(1,046.8)

Debt Service and Lease Payments

$

(170.7) $

(1,772.0) $

(1,425.6) $

(1,179.1) $

(5,474.2)

17

Change in Net Assets / Income

$

(299.7) $

(1,097.5) $
(276.9) $

(18.7) $

190.1

172.7

$

67.1

18
19
20
21
22
23
24

Use of / (Increase to) Funds
Board Appropriated/Capital Replacement/Operating Reserves
TABOR Reserve
Prior Year Financing Proceeds
Other Restricted Reserves
FasTracks Management Reserve
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Total Funds Change

$

$

(16.9) $
(1.2)
295.9
12.8
2.9
293.6 $

(2.9) $
(2.6)
47.8
15.6
18.9
76.8 $

7.1 $
(4.0)
(6.1)
21.7
18.7 $

(34.2) $
(3.3)
1.1
(153.6)
(190.1) $

(8.7) $
(3.5)
13.5
(174.0)
(172.7) $

(38.7)
(13.4)
47.8
24.1
(287.0)
(267.3)

25

Increase / (Decrease) Fund Balance

$

(6.1) $

(200.1) $

(0.0) $

(0.0) $

(0.0) $

(200.1)

26
27

Unrestricted Fund Balance
Beginning Balance
Year-End Balance / (Deficit)

$

202.1
2.0

2.0
2.0

2.0
2.0

2.0
2.0

202.1
2.0

28
29
30
31
32
33

Cumulative Fund Balances at Year-End - Restricted
Board Appropriated/Capital Replacement/Operating Reserves
TABOR Reserve
Prior Year Financing Proceeds
Other Restricted Reserves
FasTracks Management Reserve
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)

$

$

$

208.2
202.1

29.3
8.4
47.8
90.7
15.9
40.6

$

$

Page 2

32.2
11.0
75.1
15.9
21.7

$

$

25.1
15.0
81.2
15.9
-

$

$

59.3
18.3
80.1
15.9
153.6

$

$

$

68.0
21.8
66.6
15.9
327.6

$

$

68.0
21.8
66.6
15.9
327.6

Attachment: Exhibit I - 2017 Long Range Plan Cash Flow (3289 : Adoption of the Long Range Financial

12.H.a

Exhibit I

Packet Pg. 159

12.I

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 4, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

January 2018 Service Change

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the January 2018 Service Change package as summarized in Attachment A and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify individual services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted or recommend new services as changes in ridership
and/or the community warrant and as finances allow.
The proposals included herein include a mix of service improvements, adjustments and reductions. A
notable modification to Light Rail operations in the Central and Southwest Corridors is proposed in the
creation of the L Line service plan previously discussed with the Board and as described later herein.
Also, staff is proposing changes in weekend operations on the R Line and W Line Light Rail services as a
result of sub-optimal ridership performance. The proposed changes for the R-Line and W-Line Light Rail
services included in this recommendation represent meaningful modifications from the preliminary
service change proposals initially presented to the Board and represent the results of continued
evaluation of these services and the feedback received during the public comment process. In addition to
these proposed adjustments to light rail service, bus Routes 42 and 45 are proposed for service
reductions to peak hour and weekend service based upon current and past ridership performance.
Additionally, the Route 89 is proposed for discontinuance based on continued poor ridership
performance. We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service changes and
propose adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to enhance
service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

Packet Pg. 160

12.I

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
Eight public meetings were conducted in Aurora, Boulder, Curtis Park, Golden, Green Valley Ranch,
Stapleton and at the Blake Administration Building between September 18th and October 2nd. Comments
and further details from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in Attachment B
of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified
from those initially discussed with Board in August of this year:
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph Ave: proposed extension to serve Mercy Housing in place of the Route 89
Route 122X – Wagon Rd/ Civic Center: schedule change, afternoon peak trip.
Route 209/Stampede: schedule adjustments
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: schedule adjustment eastbound to DIA
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: initial proposal rescinded
R Line – Light Rail: proposal modified to retain weekday off-peak and weekend service south of Florida
Station. Weekend service is proposed to be reduced to 30minute frequency.
W Line – Light Rail: proposal modified to retain weekday off-peak service between Federal Center
Station and Jeffco Government Center-Golden Station. Service frequency for weekday evenings and
Saturday evenings and all day Sunday will be reduced from the current 15 minutes to 30 minutes for the
segment between Federal Center Station and Jeffco Government Center-Golden Station.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 83D/83L – Parker/Leetsdale Limited: add Route 83D trips via Dayton and Quebec Way
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph Ave: proposed extension to serve Mercy Housing in place of the Route 89

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 42 – Montbello via Albrook/Green Valley Ranch: reduce weekday peak period frequency east of
40th & Airport Station from 15 to 30 minutes.
Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch: reduce weekday peak period frequency from every
15 to every 30 minutes
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: Discontinue route, due to very low ridership
Route BOUND – 30th Street: reduce frequency to 15 minutes, unless the City of Boulder buys up the
service.
Route EV/ES/EX – Evergreen/Denver: discontinue service on the Frontage Road between Lewis Ridge
Road and Chestnut Drive
Route JUMP – Arapahoe: reduce frequency to 15 minutes, unless the City of Boulder buys up the
service.
D, E, H, and W Line: It is proposed to reduce late night service Sunday through Thursday nights.
R Line: It is proposed to reduce service frequency from 15-minutes to 30 minutes on weekends.
W Line: It is proposed to reduce the frequency of service between Jefferson County Government CenterGolden Station and Federal Center Station on weekday evenings and Saturday evenings and all day on
Sunday.

Packet Pg. 161

12.I

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: bus stop consolidation.
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue: convert the one-way loop on Vrain St, 9th Ave, and Utica St
Route 12 – Downing St/North Washington: bus stop consolidation
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: bus stop consolidation
Routes 28 – 28th Avenue: reroute Route 28 and eliminate 28B branch routing
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue: reroute Route 32 westbound
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: reroute via 48th Avenue to Colorado Blvd and 40th & Colorado Station
Route 104X – Commerce City/ Denver: Shift trip leave time for last northbound trip from Union Station
to 5:28pm
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver: the initial proposal is rescinded.

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments:
Route 16/16L– West Colfax: minor schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance.
Route 19 – Pecos North: schedule adjustments, weekday only, for better on-time performance
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd: schedule adjustments
Route 90L – US36 & Sheridan Limited: Route name change to ‘FF7’
Route 122X – Wagon Rd/ Civic Center: schedule change, afternoon peak trip
Route 153 – Chambers Road: schedule adjustments
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/Gunbarrel/Heatherwood: schedule adjustments, weekday only
Route 209/Stampede: schedule adjustments
Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown: running time adjustments, weekday only.
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: schedule adjustment eastbound to DIA
Route BOLT – Longmont/Boulder: weekend schedule adjustments.
Route FF4 – Boulder/ Civic Center: minor schedule adjustments
E, F, and H Lines: minor schedule adjustments are proposed
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a FasTracks cost savings of
approximately $1,802,000 and a base system savings of approximately $884,000 annualized.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed January 2018 service changes does
not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.

ATTACHMENTS:


Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change



Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes



Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change



Attachment D - R Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (PDF)



Attachment E - W Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (PDF)



Attachment F - 28-28B Proposal January 2018 Service Change

(PDF)



Attachment G – Route 34 Proposal January 2018 Service Change

(PDF)



Attachment H - L Line Concept January 2018 Service Change (PDF)

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 162

12.I

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 163

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

Route 3 – Alameda Avenue
As part of RTD’s overall effort to improve service delivery and on-time performance, the
following bus stop consolidation actions are proposed in order to optimize bus stop
spacing and to improve operational speed and service reliability. This proposal eliminates
the following stops, due to close proximity to other stops, and/or low usage:
- Alameda/Grant (westbound)
- Alameda/Logan (eastbound)
- Alameda/Humboldt (eastbound)
- Alameda/Franklin (westbound)
- University/Cedar
- University/Cherry Creek Drive (southbound)
- Alameda/Cherry
- Alameda/Elm
- Alameda/Grape
- Alameda/Jersey
- Alameda/Leyden
- Alameda/Xenia (westbound)
- Alameda/Cedar Circle
No cost impacts are anticipated
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue
It is proposed to convert the one-way loop on Vrain St, 9th Ave, and Utica St to a bidirectional loop operating on Tennyson St, 9th Avenue, and Winona Ct. The grades on
these streets should allow the bus to serve the community at 9th Ave & Vrain St more
consistently during snowy or icy conditions. Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to
improve on-time performance. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 12 – Downing St/North Washington
As part of RTD’s overall effort to improve service delivery and on-time performance, the
following bus stop consolidation actions are proposed in order to optimize bus stop
spacing and to improve operational speed and service reliability. This proposal eliminates
the following stops, due to close proximity to other stops, and/or low usage:
- Washington/48th Ave
- Downing/28th Ave
- Corona/14th Ave southbound
- Corona/13th Ave southbound
- Corona/3rd Ave southbound
- Downing/14th Ave northbound
- Downing/Ellsworth
- Louisiana/Pearl eastbound
- Iowa/Emerson
- Downing/Jewell
- Hampden/Ogden westbound
- Hampden/Emerson eastbound

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

BUS

Packet Pg. 164

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A
Hampden/Emerson and Hampden/Pearl westbound, consolidate into new stop at
Clarkson
- Girard/Lincoln westbound
No cost impacts are anticipated

Route 16 – West Colfax
Minor schedule adjustments are proposed to improve on-time performance. Cost impacts
are anticipated to be an estimated $27,900 annualized.
Route 19 – Pecos North
Running time adjustment, weekday only, for better on-time performance and passenger
load balance. Cost impact is estimated to be $272,700 annualized.
Route 20 – 20th Avenue
As part of RTD’s overall effort to improve service delivery and on-time performance, the
following bus stop consolidation actions are proposed in order to optimize bus stop
spacing and to improve operational speed and service reliability. This proposal eliminates
the following stops, due to close proximity to other stops, and/or low usage:
Eastbound:
- 17th Sherman
- 17th/Pearl
- 17th/Lafayette
- 17th/Race
- 17th/Gaylord
- Syracuse/22nd
Westbound
- 23rd/Roslyn
- 17th/Harrison
- 18th/Vine
- 18th/Marion
- 18th/Emerson
- 18th/Pennsylvania
No cost impacts are anticipated
Routes 28 – 28th Avenue
This proposal reroutes Route 28 westbound to operate on 19th Avenue between Clarkson
St and Broadway and on Glenarm Pl between Broadway and 15th St. Eastbound routing in
this area will be unchanged. It is also proposed to operate all trips currently operating as
Route 28B as Route 28 trips. Route 28B would be discontinued. Alternative service is
available on Routes 28 and 32. This proposal also discontinues the routing on Yates St,
Byron Pl, and Sheridan Blvd for through trips. These trips will stay on 26th Ave between

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

-

Packet Pg. 165

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

Route 32 – 32nd Avenue
It is proposed to reroute Route 32 westbound to operate on 19th Avenue between
Clarkson St and Broadway and on Glenarm Pl between Broadway and 15th St. Eastbound
routing will be unchanged. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 34 – Bruce Randolph
Extend the alignment of the Route 34 from Central Park Station to the Eastbridge area in
the Stapleton neighborhood. The new routing would extend the route from Central Park
Station via Central Park Blvd and Martin Luther King Blvd as far east as Iola Street (one
block east of Havana Street). This offsets the discontinuance of the Route 89, maintaining
service to the Mercy Housing Development and access to grocers and the greater transit
network. Peak hour service would be improved to 30-minute service, with midday service
remaining hourly. No cost impacts are anticipated. (See map, Att. G)
Route 42 – Montbello via Albrook/Green Valley Ranch
Reduce weekday peak period frequency east of 40th & Airport Station through Green
Valley Ranch from every 15 to every 30 minutes. Peak period productivity through Green
Valley Ranch is 17.4 boardings/hour, versus the 25 boardings/hour needed to justify the
higher frequency. Route 42 all day productivity is 19.4 boardings/hour. Peak frequency
will remain every 15 minutes through Montbello to Central Park Station.
Cost savings are estimated to be $156,000 annualized.
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd.
Running time and trip time adjustments. No cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
Reroute via 48th Avenue to Colorado Blvd and 40th & Colorado Station. Present routing via
Clayton/46th/Steele/43rd/Clayton is very awkward and time consuming, with multiple
railroad crossings, and operating under Interstate 70, which will be torn down for
reconstruction as early as 2018. East 48th Avenue between Columbine and Vasquez Blvd.
is presently served by Route 48, and has existing bus stops. No cost is anticipated for
this change.
Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch
Reduce weekday peak period frequency from every 15 to every 30 minutes, over entire
route. Peak period productivity is 19.5 boardings/hour, versus the minimum productivity
standard of 25 boardings/hour needed to justify the higher frequency. Route 45 all day
productivity is 17.0 boardings/hour.
Cost saving are estimated to be $584,000 annualized.

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Sheridan Blvd and Yates St. Trips terminating at Sheridan Blvd will continue to utilize this
loop. No cost impacts are anticipated. (see map, Att. F)

Route 83D/83L – Parker/Leetsdale Limited
Add Route 83D trips via Dayton and Quebec Way at 9:15am and 11:17am eastbound
from downtown, and 10:09am and 12:09pm westbound from Nine Mile Station. Provides
consistent hourly midday service on 83D routing, extends periods of 15 minute frequency

Packet Pg. 166

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
Discontinue route, due to very low ridership. Currently ridership averages 115 boardings
per day, 3 boardings/trip, and 9.7 boardings/in-service hour. See Route 34.
Cost savings are estimated to be $312,000 annualized.
Route 90L – US36 & Sheridan Limited
Route name change to ‘FF7, which would incorporate this route into the Flatiron Flyer
service plan more concretely. No cost is anticipated for this change.

Route 104X – Commerce City/ Denver
Shift trip leave time for last northbound trip from Union Station to 5:28pm in order to
allow for better local and regional connections. No cost is anticipated for this change.
Route 122X – Wagon Road/Civic Center
In order to help balance passenger loads the current N-bound trip leaving CCS at 4:49pm
will be moved to 4:49pm, and the trip leaving 18th/California leaving 5:04pm will now
leave at 5:01pm.
Route 153 – Chambers Road
Running time and trip time adjustments. No cost is anticipated for this change.
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/Gunbarrel/Heatherwood
Running time adjustments, weekday only, block 5 & 11 specific to further improve on-time
performance. Cost impacts are estimated to be $155,900 annualized.
Routes 209/Stampede
Due to on-time performance and operator layover issues, the schedules of Route 209 and
Stampede are proposed to be adjusted; adding the appropriate resources and time for
reliable operation. These two services are operationally linked, with an interline.
Cost is anticipated to be an estimated $233,000 annualized.
Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US 287
It is proposed to shift the current W-bound trip at 7:04am from Lafayette PnR to 7:19am
to better balance trip time and passenger loads. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

during the midday to the trunk route on Leetsdale Drive and Speer Boulevard through
Cherry Creek. Additionally, due to insufficient recovery and lengthening running times, add
bus for adequate recovery at Nine Mile Station between 11:00am and 1:30pm.
Cost impacts are estimated to be $78,000 annualized.

Route 323 – Skyline Crosstown
Running time adjustments, weekday only, for better on-time performance. No cost is
anticipated for this change.

Packet Pg. 167

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A
Route AB – Boulder/DIA
This proposal adjusts the arrival time at DEN of the Route AB by 3 minutes later in the
Eastbound direction. No cost impacts are anticipated.

Route BOUND – 30th Street
This proposal reduces the current 10- minute to a 15-minute frequency on Route BOUND
unless an agreement to buy up the level of service is made between RTD and the City of
Boulder. It should be noted that sufficient capacity exists with the 15-minute level of
service, should the buy up agreement not be signed. Cost savings result in a neutral
impact.
Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
The proposal to shift the CV trip currently beginning at Pine Junction at 6:28am to instead
begin at 6:10am has been rescinded.
Route EV/ES/EX – Evergreen/Denver
It is proposed to discontinue service on the Frontage Road between Lewis Ridge Road and Chestnut
Drive. Cost impacts are anticipated to be $15,500 annualized.
Route FF4 – Boulder/ Civic Center
Shift block 74 trip leave at BJDS from 15:20 to 15:30 for even headways. No costs are
anticipated for this change.
Route JUMP– Boulder/Lafayette via Arapahoe
This proposal reduces the current 10- minute to a 15- minute frequency on the Route
JUMP within the City of Boulder unless an agreement to buy up the service is made
between the RTD and City of Boulder. It should be noted that sufficient capacity exists
with the 15-minute frequency, shout the buy up agreement not be signed. Cost savings
result in neutral impact.

RAIL
C, D, and L Line proposal:
Previous efforts to improve on time performance on the D Line involved both signal and station
changes along the Welton Street segment, resulting in a 3% improvement in on-time performance.
However, the on-time performance standard for rail remains higher than that currently achieved by
the D Line service. As a part of further efforts to improve the on-time performance of the Southwest
and Central corridors and as a means of optimizing passenger capacity on both corridors, the
following changes are proposed:

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Route BOLT – Longmont/Boulder
Weekend running time and schedule adjustments. No cost is anticipated for this change.

L Line

Packet Pg. 168

12.I.a

It is proposed to separate the operation of the D Line into two lines. The D Line would operate as
it does today between Mineral Station and downtown, with all trains turning at 19th Street. The
Welton Street segment would operate as its own service, the L Line, as proposed in the Central
Rail Extension Mobility Study. The L Line would operate between downtown and 30th & Downing
Station, with all trains turning at 14th Street. This allows service to be better tailored to the two
different segments, including vehicle assignments and will increase reliability of service along
Welton Street, especially in the northbound direction. (see map, Att. H)
C Line
It is proposed to increase the weekday peak service frequency from 30 minutes to 15 minutes and
also run later at night, similar to the E Line. This would serve the growing demand for service
during special events in the Central Platte Valley Corridor. Vehicle consists will be a mix of 2- and
3-car trains, similar to the W Line. It is also proposed to operate the C Line on weekend and holiday
evenings and late nights instead of the D Line; frequencies and span of service on the C Line would
be similar to the existing D Line.
D Line
It is proposed to reduce weekday peak service frequency from an average of 10 minutes to 15
minutes and increase vehicle consist lengths from three cars to four cars. The lower frequency
during the weekday peak periods would be replaced by the increase in C Line and new L Line
service. It is proposed to reduce weekday midday service from 15 minutes to 30 minutes.
Weekday midday service on the Southwest would have a combined 15-minute frequency between
the C and D, similar to the E and F on the Southeast. It is also proposed to reduce evening and
late night service and cover this service with C Line and L Line trips. This proposal responds to
ridership trends, especially on evenings and weekends, for service to the Union Station area,
including airport connections, and helps with event service in the Central Platte Valley. This keeps
service on the Southwest Corridor at the same frequencies as now at all times of the day.
This proposal has savings in both operating hours and vehicle miles. Total annual car hours saved:
5,100 (approximately 1,800 annual operator hours); total annual car miles saved: 493,400.
E, F, and H Lines: Minor running time adjustments are proposed for the Southeast Lines on all
service days. This will not alter the trips and the same service will be provided. No changes in
hours are anticipated.
Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated $333,000 annualized

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

D, E, H, and W Line
It is proposed to reduce late night service Sunday through Thursday nights. The last trips would
depart from downtown Denver after 12:00 AM instead of just after 1:00 AM as they do now.
This action better matches levels of service to ridership demand and provides more time to conduct
daily maintenance of way (MOW) preventive maintenance activities. This impacts one trip on each

Packet Pg. 169

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

R Line
This recommendation is changed from the original proposal. The revised recommendation is that,
due to low ridership (less than 30 boardings per hour), it is proposed to reduce weekend service
frequency on the R Line from every 15-minute to 30-minute frequency. Weekday services would
remain unchanged. The weekend service would operate the full length of the R Line between Peoria
& Smith Road Station and Lincoln Station. This proposal will better match levels of service to
ridership demand thereby increasing the efficiency and sustainability of the service while also
providing additional time to build weekday ridership. Cost savings are anticipated to be estimated
$1,552,000 annualized. (See map, Att. D)

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

of these lines for a total average daily boardings of 218 (46 D Line, 49 E Line, 64 H Line, 59 W
Line) for Sunday nights and 249 (51 D Line, 57 E Line, 77 H Line, 64 W Line) for Monday-Thursday
nights. Total hours saved: 6 Sundays-Thursdays, 1,530 total annual.
Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated $283,000 annualized.

Packet Pg. 170

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A
R Line Ridership by Segment
Mondays-Thursdays
Boardings
Peak
Off Peak
2,138
2,510
1,030
1,293
1,108
1,217
2,014
996
1,018

2,702
1,441
1,261

Boardings/Hour
Peak
Off Peak
48.95
31.34
42.87
29.36
56.37
33.77
46.11
41.46
51.79

31.59
30.63
32.76

Saturdays
Segment
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
3,467
28.01
1,871
27.49
1,596
28.66

Sundays
Segment
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
2,801
23.68
1,530
23.51
1,271
23.88

This recommendation differs substantially from the original proposal.
W Line
This recommendation is changed from the original proposal. The revised recommendation is that
W-Line service frequency is reduced from every 15-minutes to every 30-minutes between Federal
Center Station and Jefferson County Government Center–Golden Station on weekday evenings and
on Saturday evenings, and all-day on Sundays. These trips currently run every 15 minutes and are
not meeting service standards as they are currently generating less than 40 boardings per hour.
During these times, westbound trains would alternate between terminating at Golden or Federal
Center and eastbound trains would alternate between starting at Golden or Federal Center. This
proposal better matches levels of service to current ridership demand thereby increasing the
sustainability of the service. Cost savings are estimated to be $250,000 annualized. (see map, Att.
E)

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Segment
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln
Fridays
Peoria-Lincoln
Peoria-Florida
Iliff-Lincoln

Packet Pg. 171

12.I.a

January 2018 Service Change Attachment A

W-Line Ridership by Segment
Mondays-Thursdays
Boardings
Peak
Off Peak
6,691
7,830
6,030
7,001
661
829
5,111
4,583
557

7,202
6,359
900

Boardings/Hour
Peak
Off Peak
214.5
107.6
261.7
130.2
81.0
43.5
163.8
198.9
68.3

95.5
114.2
45.6

Saturdays
Segment
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
8,991
92.2
8,084
112.3
960
37.6

Sundays
Segment
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco

Boardings Brdngs/Hr
6,899
75.8
6,304
93.8
589
24.7

This change differs from the initial proposal.

Attachment: Attachment A - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Segment
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco
Fridays
DUS-Jeffco
DUS-Fed Ctr
Fed Ctr-Jeffco

Packet Pg. 172

12.I.b

January 2017 Service Change
Public Meeting Comments

Wednesday, September 20th, 2017
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
NOON
Staff in attendance included Jessie Carter, Diane Marquis, Dan Merritt, Jeff Dunning,
Cesar Ochoa, Jeff Becker, and Tegan Rice. There were 10 members from the public in
attendance, along with Natalie Menten with the RTD Board.
Roberta Rollins expressed her appreciation for the public hearings, and had two concerns.
Roberta catches the 51 from the Westminster Park-n-Ride. It is never on time, and is not
frequent enough. If she is not there before the bus leaves, Roberta has to wait another 30
minutes until the next bus. Robert’s second concern is that she is very frustrated with the
G-line not being open yet. She does not understand the conflict with the two different
operating systems, which is what she believes, is the reason that the G-line is not open
yet.
Tom Richards lives by the Merchandise Mart, and uses the 12 to get around. He is in
agreement with the stop consolidation, but says RTD has missed a few stops on the list.
The southbound at 31st/Downing is an eighth of a mile from the LRT station and
northbound stop at MLK/31st is also an eighth of a mile away from another stop, both
stops need to be removed.
Roger Curtis is concerned about all of the other trains coming downtown not connecting
well with the W line. There needs to be more coordination for connections to the W line
from other lines. The W line does not connect well with the nine at Lamar or Sheridan
Stations. Would like an earlier trip on the weekends so that he can attend morning mass.
Need to eliminate stop number 26662 and 11926; they have other stops within a block of
each other. Roger did not like it when the A-line train operator and Security yelled at him
for standing on the tracks, when he says he was not standing on the tracks. He does not
like the idea of Denver operating their own separate transit entity.
Doug Schroeder wanted to know if there were plans to re-design the light rail stations to
provide pedestrian access over or under the tracks to prevent passengers from walking
across the tracks. Doug does not feel that those at the stations are using common or
good sense while crossing the tracks at the stations. Doug is okay with the changes to
the R-line, especially since he sees empty trains operating. Doug was happy with Jessie’s
explanation that the R-line is interlined with the H-line so passengers would only have to
transfer if they needed to go to the Tech center.
Rosemary Brown wanted to know how much money consolidating stops saves. Rosemary
also wants to know why there is not a shelter, or at least somewhere to sit while waiting
for a bus after a long day at work. Rosemary also wanted to know how much money
from fares goes towards operations costs.
Steven Meyer wanted to know if there were any changes planned for the area around 17th
and Larimer. Are there any changes to the shoppers special, his community heavily relies
on them? Asked if the old mall shuttles are being replaced with the red buses, and if he
could buy and one.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 173

12.I.b

Chris Humphries wants better connections to the 12 at the 30th/Downing light rail station,
and one earlier trip in the morning on the 27 so that she can get to church. The LRT never
does the 3-minute curtesy wait for her to transfer from the 27.

Wednesday, September 20th, 2017
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Doug Monroe and David Menter along with Natalie
Menton; RTD Board Member from District M.
A few general questions were asked at the beginning of the meeting not related to the
proposed service changes. These were addressed by Director Menton and staff Mr.
Monroe:
A. When and how does RTD decide to add service on routes?
B. What is RTD doing to address the current shortage of bus operators?
C. When I-70 reconstruction starts, will RTD add bus and rail service frequencies?
Erin B. McConnelll was concerned about the proposed frequency reduction on route #45 at
rush hours. She said RTD should keep the existing 15-minute headways especially since
there are students and educators who use the existing service to access DCIS Middle
School and DCIS High School. She asked why RTD can’t go to 20-minute headways at
rush hours instead of 30. Mr. Monroe informed her that ridership was too low to justify
keeping the 15-minute frequency and that bus system is based on clockface 15-minute
and 30-minute headways. He said that 20-minute headways on route #45 would make it
miss connections with other routes for other riders.
David Smith was concerned about some of the proposed bus stop reductions on Route #3,
especially that Alameda & Ames should be retained for connecting riders to Sb route #51.
He supported other proposed stop reductions. Separately, he supported the proposed
introduction of the new L-Line and increased C-Line service but was concerned that the
commensurate reduction of the D-Line service to the 16th & California area would mean
that on weekends, only H-Line trains would serve the 16th & California area. It would also
mean existing Littleton D-Line riders would be forced to transfer if they wanted to get to
the 16th & California areas. He requested that some existing D-Line service into
Downtown should be retained on weekends. He also said that W-Line needed extra cars
added for capacity at rush hours. Mr. Monroe replied that additional LRT vehicles were
currently on order. He said the additional service on the C-Line had been requested by
many riders and that existing riders of other LRT routes already are transferring with short
waits. He also replied that the bus stop on Alameda & Ames was nearby another bus stop
which would be retained and allow riders to transfer to route #51.
Karlyn Huffman said she has already commented about her general RTD concerns (back in
public meetings in June) but that nothing has happened. She reiterated that the Yale LRT
station has no bus service on the weekends. Routes 27 and 46 should have expanded
service, especially to the west of this station along Yale toward Colorado Blvd closer to
where she lives. There also needs to be a traffic signal on Yale in front of this station.
There should also be an elevator installed.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 174

12.I.b

She commented that she was injured earlier this year while riding RTD bus 27. The
operator jammed on the brakes and she fell to the floor and received a shoulder rotator
cuff injury. She said she did not believe she was injured at the time. The operator called
in her injury to dispatch at the time. She filed a complaint over the phone. She
commented that she also fell earlier this year on another RTD bus.
She said she also previously complained about how a route 46 operator refused to give her
a courtesy stop closer to her destination. This was after she had had rotator injury and
the operator then slammed on the brakes.
Helen Bushnell commented that there were too many bus stops being proposed for
elimination. One of the good things about RTD in the past that it was responsive to its
riders and there was good access to routes. She and others sometimes are not able to
walk ¼ mile to a bus stop. She said RTD should not capitulate to private property owners
who may complain about bus stops and/or trash at stops being located next to their
private property and said that RTD should focus on riders’ needs more. She commented
that she believed high quality bus routes in Europe and other countries had bus stops that
were closer together than RTD. Mr. Monroe replied that in general bus routes in Europe
and other areas commonly keep bus stops much farther apart on local routes, ¼ mile
being common in Germany for example, and farther than is currently the case in the U.S.
and on many existing RTD bus routes. He reported that potential riders also report one
reason they don’t ride buses more often is because they are too slow and stop too much.
Joe Elizalde was concerned about the proposed reduction in R-Line service during the day
weekdays. He said he was a veteran who used the daytime service to get from the
University of Denver area, where he lives, to Anschutz. He said other veterans would soon
use and need the service to reach the new VA hospital at Anschutz. Mr. Monroe
explained the cost savings that were involved. He explained that the plan is for H-Line
trains to interline into continuing as R-Line trains (at Florida mid-days). So, for his
particular trip, and potentially for more riders, he would actually benefit as H-Line corridor
riders would have a one-seat ride up to Fitzsimmons. Mr. Monroe explained that while
there was an operational savings, no stations of the R-Line would lose 15-minute
headways.
Mark Kelly commented that routes 15, 31, and Flatiron Flyer have problems with riders
standing often and/or being left at the curb and said that more capacity should be added.
He was concerned about local bus ridership recently being flat. Expressed concern that
RTD is paying too much to service its long-term debt obligations.

Wednesday, September 20th, 2017
Boulder
Alfalfa’s Market
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Diane Marquis and Tegan Rice. There were 23 members from
the public in attendance, along with Natalie Stiffler with the City of Boulder.
Peter Lloyd expressed concern about connecting from the 206 to the BOLT. The 206 is
often running late because of traffic in Boulder, so he misses connecting to the BOLT.
Peter would like to have better connections.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 175

12.I.b

Anne Mescabb said that she can handle the walk to the JUMP but recommended to
everyone to walk a block to 9th Street to catch the HOP.
Jean Dag Mescabb lives at the Presbyterian Manor Senior and relies on public
transportation. Jean admits that it is not hard for her to go downtown, but there are
many in her home who struggle now just to get to the 11th Street/Arapahoe Avenue stop.
Jean then recommended that since the HOP operates much smaller vehicles that the HOP
should deviate to accommodate the seniors.
Anita O’Connor admitted that she might not be able to continue her volunteer work based
on the proposed service changes proposed to the JUMP. Anita would like to petition RTD
to keep buying 30’ busses to continue operating the loop. Anita is also concerned about
the operators taking off before she has sat down. Anita has had to go to physical therapy
because of getting hurt when operators start driving before finding a seat.
Donna Shay supports and agrees with everyone’s previous comments about the JUMP.
Jackie Course is concerned that with the changes to JUMP it is going to make it more
difficult for her to go the hospital for her treatments. The changes to the JUMP are a
huge inconvenience to the seniors in the area.
Kevin Mooney told the seniors in the room to walk over to the HOP. Kevin is more
concerned about the operators not appearing to pay attention to people running to catch
the FF1 and L. Kevin would also like to see improvements done to the Downtown Boulder
Station; it is dirty and not inviting.
Therese Schwab wants to know where the information from these meetings goes; Diane
explained that the notes go to the board.
Laree Weaver has observed that buses currently are not having a problem making that turn
from Arapahoe to 9th Street; Diane explained that it is due to smaller buses operating
currently. Laree wanted to know why the buses are capable of turning from Arapahoe
onto 14th Street, because the turning radii appears to be the same as Arapahoe to 9th
Street. Laree also would like better signage at the bus shelter at 11th/Arapahoe because
she has observed that people are still standing at the shelter waiting for a bus.
Judy Silver has just recently started riding the JUMP, and has to walk six blocks to catch
to bus on 9th Street. Judy wanted to know what the distance is for people to have to
walk to the bus.

Thursday, September 21st, 2017
Aurora Municipal Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Jeff Becker, Eric Miller and Jeff Dunning. There were 85
members from the public in attendance; and RTD Board Members Bob Broom.

JM Fey felt that more bus serves was needed at the first and last mile. Service
should be cheap and timely.
Tom Tobiassen said that the disappointing ridership needs time to develop. It
might help to propose reducing weekend service and wait for ridership to build.
Adam Dempsey felt the R line should be given more time, and service should be
increased on the Route 3.
Kevin Hogan stressed that the community trusted RTD and has invested in TOD
around the line.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 176

12.I.b

Christine Whaley proposed modest changes implemented over time.
Douglas Howe CCDC felt that the R line has more riders than the C Line.
Rosemary Paoletto rides the R and H Lines. Felt it was too soon to reduce service.
Hillary Lampert also felt it was too soon to reduce service.
Robert McCherry suggested that the R Line terminate at Bellevue instead of
Florida.
Kristin Mallory lives near the Iliff station. She would like to see more bus service
to the Rail line for those transit dependent.
Aly Dewills-Marcano has been a rider for a long time. Her sister needs the R Line
to get to Park Meadows. She also felt the fares were confusing and too high.
RTD needs to improve reliability and connections. Aurora needs to give transit a
higher priority and there should be more market outreach.
Karlyn Shorb is a recreational rider and uses rail on the weekends. She was
concerned about investments made for TOD along the line.
Sarah Berkeland has a daughter that uses the R Line to school and work. She feels
it’s too soon to cut back on service.
Jim McGhee suggested that we find out why ridership is low and do more to help.
He feels we need more service and it’s too soon to cut back. Investments and
TOD projects have been started.
Chuck Montgomerie lives in Heather Gardens and feels that more time should be
given and there was poor planning.
James Sutton’s wife rides the R Line to Lincoln. He’s concerned with the slow line
due to the deviation to City Center. He was also bothered by behavior of
passengers; i.e. feet on the seats, etc.
Kenyon Moon feels the rail needs better bike and pedestrian access. There also
needs to better first and last mile service. She felt there have been too many
investments for TOD in the corridor to pull service now.
Doug Schriner feels the RTD should work on reliability and promotions.
Edward Stout stated that we need more frequent service on the R Line and better
service to City Center and Peoria stations.
Carol Streamer lives in Windsor Gardens. She would like to see more Route 3
service and better reliability.
Mary Berish also felt that reliability and more service would help with ridership.
Vickie Spillane said that it’s too early to cut service. We should keep it as is for
now.
Goodman is an occasional rider on the H Line. He felt it was too early to cutback
service due to TOD investments in the area. He also stated that it’s hard to board
with a suitcase.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 177

12.I.b

Thursday, September 21st, 2017
Central Park Recreation Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Dan Merritt, Cesar Ochoa and Jeff Dunning. There were 19
members from the public in attendance.

Attendees were concerned with the termination of the route 89. Primary concerns
were loss of access to a grocery store/pharmacy and schools for residents of the
area, as well as disruption of commutes for employees of Anschutz Medical Center
Campus. There were multiple residents of Bluff Lake Apartments, an affordable
housing community at 10425 E 31st Ave; some of which stated that their
disabilities prevented them from being capable of utilizing other options.
Suggestions from the community members included rerouting the route 89 to
entice higher ridership, assigning smaller vehicles to the route to save money and
lessen the impact of the route on the neighborhoods, increased frequency to
attract more ridership, and community activism to promote the route. The
overwhelming sentiment was the desire for RTD to give the community until the
May 2018 service change to increase ridership before determining to cancel the
route.
Friday, September 22nd, 2017
NE Denver
Glenarm Recreation Center
5:30 PM
Staff in attendance included Kim Kinnison and Jessie Carter. There were 3 members from
the public in attendance.
Brian Linde expressed concerns about the Route 28/28B proposal and questioned whether
a reroute of the 32 off of Glenarm could be considered when activities are programed on
Glenarm Street. Additionally, he would prefer that the D Line not change as listed in the L
Line proposal, but thought the weekend change to the initial proposal was an
improvement.
Ed Slattery spoke in opposition of the L Line proposal, as he is a resident of the Barnum
neighborhood and uses the D Line to access the US Bank branch on Welton Street. He
also had questions regarding L Line proposal and the future of the Central Corridor
Extension.
Helen Bushnell commented on the consolidated stop proposals, stating that she believed
the closing stops goes against RTD’s goals of serving the customer. She also criticized the
public outreach for service changes, noting the low turnout at the public meeting.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 178

12.I.b

Monday, September 25th, 2017
Green Valley Ranch Community Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Dan Merritt, Cesar Ochoa and Jeff Dunning. There were 4
members from the public in attendance; one of whom was from the Montbello Organizing
Committee.
Most of the comments were against the reduction in service of the Routes 42 and 45.
There were also comments about: more service in Montbello, greater advertising, rude Bus
Operators, safety, multiple language brochures, re-establishment of the Montbello PnR,
and public hearings at Aurania. There was one request for a new local private carrier to
operate additional circulator service within Montbello.
Map of Route 89 Community Access Impact was submitted. See below:

Wednesday, September 27th, 2017
Denver Tech Center
Koebel Library
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Kim Kinnison and Jeff Becker. There were 4 members from
the public in attendance, along with RTD Board Members Ken Mihalik and Natalie Menten.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 179

12.I.b

Brock Armstrong requested that rush hour goes later than 6:00 pm and agreed that
service reductions made sense. He also stressed that Heather Gardens needs the
R line and that it should be given more time for the public to get used to the
service.
Victoria Bingham was against cuts to the R Line and stressed that more students
will be taking it and passengers with luggage to the airport. She also added that
the VA hospital will be opening next year and adding more demand.
Paul Thomas also would like to see rush hour service extended to 7:00 pm and
mentioned new construction and apartment buildings.
Thursday, September 28th, 2017
Golden Community Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Eric Miller and Doug Monroe. There were ? members from
the public in attendance, along with Mayor Marjorie Sloan, Ward 1 Councilor Marcia
Claxton, District 1 Councilor Saoirse Charis-Graves, Ward 4 Councilor Laura Weinberg and
Golden Planning Manager Rick Muriby.
Mayor Marjorie Sloan was glad RTD came to Golden for a hearing. She commented that
LRT is a powerful tool. Golden is an RTD partner and has invested money in pedestrian
infrastructure to reach transit facilities, in the Golden Call-n-Ride, and that Golden would
continue to invest. You cannot build ridership while cutting service.
Ward 1 Councilor Marcia Claxton commented 15% of W Line boardings are going to
Jeffco Station and the services offered there. She requested that RTD not discourage
ridership by cutting frequency and that the fare to and from Jeffco Station are too high.
She commented that it is more convenient to take the bus when going to the Civic Center
end of Downtown.
District 1 Councilor Saoirse Charis-Graves commented that the Golden City Council is
committed to transit. They are supporting transit by investing in bicycle, pedestrian, and
call-n-ride to reach the W Line. She commented that reduced frequency will reduce
ridership and that RTD and Golden are partners.
Ward 4 Councilor Laura Weinberg commented that the fare structure makes it cheaper for
people to drive and ride from other stations. Commuters to Golden need the options as do
people traveling to human services in Golden. She requested that RTD partner with service
groups to provide trips and boost ridership.
Michael Laden commented that it was confusing to know which train would run through
all the way to Jeffco.
Leslie Markovchicks commented that decreasing service will decrease ridership.
Alex Cordova commented that he works at 6th and Federal and that it is faster and cheaper
to drive than take the W Line. He commented that he A Line has broken down on him and
would like SkyRide buses to return. He suggested that reducing the fare would increase
ridership.
Judy Wilkinson commented that the Arvada A Line was better than the current transfer
that is required to reach the airport from Arvada and requested that the W Line frequency
remain as is. She said that service to and from Boulder is terrible and requires one to go to

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 180

12.I.b

Denver off-peak times. She said that global warming should be cause for more transit
service.
Cristina Bishop stated that decreased frequency would cause her to drive to and from the
airport.
Lauren Strain is an LRT proponent. She commented that she can’t make her 5am shift at
the airport with the current schedules. She like the AF bus better. She commented that
the only good route in Golden is Route 16 and requested no cuts to the W Line.
Jim Dale of the Golden Sustainability Advisory Board and Citizens Budget Advisory Board
has the goal of reducing VMT. He suggested that the W Line needs express service and
more marketing.
Dixie Termin said that Jeffco Station is less used because it is a cheaper fare from the
Federal Center and that RTD should redraw fare zones to increase ridership.
Gail Henry asked how cuts can be proposed when the W Line is full and why it is not as
important as other lines.
Deborah Deal said that RTD can’t worry about money now when we are planning for the
future. The W Line is a long term investment and Jeffco Government Center will expand.
Marv Morgan said that cutting services and raising prices is a good way to fail. He
suggested RTD try lower fares for 1 year.
Barbara Calo felt that night and weekend cuts were appropriate, but not weekdays. She
said people don’t want to think about the schedule.
Jordan Beezley of the Community Sustainability Advisory Board has the goal of reducing
VMT and encouraging public transit. He said that because the Call-n-Ride will be every 15
minutes that 15 minute service on the W Line is necessary. He requested that cuts be
deferred by 1 year to allow for ridership to increase. Transit service is about more than
money.
Ivan Soto said that cuts are a step backward and it needs more marketing.
Alex Newman said that public health should promote transit to reverse the obesity and air
quality trend. She commented that we should be decreasing the cost of transit and
increasing the cost of driving.
Georgia Mraz said that LRT is a good idea and there are many cars at the Jeffco garage.
She requested no cuts to service.
Golden Planning Manager Rick Muriby said that Golden is making investments to enhance
the W Line and that the timing is disappointing. They increased call-n-ride service and
want to give it time to increase W Line ridership. He suggested RTD wait 1 year or only
cut nights and weekends.
Bill Kitson said that more marking is needed at Mineral Station.
Don Cameron said that cuts should be deferred for 1 year as they more access is being
provided and more density is planned.
LuAnne Dale said that students need the midday service.
Jennifer Zacker said that Downtown Golden needs bus service to Jeffco Station and a
lower fare on the W Line is needed. She said that the trip planner ignores the W Line and
instructs her to drive to I-25 & Broadway Station.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2018 Service Changes (3276 :

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings–
January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 181

12.I.b

First Name

Last Name

Email

Additional Comments

1

Tammy

Levin

tjlevin@gmail.com

12

1

Rhiannon

Lowrey

toothlessdragongirl@gmail.com

12

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

It doesn't make a whole lot of sense to eliminate the Louisiana and Pearl
eastbound bus stop for local route 12, considering this is at a light rail
station. Many, many people get on at this stop including me multiple times
per week.
My name is Rhiannon Lowery, and I am a 7th grader at Morey Middle
School off of 14th and Emerson, and your changes to the 12 bus strongly
affect me. The reason that it affects me is because I take this bus to school.
In the morning I get off at 14th and Downing with my Nana, and at 3:055:05 I go to 14th and Corona to go home. Unfortunately however these are
two stops you guys plan to eliminate, which is a HUGE inconvenience to
me, and many other students of Morey and DSISD who take this RTD bus. I
know that the 12 is a long route, so I propose, why not make a 12 L? Have
it stop at all the school bus stops, and the train stations, and any other
highly used stops on the usual 12. It will shorten the ride, and ensure that
there is one route with all of he bus stops, and one route with only some of
the stops. Thank you for your time, and I hope you can take my idea into
consideration.
I support the proposed stop consolidations for Route 12. I'm also surprised
you weren't able to consolidate the two stops northbound on Downing
Street between 31st and MLK. Likewise, I'd also support consolidation of
two close stops southbound on Downing Street on either side of 34th St.

15

1

Lingjia

Hu

lingjia_hu@dpsk12.org

20

1

Joseph

Gergely

gergelme@msn.com

Route
12

Support

Opposed

Inquiry

I am one of teacher working in difficulty service school area at Montbello.
Would you please keep 15' schedule for certain time of weekdays' rush
hours, for example 6:30am to 8am, 3:30pm to 5:00pm. In this case RTD can
provide our students and teachers better transfer service. As a teacher we
can service students better.
20th & Reed is the main bus stop for the Dept. of Revenue (DOR) and
drivers licenses etc. etc. the DOR address is Pierce St. but the building
covers 2 square blocks in each direction and everyone knows you can only
enter the DOR from Reed St. side. This bus stop is for the convenience of
every one who has mandatory business with the DOR especially the
handicapped that would have to travel 2 long blocks west and 1 block
south up the hill, not to mention the cross streets, parking lots and
sidewalks during snow storms, if they even get shoveled. I can offer a
solution, remove the next westbound bus stops at Teller St. both are
dangerous in both directions. There are no sidewalks and the eastbound
bus stop is literally 2 ft. higher than the road and the westbound bus stop is
2 ft. from moving traffic and no where to move without a side walk.
Removing the Teller St. bus stops would also help to keep the westbound
Vance St. bus stop for local riders, the daycare center and as the last stop
and connection to the northbound Route 76. I will do my best to attend all
service change meetings…Thank you sincerely… JOSEPH J GERGELY

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 182

12.I.b

20

1

Tiffany

J

tjiff10@gmail.com

20

1

Ron

Smith

FB

Jude

Buemi

j-lbuemi@peoplepc.com

45

1

Diana

Aguilar

863311@dpsk12.net

I am writing regarding the proposed changes to the Westbound 20 bus and
the possible consolidation of the stop at 18th and Pennsylvania Street. I am
requesting that the stop remain on the route as there is a bus shelter at
this stop, which cannot be found at the following stop at Grant Street.
Having a bus shelter with awning is particularly helpful in the winter
months and helps to block the harsh sun in the hot summer months. In
addition, there are many nearby apartments and businesses that benefit
from this stop, which is also fairly safe and clean. Since this stop has a bus
shelter, I ask that RTD reconsider the consolidation of the Westbound 18th
and Pennsylvania Street stop for the route 20 bus. Thank you for your
consideration.
I don't want you to remove the stop at 20th & Reed St. I take the 20 all the
time, and it runs hot and has to kill time in downtown, so why does this
stop need to be eliminated?
I would like to comment regarding the route 37. I did not find this
particular service changes proposed, however I have a change I would like
to propose for this route. What I am proposing and pushing for today is
extending the "morning rush" frequency of every 30 minutes by one
additional trip westbound. Currently after 8:30 AM the rt 37 operates
hourly from 40th/Airport. I propose adding a 9 AM departure westbound
from 40th/Airport. Currently the driver of the eastbound trip departing
40th/Colorado at 8:03 AM pulls into the garage after arriving 40th/Airport
at 8:57 AM. I believe the addition of a 9 AM departure could be
accomplished fairly easily by having this driver departing 9 AM on a
westbound trip instead of pulling in. Thank you for your consideration.
Please feel free to contact me if you wish.
Attached Letter

45

1

Steven

Arias-Serrano

845660@dpsk12.net

Attached Letter

45

1

Bridgett

Grumley

BRIDGET_GRUMLEY@dpsk12.org

Good afternoon RTD! Today you may have received some other letters in
regards to the proposed changes to bus 45 in January. I am a high school
teacher at Denver Center for International Studies in Montbello. I
encouraged my students to choose a take action project this week, and
many chose to focus on bus 45. As a rider of bus 45 M-F during rush hour,
it is extremely important that it runs frequently and every 15 minutes. Our
bell rings at 3:15 and students run to the bus stop pretty much every 15
minutes up until about 4:30, due to after school clubs, tutoring, teachers
taking care of extra business etc. When I say run, I literally mean run. 15
minute increments are pretty convenient, and this neighborhood really

1

37

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 183

12.I.b

45

1

Jazmin

Ubaldo

674723@dpsk12.net

45

1

Cristal

vazque

845566@dpsk12.net

needs to convenient public transportation that is accessible during the
peak hours. Our schedules are already quite long with transferring from
the A line, and R line. The schedule as is, works for us getting to and from
work at a reasonable time and safely. Several students get on at the
Albrook stop, and off at the Peoria station. If the time is reduced, I worry
that even more students will be tardy, or be stressed with finding
alternative transportation if they live outside of the school bus boundaries.
Please keep in mind the working people and students as you make your
decision, as the Montbello neighborhood already has limited
transportation. Teacher in Montbello and bus 45 commuter
Dear RTD, today September 26,2017 the bus line 45 decided it should run
every 30 minutes instead of 15 this is going to effect the Montbello
community because at Montbello high school we have students as well as
teachers that take that bus to come and be ready to learn. If students
come in late to class everyday there slowly loosing there education
because everyday will build up more and more. As well with teachers if
teachers came in late they wont be able to teach us as students and the
kids that don't even ride the bus will also loose there education. Changing
the bus schedule will not benifit anyone because it will mess up there daily
routine. Many of our teachers take that bus for example Mrs. Hu, Miss.
Grumley, Mr. Waghmare, and Mrs. Mcconnell. With them taking the bus
and the bus schedule changing its going to effect us students alot because
without teachers we cant get any education. At the moment that the bus
schedule is right now we dont have a really big issue but when it changes it
gunna be a big effect. Hopefully uou got the chance to read this letter and
not change the bus schedule
Bus line 45 is very important to Denver Public Schools.Teachers and
students use this bus to get to and from school. I know students who use
this bus to get to school, and how they don't like walking, because it's far,
and the weather, it gets very hot or very cold. And students have to carry
big books in their backpacks, which I've had to do, walking and it hurts my
back. Students and teachers need the bus line to run every 15 minutes in
order for them to get here on time to teach/learn. My biology teacher
Miss. Grumley, uses this bus line to get to work and to go home, the light
rail is not close to this neighborhood and bus line 45 is one of the few
convenient public transportation options. Changing the time would be
very inconvenient for lot of people, teachers and students and other
people who need to go places. Some students opted out of their Montbello
neighborhood school and go downtown and need line 45 to run every 15
minutes, other students who are outside of the school bus boundary use
line 45 to get to and from school, so please consider keeping the time the
same. Thank you for your time!

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 184

12.I.b

89

1

Phillip

Ferrero

Phillip.Ferrero@childrenscolorado.org

89

1

Mary Jo

Impalli

mjidenver@comcast.net

89

1

Coleen

colleenlampron@gmail.com

89

1

Michael

Lampron,
MPH
Lopez

I am asking you to keep the 89 route from Central Park to the Anschutz
Medical Campus. I take this route in 2-3 days per week to get to work on
the campus, specifically to Children's Hospital Colorado. I rely on this
route, and would be adversely affected if this route is discontinued. I see a
number of other riders who use the 89 route to make it to Anschutz
Medical Campus, so closing this route who affect others who work at the
campus, too. I expect that additional infrastructure build out at the
Anschutz Medical Campus and in Stapleton, specifically the space around
Central Park Station, will improve ridership in the coming years.
I am writing because I have just learned that RTD wishes to discontinue
service on the 89. I hope you do not do that. I will be 81 in November and
stopped driving this year. Not driving would make me dependent on my
family but the 89 bus keeps me independent
.I can get it on 29th near my house and go to Central Park Station and then
bus anywhere I need to go. In the other direction I can go to Eastbridge
King Sooper, or, as I did this morning, I can go to University Hospital for
tests scheduled by my doctor. I may be too elderly to be comfortable
driving my own car but I want to be independent as long as I can. The bus
allows me to be independent. I know the ridership is low but I see people
when I ride who are going to work at the hospital or going to work at
Eastbridge King Sooper. They may not be many but they depend on the bus
to get to their jobs. I hope you will take them and their need for
transportation, and my need for transportation into consideration when
you make your final decision. Without the 89, I have no way to get to
Central Park station to get on another bus or to take the train to the
airport.

I catch the 89 bus at the Central Park Station to work at 2700 Moline to
arrive by 6:00pm. It is a very short trip and I get to work early. I pick up 89
bus at 4:55pm and get there at 5:07pm. I know kids take it to school and it
is a whole bunch of them! I do not want you to take it away. You say low
ridership but you only run it once an hour! It isn't our fault that there is low
ridership! Helloooo! You only run it once and hour! If you take it away
that won't build ridership. If you take it away we will not be able to get to
our destination!

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 185

12.I.b

1

89

90

1

Sarah

McGregor

smcg21@hotmail.com

So, let me get this straight: you set up a route with such limited service and
illogical route that no one rides it, then you want to discontinue it because
no one rides it? I have contacted everyone I can think of about this route-my RTD board members, councilperson, and neighborhood transportation
association and you did nothing to improve ridership! Here's what I said
then, and it still stands: For the 89 to serve the community: it needs to
run frequently, not every hour. Should be at least every 30 minutes or
better. It needs to serve the 29th Avenue town center, not turn at Central
Park Boulevard. It should run on Martin Luther King Boulevard rather than
29th. How about fixing routes instead of discontinuing them?

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

I support renaming the Route 90 Limited from Civic Center Station to US 36
& Sheridan Station as Flatiron Flyer Route FF7.
Ever since the 4:55 PM bus was removed there has been overwhelming
crowding on the 5:10 and 5:25 buses. Most days there are at least 5-10
people that are required to stand while the bus navigates top speeds on I70. This poses major safety concerns for those standing. With the
numerous delays to the G Line, Arvada bus options should not be cut back
in this time of need. The passenger demand clearly exists to bring back the
4:55 bus. Thank you for taking the time to read my feedback and
considering ways to make the bus service better from Arvada to Denver. I
appreciate everything you do to bring great public transportation options
to our city.
I would like to **Requestthat the 4:55 p.m. return from Union Station to
Olde Town Arvada be reinstated. With the current growth of the area, all
55L buses seem to be getting more crowded everyday. However, the 5:10
p.m. has been exceptionally full. Most days there are multiple people left
standing for the 20+ minute ride. Yesterday, the bus arrived at Union
Station a couple of minutes late, and there were people standing all the
way to the back of the bus. Having a 24 minute gap between the 4:46 p.m.
and the 5:10 p.m. during peak rush hour doesn't make sense. Please
consider reinstating the 4:55 p.m. to ease the congestion for the rush hour
commuters.

55L

1

Matt

Hohnholt

matthohnholt@gmail.com

55L

1

Andrea

Vinnola

AVINNOLA@msn.com

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 186

12.I.b

1

B/E Line

Bus Stop
Consolidation
20

C

1

1

James

French

JFrench@cobank.com

Renee

Cleroult

cleroultrmf15@centurylink.net

John

Vanderau

vanderau@icloud.com

When looking at the upcoming light rail schedule changes, please consider
travelers trying to connect from the B line to E line. Currently the B-Line
arrives at Union Station at 7:54-7:56 (on an every 30 minutes schedule).
The E-Line departs the other set of platforms (850 feet away) at 7:58 (on
an every 15 minute schedule). I can occasionally make the connection
between the two platforms by being the first person off the train at the
closest door, crossing Wewatta street regardless of the crossing light and
running as fast as I can. If the B-line is more than 45 seconds late, or there
is heavy traffic on Wewatta, I will end up missing the south bound E line by
seconds. This forces me to wait 15 minutes (for the next E line). It also
increases my commute by over 20%. If I miss this connection consistently,
I end up losing over 5 hours a month to this mismatch. I know that I am
not the only person who takes the B-line to the E-line. Please consider the
timing between these two routes. Moving the B-line’s arrival by as little as
2 minutes earlier would greatly improve the commute for the many riders
who take this route.
I find this bus stop useful when coming back with groceries; that way I do
not have to cross Quebec which has a lot of traffic. The shade of the trees
in the park is also welcomed in 90+ weather.
Thank you for proposing to increase the frequency of service of the "C"
line, especially during rush hour. While it is regrettable that "D" line service
must be decreased to accommodate increased frequency of "C" line,
service, hopefully going to four-car trains will adequately offset the
reduction in frequency of "D" line trains. Thanks again for proposing this
change.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 187

12.I.b

C & D Lines

1

Dave

Ostermeier

dfostermeier@avaya.com

C LIne

1

Catherine

Cali

catherinecali@hotmail.com

C Line

1

Bridgett

Glynn

bridget.r.glynn@gmail.com

For years I’ve been riding the H line to Broadway and transferring to C or D
going South to Mineral where I catch the 403 line. The H usually comes in
to the station just as a D line leaves. I’ve asked customer service to see if
the train could wait, especially if it sees the H arriving at the station but I
was told it needs to keep it’s schedule. I asked if there would be anything I
could do but was told it is up to the driver of the D to determine if they can
wait. Also most never have I or the people trying to make the same
connection made the D. This is very frustrating as we seem to only make
the connection if the D line is late. I personally take an earlier train so I
have extra time to get to work on time, as I’m sure the others do. When I
do catch the D line it gets me to the 403 and to my work 30 minutes
earlier.
I have asked if a courtesy wait could be asked for at Broadway for the D
line and was told that is not an option. I asked about a hold for the 403 and
was told I would need to call each day and that I would probably not make
it in time anyway as they only hold the bus a few minutes.
I have been looking at schedules for the trains and others around the
country and found may other locations are better timed. RTD however
scheduled the connections, or lack thereof, to specifically make travelers
from Aurora to the Southwest side miss the connections.
Each H line train is scheduled to arrive one minute after a D line is
scheduled to leave. Can consideration be made to align the connections to
allow Aurora commuters to make the connections? Have the D line arrive
and wait and be scheduled to leave at the same time (or following minute)
which would allow the connection? I have traveled at different times the
same route and see about half a dozen or more commuters in the same
situation. We would all be pleased not to need to wait 10 to 30 minutes
because of poor planning. Other than that, I think RTD is doing a great job.
Dear RTD Management and Board. Until this summer, I was a rider on the
D Line between the Littleton Mineral Station and Downtown Denver. I
truly appreciated the fact that there was a train every few minutes due to
the fact that there were both the 18th and California Line and the 30th and
Downing line. This summer, my Firm moved to a LoDo location close to
Union Station. I now ride the C Line between Mineral and Union Station.
The convenience of being near Union Station is nice, however, the 30
minute span between trains is trying. One evening last week I was
validating my ticket just as the doors closed and the train departed. Having
to wait a half hour for the next train was frustrating enough but there are
also times when it is difficult to get a seat on the busy train. Some days
people are squeezed in like sardines. Following a Rockies game, the
platform is like a mob scene and some people take on a mob attitude
trying to get on the train. I think it would be beneficial, to all, to increase
the C Line schedule to every 15 minutes at rush hour.
Any chance RTD might increase the C line to have more trains per hour.
Right now the its only twice per hour and the train gets really crowded. 30
mins between train times is a really long wait.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 188

12.I.b

C Line

1

Eric

Mannino

manninoeric7@gmail.com

For the January 2018 service changes please don't operate the C line on
weekends instead of the D line please make the L Line & D line run
together on weekends.

C Line

1

Trina

Wallingford

kmwallingford@gmail.com

For the most part - I am onboard with changes to C & D lines. The one
change I am not in favor of is discontinuing the services after midnight. I
believe it is RTD's civic responsibility to provide safe, affordable
transportation to the community. Reducing the service after midnight will
exclude individuals that live on the southwest side of Denver from having
safe & affordable transportation from Denver after sporting events &
concerts. RTD continues to deprive the Southwest corridor of both bus
and light rail services in favor of those communities closer to the city of
Denver. Ridership will continue to decrease in these areas unless those
same riders can count of frequent, consistent transportation from bus/light
rail stations. I feel that RTD should consider that more affluent individuals
are moving closer to the city of Denver that can afford Uber, Lyft & taxis
while individuals who are less affluent are continually losing frequent,
consistent transportation services to access Denver & DTC services.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 189

12.I.b

C Line

1

Sheila

Webb

sheila1923@earthlink.net

I am writing again to express my sincere concerns about the proposed
elimination of some of the D line trains during peak periods and the
“replacement” with additional C line trains and four car trains on the
remaining D line trains. I have been a commuter from Littleton Downtown
Station since its inception and, during peak periods, I have observed that
the D line service is frequented by about 75% of the passengers, with the C
line only frequented by the remaining 25%. Union Station is not central.
Even during the Summer Semester at the Auraria Campus, the peak period
D line trains are consistently crowded, with most seats gone by the time
the trains leave the Englewood or Evans stations going northbound, and
usually the southbound D line trains are standing room only at the
Convention Center or Auraria Campus stops. The proposed “addition” of
an extra car to the remaining D line trains is a non-entity because during
the Fall and Spring Auraria semesters it seemed to me that many of the
peak period D line trains had four cars last year. This year so far, there are
typically only three cars on the D line trains which is a reduction not an
addition. When there were four car trains, the D line was crowded and
seating for people who go to work in downtown Denver was very limited
indeed. However, even given the fact that D line train seating is limited,
passengers still do not use the uncrowded C line trains to downtown,
because, as far as I can see, most passengers prefer to use the D line
service, probably because it is more convenient for their office location and
it is more central than Union Staton. I use the Convention Center station
downtown and D line service is more convenient for me. Going
southbound, having to use the Southeast line trains and change at
I25/Broadway is not an option for two reasons: first, the Southeast Line
trains are already overcrowded when they leave the Convention Center /
downtown area, and secondly, the need to change at I25/Broadway to
catch a C line train could add as much as 15 minutes each way to my
morning commute, and would probably add 30 minutes to my evening
commute as I would probably miss my bus connection at Littleton
downtown station. In addition, changing trains at I-25/Broadway would be
especially difficult during inclement weather. In addition, the front car of
the D line trains is almost always overcrowded with people with disabilities
during peak periods, and often those people with disabilities have to stand
which is dangerous if the train has to make sudden stops. This
overcrowding in the front car occurs now when there are six D line trains
an hour during peak periods, and cutting that number of trains down to
four and adding an extra car to the remaining D line trains will not help this
problem, it will only exacerbate it. For the above reasons, I strongly
question the proposed reduction in D line service and replacement by
additional C line service from January 2018. Providing additional C line
service would increase service for sporting events, etc., but it would
severely inconvenience your bread and butter customers, the daily
commuters.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 190

12.I.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Melissa

Barnes

STEVE.MELISSA@msn.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Pam

Beckhorn

pjb@gallagherindustries.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Debbie

Champion

sadcham@gmail.com

As a loyal RTD patron, long time rider I appreciate RTD and what is offered
to our community. RTD provides a valuable service and plays an
important role in the lives of many. I am surprised to hear of this request
to move the 628am bus to an earlier time, by 20 minutes. I tend to catch
an earlier bus. In light of this proposal I chose to ride said bus this
morning. Seems to be a popular time. Rough count, about 18 riders
boarded at Pine Junction. With three more stops on the trip into Denver,
the bus was quite full. In speaking to other riders, its my understanding
the person requesting this change normally rides the 546am bus. Only
interested in the 628am being changed to 610am as a backup for when she
is running late. I too have those mornings but do not see this as anyone
else’s responsibility or to be addressed at the expense of others. Many
times I have taken the CS at 557am, changing busses in Aspen Park to the
617am CV. There are four departures offered in the 5-6am hour from
Pine Junction. Three more 628am to 705am. Seems to be adequate
options for those on a regular schedule. So what I am saying is I am not
understanding why a schedule that would effect so many be changed for
one rider. And as a backup for when she is late is even more puzzling.
We have just been made aware of the subject proposed change, and want
to share with you that this would be a hardship, and a step backward for
commuters. Kindly see my attached comments and reasons for requesting
this change NOT be approved. We need the CV @ 6:28 a.m., and hope you
will consider our position. Thank you for all you do.
It has come to my attention that you are planning to revise the time I ride
the CV in the morning. It is the CV leaving 6:28 am from Pine Junction.
This will create a hardship for me. I get a ride to the bus in the morning
from my husband who is heading to work at that same time. Changing it to
6:10am will not work. As a result, I will have to sit at the park-n-ride till the
6:49 when the next bus arrives, which will get cold considering this is
during the winter. I did not see anything on the flyer on the window, and
was told to me by word of mouth yesterday. I hope my objection is
registered in time.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 191

12.I.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Stephanie

Kunkel

stephanie.kunkel@judicial.state.co.us

CV/CS/CX

1

Matt

McCleskey

mbmccleskey.1989@gmail.com

I write to you to express my concern over the proposed shift of the CV trip
leaving Pine Junction from 6:28 am to 6:10 am. It appears to have been
slipped into this change proposal at the last minute, possibly in an attempt
to sneak this through without many public comments. This change is not
thoroughly posted on the bus walls/windows for all riders to see, and
merely contained in the flyer. I believe this change is to accommodate the
schedule of a few, only to inconvenience the entire bus load of other
passengers who regularly ride this route at this time. If the few other
riders need to be into the Civic Center and into work by 7:30am , there is
another option of leaving on the 6:17am bus out of Aspen Park. I do not
believe a shift of the entire bus, only to benefit a handful of people is in
RTD’s best interests.
In addition, there are times during the winter when the bus does not show
up or is extremely late due to weather. When this happens, with this
proposed change, it could leave passengers waiting almost an hour for the
next bus. I feel the buses are spread out an appropriate amount of time to
accommodate all riders schedules. If there is not a bus that arrives in Civic
Center when you would need to arrive, with a total of 4 stops along 285
you have many other options and may just have to drive to another park &
ride. Please leave the CV bus schedule alone and do not make any changes
to this schedule or route. lease contact me if you need any further
comments or to discuss any other issues.
It was just made aware to me that there is a purposed schedule change for
the CV bus currently leaving from the Pine Junction Park and Ride at 6:28
a.m.. The proposed time is 6:10 a.m.. I would like to reach out to someone
with the authority to appeal this change before it takes effect in January.
The 6:28 a.m. CV currently carries 22 - 35 regular or semi-regular riders
who depend on the bus at that time in order to make it to work on time.
The overall issue that the purposed schedule change raises is that it is not
conducive to a regular 8-5 work schedule. Secondly, many of us travel
through feet of snow in the winter in order to make it to the 6:28 a.m. CV
on time. Occasionally, we miss it due to weather conditions or other
varying factors. With the current schedule there is a 21 minute wait in subfreezing temperatures for the next bus. With the purposed schedule there
is a 39 minute wait. This can pose a threat to the older passengers who
must endure this wait. Lastly, the passengers who are picked up at the
Twin Forks Park and Ride by the CV have a 37 minute time period between
buses which will be extended to a 55 minute gap with the purposed time
change. This also leaves a scheduling issue with many that depend on the
service of the current CV for work. Please let me know how I may voice my
concerns most effectively in order to influence the decision not to change
the current CV schedule. Thank you for taking the time to read my
concerns. I look forward to your reply.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 192

12.I.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Matt

McCleskey

mbmccleskey.1989@gmail.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Jackie

Nichols

nicholsj53@gmail.com

CV/CS/CX

1

Diana

Padgett

dianakeepsthebooks@gmail.com

I strongly object to the proposed changes to the C line schedule. This
impacts all of us who live in rural Bailey, Pine, Conifer, and the Morrison. It
is critical to my work schedule to have the current schedule remain as it is.
This change would completely eliminate my ability to use public transit!

CV/CS/CX

1

Coleen

Russell

rcolepete@aol.com

I am a daily regional bus rider on the CV/CS route picking up my bus in the
morning at the Twin Forks Park-n-Ride on Highway 285. I am writing to
oppose the proposed shift of the CV trip at 6:28 a.m. from Pine Junction to
instead start at 6:10 a.m. and arrive at Civil Center Station at 7:20 a.m.
There is already a 5:57 a.m. bus that departs Pine Junction and arrives at
Civil Center at 7:16 so you would only be getting riders to Civic Center 4
minutes sooner. In getting those riders 4 minutes earlier to Civil Center you
are depriving Twin Forks riders a bus for 55 minutes (the proposed new
schedule would have the CV arriving at Twin Forks at approx. 6:35 and then
the next bus - a CS - arrives at 7:30). Having that 6:28 a.m. bus that
departs Pine Junction and arrives at Twin Forks at 6:53 a.m. is extremely
important to riders in that area. Many times in the winter it is the only bus
that has shown up. Also, as an added comment, I think just in general
changing all the eastbound CX busses to CV busses would be a great
improvement.

It was just made aware to me that there is a purposed schedule change for
the CV bus currently leaving from the Pine Junction Park and Ride at 6:28
a.m.. The proposed time is 6:10 a.m.. I would like to reach out to someone
with the authority to appeal this change before it takes effect in January.
The 6:28 a.m. CV currently carries 22 - 35 regular or semi-regular riders
who depend on the bus at that time in order to make it to work on time.
The overall issue that the purposed schedule change raises is that it is not
conducive to a regular 8-5 work schedule. Secondly, many of us travel
through feet of snow in the winter in order to make it to the 6:28 a.m. CV
on time. Occasionally, we miss it due to weather conditions or other
varying factors. With the current schedule there is a 21 minute wait in subfreezing temperatures for the next bus. With the purposed schedule there
is a 39 minute wait. This can pose a threat to the older passengers who
must endure this wait. Lastly, the passengers who are picked up at the
Twin Forks Park and Ride by the CV have a 37 minute time period between
buses which will be extended to a 55 minute gap with the purposed time
change. This also leaves a scheduling issue with many that depend on the
service of the current CV for work. Please let me know how I may voice my
concerns most effectively in order to influence the decision not to change
the current CV schedule. Thank you for taking the time to read my
concerns. I look forward to your reply.
Please do not change the CV from Pine Junction from its 6:28 time slot.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 193

12.I.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Colleen

Russell

CV/CS/CX

1

Terence

Sheahan

Terry_Sheahan@cod.uscourts.gov

CV/CS/CX

1

Louanne

Swanson

Received via fax

CX/CV Regional RTD Busses - I would convert the CX bus routes to CV
routes so they include the Twin Forks Park-n-Ride. It is the only stop on the
route excluded on the CX route and you could include more ridership by
including the stop at that location -especially in the mornings on the
eastbound route as it goes right past it on the same side of the road.
Sometimes the CS and CV are late due to bad weather and people stand
out at the Twin Forks as a CX bus goes right by. Thanks for listening.
I am opposed to the proposed January, 2018 service change of the
CV/CS/CX route. I ask that you consider three points:
First, please re-check your departure and arrival figures for the proposed
"shift" to a 6:10am Pine Junction departure. The current CV runs to
downtown are both scheduled to take 60 minutes, which is accurate on
most days. Per your announcement, the proposed, new CV run to
downtown is scheduled to take 70 minutes. The earlier departure would
normally encounter lighter traffic, so this run would more realistically take
60 minutes or less. Thus the proposed CV run would arrive downtown,
most days, at 7:10am.
Second, like many of my fellow passengers on the CV bus leaving Pine
Junction at 6:28am, my work hours in downtown Denver are 8:00am to
5:00pm. We do not have flexible starting or ending work day options.
Currently, we arrive downtown at 7:28am. If this proposed schedule
change is made, the resulting Pine Junction departure options are either to
arrive downtown 50 minutes before the work day begins or be 5 minutes
late everyday. Everyone should agree that either option is unsatisfactory.
The current run is perfectly situated for the 8 to 5 workers. This proposed
change seemingly may benefit one person or a few, but I cannot imagine
the change is welcome by the vast majority of this route's riders.
Lastly, I am concerned that RTD did not offer a public meeting location
more convenient for their customers most affected by this change: Pine,
Mountain View, Aspen Park, and Twin Forks riders. I hope that future
consideration will be taken when a proposed change impacts your
CV/CS/CX route customers.
I am writing to express my concerns with the proposed route change to
shift the CV route to leave Pine Junction at 6:10 rather than 6:28. I am very
much against this change. Irst of all the CS, CV, and CX leaving Pine
Junction currently arrive at the Civic Center Station at 7:16, 7:38 and 8:05.
Fairly well spaced apart. Your proposals would change the arrivals to 7:16,
7:38, and 8:05. It doesn't make sense to have 2 buses arriving within 4
minutes and the next bus 45 minutes later. In addition, for those of s who
work at 8:00, this means we are either 40 minutes early or 5 minutes late.
Many of us spend 2-3 hours of our day on the bus. The thgouht of losing
another 40 minutes each day in order to get to work on time would for me
be prohibitive I would not be able to justify renewing my ecopass next
year and the resulting travel expenditures would pose a significant
hardship. The bottom line is that scheduling the CV and CS 39 minutes
apart is too long of a window for departure. Having the CS and CV arriving
wtihin 4 minutes is inefficient and the CX 45 later is unreasonable.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 194

12.I.b

CV/CS/CX

1

Louanne

Swanson

lougriffith@hotmail.com

D Line

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

G Line

1

Robyn

Cheatwood

bunnerbutts@hotmail.com

G Line

1

Veronica

Thomas

ronnie.thomas@FaegreBD.com

General

1

Hillary

Lampert

lovez2read@gmail.com

I am writing to express my concerns with the proposed route change to
shift the CV route to leave Pine junction at 6:10 rather than 6:28. I am
very much against this change. First of all the CS, CV and CX leaving Pine
Junction currently arrive at the Civic Center Station at 7:16, 7:38 and 8:05.
Fairly well spaced apart. Your proposals would change the arrivals to 7:16,
7:20 and 8:05. It doesn’t make sense to have 2 buses arriving within 4
minutes and the next bus 45 minutes later. In addition, for those of us who
work at 8:00, this means we are either 40 minutes early or 5 minutes late.
Many of us spend 2-3 hours of our day on the bus. The thought of losing
another 40 minutes each day in order to get to work on time would for me
be prohibitive. I would not be able to justify renewing my ecopass next
year and the resulting travel expenditures would pose a significant
hardship. The bottom line is that scheduling the CV and CS 39 minutes
apart is too long of a window for departure. Having the CS and CV arriving
within 4 minutes is inefficient and the CX 45 minutes later is unreasonable.
Attached Letter

R Line

1

Kritter

42

kritter42@gmail.com

Can you please provide an update on the g line? The last official update
posted on the website was May 1st.
When will we have any additional information concerning the G line
opening? Thank you!
Instead of cutting important lines and losing even more riders than you're
alreafy doing why dont YOU change what is consdered peak hours. In
todays world a lot more people work earlier than the old days thinking of 8
to 5. So change peak hours to 4 am or 4:30 - 8:30 am & 2:30 pm to 6 pm?
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jill

Adams

bea_flatt88@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dylan

Adler

d12adler@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jamie

Alberico

j.walborn@gmail.com

Hi, my name is Dylan and I take r-line to my work (Walmart) sometimes as
a secondary option if I couldn't make it to 66 bus stop at the Arapahoe and
village center station. Please don't change, cut or reduce the services/time
schedule if R-line because it give me a hard time to get to my work place.
Instead of reducing services, cut into one car of R-line that way it is much
easier for everybody including myself. Thanks for the time of looking into
this.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Andrea

Anderson

ajanderson_1992@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
In addition ask the city of Aurora to do away with paid parking at the Iliff
station and make it free. This will greatly increase the ridership on the R
Line.

R Line

1

Jeff

Anderson

olpin@outdrs.net

R Line

1

Russ

Anderson

randers51@comcast.net

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 195

12.I.b

R Line

1

Aleta

Antoinette

homesthatgive@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Karen

Arnold

karenarnold@mac.com

Dear RTD Board Member, I live at Le Chateau, the townhome complex
directly across from the Iliff Station. I beg you not to reduce service on the
R Line. Many of us depend upon that line getting to and from work. Please
give the Little Train that could more of a chance,

R Line

1

Rolf

Arnold

rarnold2@earthlink.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I strongly urge the RTD board of Directors to not support or approve any
service reduction in RTD’s rail system. It is completely unacceptable to cut
service on the R Line after just becoming operational within the last five
months. Please RTD leave the R line as is and give it a chance to succeed
your goals. Many of us live in retirement communities which the R line
services. It has been critical to give us a way to get south, downtown, and
to the airport. With our limited abilities physically, the RTD has been a real
service to our community.
Please reconsider, we now have a stress free way to get around, were we
can meet and talk to strangers face to face. And it's all stress free. We like
riding our bikes to Abilene station and taking the train every where. Please
don't cut the service. Can it be advertised??
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

David

Baker

doublehorn@comcast.net

R Line

1

Karen

Barber

TUE2899@msn.com

R Line

1

Hillary

Bates

hillaryanne08@yahoo.com

R Line

1

Barbara

Becker

R Line

1

Miguel

Bernal

mbernal@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Nicole

Bernal

nicolebe87@gmail.com

R Line

1

Cat

Bloom

mountaincat222@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Kent

Blumberg

kent@kentblumberg.com

Letter attached

Bowie

craig.bowie@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Craig

R Line

1

Michael

Brinkley

michael.brinkley@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Kimberly

Brown

kmopflo@gmail.com

I am a frequent rider of the R line, as I live close to the Colfax station stop. I
think it would be wiser to have the H line come up to Peoria Station and
maintain the schedule that way, as I feel there is enough service to Lincoln.
H line would eliminate a lot of transfers, which would also mean people
getting to their destinations much quicker.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Carmelita

Buchholz

carmelitab@shiputs.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Elizabeth

Butt

elizabethbutt@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dan

Cameron

chickencoopmgmt@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 196

12.I.b

R Line

1

Warren

Campbell

WARREN.CAMPBELL@UCDENVER.EDU

R Line

1

Nancy

Charbonneau

nchar123@aol.com

I’m writing to express my disapproval of the reductions to the R Line that
are proposed to take effect in January. I live in Centennial, and I work at
the Anschutz Medical Campus. I take the train to and from work every day.
Currently, my commute home consists of taking the R Line from the
Fitzsimons Station to the County Line Station. If I am understanding the
proposed changes correctly, there would be no R Line service south of the
Florida station after 6pm. This means that, instead of taking a single train
from Fitzsimons to County Line, I would need to take three trains. I would
need to catch the R Line from the Fitzsimons Station to the Florida Station,
then transfer to the H Line, take the H Line from the Florida Station to the
Southmoor Station, then transfer to the E or F Line, and take that train
from the Southmoor Station to the County Line Station. And you well know
that, with each of these transfers, I would be wasting additional time as I
wait for the next train. If these changes go through, I’ll likely stop taking
the train altogether. Even though it results in a longer commute, I take the
train instead of driving because of the convenience. If these changes go
through, the train will no longer be convenient. Furthermore, it was
through slim chance that I was even made aware that these changes were
being proposed. I would imagine that many more patrons are also unaware
of these proposals, and would be unhappy with these changes. Also, all of
your proposed public meetings take place during my work hours. So, even
if I were interested in expressing these concerns in person, I would not be
able to do so. I hope you reconsider, or at least delay the reduction of
services until after 9pm instead of after 6pm.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Patty

Clark

patty@morningsidehomes.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
This is INCREDIBLY premature to make a decision like this. Maybe you
shouldn’t have built into Castle Rock… The citizens of Aurora voted for this.
Do not take it away. I strongly urge the RTD board of Directors to not
support or approve any service reduction in RTD’s rail system. It is
completely unacceptable to cut service on the R Line after just becoming
operational within the last five months. Please RTD Leaders, give the R Line
a chance.
I ride the light rail every day from the Iliff Station to go to school. If you
guys decrease the light rail times and close it on the weekends, how am I
supposed to ride the light rail that I paid for in my tuition? I waited for a
long time for the R-Line to open and now you want to take my access
away? There is new residential development that is going to be completed
within the next year which will also increase the riders of the R-Line. Also
the paid parking at the Iliff Station is rediculous, it should be free for local
residents like at other stations. Or possibly letting people park there for
free for the first 24 hours. I love riding the light rail and I hope you guys
don't make these changes of decreasing the light rail access. It would be
better to increase the rail traffic to every 15 minutes throughout the entire
day.

R Line

1

Tom

Clark

tclark@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Allison

Copeland

alli.copeland3@gmail.com

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 197

12.I.b

R Line

1

Susana

Coronel

scoronel21@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Maggie

Couch

magcouch@comcast.net

R Line

1

Michelle

Crawford

michelledawncrawford@gmail.com

It has come to my attention that after only six months, the RTD Board is
considering cutting services on the R Line. I have never heard of anyone
giving up so quickly! Why? More and more residential properties are
being built to provide easy access to the R Line. Aurora will continue to
benefit greatly from increased public transportation. Please give people a
chance to learn about it and use it! Surely you all know that we
desperately need to ease the crush on our roads and highways and added
pollution to our air, and light rail is the answer! Why did you vote to invest
in light rail for Aurora if you are ready to pull the plug after only six
months? Is there something going on that is not being shared?? What a
crushing blow to Aurora and all of its residents! Please reconsider this
hasty and potentially damaging action
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

John

Crouch

airforce1991@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jose

Cruz

Jose3.Cruz@usfoods.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Lisa

Dagner

ldagner17@yahoo.com

R Line

1

Bob

Dayton

bobdayton@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Michelle

Douglas

adomenge@auroragov.org

I am writing as an Ecopass holder and Aurora resident. An increase in the
frequency of buses which service nine mile station, a decrease in the
number of reserved parking spots at nine mile station or the elimination of
the city of Aurora’s parking fees at the Iliff R line station are all preferable
to reducing the frequency of service on the R line itself. I ride the R line to
the Anschutz Medical Campus for work whenever I can find parking at Nine
Mile. Bus service at my residence (139) is hourly and as such is not a viable
commuter solution. Please reconsider reducing the usefulness of the R
Line.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Eric

Dreas

Eric_Dreas@comcast.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Pat

Dunn

patdunn4@comcast.net

R Line

1

Sheryl

Eddings

sheryleddings@gmail.com

I feel that RTD has not made 100% effort to market the R line, and the
negative publicity RTD has garnered should be something RTD should take
into consideration. I'm asking that you reconsider this discriminatory
proposal that would affect the citizens of Aurora. Thank you for your time.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dawn

Erickson

dawnaroo@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Linda/Richard

Farrar

dotcommom@gmail.com

R Line

1

Laurie

Fay

laurielfay@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Hannah

Fliegel

laughingpurplerose@gmail.com

R Line

1

Tiffany

Fliegel

im4jc1@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Alondra

Flores

ahernand@Auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 198

12.I.b

R Line

1

Jorie

Fox

didier.jorie@gmail.com

R Line

1

Travis

Funk

travis.funk@me.com

It is unfair for RTD to now, after less than six months, to reduce service on
the R Line, threaten future development in the city and reduce regional
connections. Commercial development isn't even complete near our own
Iliff station - how can RTD cut access before those shops and housing
developments have even been filled? We chose to buy a house near the
Iliff line for the access we would gain to the area. If the R-Line is reduced,
we will lose that access. RTD should be invested in the long-term success of
the R Line, and reducing service will only hinder that growth. I strongly
urge the RTD Board of Directors to not support or approve any service
reduction in RTD’s rail system just yet. It is completely unacceptable to cut
service on the R Line after just becoming operational. This concern should
be re-addressed at a later date once all of the surrounding land has been
built up for use. Without that, there is no sound research to show that the
line is or is not being utilized.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Marcus

Gallardo

marcusgallardo@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Christina

Garcia

asilomar2189@hotmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Gerdin

rachel@listsellhappy.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Rachel

R Line

1

Chase

Gifford

giffordchase@gmail.com

R Line

1

Shane

Glaister

diverwolf@diverwolf.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Shannon

Gomez

shannongomez08@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I am against any reduction in service on the R-line. We have students,
faculty and staff that use the R-line to commute on off-peak hours to our
school at the Florida station since we teach classes until 11 at night. A
reduction in service would be disruptive to this group, especially our lowincome students. We have been very accommodating with our parking lot
since the Florida station planning did not include any parking spaces. I
hope that RTD will make accommodations for the off-peak ridership of the
R-line.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Chris

Gorrie

chris.gorrie@ecotechinstitute.com

R Line

1

Kim

Gotori

kimberlykgotori@gmail.com

R Line

1

Lana

Graham

ljgraham4444@comcast.net

And if you haven't already, I would encourage you to visit all the new
apartments under construction across from the Iliff Station. This could also
impact the long awaited plans for The Point at Nine Mile, which the
neighborhood has anticipated with great hope for many years!

R Line

1

Louis

Granado

info@tringraphics.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Cameron

Grant-Giles

chickencoopmgmt@gmail.com

R Line

1

Colleen

Green

colleengreen@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Shane

Griffin

raymondsgriffin@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 199

12.I.b

R Line

1

Melissa

Grove

melissa.n.grove@gmail.com

R Line

1

Nathan

Guerrero

guerrerotltc@msn.com

R Line

1

Nikol

Hall

nikol.d.hall@gmail.com

R Line

1

Stephanie

Hammond

stephaniehammond@comcast.net

R Line

1

Chryztii

Harrod

chryztii@gmail.com

I ride the R line every day to work and on Monday nights to attend my
master's classes at UCD. Please do not change the light rail schedule. If the
train stops at 6 pm (or even greatly reduces service times at that point) I
will no longer be able to take take public transportation to work. I chose to
buy a house near a light rail station so that I could take public
transportation to work and not sit on 225 like everyone else. I pay RTD
taxes, and would even pay more, with no issue because I know that I am
receiving a valuable service. Your organization champions a 'way to go'
campaign but by reducing service times so soon after opening the R line
you are not meeting that expectation. Please keep service times as they
are.
Cutting service to the R Line is a bad idea, let alone a public relations
nightmare. This will not increase support of funding light rail in the future.
Disappointed,
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I'm an Aurora resident who lives down the Street from the new R line. I
work as a professional downtown and take this train everyday at different
times throughout the day, evening and weekends. I also transfer to the A
line. I waited for years to benefit from the this service and it would be a
huge issue for me to only ride it during peak times and not weekends. In
other words, it wouldn't benefit me at all the use the light rail anymore
with these proposed changes. This might be the case for many other
current participants. I think you should allow the R line to run at least
through the winter before you decide after 6 months of operation to
reconfigure the route schedule. Perhaps a lot more people will use the
train this winter so they don't have to drive in the snow. I personally don't
park in the park n ride because I live close enough to walk, might that be
the case for a lot of other participants? How do you gage the participation?
By cars in the lots? Head count? t is really premature to make these
decisions. It might backfire and cause even less participation than you have
now. I am not looking forward to driving in the traffic again (especially in
the winter months), wear and tear on my vehicle, etc. because the new R
line executives want to scrap the routes after 6 months of operation?
Please allow the Aurora residents to vote or have some input in this
decision. After-all, its our taxes that expanded the R line to our area
correct?
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 200

12.I.b

R Line

1

Ryan

Harter

ryan.harter@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jacob

Hayes

sklz711@gmail.com

I'm writing to you in opposition of reduction of the light rail use on the R
line. For one, most of the time I use it is on the weekends. So you'll lose my
usage there. Two, the apartments by Illiff haven't even opened yet. This
seem like it is too soon to do a reduction without seeing what type of foot
traffic that brings. Third, in my opinion the train times need to be revised.
If I remember correctly the frequency kicks up too early in the morning
(4am if I'm not mistaken) for as much as it is used and then by like 5:30p
the frequency is reduced. I still see quite a few people waiting around later
than that and we have to stand around for 30 minutes waiting. Yeah screw
that I'll take an Uber for my time. Forth, why paid parking? I actually use
the train less since I have to pay for parking. With the price of parking and
a light rail ticket, it's almost the same price to use an Uber to DTC from
Illiff. Can we at least get 24 HR parking for free? That might actually be of
more use to a lot more people. The paid parking is probably my largest
deterrent. I think some more planning and long term outlook is needed
before you go and decide to due a reduction of that scale. But train
scheduling on the R line I think really needs to be looked at. It makes no
sense to have the trains running that frequently that early in the morning
and cutting them back so soon in the evening. Also I would consider
removing the paid parking and notifying residents of the change. My
neighbors have even complained about paid parking.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Philip

Henke

trehgr@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Laura

Henry

laurah2468@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Monica

Hensen

MONICA.HENSEN@UCDENVER.EDU

R Line

1

Robin

Herlocker

rherlocker@comcast.net

I ride the R Line sparingly but would like to ride more but the lack of
parking makes it an unreliable method for me. I live at Broncos PKWY and
Parker Road, I would park at the 9 Mile stop but the lot is full very early in
the morning. I have two points as to why the schedule should not be
reduced, the theme to both is that more riders are coming. 1) A solution
at 9 mile is coming! The remodel of the shopping center North of the 9
Mile stop and pedestrian bridge will increase ridership. I see almost daily
people attempting to cross Parker Rd where the proposed pedestrian
bridge is planned. 2) The VA hospital is about to open to patients. It is my
understanding that administration and research labs have moved into the
VA at Anschutz location. The medical office and patients will be moved
from Colorado Blvd. before the new year. Thank you for considering my
opinion. I hope you chose to maintain the current schedule through the
end of the year when I expect ridership will increase.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Monica

Hernandez

admin@2040Partnersforhealth.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Hess

mohhess@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Hickox

dhickox@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line
R Line

1
1

Mitchell
Don

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 201

12.I.b

R Line

1

Stephen

Hoemke

StephenH@aci-retail.com

R Line

1

Gary

Holbrook

gbhmlh@gmail.com

I have heard of the plans to reduce the service on the R line in Aurora. This
is actually going to be counter productive. You should be considering
starting earlier and ending later…My reasoning? Denver International
Airport! Currently, your first train arrives at the Iliff Station at 4:50 am.
This takes us to the A line and then to the airport. The problem? Most
businesses open at the airport at 5 am, Taking the first R line train gets us
to the airport at 6 am, then we must still go through security and get to the
concourse. Now for the other end of the schedule… The ending or final
train… On weekdays the final train leaves Peoria Station at 11:51 pm. This
means that we must catch the Your last R line train leaves at about 11:50
pm, which means we must catch the 11:27 pm train and hope for no
delays… When our business depends on customer flight schedules, this
means that at times our stores will not close until between 10 and 11 pm,
the associates must then get from the concourse to the train, and then
take the train to the R line. Any delays means that they could miss the final
R line train. What does this mean? It means that our employees must drive
the extra distance to the 40th and Airport park and ride even though many
of them live less than a mile from the R line. We cannot depend on
catching the final train and not getting stranded. In the morning it means
that we cannot take the light rail and get to work on time. Increasing the
service instead of decreasing it would resolve your problem with low
ridership, once people learn about the new schedules.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Mary Lee

Holbrook

gbhmlh@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
Letter attached

R Line

1

Rowena

Johnson

Rowena.Johnson@ch2m.com

R Line

1

Quinton

Jones

sonomadrem12@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Susana

Jones

jones.suzjones@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Judkins

judb303@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Bernadette

R Line

1

Tin

Kadej

theladeks@comcast.net

R Line

1

Jim

Keesey

jimkeesey@comcast.net

Letter attached

R Line

1

Jim

Keesey

jimkeesey@comcast.net

Letter attached - 2nd letter - Topic Public Hearing

Kennedy

reneerita@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Renee

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 202

12.I.b

R Line

1

Mike

Kidder

jedi5ive@hotmail.com

R Line

1

JoAnn

Kinsey

jkinsey@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Deb

Kirschbaum

Deb.kirschbaum@gmail.com

R Line

1

Natasha

Kreshi

natasha88@gmail.com

R Line

1

Erica

Krzyzanowski

ericaslp@gmail.com

I strongly urge RTD board of Directors to NOT approve any service
reduction in RTD’s light rail system. If the service reduction is due to a
smaller amount of riders than you thought you would be serving, then I
suspect it is a matter of marketing. Cutting services will be detrimental to
the future of the R Line. Get your thinking caps on and make people WANT
to ride the R Line! Once they try it and use it more than once, they will use
it more and more.
As someone who was excited for the R line to open, I was quite
disappointed when it did open. The train is slow through the north part of
Aurora and does not offer timely and direct transportation that people
expect from a light rail. It takes nearly 40 minutes to go from Peoria to Illif
and if you miss the R line connection from the A train or transfer from the
H train, that trip takes over an hour. The path of the train was poorly
selected with the train SLOWLY meandering through neighborhoods
instead of traveling quickly parallel to the freeway. Also connections to the
A line and H line are poorly timed which add unnecessary time (15-20
minutes) to a commute which have caused me to stop taking the R line all
together.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Greg

Kurrell

gregkurrell@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Hillary

Lampert

lovez2read@gmail.com

So RTD does it again, start the R Line people adjust everything to use it and
now you're taking it away. You dont want the R line starting until 5 am yet
the train that departs southbound from nine mile at 5:10 which would
have left peoria at 4:35am, basically has every seat full every damn day.
Thanks again for nothing, done supporting this shit system you call service.

RTD seem confused that the citizens of Aurora are not happy with your
adjustments to the R line, I assume your current staff does not remember
the G line. The G Line it went from Nine Mile Station to Lincoln Station, it
opened on November 17, 2006 (all the Express buses to Aurora where
discounted at the same time). RTD continually reduced service until it
closed May 3, 2009 due to low ridership. This was the first time RTD
overestimated the need a train from Aurora to the DTC. The citizens of
Aurora see a repeat in the works, service reduction then elimination of the
route, looking to a future of the tracks sitting there with no trains. Like
the light rail flyovers from I-225 to I-25 that sat unused for seven years.
My suggestion is to combine the H and R lines, it would allow for easier
transfers to the southbound trains and access to the A Line. At the
Southmore Station would become a transfer hub for the southbound trains
and the H to the A line.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 203

12.I.b

R Line

1

Hillary

Lampert

lovez2read@gmail.com

R Line

1

Amy

Larchick

larchickamy@hotmail.com

If lines are cut due to low riderships why dont you try to determine what
may be causing the low numbers and trying something to encouraging
more people to ride versus discouraging and punishing those that do use
it? Its definitely coming across as rider discrimination, that those with
early work hours in south metro are less valued than those in your deemed
peak hours. The kicker is some is us do the early horrible hours because its
the only time of day you can find parking at rtd lots, so were pushed to the
early hours then punished st the same time for it and make us less
important.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jacqueline

Lopez

jdlopez.09@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Luton

ronluton@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I have read in several places that RTD is considering cutting back service to
the R Line after only 6 months of operation. I am writing to tell you that
this is unacceptable to the community. To start with, our tax dollars go
into building this infrastructure. IT is supposed to bolster our community,
not hinder it. In addition, I think you might find that R Line participation is
a little off due to the fact that you have to PAY TO PARK, and then PAY TO
RIDE. This is not the same at Nine Mile, or any of the other lots I have used
over the years. Isn’t the whole purpose of the train to get cars off of the
road? The value of using the train is greatly diminished if I can’t park there.
I find it to be absurd. The Illiff station lot is constantly empty. I think
paying to park there is why. No other major city with trains or subways
requires pay to park that I have ever seen. The other issue is, that for a
year now, RTD has been unable to get the “train to the plane” line working
as it should. Imagine the costs you could save if you didn’t have to pay
people to sit at all those intersections. Talk about cost cutting! You want
more riders, but can’t get the most important connecting train to work
right. Don’t cut our service. It is an unacceptable answer to issues you
have created. Find better ways to service your customers, and the
ridership will follow. It is simple business.
I have heard that RTD is planning on reducing service on the R Line
between Iliff and Lincoln stations. This would be a massive disservice to
those of us who commute during the off-peak hours between Aurora and
Lone Tree. Although I am usually able to ride the train south to work
during the morning peak hours, if the proposed changes went through, I
would just miss the last train north, and be forced to transfer lines twice
just to get home in the evening. I understand the financial reasoning
behind this issue, however there are still a few of us, including two of my
coworkers, that depend on the current R Line schedule for our commutes.
Changing that would force all three of us and many others to give up on
public transit. I simply ask that you look at all other alternatives before
slashing service outside of peak time frames. Reduced frequency between

R Line

1

Ron

R Line

1

Melissa

Maahs

mmaahs@gmail.com

R Line

1

Andrew

Malkowski

malkoskiandrew@gmail.com

R Line

1

Reid

Matson

matson27@gmail.com

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 204

12.I.b

Iliff and Lincoln would be acceptable, as it would still save me time from
having to transfer between multiple lines.

R Line

1

CJ

Matthews

motorboat16@yahoo.com

The people of Aurora are disappointed in the City of Aurora, not RTDa.
COA fails to grasp that it is an urban area, spawl, not a compacted cityb.
COA does not account for the time it takes to walk and ride a bus to a light
rail station or simply drive to a station, that one has already passed their
destination or is halfway to itc. as one single parent stated, she spends
1.5 hours in each direction which is added to her time away from her kids;
she wished she could afford to fix the card. most people still require a car;
therefore, the cost savings is not what most project it to be and frequently
is more costly when considering the time on transportatione. COA built a
station expressly against that of the voters whom denied their fundingf.
the disregard to the housing communities which lost parking in front of
their own homes after decades whom have less parking than condominium
communities nowg. the people were taken aback by the inefficient use of
funds for an RTD parking lot on Blackhawk due to it's size, distance from
businesses and the fact people in the surrounding neighborhoods could
drive easier than take public transportation and walk the additional .5 - 1
mile to a business in good or inclement weatherh. Aurora buses were/are
frequently seen with hardly anyone on them prior to/after the light railI.
the people are well aware that COA has hidden a 5 mil levy tax on any and
all new bond issues for additional transportation funds regardless of the
type of bonds to which the people do not agree....this is not a little bit of
money, nor do the people have control or say in the use of these funds
The people of Aurora felt that Aurora pushed too hard for this segment,
too soon, and it would have been better years from now. COA needs to
accept themselves for what they are instead of trying to keep up with the
Jones' (Denver) which is only heard all too frequently from them. The
issues with the rail left potential riders with no confidence in it. Many of us
wonder how many people lost their jobs due to the breakdowns. It does
not appear that RTD has confidence in their system as their advertisement
at DIA is for their buses, not light rail. If the riders do not justify the
expense; then, routes and stops should be reworked until it is justified.
The COA can take responsibility and be held accountable to those limited
number of people that it impacts for having bypassed the will of the
people.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 205

12.I.b

R Line

1

Hillary

McAfee

hillaryanne08@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Rae Ann

McCardell

ramccardell@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
I live in Highlands Ranch and work in Aurora. I was really looking forward to
the opening of the R line, anticipating to save money on gas and avoid
traffic on my home. I did ride the train the first few days it opened, and I
was very disappointed to learn that it did not cut down on my commute. In
fact, it increased - it took me about an hour to get to work and an hour and
15 minutes to get home. If I took the train, I would be gone from home for
about 11 hours - this is time away from my family. Instead of getting home
at 6, I would be getting home after 7 in the evening. If there was an option
of express train from Lincoln station to Anschutz medical campus, I would
definitely give it another try, especially since my employer subsidizes the
train pass
Letter attached

R Line

1

Marina

Mccreight

marina.mccreight@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jim

McGee

jimmcgee12@gmail.com

R Line

1

Jane

McGrath

jmcgrath51@comcast.net

R Line

1

Sarah

McGregor

smcg21@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Polish

Mighty

polishmightytim2@aol.com

R Line

1

R Line

1

Autumn

Mink

autumnlove6635@gmail.com

I know the problem with rtd and the r-line the ones who run rtd demand to
much for tickets and then shock when no one can buy them other cities
run fine with lower cost to ride because more can ride. Should we be
shocked when you demand Higher tax when less ride it after you raise
price again and again
Aurora should have a right to decide what to do about the R Line. Because
City of Aurora put lots of money in to R line project, it's wrong if you only
runs during peak hours like some bus routes. It's better to change the
schedule of R line to 30 minutes each trip weekdays and one hour on
weekends and holidays. Aurora depending on R line to get to place and
businesses will lose money if you reduce the service on R line. I used to be
a RTD's community emergency response team volunteer has spent lots of
time on buses and trains
Letter attached

R Line

1

Orienna

Mitchell

mitchellorieanna071098@gmail.com

Please don't shut the R line down. I use this line to get home and to work.

R Line

1

Alla

Model

alla_model@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Veronica

Moody

alla_model@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Moon

amoon@wth.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Vincent

Amanda

Mineault

vmineault@gmail.com

R Line

1

John

Morgan

j-morgan-87@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Ian

Morgret

i.morgret@comcast.net

I believe reducing the service time on the R Line is premature and
sentencing the line to a poor performance record. There are still
considerable growth opportunities on the R Line which should be
supported by good rail service. Citizens need more time and awareness to
adjust to the new opportunities. Promote it. Don’t undermine it.
Letter attached

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 206

12.I.b

R Line

1

Carolyn

Morris

motoringmorris@gmail.com

R Line

1

Colleen

Mullins

clmullins@comcast.net

You have a large apartment complex being built at the Illiff station and
when it is complete and filled the need for the R line will certainly increase!
I have to believe there are other apartments that could also affect usage of
the R Line. People at Heather Gardens are using the line to go to the Train
and to the airport!
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Marie

Myfanawy

R Line

1

Sharon

momof5boys@comcast.net

R Line

1

Lynn Knoll

actnow2000@comcast.net

Letter attached

R Line

1

Alyson

NaughtonGomez
Neighborhood
Assoc
Noble

As a long time supporter of mass transit, I have been an advocate for RTD
and your commitment to increase transit possibilities and ridership.
However, your decision to reduce the number of trains on the R lines is the
wrong decision. As any behavioral psychologist can easily tell you changing
habits and behavior takes time. We the tax payers have invested millions
of dollars in this project. We the citizens of Aurora have experienced years
of inconvenience while it was built. We expect you to do a more thorough
follow through then just a 6 month trial run. Promote it, do some value
added specials to give people the incentive to give riding it off hours a
chance, and make as long a term commitment to making it pay as you have
done to make us pay, which was years.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

alyswim@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Ian J

Palombo

ianjpalombo@gmail.com

R Line

1

Nancy

Parker

nancylparker@msn.com

My husband and I were very disappointed to learn you are considering
reducing the R line schedule. This is the second time we've been
negatively impacted by an RTD change, when the earlier direct line to the
DTC was cut, we found oursel ds daily having to transfer at the Southmoor
station. Please give this line more time to mature. As the hospital staff get
used to using it and more apartments are completed we are sure ridership
will increase. We cannot in good faith vote in favor of RTD desired issues
in the future if RTD doesn't work to better support the needs of it's riders.

R Line

1

Virginia

Parks

vginparks@comcast.net

Dear Member of the RTD board, It has come to my attention, you are
considering decreasing the service hours for the R Line after only 5 months
of operation. Our tax dollars, inconvenience, and expectation of better
mass transit went into the building of this line. You have not given a
chance to the R line nor promoted it enough to make it viable. You will be
letting Aurora residents down!!! (But it's only Aurora, right? )As an Aurora
resident, I am asking you to delay this decision and promote usage of the R
Line. Or why should we support one of your proposals in the future?

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 207

12.I.b

R Line

1

Kimberly

Patten

k.patten@att.net

You should not be considering cutting service on the R line. In fact, you
should expand the service hours so employees who work at DIA and the
hospitals would be able to access the light rail. In addition, Aurora's
strategic plan for the area involves developing mixed use housing at
several of the stations and while in the short term you may not be seeing
the ridership you had hoped for, in time it will exceed your expectations.
As a taxpayer and an occasional rider, I strongly recommend you expand
your service in this area (no decrease it).

R Line

1

David

Patterson

David.Patterson@Falck.com

Letter attached

R Line

1

Kerri

Peek

kerripeek13@gmail.com

R Line

1

Susan

Phelan

susanphelanbassist@gmail.com

People built their lives, businesses, condos around the R line which you
delayed. Our taxes went into the R line you can't arbitrarily cut service
because you not only delayed opening but have been have been sucking.
Find another way.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Tamara

Podnosova

TAMARA.PODNOSOVA@UCDENVER.EDU

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Roxie

Pool

ROXIEPOOL@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Robert

Radcliffe

thebattv@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Jonathan

Radin

jradinemail@gmail.com

R Line

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

R Line

1

Victoria

Raustad

v_raustad@yahoo.com

Please please please! Do not go forward with the planned change to the RLine. I understand the need to reduce frequency, but if you proceed with
the proposed plan you will ensure that no one that rides the R-Line during
these times can do so with out changing trains. This is a massive
inconvenience. I ride the R-Line from Dry Creek 4-5 days a week at varying
times and ridership continues to grow. In fact last week I commented to
my wife that it was getting close to needing a third train. There are plenty
of times I get on the train and it is standing room only. Again, I understand
the need to adjust schedule but I question doing so only 6 months after the
line has opened. I believe with the inclement weather of winter ridership
will go up, unless you make this ridiculous change to the schedule. This
proposed change will cripple the R-line in perpetuity. Please don't do this.
A TIC information agent just explained the change to me as the R Line
would not operate off-peak, and instead the H Line would be extended
from Florida Station to Peoria Station. I oppose this change because it
would make the H Line much less reliable having two on-street portions
(downtown Denver and Aurora Metro Center) at different ends. H Line
unreliability would mean that transfers in downtown Denver would be
unpredictable off-peak, when there are no other lines serving downtown
Denver. I hope it would be possible to have some type of short-turn R Line
option using the storage tracks south of Southmoor station, or better yet,
the cross-over tracks between Belleview and Orchard Stations.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Kristy

Rayner

krismuttz@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Srikanth

Reddy

srreanu@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 208

12.I.b

R Line

1

Bill

Rehm

bill@hbmsupply.com

R Line

1

Cecil

Richardson

cjrich1278@gmail.com

R Line

1

Karin

Rivale

gonegolfin589@gmail.com

R Line

1

Trish

Robinson

ROBINSON17541@comcast.net

My husband relies on the R Line to get home from work. He works
overtime and doesn't want to spend the added time taking the 133 bus
home. In October his hours are changing and he will be getting off 2 hours
later. He would like to be able to catch the R Line and get home before
9:00pm. Please give the R Line time to grow. We had to put up with all the
problems with the train to the airport but kept giving RTD the chance to fix
it. Please don't take something away from us that we are relying on. Thank
you for taking the time to read my letter and please don't limit the R Line.

R Line

1

Noel

Ross

noeljross@hotmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Rothschild

daisyrothschild@icloud.com

Letter attached

R Line

1

Daisy

I writing to ask you to delay the proposed cutbacks on the “R Line”.
Obviously there is substantial growth in terms of housing under
construction in and around the existing stations, not to mention what’s
going on at the University and VA Hospital sites. What is wrong with giving
the growth time to catch up with the current RTD Light Rail Infrastructure.
After all, hasn’t the NTSB and other Federal Agencies shown RTD
considerable patience regarding the A Line and the road crossing issues
along Smith Road from Holly all the way to the Smith-Peoria Station. RTD
keeps getting extensions and continues to operate the A Line even though
the traffic flow and crossing issues remain the same along this route. I
travel that route every day and what you have done in terms of
congestion, disorganization, and a lousy traffic flow is disgusting. Maybe if
you addressed and fixed the problem correctly you could eliminate the
overhead of having full time employees along the crossing route standing
around and manually blocking the route when a train crosses. You could
use that additional money to help fund the R Line for a while.
Instead of reducing the level of weekend service on the R Line Light Rail,
how about changing the service of the 15L, instead? Maybe change the
route so it doesn't go down Sable Blvd. to reach Aurora Metro Center.
Maybe it turns to head back downtown upon arriving at Sable Blvd. & E.
Colfax Ave (the stop in front of Len Lyall Chevrolet, where the 153 & 15
[Going to Tower Road] pick-up). Lowering the fares and bus pass prices
could help, too.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Anne

Rottler

arottler@aol.com

R Line

1

Ammed

Saavedra

ammed.saavedra@gmail.com

I am writing again , not one of you has responded to me. Please so
something about the vagrants living at and round the 9 mile and iliff light
rail stations . People would be more inclined to ride were it not for needing
to walk the gauntlet of the aggressive lurkers.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Valarie

Sandlian

vsandlia@denverlibrary.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Kellen

Schull

kellen.schull@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 209

12.I.b

R Line

1

Gail

Seaton
Humbert

gailhumbert1@gmail.com

R Line

1

Lynn

Sebree

Elivra@aol.com

R Line

1

Mary Jane

Seibert

maryja34@aol.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Represetatives

Senators

mike@mikeweissman.com

Petition Letter Attached

R Line

1

Adam

Sharman

asharman@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Sally

Simon

sallysayssimon@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
RTD promoted the R Line as providing easy connections to and from Aurora
to the Train to the Plane-the A Line, to the Denver Tech Center and to
downtown Denver. Now, , after only six months of operation, you want to
make that access less desirable for commuters (less frequent service and
requiring more transfers and time to get to certain locations) and give
Aurora less access to the region? That is inappropriate and unacceptable.
If RTD wasn't invested in the long-term success of the R Line, it shouldn't
have built it. Now that it is built, your job is to promote it more effectively,
to increase the number of riders. As an elected official, your job is also to
represent Aurora residents, those who already count on the service-aspromised, and those who haven't yet understood its potential value to
them. RTD should be presenting some public service announcements in
the Sentinel and other media, comparing costs to get to Childrens' Hospital
or Anschutz or the airport and to park there versus cost of riding RTD.
More opportunites for free tickets for Aurora residents, to try out the
service, would also go a long way towards getting people to give public
transit a try, and recruit more commuting riders. Please stand strongly for
preserving the R line service as is or adding to it, not diminishing Aurora's
participation in regional public transit! The courtesy of a response, giving
your position on the matter, is requested.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Sonia

SkakichScrima

joejederman@msn.com

R Line

1

Jamie

Smith

jesmith@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Lynn

Smith

Margaret.Smith@viasat.com

Please do not do this. Certainly not cutting service to Anschutz. This is an
exceedingly short time to make such a decision. I just figured out how to
use it and the parking at Florida. After a year's delay I think it should at
least be allowed as much time as that to see if it works. I also think it would
be nice if it had the same kind of heated weather shelters as have been
provided in the Tech Center at Dry Creek and down into the wealthier
areas. This is just like when the call and ride bus service was cut in Aurora
but remains in the Tech Center areas. Just another cutback to Aurora
residents as the redheaded step child of Denver again.
As an Aurora resident and a taxpayer, I am writing to voice my strong
disappointment and objection to the proposed service reduction to the
recently opened R Line. Give this line a chance!

I use this line every morning and every evening to go and come from work
in the tech center. If you change the times that means I either have to get
up earlier or get to work later and I am already working a 12 hr shift and if I
have to transfer on top of it to another train which I had to before it makes
my day now a 14.5 hr day. Please give a person and the R Line a break.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 210

12.I.b

R Line

1

Ron

Smookler

ron.smookler@gmail.com

I understand that RTD is considering limiting times on the R Line. This is a
new line that many people are not aware of being in full operation. It is an
essential piece to the mass transit puzzle, and will gain continual growth,
especially as new residential developments along the line are completed.
Please give this route more time to gain in use.

R Line

1

David

Stewart

davids9223@aol.com

I think it's too early to change the R line schedule. Our family is just figuring
out how to use it. We just got MyRide Smartcards for everyone in the past
week. We are just starting to use it more in the hours where you propose
to cut. I suggest waiting until the line has been operating for at least a year.

R Line

1

Ted

Stump

tedstump1@mac.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Ludvik

Svoboda

lousvoboda@comcast.net

R Line

1

Sandra

Taylor-Day

sandrataylorday@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Allen

Therous

atheroux@auroragov.org

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Todd

erinbowkertodd@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Erin

R Line

1

Melissa

Toering

mtoering@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Sunshine

Trujillo

sunshine.shellina@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Heather

Turner

heatherturner922@gmail.com

R Line

1

Sheree

Van Buren

shereemv@gmail.com

I am a frequent rider of the R-Line Light Rail. In fact, I ride no less than 5
times a week, round trip to work and back home every day. Reducing the
service on the R-Line will do nothing but hurt the community and the
people like myself who use it daily as an easier route to work. The line
itself is only 7 months young, I know for a fact that for a long time the HLine suffered the same sort of issue around 5 years ago with low ridership
during off-peak hours. Reducing the line wasn't the solution then and it is
not one now. Given that the line is so new and the traffic in Aurora is
becoming congested with the number of cars on the road, please; as a
resident that lives down the street from the Aurora Metro Center Station,
let the rail have more time to gather a following. Tout the benefits of the
line in your advertising for it, faster transport, less hassle, convenient
locations, access to Park Meadows, Downtown and whatnot. Give the RLine some more time before you begin cutting back the service, work with
the City of Aurora and it's mayor, make it better, but don't cut the service
back.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Ada

Van Riejek

ada.vanroekel@gmail.com

Letter attached
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Nicholas

Walker

actnow2000@comcast.net

R Line

1

Dale

Wang

sioux85fan@gmail.com

It's a waste of tax money shut it down, people who ride it don't pay taxes.

R Line

1

Christine

Waters

christine_waters23@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Weeks III

haroldweeksiii@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Wegener

regina.aldrete@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

1

R Line

R Line
R Line

1
1

Harold
Regina

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 211

12.I.b

R Line

1

Rachel

Wilcoxson

rwmocha@hotmail.com

R Line

1

Melissa

Wilson

melissa.wilson@ucdenver.edu

R Line

1

Travis

Wilson

travis.wilson2000@gmail.com

I'm an RTD rider asking you not to make cuts to the R line. Please allow
folks to get used to the schedule and time for 6 more months before you
assess the ridership. Thank you,
I am very concerned about the proposed reduction in service to the
Fitzsimmons station. This station serves a unique population - patients,
students and shift workers - whoes commutes do not conform to the
typical morning and evening times. I think it is entirely premature to
propose these changes 6 months into service with very limited
advertisement to the public. The opening of another large hospital on the
campus is eminent and limiting the options of veterans and the people
who serve them seems ill-advised. Perhaps, if the lines were better
coordinated- this would also help encourage riders. While the morning A
and R lines are compatible - I almost always get off the R in the evening
only to see the A pulling away - extending my already 1 hr 30 min
commute.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Dianne

Winkler

diannewinkler@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Gary/Peggy

Wright

garyw420@gmail.com

R Line

1

Chris

Yedo Johnson

CHRISYEDO@msn.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

R Line

1

Anna

Zapata

azapata0173@comcast.net

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.

Zounis Brown

joycezounis@yahoo.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
Letter attached

R Line

1

Joyce

R Line

1

City of Aurora

shogan@auroragov.org

R Line

1

Tristin

telltristen@gmail.com

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
We are moving into one of the new large warehouses in the Majestic
Industrial Park in Aurora (east of Tower Rd between 38th Ave and 32nd
Pkwy). We have several warehouse employees that are in need of public
transportation, and I’m guessing other Distribution Centers in that area
would be in the same situation. With the rapid growth in that area do you
have any route expansions upcoming that would travel down WINDSOR
DR(or Himalaya Rd) between 38th Ave and 32nd Parkway?
Good day rtd. My question is from 40th And gateway airport park station
to amazon fullfillment warehouse. Have a public transportation going or
back and port there. Because i
am the one new hire there and im thinking about that. Please help
Please consider adding a bus line that would make it easier to get to the
light rail stations from the Ruby Hill area. I'd love to take public transit to
work, but it would be a huge time suck. Driving takes me about 20 minutes,
and using RTD would be close to an hour and a half.

RFS* - East

1

Brian

Vyhlidal

bvyhlidal@qualitycustomdistribution.com

RFS* - East

1

Leah

Hartman

samanthaleaj18@yahoo.com

RFS* - West

1

Chandra

Jones

chandrajones73@gmail.com

RFS* - West

1

Brandy

Moe

brandy_moe@hotmail.com

Please consider adding a bus line along Florida Avenue between Federal
Boulevard and the Broadway light rail station.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 212

12.I.b

1

RFS* - West

Scott

Saari

ssaari@gmail.com

Stop
Consolidation

1

Ann

Luke

annwluke1664@gmail.com

W Line

1

Burt

Andrew

aburt@tech-soft.com

Jackie

Barnes

jdemmel94@comcast.net

Jordan

Beezley

jordan.beezley@gmail.com

1

W Line
W Line

1

I would love to see service on Florida to the light rail stop. This would help
work commutes and increase use of public transport to the Levitt Pavilion
in Ruby Hill Park.
Letter attached
As much as I applaud RTD; as much as I would personally love to use the W
line; as much as I think it's a great concept... the reason I can't use is that it
simply takes waaaay too long to reach my destination. I would primarily
use it from the Taj or Fed. center all the way to downtown. While this is a
path I could drive in 20 minutes or less, using the W line would take over
an hour of real time (including getting to the station, waiting for a train,
and getting from the station to my destination). A factor of three time
difference simply rules out using light rail.
If there were some way to speed up the light rail, which I notice travels
quite slowly, and reduce the wait time at the station and at each stop
along the way, to bring my total transit time down to, say, 30 min. (so the
W line component would need to be under 20 min. across the whole
stretch), then I could justify the time. I would note that this problem isn't
limited to light rail. Should I want to use RTD to get to DU, where I'm a
retired professor, the trip planner estimates it would take me close to two
hours(!) each way. -- I can drive that in 17 minutes! (driveway to parking
lot) The only solutions to these problems would be more and faster
service, not cutting service. It seems to me that subway systems in most
large cities run very frequently and have many stations very close to where
people go. Cutting service only further discourages people from using it, so
it seems like that's a vicious death spiral.
The morning trains are very crowded. Will you bring back 7:30 stop?
The City of Golden in partnership with RTD just invested an additional
$100,000 into adding a new circulator bus that will match the 15-minute
train intervals. This investment was designed to increase ridership on the
W line. If you change to 30-minute train intervals, this investment will be
for nothing and have wasted taxpayers money. I believe RTD owes it to the
City of Golden to give our efforts to increase ridership a chance. It is unfair
to our community for you to have worked with us on adding the additional
bus without providing notice that cuts to the W line were on the table. As
a user of the W light rail line, I believe having 15-minute interval rail service
is necessary for utilizing rail service without preplanning your schedule.
Being able to show up at a rail station knowing that your wait time will be
15 minutes or less is crucial to getting additional users. Outside of your
typical commuter, that can reliably plan their daily route, train intervals
greater than 15-minutes will result in fewer riders on the W line and fewer
riders transferring to other routes. The design of the W line is already
flawed in that it takes just as long as the 16L to get from Golden to
Downtown Denver. Don't disadvantage the W line further by increasing the
train intervals to 30 minutes. I believe that increasing the interval between
trains will cause a downward spiral of ridership; just the opposite of what
we as a community and you as RTD are trying to achieve.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 213

12.I.b

W Line

1

Jacinda

Brown

jacindanbrown@yahoo.com

Attached Letter

W Line

1

Jane

Burke

janbur1@comcast.net

W Line

1

Matt

Christie

mattchristie1@me.com

W Line

1

Christine

Dingman

cding1@gmail.com

W Line

1

Kim

Domenico

Kim.Domenico@mortenson.com

I would like to see that Golden have time to work on increasing ridership
with the extra green bus they are adding. I mainly take the light rail home
from the airport. When the problems with delays on the A line end, I can
then use it to get to the airport without risking missing the plane. It is
unfortunate that these A line problems at RTD are impacting ridership. If it
was consistent I imagine a lot more people would take the light rail from
Golden to the airport because of cost, convenience of exit at airport and
not having to deal with traffic. I am unable to attend the meeting tonight
in Golden due to prior commitments, but would appreciate being involved
in the discussion as the proposed route adjustment moves forward. My
understanding from listening to the CPR interview with RTD today is that W
line ridership is increasing.
As a frequent rider of the W line, I oppose any shoetening or changes of
scheduled service.
I am writing to express my disagreement with reducing weekday frequency
from every 15 minutes to every 30 minutes between 6:00 p.m. and 9:00
p.m. At a minimum, service frequency should be every 15 minutes at the
same time the MetroRide bus runs. In the afternoons, this bus runs
between 2:30 p.m. and 6:35 p.m.; if your service changes are put into
effect, people who ride this bus after 6 p.m. are subjected to a longer wait
due to the service reductions. I think that if service its reduced, it should be
reduced between 7 p.m. and 9 p.m., making it consistent with the other
service being provided in the area. Please let me know if you'd like to
discuss; while I'm unable to make any of the public meetings, I'm happy to
call someone.
I am a new rider as of this year and I love the W Line. I take it from Golden
all the way to Union Station. I like the every 15 minutes because if I am
running late and miss the 6:58 train I can jump on the next one in 15
minutes and still make it to work on time! Please reconsider changing it to
30 minutes. In the morning when I am on the train it fills up and it is
standing room only until about the campus drop off then it clears out. This
is a very busy train especially when school is in session. Please reconsider
and don’t do the 30 minutes routes. Thank you a faithful rider.

W Line

1

Keneth

Dykes

findken@gmail.com

I'm writing in support of the Golden City Council's recommendation to the
RTD Board to delay W line service cuts for at least one year, allowing the
city and RTD time to evaluate impacts of the city's new investments in
public transportation. As a Golden resident who uses trains departing
from the Jeffco station, I believe a thirty minute departure interval creates
a poor experience and will limit ridership growth just at the time our
community is increasing investment in transportation alternatives. The
timing also seems particularly bad with the upcoming Central 70 project
that could create exceptional traffic challenges. I believe the City Council's
proposal is a fair compromise and preserves a reasonable schedule that
addresses these concerns. Thank you for considering this feedback.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 214

12.I.b

1

W Line

Jacob

Emmel

jdemmel94@comcast.net

W Line

1

Jacob

Emmel

jdemmel94@comcast.net

W Line

1

Katie

Finnegan

finnegan.katie.marie@gmail.com

W Line

1

Ysa

Hammond

yleigh13@gmail.com

W Line

1

Elizabeth

Hughes

ehughes75@aol.com

I wanted to make sure I’m following the proposed January service changes
to the W line correctly. The description says that trains would alternate
between arriving/departing from the Golden and Federal Center stations;
is this throughout the day, so headways in Golden would be thirty minutes
in peak periods and an hour otherwise?
Since I’m wasn’t able to attend the meeting tonight, I am writing with
regards to the proposed service changes to the W line. I wanted to express
my support for the Golden city council’s resolution regarding the proposed
cuts, favoring the path of waiting a year, in the interest of giving the
increased bus service pilot a better chance to succeed and supporting a
situation where a city is actively—and financially—encouraging transit use.
I also personally would prefer the service levels stay the same, since I use
the W line in off-peak hours to get to work after class.
As a Golden resident and an almost daily RTD W line rider when I'm not
biking to downtown, I would like to share that I hope the decision to cut
service along the W line does not happen. Having a frequent and reliable
public transportation service within two miles of where I live was key to my
decision to move this area and is what I count on for my daily commute
and other Denver-area outings. There are many evenings where I have
meetings after work or attend events downtown, and having a reliable way
to return home is imperative. I have just missed the lightrail before, coming
from the A line to the W line in the late evening, and having to wait for a
half hour, especially later at night, was not very convenient nor did it feel
safe. Knowing how congested traffic can be in the Denver metro area, it
seems like this move to reduce service might push more people to drive if
service isn't as frequent. This could be a decision maker on people
commuting to downtown for a variety of events, including work, but also
for baseball games, football games, performing arts events, etc. I hope
the proposed cut is reconsidered based on feedback from this community
that uses and relies on this service. Thank you for your time and the
opportunity to voice concerns about the proposed cut.
Please maintain the current schedule of trains every 15 min on the W line.
Ridership will continue to grow if the train is quick and easy.
Please continue the "15 minute" service between Golden and Denver to
advance ridership during non-peak hours. Seniors like us traveling with
luggage and/or grandchildren intentionally avoid rush hour traffic.
However potentially long waits in inclement weather will lead us to rent
cars rather than continuing our use of the light rail.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 215

12.I.b

W Line

1

Caitlin

Hungate

caitlinhungate@gmail.com

W Line

1

Jennifer

Hunt

jenniferk14@comcast.net

W Line

1

Mari

Johnson

marijcastello@gmail.com

I am unable to attend the public meeting on September 28th and want to
submit a comment for the meeting. I am strongly against reducing services
on the W line to Golden. The public needs more access to public
transportation, not less. I use the W line to commute from Golden to
Denver Union Station for work about 1-2 days per week. If anything, I wish
there were more lines and even an express line option with fewer stops
from Golden to Union Station. Climate change is happening and we need
to build a resilient community. Resiliency involves fewer cars on the road
and utilizing public transportation more. Decreasing access on the W line
does not help our community prepare for a warming climate. I
understand RTD is facing budget issues, but I see this is a reflection of our
state's poor choices when it comes to tax revenue and lingering effects of
TABOR. Constituents in JeffCo should not have to suffer with fewer options
on the W line because of our state's poor fiscal choices. RTD should also
look at how lines were set up (i.e. open spaces without entrances for riders
to scan their fare card on entry/exit) and how many riders may go without
paying their fare. Look to mass transit options like BART in San Francisco
and the Metro in Washington DC.
I am unable to attend the town hall meeting so I wanted to provide my
feedback on the W Line proposed changes. I would prefer to keep the
every 15-minute schedule during non-business hours. At times, I have to go
to the doctor or take my daughter to school and have to go into work late
or leave early. I am already concerned that I am running late to work. An
additional 15 minutes is a huge difference in getting to work. And the same
goes for the return trip home. If I have to leave work early, I'd rather leave
15 minutes early rather than 30 to try and make the train. Please consider
keeping the 15-minute schedule. Thank you.
I am sending this email to request you reconsider changing the frequency
of the W line. My husband and I both rely upon the W line to get us too
and from work. We also use it in our free time to get to events such as the
Avalanche and Rockies games downtown. We use it to get too and from
the airport, and it was a major driver in the reason we purchased our
house within walking distance of a station. The timing of the line, every 15
minutes, is already not really frequent enough. Most highly used transit
systems such as those in Paris, Chicago, and Atlanta, are every 5 minutes. If
you increase the timing to 30 minutes, less people will utilize public transit
and there will continued traffic issues. The suburbs of Denver continue to
grow and there doesn't seem to be any slowing projected so instead of
giving up on the public transit system, more needs to be done to
encourage usership and make it more usable. I ask you to please
reconsider the service changes to the W line. It will directly impact my
family's daily life as well as many of my neighbors daily life.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 216

12.I.b

W Line

1

Eugenia

Joukova

ejoukova@comcast.net

W Line

1

Greg

Knopp

gmknopp@gmail.com

W Line

1

Katya

Kovalenko

philarctus@gmail.com

W Line

1

Christina

Lane

CHRISTINA.LANE@UCDENVER.EDU

I’ve been living in Golden last 24 years seeing many changes in public
transportation. One change which upset me the most was eliminating the
bus service from Union street/Federal center to DIA (Denver International
Airport) which happened after W Line was implemented. Thanks to RTD
instead of a bus our family now takes Uber or driving themselves to airport
thus increasing pollution and congestion in the city because it takes at least
2 hours 20 minutes to get to DIA via W Line. I am quite fine with cutting
back the service on this line but maybe RTD will consider adding bus line
Golden-DIA. And it will be beneficial for CSM students as well. I think we
are only one student city where taking a public transit to airport takes
almost half a day and it should not be.
Before changes are made to the W-Line schedule, RTD should consider
where the mid-day traffic comes from and align your bus routes to
facilitate it. Most don't walk to the stations, nor do they park in the station
garages. My experience is that there are always a considerable number of
boardings at Wadsworth, most arriving from the 76 crosstown route.
These crosstown routes should be realigned to feed the rail in an optimum
manner. They aren't. 76 Northbound routinely runs late and arrives at
Wadsworth station just as the train is departing, which automatically adds
15 or more minutes to travel times. A train arrival never aligns with a bus
departure. Additionally, it shouldn't take longer to go 4 miles on the 76
bus than it does to travel from Wadsworth to Union Station. 76 should be
realigned to serve the station. Break the route up into segments 4-5 miles
long and then the route should become an express to the station. NB
should be local from SW Plaza to Alameda, then express to the station
where it should turn around and reverse the process. Similarly for other
segments. Eliminate the 10+ minute stop at Lakewood Municipal Center
and replace that stop and the Belmar east and west detours with a circular
shuttle between Belmar and the station. Driver breaks should be taken at
the end of the route when no one is on board.
Please give Golden a chance, don't cut the last mile of W line service! It
takes years for people to start relying on public transport, and this would
be a step in the opposite direction. It may discourage current riders and
make this incredible investment fail. Missing a train and having to wait 30
minutes would be a deal-breaker for most riders. Judging by daily average
of boardings per hour, W line is not way below the next one up, and it has
been slowly getting better (and is likely to continue doing so with the new
line to the airport). And, although I am not using the R-line myself, cutting
it when it just opened seems very unfair. Thank you for considering this.
As a regular rider of the W Line out of the JeffCo government building stop,
I oppose any changes being proposed to the schedule beginning January
2018 that would reduce the frequency of trips into the City. I am lucky
enough to work for a consulting firm where my hours are flexible and I do
not work a regular 8/9-5 job. Instead, I catch an earlier train (before most
commuter traffic) and leave downtown well before the normal 3-6
afternoon traffic. Cutting trains to and from my final destination will only
discourage my use or require I drive to another station. Doesn't this defeat

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 217

12.I.b

W Line

1

Joey

Lubinski

joeylubinski@comcast.net

W Line

1

Corrin

MacLuckie

cmacluckie@gmail.com

the purpose of RTD and their goal to get people off of roads and onto rail?
It is not uncommon to have a late morning, miss my initial train, and have
to catch the following. With the proposed schedule change, I would no
longer have a short wait and instead a significant one that is more likely to
put me back in my car in order to complete my commute. I do not
understand how cutting two stops from the regular schedule would benefit
RTD - I would imagine costs associated with the approximately 10 miles of
rail in each direction are minuscule compared to the environmental and
human health costs associated with forcing more individuals back into their
cars. Instead of discouraging use of the rail system for those who may not
have a normal schedule, continue the current service schedule and assume
ridership will continue to rise as the RTD rail network continues to expand.
I hope you reconsider your proposal and continue the current schedule
that benefits so many of your users.
I ride the W Line everyday from Golden to Union Station. As a professional
working downtown, it is rare that I leave the office before 6pm. While I
certainly understand the thinking behind moving trains to every half hour,
the additional reduction of having only half the trains go beyond Federal
Center really means that service is being cut to once an hour during a time
that many downtown are still commuting home. That degree of change is
punitive to those of us out west who have committed to making the W Line
"work". At every hour, I will have to choose among not seeing my kids any
evening during the week, driving to another park and ride, or simply
abandoning transit and driving to work. Given those options, I will most
likely simply abandon the light rail. Making service once per hour will doom
light rail to Golden. Please don't do it.
I am unable to attend the meeting tonight regarding the proposed cut of
the W line service as I will be riding the W line home from work. I hope you
consider leaving the train schedule to every 15 minutes. There are many
commuters, including myself, that rely on the frequency of the W line to
get to and from work each day. I do believe there is a sufficient amount of
commuters to keep the schedule as is. In fact, the amount of cars in the
Jeffco parking garage in the mornings has increased dramatically since I
started taking the train 2 years ago. Additionally, I fear the usage of the W
line will dramatically decrease if you change the schedule. If the train only
runs every 30 minutes, each train will be more crowded during rush hour.
This will leave less room to sit and even stand. If this happens, I feel people
will stop seeing the rail line as convenient. I hope you reconsider changing
the W line schedule. Coming from using Septa in Philly and the lack of
convenient public transportation in Pittsburgh, I have come to know RTD as
a superior transportation company.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 218

12.I.b

W Line

1

Michelle

Magnero

michellemagnero@gmail.com

W Line

1

Ashley

Meyer

anpluskis@gmail.com

W Line

1

Christopher

Neinhuis

cnienhuis@deloitte.com

W Line

1

Alexandra

Newman

anewman@mines.edu

W Line

1

Chris

Nienhuis

cnienhuis@deloitte.com

I am a community member and longtime resident of West Denver. I am
writing regarding the proposed January 2018 service changes to the W line.
These changes propose reducing service from every 15 minutes to every 30
minutes at select stations during weekends and non-peak weekday hours.
The W line is a vital resource for the West Denver and West Suburban
community. Many people use the W not only to get to work and school,
but also to shop for groceries, to get around town and to attend cultural
and sporting events that are accessible from the downtown stations this
line services. Additionally, the W line provides an accessible alternative for
those unable to walk long distances to bus stops on the West Side, some of
which may have long service wait times. For these reasons, I ask that you
reconsider the service reduction proposal for the W line. Thank you for
yoiur service to the community and for taking the time to read this letter.
I can not attend the meeting tonight to discuss cutting the W line from
every 15min to every 30min BUT if I could I would voice my opinion that I
am VERY against this!! I moved here from Chicago 3 years ago and have
been living in Golden for the past 2.5 years. Having the W line has been
amazing!! It is quick, clean and always on time. It is a great way to get
downtown which we love coming from a big city. If it only came every
30min that would be an inconvenience getting to events on time and does
not make it work using when there is no traffic I can get to downtown
Denver in 30 min driving. PLEASE PLEASE leave the W line to run every
15min. OR as a comprise have it run ever 30min only during off hour
times. If you left it to run every 15min during weekday mornings and
nights and then had it run every 15min on weekends that would be
perfect!
Please don’t change the Golden W line to every 30 minutes. I’ve just
started taking the light rail for work from Golden and it’s been awesome!
And it’s so important for the town of Golden to decrease traffic here and in
Denver, downtown parking is awful and expensive in downtown. Again,
please keep the rail running every 15 minutes, so we on the west side can
enjoy it!
I live in downtown Golden and take the W line to the A line to the airport
once or twice a month, on average. I am requesting that you not cut back
the W line service from every 15 minutes to every 30 minutes. If, in the
future, you could extend the W line all the way to downtown Golden, not
only would that serve Coors employees and School of Mines students and
employees better, but I would also take the W line far more frequently
(i.e., just about every time I went to downtown Denver).
Not going to make the meeting in Golden tomorrow, but want to voice my
opinion – please keep the lightrail running to Golden!!! (every 15
minutes)!!! It makes so much difference to commute to Denver and for
people coming to Golden to enjoy our town. I take it both ways every day
for work and sometimes very early morning and later evenings.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 219

12.I.b

W Line

1

Josh

Parker

joshbparker@yahoo.com

W Line

1

Karyn

Peabody

karynpeabody@gmail.com

W Line

1

Scott

Peabody

feldybikes@gmail.com

W Line

1

Mel

Perkins

melperkins1@gmail.com

I use the W Line from Golden on a regular basis to travel to Denver Union
Station and the airport. The 15 minute schedule is so convienient I have
given little thought to alternative (driving) transportation. If the change is
made to 30 minute intervals, I will most likely drive more. PLEASE DO NOT
change the schedule to 30 minutes.

W Line

1

JoAnn

Piasecki

drjmpiasecki@comcast.net

The proposed weekday changes to the W line would be very disruptive to
my husband and I. For the past 18 months, since construction began on
the intersection of Hwy 6 and 19th St., we have made far less use of the
light rail than we had previously. Until the CallnRide stopped coming to
our neighborhood because of the construction, I was using it to get to the
light rail station. My husband was routinely riding his bike from our house
on Mt. Zion Dr. to the light rail station and then taking the light rail to his
job at the University of Denver. The construction at the intersection made
it more dangerous to ride his bike and he had taken a break from riding
and light railing until very recently. Neither of us commutes during regular
hours. In fact, we are most likely to be using the W line during exactly the
time frames the proposed changes identify - 9AM - 3PM and 6-9PM
weekdays. We encourage RTD to work with us and with Golden to continue
service every 15 minutes all day during the entire work week.

I am writing in opposition of the proposed reduction in service for the W
line. The western suburbs are vital to growth and economic contributions
throughout the Front Range, and limiting the number of serviced trains to /
from the West Line will hurt the community.
I am writing to advocate for continued every 15 minute light rail service to
and from Golden. The whole reason my family rides the light rail is because
it is easy and convenient to use. We love the fact that whenever we arrive
at the station a train will be arriving shortly. By cutting the service down to
every 30 minutes, it will make the light rail much less convenient and
decrease our interest in riding it.
Please keep the service all the way to Golden at every 15 minutes. Moving
it to every 30 minutes makes taking the light rail incredibly inconvenient
and eliminates the point of having it.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 220

12.I.b

W Line

1

Rachel

Plessing

rplessing@hotmail.com

W Line

1

Kathy

Plonsky

kathrynplonsky@gmail.com

W Line

1

Anne

Silverman

silverman.ak@gmail.com

I would like to express my concern regarding possible service cuts to the W
Line. I am unable to make the September 28th public meeting at the
Golden Community Center. I have not seen much information regarding
this potential change, but I would hope these changes would not be
affecting the route during peak hours. Since the seven-minute train to the
Fed Center was cut last year the trains are extremely crowded in the
mornings and evenings. They are packed to the point there’s difficulty
getting people on and off the trains at stops. I don’t usually ride the train
outside of the commuting during peak hours on work days, so I don’t have
much knowledge or a strong opinion for service outside of commuting
hours. However, I’m worried that overcrowding during peak hours and
sparse scheduling in non-peak hours might cause potential users to opt for
transportation by car instead. However, if there isn’t a high demand
during non-peak hours and service cuts happen there, perhaps room can
be found in the budget for one or two seven-minute Fed Center times to
come back? It’s reached to point that I opt to bike or drive instead of taking
the train because of crowding, so I assume there are others making similar
decisions as me.
Instead of cutting the W line, why don't you make it more convenient for
people to take it? There is only one line I have found in the morning (the
7:43 from Golden), where I can make a transfer from the W Line at Auraria
West, get the E line back to Osage, and then pick up a D line to central
downtown, in an amount of time under 45 minutes. Otherwise I have to
go all the way to Union station and take the mall shuttle, walk, or the slow
19th Street bus, to get to to work (at 18th and Stout). I have limited
mobility and this process takes at least an hour. If you do cut the W line,
why don't you use the money to build that L shuttle line between Auraria
West and Colfax/Auraria station? I bet your ridership from Golden would
substantially increase. Not everyone coming from Golden goes to Union
Station, and it is silly that the central downtown trains are so close but we
can take them without a bunch of transfer issues. You need to make it so it
does not take an hour to ride from Golden, versus 20 minutes to drive, to
central downtown.
I am writing to voice my concern about the proposed reduced frequency of
the W line. I believe that having frequent arrivals/departures at Jefferson
County Govt Center is important for our community and to reduce traffic
congestion. While I do not use RTD for my daily commute (I live within
walking distance of my office), I frequently use the W line (at off peak
hours) to get downtown for evening events, meetings, and also at least
once a month to transfer to the A line to the airport. This reduction in
frequency would reduce the likelihood that I would take public
transportation for these events downtown and to DIA. In addition, I know
Golden has just recently made a significant investment and has added
another community shuttle to run between the JeffCo station and
downtown Golden. This investment is to encourage ridership, and will not
be achieved if RTD reduces service.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 221

12.I.b

W Line

1

Linda

Spangenberg

l.spangenberg@comcast.net

Thanks so much for asking our input. I understand the need to be
financially sensible, but could you cut the trains to every 20 minutes,
instead of every 30? Honestly, I think I'll stop riding the light rail from
Lakewood--I'll drive my new little car into Denver and to DIA, instead, if the
opportunities to take the light rail are decreased. Thanks for your hard
work,

W Line

1

Marcus

Staley

mstaley75@yahoo.com

W Line

1

Clayton

Stock

cstock085@gmail.com

W Line

1

Amanda

Stone

amanda.g.stone@gmail.com

I will be unable to attend the public meeting in Golden regarding the
reduced services on the W Line to Golden. This is a disservice and to the
community and will ultimately reduce the total use of the W Line because
of the inconvenience. I live in Golden and regularly utilize the W Line to
access downtown Denver and DIA via a transfer to the A line at Union
Station. Changes in availability in the W line will reduce my use of the rail
system all together. It is imperative that the entire W line maintain the
same 15 minute interval service or face even less use of the entire line by
all users. Thank you for considering to maintain the current 15 minute
train interval all the way to the end of the W Line in Golden.
We frequently use the W Line from Golden Station during non-commuting
hours, please keep service to every 15 minutes and don't change to 30.
Doing so would actually make us use the rail less and find other
alternatives such as Uber or Lyft. Please don't make it more inconvenient
to get from Golden to Denver (or vise versa)!
Letter Attached

W Line

1

Mike

Sullivan

mike.t.sullivan@gmail.com

I keep reading in the Post that the W line is underperforming. I thought I
would tell you why I, as a prime candidate to take the W, gave up on RTD.
For years I was a daily rider of the AF from Cold Springs to Market Street
station. My commute from door to desk was about 40 minutes. I could
usually drive it in 30 minutes. After the W opened and bus service was
drastically reduced, my door-to-desk time jumped to over an hour. I will
add 10 minutes to my commute to take mass transit, but not 30 or 40. And
yet... my drive goes past Federal Center Station and my office is a block
from the Convention Center. The issue is, the W line only goes to Union
Station. From there is it a trek to get into the heart of downtown. So, any
commuters who work downtown are worse off with the W than they were
before, by a lot. If RTD had connected the W to the tracks going
downtown, and then alternated trains between downtown and Union
Station, I would have stuck with RTD.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 222

12.I.b

W Line

1

Leanne

Thompson

blackbear582@hotmail.com

W Line

1

Cindy

White

cmw61359@gmail.com

W Line

1

Shaine

Wieber

shainewieber@gmail.com

I was quite disappointed to read that RTD is considering cutting back WLine service to Golden. I am a regular rider and the change would
definitely cause hardship. It seems to me that RTD should be looking for
ways to encourage more Golden residents to use the train. Instead, they
appear to prefer to make a more miserable and effort filled experience
which will only attract riders that must use the service. As a resident of
Golden that lives near downtown, I was disappointed that the train only
serves the southern end of the town. Has anybody considered expanding
the line to 19th street so that Mines students and tourists can be closer to
downtown attractions?

W Line

1

Roy

Willey

roy@roywilley.net

I’ve been told that RTD intends to cut the service on the W line from every
15 minutes to every 30 minutes, except during morning and evening
commute times. (What times are those exactly?) PLEASE KEEP THE
SCHEDULE AS IT IS. Cutting service defeats the purpose of the light rail. My
son commutes to downtown Denver to work, but as a restaurant employee
does not commute during the morning and evening commute times. I use
the light rail frequently to go downtown for shopping and entertainment
(so I don’t have to drive and park), and I always use the light rail to go to
the airport. Every time I ride the W, it’s full of students heading to the
Auraria campus. (Even on non-commute hours.) PS. Here’s a thought: If
you want to increase ridership, how about lowering the fares? This is the
most expensive public transit system I’ve ever used. Cutting the service in
half will decrease the motivation to use the light rail. I believe this move
would reduce ridership, not consolidate it. Please do not decrease service
on the W line.

Between 9 - 3 changing the hours from 15 to 30 is ok. But, between 6 - 9
makes no sense! If somebody gets off work at the Tech Center at 5 or 5:30
and has to ride to downtown to transfer to the W line to get home, it
needs to be every 15 minutes. I think it should be 7 - 9 at a minimum. But,
if you want people to take the trains downtown for the theatre or sports
events maybe you can't change the evening hours at all. If it isn't
convenient, they won't ride. I think late hours should stay at 1 am. You
would have to stop your social event ~11 or taking a train from the airport
to arrive by ~11 to walk to catch a train by 12. Stopping earlier defeats the
purpose of having a train. Since I board at the Federal Center, I don't have
a problem with alternating as I would always be able to catch a train. But,
having the Jeffco driving to Fed Center to catch a train at off times defeats
the purpose of the train. I still think it needs to be cheaper to ride from the
Federal Center. I am not going to drive to Wadsworth to get a cheaper
rate and try to find a parking place when I live right near the Federal Center
and can. The extra fee adds up if you aren't getting it paid by your
company. It needs to be really cheap to ride for everybody lot like Boston;
not based on zones. Besides it takes too long to get downtown. You need
express trains that only stop at certain stops like you used to do with the
buses (16 vs 16X).
I would like to see the w line expanded not decreased.

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 223

12.I.b

W Line

1

Doug

Wilson

doug@onpaperwings.com

W Line R
Line

1

Katie

Sellers

kmyhand@hotmail.com

I just learned about your proposed changes to the W Line rail service and I
STRONGLY urge you to not implement these changes. I use the W line
starting at the Lakewood/Wadsworth station for commuting to Metro
State to teach several times a week and although I know the proposal does
not effect commuting times, I use the W line with my family for other
purposes outside of commuting times. With the increase of traffic and
population in Denver, RTD should be *adding* more frequent service on all
of the lines rather than decreasing service. This will only discourage use of
public transit throughout the metro area. Additionally, when the heck will
the G line finally open?!
Attached Letter

W R Lines

1

Karen

Oxman

karenoxman@aol.com

Letter Attached

Total

1

266

15

*Duplicate Aurora Resident Comment regarding R Line changes.
Dear RTD Board Member, As an Aurora resident and a taxpayer, I am writing to voice my strong disappointment and objection
to the proposed service reduction to the recently opened R Line. Aurora waited patiently for the R Line to open in February, and
now, after less than six months of operation, RTD wants to reduce service and doom the entire line to fail. RTD itself promoted
the R Line as providing easy connections to and from Aurora to the Train to the Plane-the A Line, the Denver Tech Center and
Downtown Denver. Now you want to make that access less desirable for commuters and give Aurora less access to the region?
RTD touts Light Rail as a connection to the region and yet your actions don’t reflect that. Aurora residents and businesses
believed your message then, and we believe it today, but your proposed actions don’t support it. Both RTD and the city have
invested millions of dollars in making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unfair for RTD to now, after less than six months, to
reduce service on the R Line, threaten future development in the city and reduce regional connections. RTD should be invested
in the long-term success of the R Line. Your efforts should be to market the line and offer incentives to increase the number of
riders, not discourage them from using public transit. I strongly urge the RTD board of Directors to not support or approve any
service reduction in RTD’s rail system. It is completely unacceptable to cut service on the R Line after just becoming operational
within the last five months. Please RTD Leaders, give the R Line a chance.
**RFS - Request for Service

Attachment: Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– January 2018 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 224

Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change

12.I.c

September 28th, 2017

However, it's not clear to me what's being proposed on weekends during the day. A TIC agent
wasn't able to help me out, and instead referred me to the Service Planning Department. I'm
still awaiting a call from Eric Miller.
However, given that today is the last day of public hearings, I'm assuming it's also the deadline
for email comments.
Therefore, I'm structuring my comments based on three possible interpretations of the not
terribly clear description from the RTD web site.
Option 1.
No changes to Saturday and Sunday midday service.
D Line remains at 4 trains per hour.
While this has the advantage of the most service to Colfax at Auraria Station - your busiest
station - I cannot support it because I think it would be confusing to passengers to have more
weekend D Line midday service than corresponding weekday midday service.
Option 2.
Saturday and Sunday midday service matches weekday midday service.
D Line reduced to 2 trains per hour.
New C Line service provides 2 trains per hour, staggered with D Line.
This doesn't have as much service to Colfax at Auraria as Option 1, but the consistency with the
weekday schedule is good. I support this option the most of the three.
Option 3.
No D Line weekend midday service.
C Line provides 4 trains per hour.
This is what was proposed and then retracted for the August 2017 service change.
I do not support this option because it provides the least service - only four H Line trains per
hour - to Colfax at Auraria station, your busiest station. I am also concerned about the reliability
of the H Line during off-peak periods including weekends if it's made to take on the R Line's
route between Florida Station and Peoria Station. The surface street portions of the route
around Aurora Metro Center will make the H Line less reliable. I'm also concerned that since I
live near the L Line, I'd naturally want to use it to access downtown Denver. However, if
transfers to the H Line aren't reliable, and there are no other routes in the downtown loop to
connect to, I'd probably not bother with downtown Denver, and possibly use the CU A Line
instead.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

I'd like to comment on the proposed D Line service changes.

Packet Pg. 225

I'd also like to repeat my question about the feasibility of extending the L Line - perhaps only
during off-peak periods - from the Convention Center turn-around - to the Colfax at Auraria and
10th & Osage stations, and using Mariposa Yard to turn around (and offer operator relief). I
have had no response from RTD regarding this possibility.
In summary, I'd like to note that my experience attempting to comment on the proposed light
rail service changes has been particularly frustrating in that RTD doesn't seem interested in
creative ideas that can better meet their riders' needs, but in only making obvious - but
draconian - cuts without regard to how greatly passengers will be inconvenienced.
Thank you for bringing these concerns to the RTD Board for further discussion.
-Scott Ramming

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 226

12.I.c

I just wanted to share my thoughts on the proposed cuts to both the W and R Lines. I work full
time, 5 days a week in Aurora at UCD. I have taken the R Line to and from work several times
since it came on line and really appreciated the service. Taking the R Line from Centennial does
increase my overall commute time to over an hour compared from roughly 40 minutes each
way when I drive. However, it helps that it's an option when money is tight and I need to save
on gas, especially since gas prices have gone up significantly in recent weeks. It's also relaxing
when I can read or respond to emails instead of battling traffic. While I don't yet depend on the
R Line daily to get to and from work, my lease is up very soon and my family hopes to move
closer to a park and ride on the R Line so that I can use it everyday for a better commute. I hope
that you will consider how new the R Line is and respect that some of us just need time to
adjust our lives so that we can fully take advantage of this new route. It would be a shame to
cut it before it even has a chance to succeed. I hope you have also considered that during the
summer months the weather is so nice that lots of people bike or drive when the roads feel
safer. Please put off the cuts until after fall and winter so that you can examine ridership when
the weather makes biking, walking, and driving personal vehicles more difficult. In addition, I
hope you have considered all of the students, faculty, staff, administrators, patients, and
veterans at the Anschutz Medical Campus that rely on this transportation. Obviously ridership
has been down throughout the summer as there are fewer classes offered, so both students
and faculty tend to take summers off and staff also have more flexibility in the summer. Now
that the fall semester is up and going again, I hope you find that ridership increases. There are
lots of families, patients, and (soon) veterans that use the R Line to get to the various hospitals,
clinics, and specialists on campus who physically cannot drive themselves. Reducing this service
severely impacts so many people and given that the R Line has not been up and running very
long, I urge you to reconsider any cuts until it's been open and going for a full year and
experience all seasons that may effect the ebb and flow of ridership.
As for the W Line, me and my family do not use it often but when we do, we really appreciate
the service. My spouse is a firefighter for the city of Golden and uses the W Line to commute
when it's feasible. Given our current residential location, it is not always the best, safest, or
quickest option.
Again, I hope you consider that ridership obviously is down during the summer months given
that schools, college campuses are out and the weather is nice enough to explore alternate
commuting options like biking. The fall and winter are the worst times to consider cuts as many
people rely on public transportation when it's not possible to bike, walk, or drive (either
because they don't have snow tires/chains or fear of driving in the snow). If cuts are to be
made, I hope that those cuts could be made during the late spring and summer only.
Thanks for your consideration.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 26th, 2017

Katie Sellers

Packet Pg. 227

12.I.c

September 18th, 20187

Dear RTD Leaders,
I’m taking the time to write you, to please not support nor approve any service reduction in
RTD’s rail system for Aurora.
Please give the R Line a chance— it just opened!
If you want to increase ridership, I have a few ideas.
Invest in some advertising that the Light Rail is here, NOW, and that it is open. Do you know a
lot of people don’t know that it is, or even where it goes? I’ve discovered this by conversations
with my neighbors.
There is a misunderstanding the R line goes to the airport, but most don’t know where it goes.
Offer free ride days, like the SCFD does for Parks and the Zoo. Maybe once a month. A great
educational opportunity.
Offer a free Senior day, perhaps in conjunction and collaboration with another event that could
be along the line that would be attractive to them. Have friendly and patient employees there to
show them how it works, until folks catch on. Once they do, others will help them. I’ve seen this
in action.
Offer pamphlets in Aurora’s top 5 or 10 languages, say a z-fold brochure that explains how it
works. Do you know we have over 100 different nationalities/ cultures that now call Aurora
home? We do.
Another problem is parking. Yes, I know it is there, but there are plenty of folks that don’t know
where it is, or how it works, it’s a bit confusing and they don’t want a ticket.
Restrooms. More on that later.
But consider this radical idea— in a few short years, this ‘older’ (translation: established) section
of Aurora, will soon become its own hub, a NEW hub, a downtown Denver of its own, if you
will.
Aurora is changing and growing… the Anschutz Medical Campus, Childrens’ Hospital, the new
VA hospital and other medical centers, along with the accompanying housing for medical
personnel, and hotels for out-of-town patients’ families, for the state of the art cancer treatment
centers. They are building luxury condos and housing and hotels and stores, from every corner
you look. And what of that new huge conference/ entertainment facility planned for Aurora? The
Gaylord Hotel, is it not? "Gaylord Rockies will be the premier Colorado meeting and convention
center hotel with sweeping views of the Rocky Mountain foothills.” 1500 rooms, 10 minutes
from DIA, a massive facility that boasts everything from nearly 500,000 sq ft of meeting space,
as well as restaurants, ballrooms, pools and, if it is to be believed, a Lazy River flowing around it
like a moat.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Subject: Please consider my letter-- R Line suggestions

Packet Pg. 228

Well, the moat remains to be seen, but this massive conference center is slated to open in 2018,
right around the corner... and you could be right around their corner, if you’re in the
transportation business, that is.
In fact, with its proximity to Aurora City Hall, I-225, I-70, and so much more than I’ve
mentioned, you should be adding more connecting Light Rail lines out to these new areas, not
cutting them.
Here’s a big one. There are no restroom facilities. None!
One day my spouse and I decided to ride the new R line, just for fun, to see where all it went and
what it was like. We were very pleased with the speed, how clean and safe it was... We rode out
to the Commuter A train to the Plane, and that was fun too. So we turned around at the cool new
Westin hotel, looked at the art, and came back to the Peoria station, where we’d catch the R line.
Now, it was a hot summer day, so we both took bottled water with us… and then to our horror
we realized— there are no restrooms! Anywhere! Not at any of the stations. Not one! Now, there
are facilities for RTD employees, we were informed by a bus driver. But who among you can
forgo the restroom, and for how long? That’s a long ride, no matter how fast the rail line is.
There are no restroom facilities. How many people aren’t riding it for lack of human necessity? I
had wanted to take my father, but with his medication, he had to go to the restroom every 20
minutes. What about families with toddlers and children? And no changing stations for babies?
And not even hand sanitizer, or a water fountain.
How many people are avoiding it because of simple, basic things like this? The long distances
from Union Station, out here to the plains need to be more humanoid friendly.
I implore you to reconsider, and instead find ways to reach out more to people to try the New
Light Rail, and make using it more attractive, and friendly to use, not less. Perhaps the pricing
structure needs revisiting. On that I do not know, but when the first Light Rail was built as an
experiment in the 90's to 5 Points, we were so excited! “Who wants to go to 5 Points?” people
opined and rolled their eyes. Well, we and our friends were such strong proponents of the mass
transit concept, that we used to buy fares, and ride it up and down just to prove that people would
use it. And — they did.
“Who wants to go to Aurora?” (eye roll)
It has been said, “If you build it, they will come” — and they will— trust me. The boom that is
coming is not far away--- but it’s not quite here yet. Stop thinking of Aurora as Denver's poor
distant prairie cousin wearing flour sacks and kickers. You’re looking at a future money maker
of international flair.
Cutting services to the light rail you just put in, after just barely starting services to Aurora, the
3rd largest city in the state, the 54th largest in the United States, just seems short sighted in the
extreme, at this early juncture.
I respectfully submit my letter, and ask that you circulate it among the powers that be.
Particularly the ones with an eye to the future, and long range vision. I’ll let you borrow my
long-range binoculars.
Just flip them around, and look through the right end.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 229

Aurora Resident, Homeowner, and Taxpayer,

Daisy L. Rothschild

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Sincerely,

Packet Pg. 230

12.I.c

R Line Cutbacks

I am traveling to NY next week on business and will not be able to attend the public hearing on the 21st
to discuss the proposed R line changes. However, I wanted to express concern in my absence. As a
homeowner, tax payer, and resident, I hope you will listen.
Reducing service on the R line outside of peak hours presents several challenges in RTD's mission to
serve the community.
1. Business travelers need a connection to the A-line. I work in the DTC and if I need to travel to the
airport, as I will do over the next 6 weeks, most of my flight times prohibit me from utilizing the R line to
the A line to the airport without schedule mishap. Sure, I can be a driver and help clog up 225 and pay
ridiculous fees in parking, but I would rather have a reliable schedule. It really really sucks to be stuck at
the Peoria station at 11pm, for example, knowing you only have access to surcharged Uber if you don't
want to stand in the cold! Alternatively, if I have a plane to catch at 2:30pm, from DTC, I guess I have to
travel to Southmoor, then transfer, then to Florida, then transfer, then get on the A line. This is why
people would utilize it even less.
2. RTD's choice to operate as a commuter line only means that anything outside of commuter-life =
more likely to drive. Need to go to an exercise class after work? oops, guess the trains stop at 6pm
unless I want to deal with rerouting. Have to do some repair on my car? Guess I better get home straight
away lest I might need another 30 minutes to get home (2x what it would normally take). Have to stay
late at work because getting out of the office before 6pm is difficult? Too bad. The point is that the
scheduling makes it more inconvenient to take public transit when the goal should be making that an
easier, alternative option.
3. What if I'm not a normal 9-5 worker? Which is increasingly common for all types of populations:
students, part-timers, retirees. Some of these populations may not have a car and may also be schedule
oriented. We shouldn't reduce the options for more vulnerable populations to "just have to deal with it"
because they have lives and families and constraints too.
4. The R line services several medical facilities and removing or limiting some access hurts. Assuming it's
not an emergency visit (because, yeah, let's just pay for $200 ambulance rides instead), should
scheduled visits only occur when RTD can accommodate these needs? It's bad enough that several
medical facilities are not open past 5pm. Let's just make it all worse - sounds like a great idea!
5. RTD and Aurora's business climate is connected and without regional connection, we probably won't
have a shot at Amazon HQ2 either. Do you really want to cripple that or whatever lurking deal is on the
horizon?
6. Aurora is one of the few places with access to the metro area AND that still has affordable housing.
Housing and transit are 2 sides of the same coin: make it more difficult to buy housing close to where
people work, face traffic congestion. Reduce RTD access, make traffic congestion worse. So what are we
really trying to do here because it sounds like the opposite of remove traffic congestion and allow more
access to more types of people.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Dear RTD Committee members:

Packet Pg. 231

12.I.c

I think I have pointed out several concerns at this stage, so let me offer some recommendations:
a. Market the line and offer incentives to increase ridership
b. Maybe travel all the way to Lincoln is difficult, but removing the link from Belleview to the A-line is
the worst option. How about turning around at Belleview? Why did we build 3 RTD lines to travel to
Lincoln when only 1 line travels between Peoria and Belleview? (I know, the H line travels between
Southmoor and Florida, but after that, what are you left with?)
c. Match service to the business community. For example, peak store hours across the line (not just 9-5
workers), whether events are held and what time they get out (like Fiddler's Green), because offering
shorter, more direct routes = RTD is the best option!
Feel free to reach out for further clarification on any point. My cell is 913-777-9619
Ada Van Roekel

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

7. More people will want to take the R line when the weather changes. I know that I more frequently
rely on the train when I don't want to be part of the slip-n-slide-n-crash traffic! These are never limited
to commuter hours, either.

Packet Pg. 232

12.I.c

Dear RTD Board Member,
As an Aurora resident and a taxpayer a regular RTD user and a disabled teen on my own, I am
writing to voice my strong disappointment and objection to the proposed service reduction to the
recently opened R Line, The train helps many people I live in an apartment community with
many People, people with disabilities, single fathers and single mothers, elderly and less
fortunate people who cannot afford a vehicle or who do not have the capability to get their
driver's license or in some cases are not 21 years old and have no one willing to help them get
their license and no funds for a car or insurance, they barely have enough funds to afford to ride
the RTD. As Aurora waited patiently for the R Line to open in February, all of us were very
happy and thrilled that the our line was coming to Aurora and now, after less than six months of
operation, RTD wants to reduce service and doom the entire line to fail and put many of their
regular customers who ride RTD every single day at risk and in jeopardy for some people they
are line is the only way to get to work or school, we have had / 345 people move to this complex
since they are lined opened just for the easy access to the R line, RTD itself promoted the R Line
as providing easy connections to and from Aurora to the Train to the Plane-the A Line, the
Denver Tech Center and Downtown Denver. Now you want to make that access less desirable
for commuters and give Aurora less access to the region? RTD touts Light Rail as a connection
to the region and yet your actions don’t reflect that.
Aurora residents and businesses believed your message then, and we believe it today, but your
proposed actions don’t support it. Both RTD and the city have invested millions of dollars in
making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unfair for RTD to now, after less than six months, to
reduce service on the R Line, threaten future development in the city and reduce regional
connections. RTD should be invested in the long-term success of the R Line. Your efforts should
be to market the line and offer incentives to increase the number of riders, not discourage them
from using public transit.
I strongly urge the RTD Board of Directors to not support or approve any service reduction in
RTD’s rail system. It is completely unacceptable to cut service on the R Line after just becoming
operational within the last five months. Please RTD Leaders, please give the R line a chance it
has already improved the lives of many as well as Aurora as a whole there are many people
counting on the r line and also RTD to hold their word up and not let us down as Citizens and
daily public transportation users. Thank you for your time I hope you guys take this seriously
and read this letter to the end it is very crucial and important that you read this and please
consider your customers the city you gave word to and the millions of dollars that Aurora to help
the RTD R line and how upsetting that will be to the city your customers and everyone who
supports RTD that you let your word down and also put a city in major debt.
Thank you for your time.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Subject: R-Line - Aurora - from a Disabled young adult

Autumn Mink

Packet Pg. 233

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 234

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 235

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 236

12.I.c

September 22, 2017

As a member of the Aurora business community, as a former Board Chair of the Aurora
Chamber of Commerce, as a member of the Aurora Economic Development Council, and as a
resident of Aurora, I am writing to voice my disappointment and objection to the proposed
service reductions to the recently opened R Line.
Aurora tolerated missed deadlines and delays in the opening of the R Line, and now, after less
than six months of operation, RTD has proposed significant service reductions. RTD promoted
the R Line as providing easy connections to and from Aurora and the Train to the Plane (the A
Line), the Denver Tech Center and downtown Denver. While I understand that the economic
viability of any public transit schedule is important, it seems premature to propose this drastic of
a cut this soon after the line opened, and before much of the associated transit oriented
development (TOD) along this line is complete. I believe that additional TOD will spur ridership
numbers on the R Line. The current proposed cuts will make access less desirable for
commuters and give Aurora less access to the region, and likely reduce ridership even more. In
my opinion, public transit must be accessible, convenient, and affordable for it to be successful.
I’m not confident this proposal is consistent with those tenets.
Aurora residents and businesses that supported FasTracks did so out of an assumption of trust
and an implied promise from RTD. However, this proposed service cut so soon after the
opening of the line doesn’t reflect this trust. Both RTD and the city of Aurora have invested
millions of dollars in making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unfair, after less than six
months, for RTD to reduce service on the R Line, threaten future development in the city,
negatively impact those who rely on this new transit method, and reduce regional connections.
RTD should be invested in the long term success of the R Line. In my opinion, RTD’s efforts
should be focused on marketing the Line, providing service at a fee that competes with alternate
modes of transportation, and offering incentives to increase the number of riders - rather than
discouraging them from using public transit by creating a schedule frequency that is
unworkable.
I strongly urge the RTD Board of Directors to vote “no” on this proposed premature schedule
reduction for the R Line. I encourage you to allow the R Line to mature and grow – with focused
RTD support - and following this effort and the additional associated TOD, re-evaluate ridership
at a sensible time in the future.
Respectfully,
-----------------------------------------------------David Patterson
Chief Executive Officer
------------------------------------------------------

Rocky Mountain
10703 E Bethany Dr
Aurora, CO 80014
E-mail:

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Dear RTD Board Member,

David.Patterson@Falck.com

Packet Pg. 237

12.I.c

I am out of town so I cannot attend the meeting tonight about RTD's proposed cuts of service to
Golden. However, I attended a neighborhood meeting last week & voiced my disappointment.
They should be trying to fix the problem of why no one takes the lightrail, which is it takes 48
minutes to get from Golden to Union Station with 14 stops. They could offer an express train
that only makes 3 or 4 stops during commuting hours. None of us want to sit in our cars in traffic
commuting to Denver, but we also don't have 1.5 hrs to commute each way. After driving to
station, parking, waiting for a train, getting off at Union Station and walking to catch Free shuttle
to 17th & Lincoln I can tell it it completely impractical to think anyone will do that daily. Even in a
blizzard it is faster to drive to work. How do I know this? I've tried it both ways.
Cutting the service to every 30 minutes will render the train useless. If RTD's ultimate goal is to
end service to Golden then the cuts of service are a great idea. However, since the money has
already been spent on infrastructure it would seem that improving services like adding express
trains during rush hour to cut commute times in half would be a win. I suggested this at our
neighborhood meeting last weekend & EVERYONE agreed, even adding that any city they had
ever visited with a train had offered an express option during rush hour.
The vast majority of stops do not see anyone getting on or off, they are in peculiar locations that
someday may have more riders, but today do not and instead just make the ride from Golden to
Denver too long for a commute.
Again, I think it's time for RTD to make it clear what their ultimate plan is for the lightrail in
Golden. Would like like to do away with it completely or increase ridership?
And someone at the neighborhood meeting asked me if getting a free Ecopass would change
my mind, the answer is NO. I'm giving the choice between a parking place or an Ecopass. I
should parking space because I have 2 young kids & time is more valuable to me than money.
Golden should not be spending money to provide Ecopassed to it's citizens until after they have
figure out a way for the train to make sense to use. Again it takes much too long to get to
Denver & then drops you on the west side of downtown, so unless your office is on that side of
downtown the rider still has another 20-30 minutes to get their actual building. I had such high
hopes for the lighrail, but i find it rather useless unless I'm taking it to the Broncos game.
Traffic during rush hour is now so nightmarish that I think long term my family with either have to
move back to Denver or I'll have to quit my job. RTD, CDOT, Denver, etc. Needs to figure out
public transportation & traffic before courting more companies to open offices in Colorado. Bike
lanes are not the solution for the majority of us with kids.
Jacinda Brown

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 28, 2017

Packet Pg. 238

12.I.c

I attended the RTD meeting Thursday night. I did not speak as the comments I would have
made would have echoed what was said. I have had time to think about the meeting and am
compelled to add some comments at this point.
I am concerned there was an elephant in the room that was not addressed. I am very
concerned that every day the metro areas roads, due to volume, are becoming more and more
dysfunctional. Aurora’s issues are at the forefront of this problem. This city is growing and
growing rapidly.
RTD’s system is the only system that can reduce vehicle usage that’s practical - yes we can
walk more, we can ride bikes more, we can carpool more etc. -- but with Denver’s sprawl the
non RTD options present huge management issues.
There is a greater need for RTD to step up and help than there ever has been. I cannot believe
RTD came to us and basically said we do not need them because their graphs show we are not
using them. What their graphs show is that RTD has an incompetent inept management team
that is not addressing our transportation needs. RTD’s graphs show that we are not using their
systems because, even with the increasing vehicle usage issues we face each day, we choose to
use other forms of transportation.
The RTD board needs to step up and come up with solutions to the dysfunction that is
systemically torpedoing an excellent alternative transportation system. Perhaps RTD should
bypass their current management team that does not seem to understand the horrific
transportation issues we are facing, or fire them save the money and reduce fares. Perhaps the
government entities in the region need to encourage Dr COG to develop a regional
transportation planning group to provide alternative options, or the legislature needs to
establish a committee. Perhaps Aurora and other government and nongovernment
stakeholders need to take RTD to court to set up a supervision structure to help them
understand their responsibilities. Or perhaps the RTD board needs to start doing some work
and fixing the dysfunction in the system to compel more and more people to accept them as an
effective efficient transportation system.
The meeting, demonstrated a huge disconnect between the transportation problems our region
is facing and the issues that RTD think is important. There is a huge, huge, need for RTD to
change its focus, do its job, and help manage our transportation needs. It is a shame that so
much time and energy is being focused on the wrong problem.
Thanks

Jim Keesey

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 24th, 2017

Packet Pg. 239

12.I.c

Instead of reducing service to save costs, please work the agency to
A) address unrealistic projections that propagate to an unworkable financial plan
1) Who is accountable for the miss
2) Correct the math for future projects
B) Identify the challenges that are leading to the low passenger counts
1) enact action items to address each potential concern
2) what marketing and outreach successes are there to 'brag' about?
C) Challenge the agency to get riders on board and fare / pass revenue up
1) Schedules (large challenge)
2) Pricing (I am ok with it - but it needs to be looked at)
3) Accessibility of transit lines (buses to the rail)
4) Safety (I am personally OK with it, but I hear it is a concern with neighbors that will not
use it)
I hope the board holds someone accountable for the media "black eye" of the "R line" needing to
reduce service, right on the heels of the very expensive A line opening debacle. I feel RTD has
been given great amounts of capital to create some amazing projects, and they are wasting the
opportunities granted. Please hold them ACCOUNTABLE
In the meantime, I expect that my daily sales tax revenue be used to maintain this capital
investment and turn it into a worthwhile revenue generating asset.
Cutting service will harm (likely "kill") revenue.
Jim McGee
Aurora Resident
PS - I really like this comment a neighbor made on the "NextDoor" neighborhood public media
site, please get public feedback and implement fixes to save this great investment. The rail now
goes out to the Airport - that is amazing... we have the city 1/3 to 1/2 connected don't choke out
these gains.
Frank M., East Quincy Highlands
The reason that the mass transit systems work in big cities like New York is because it runs 24x7 365. anything
less dooms that system to low ridership and eventually to failure. Why would anyone ride a system that could
leave you stranded or could take hours to get a relatively short distance. A successful transit system needs
municipal support in addition to rider support. Consider the already wasted funding before you make it so that
even less people will use it.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Subject: Proposed R line service cutbacks (suggestions)

Packet Pg. 240

“This is a Season of Elevation, Escalation, and Engagement…!”
”Come Soar with the Eagles of Lyn Knoll”

Veterans Assistance League Of CO (VALCO) is the designated Fiscal Agent for LKNA. Please view:
www.valcoinc.org EIN: 27-2652491

14 September 2017
Greetings! Great Day Neighbors and Friends of Lyn Knoll!
To: RTD Board of Directors; Folska, District E Specifically
To and Cc: AUR / LKNA Leadership; Veterans

Bcc: Neighbors (Limited until confirmed)
Ref: NextDoor.com Neighbor Message received TODAY! ALL: Please also inquire to RTD!
If you are NOT signed up for www.NextDoor.com, you may have missed this.
Call 720-532-0836 or Write: econdev13@comcast.net to lend your time, talent, and treasury to your
neighbors. - TODAY!.
RTD Board Member,
The Lyn Knoll Neighborhod Association (LKNA) is a volunteer collection of neighbors and comprise an area
of @ 325 homes bordered by 2nd Ave to 6th Ave; Potomac (east and west) to Del Mar Cir (east) / Peoria.
RTD serves the 2nd Ave Light Rail Station and points north and south. While the neighbors voiced
disappointment for RTD’s unilateral decision to move bus service stops from Potomac at 2 nd (both
directions), we are completely disappointed and we protest ANY consideration for limiting service on the R
Line.
Based on the information received today, as Aurora residents (This director is a personal RTD rider) and as
taxpayers, LKNA writes to voice our strong disappointment/objection to a “proposed service reduction” on
the recently opened R Line. If true, what specific reductions, problem resolution steps, or any action are
planned and when are any public meetings regarding solutions/implementations scheduled?
Aurorans waited patiently for the R Line to open in February, and NOW, after less than six months of
operation, RTD wants to reduce service and doom the entire line to fail. RTD itself promoted the R Line as
providing easy connections to and from Aurora to “Train to Plane” (A Line); access to the Denver Tech
Center and to Downtown Denver. NOW, RTD wants to make that access less desirable for commuters and
give Aurorans less access to the regional destinations?
RTD touts Light Rail as a connection to the region and yet the Board actions may not reflect that
commitment.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 241

Aurora residents and businesses accepted your message then, and we believe it today, but your proposed
actions don’t support it. Both RTD and the City of Aurora, with federal funds, have invested millions of
dollars in making the dream of light rail a reality. It is unusual for RTD to NOW, after less than six months,
consider any reductions in service on the R Line, threaten future development in Aurora and reduce regional
connections. This rider observed construction activity on the Peoria Station just recently, so any threats to
curb service may be a marketing option.
Please confirm, however, RTD’s:
 Investments for the long-term success of the R Line.
 Commitment to market the line and offer incentives to increase the number of riders.
 Steadfast Strategy to remain cost competitve with any other form of transportation while
considering and promoting environmental value.
LKNA strongly urge the RTD Board of Directors for a vote of NO Support for any service reduction in RTD’s R
Line system.
Any vote otherwise, would certainly be a “game changer” for our District Representative, and LKNA
guarantees outreach to other customers throughout the RTD sytem.
Any additional questions are welcomed. Please "chime in" and, more importantly, roll up your sleeves and
lend your time, talent, and treasury to your neighborhood and to your neighbors. We need each
other! Mission: Possible!
Please. "Come Soar with the Eagles of LKNA"
There's plenty Good Room! Lend Your Neighbors: Time, Talent, and Treasury! Get Started
TODAY!

Founding Board of Directors – LKNA
Call: 720-532-0836 / Write: econdev13@comcast.net.
720-532-0836 (Ofc) / 720-325-4382 (Cell)
www.lynnknoll.NextDoor.com
P.O. Box 5872, Denver, CO 80217
Also, Check out: www.nicholasowalker.legalshieldassociate.com , a member of Team Prosperity, dedicated
to:
Protect You, Your Family, or Business and Consider Opportunities for Your Tool Belt! 20% of
ALL income is returned to LKNA.
Worry Less. Enjoy More!

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 242

12.I.c

September 21st, 2017

I’m not going to send you a canned letter that someone else has written. I’m sending you my own
thoughts, my own concerns, and my own plea, which I hope you will find more meaningful
I’m writing to you as someone who lives in Aurora very near the R line and who works near I-25 and
Lincoln. In fact, I’ve worked near the I-25 corridor for nearly nine years. I took the Light Rail to work for
all but two of those years. I was a member of the RTD Customer Panel during that time and I still
participate in RTD’s on-line surveys. When I moved to Aurora, one of the pluses for me was the
proximity of the R line and the fact that it ran non-stop to Lincoln, since both my previous and current
jobs have been near Lincoln.
I recently became aware of RTD’s proposal to reduce service during off-peak hours because of
“insufficient ridership.” I hope you will consider the following:


I don’t think RTD can accurately gauge ridership after only six months, particularly since the R
line didn’t open until late February. By that time, winter was almost over. I believe ridership
will pick up in winter, particularly once we get our first big storm. Rather than reducing service,
RTD would be better off advertising the convenience of not driving I-225 and I-25 in snow,
especially since the snow is always worse near Lincoln.



I was infuriated at RTD’s comment on its website that the proposed reduction in service “would
maintain 15-minute frequency through Aurora most of the day.” Per the current schedule, the R
line starts at around 4 a.m. and ends around midnight. That’s 20 hours. After the proposed
change, the R line will run 5 a.m. to 9 a.m. and 3 p.m. to 6 p.m. That’s 7 hours. That’s not even
half the day. It’s certainly not “most” of the day. In my opinion, it’s cutting service to the bone.



I feel like RTD is being punitive and “punishing” the residents of Aurora for the lack of ridership
by discontinuing the R line except during so-called peak hours. Not everyone needs to be
somewhere by 9, and not everyone leaves between 3 pm and 5:30 (which allows time to get to
the Light Rail Station by 6). Many of the people going to the Anschutz medical center will need
to arrive in the middle of the day. Rather than discontinuing service at Florida during “off peak
hours,” it would be far more socially responsible (and better customer service) to simply reduce
service to ½ hour intervals during non-peak hours if cuts are absolutely necessary. And I feel
strongly that peak hours should run through 7 p.m., not 6. The trains are crowded enough
between 5 and 6 as it is.



When I first moved to Aurora, I took the H Line from Nine Mile. One of the biggest drawbacks
was having to change trains at Southmoor. It added at least 15 minutes to my commute, and
since I use a walker, it added a great deal of stress in trying to navigate up and down the ramps
and from one end of the station to the other. My current hours are 9 am to 6 pm, which means
I could take the Light Rail directly TO work after the service change, but would have to backtrack
to Southmoor at night, when it’s dark and cold and snow is starting to freeze, to get home. I
think it’s inconsiderate, at a minimum, to require people to change trains unnecessarily during
the winter months. I also think it’s going to decrease the ridership of the R line still
further. Once people start having to change trains, especially when it’s only part of the time,
they start deciding it’s too much hassle to deal with Light Rail.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Dear Sirs and Madams:

Packet Pg. 243



The commute to Lincoln via the R line is nearly an hour; by car, my commute is 30 minutes in
good traffic, 45 minutes in rush hour. Again, why would anyone who owns a car choose to take
the R line after the service changes take effect when that’s going to add yet another 15 minutes
(or more) to an already over-long commute? Especially when it’s just as cheap to drive as to buy
a monthly pass.

In conclusion, I hope RTD will seriously reconsider the plan to discontinue full R line service during nonpeak hours beginning in January 2018. I think RTD has other, more socially responsible options available
for reducing costs, and I think the proposed service reductions would ultimately result in reducing
ridership still further. I can assure you, it would definitely affect mine.
Rowena R. Johnson
Subcontracts Professional
D 1 720-286-3476
rowena.johnson@ch2m.com
9191 South Jamaica Street
Englewood, CO 80112
USA

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 244

12.I.c

Con todo el respeto me dirijo a ustedes para hablarles sobre el cambio planeado a la linea de autobus 45, yo
quiero expresar que estos cambios no son de lo más favorable para las personas que vivimos en Montbello ya
que muchas de los habitantes usan este transporte para llegar a sus destinos como es la escuela y el trabajo,
por lo tanto cambiar el horario de la ruta crearía una situación crítica para muchos.
Yo se que ustedes conocen que este el el medio de transporte más usado en Montbello ya que es el más
cercano por lo que le pido que realmente consideren no realizar estos cambios ya que uno de los principales
inconvenientes sería el tiempo, además en mi opinión creo que todos los habitantes y ciudadanos merecen
tener acceso a este tipo de transporte rápido.
Mi recomendacion seria que esto se quedará igual, principalmente por todos los alumnos y maestros de las
escuelas de Montbello y así no perjudicar la educación, lo que para mi es lo más importante.
De antemano agradezco su tiempo y la atención a esta carta y realmente espero que reconsideren esta
situación por favor.
Translation
With all due respect I am writing to you to talk about the planned change to the bus line 45, I want to express
that these changes are not very favorable for the people who live in Montbello since many of the inhabitants
use this transport to reach their destinations as it is school and work, therefore changing the schedule of the
route would create a critical situation for many. I know that you know that this is the most used means of
transportation in Montbello as it is the closest so I ask you to really consider not making these changes since
one of the main drawbacks would be time, in addition I think that all inhabitants and citizens deserve access to
this type of fast transport. My recommendation would be that this will remain the same, mainly for all the
students and teachers of the schools of Montbello and thus not to harm the education, which for me is the
most important thing. Thank you in advance for your time and attention to this letter and I really hope that
you will reconsider this situation, please.

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 28th, 2017

Packet Pg. 245

12.I.c

I believe that the rtd is important to the denver public schools because without the public
transportation it would be harder for people to get to places on time. Three reasons why the bus is an
important thing in the Denver neighborhood is because not only do students ride the bus to school
there are also adults that need to get to work on time.
My first reason why the bus is critical to the students would be that with a later come and go it makes
more students miss out on important things that they could use on later in their lives, like work skills,
athletic participation, clubs.
My second reason why I believe the rtd is an important role in many people's lives is because not every
student is able to drive or walk to school from where they live in this Denver neighborhood.
My final reason why it is necessary is because The light rail is not close to this neighborhood and bus line
45 is one of the few convenient public transportation options.
The privilege of being able to ride the rtd every morning within 15 mins when needed is a big help to
those who can not get to places on time when it is urgent. The rtd is depended on by many students and
adults to get to work or even get to school on time. Many students who ride the bus have to be accurate
so that they don’t miss the bus and if the time changes from 15 min to 30 that it will create a big impact
on the students lives. The rtd is very important to students because not every student is able to drive
themselves to school and many other student rely on the rtd for public transportation because not all
students who go to Montbello live close to the school so it makes them use the rtd.
The big impact that will happen if the time changes from 15 minutes to 30 is that The light rail is not
close to this neighborhood and bus line 45 is one of the few convenient public transportation options. A
lot of people rely on the bus every 15 minutes when it passes because not everyone live as close as
other students. The students that take the bus wake up early so that they could catch it and if the time
changes students will have to wake up even earlier than usual time for the rtd to reach the school or if
they miss it then they will have to take more time waiting on a public transportation to take them where
they need to be.
In conclusion, we strongly disagree with the time being changed for public transportation because we all
rely on rtd’s to take us on time and take us back safely.
Sincerely, Steven A ,Montbello High School

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

September 28, 2017

Packet Pg. 246

Attachment: Attachment C - Letters Received - January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

12.I.c

Packet Pg. 247

Attachment: Attachment D - R Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Attachment D - R Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change
12.I.d

Packet Pg. 248

12.I.e

Attachment E - W Line Service Proposal - January 2018 Service Change

W Line Service Proposal
Westminster

38th •
Blake

40th •
Colorado

Central
Park

40th Ave &
Airport Blvd •
Gateway Park

Peoria

61st •
Pe ña

Denver
Airport

Union
Station
Pepsi Center •
Elitch Gardens

DENVER
Fr

Fitzsimons

ee
M

de

ee

Ri

Fr

ro

St

et

th

M

16

30th • Downing
18th • Stout

al
id
e

Sports Authority
Field at Mile High

25th • Welton

Weekday and Saturday nights,
Sunday all day
30-Minute Service

15-Minute Service

Colfax

16th • Stout
20th • Welton
Theatre District •
Convention Ctr

13th Ave

18th • California

Colfax at
Auraria

Civic
Center

Auraria West

2nd Ave • Abilene

16th • California

l

ox

ra
de

Kn

Fe

rry
Pe

De

ca

tu

r•

Sh

er

id

an

ar
m

or
sw
W
ad
d

oo

Alameda
I-25 • Broadway

ke

w

La

th

n
so
rri
Ga

ak
O

Re
d
Co Roc
lle ks
ge
Fe
de
ra
lC
en
te
r

Aurora Metro Center

La

Je

ffC

o

Go

v’

tC

tr

•G

ol

de

n

10th • Osage

Florida

Louisiana•Pearl

University
Iliff

Colorado
Evans

Nine Mile

Yale
Southmoor

Dayton

Englewood

Attachment: Attachment E - W Line Service Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

lR

27th • Welton

Belleview
Oxford•City of Sheridan
Orchard

Arapahoe at Village Center
Littleton•Downtown
Dry Creek

County Line
Littleton•Mineral
Lincoln

Packet Pg. 249

Attachment: Attachment F - 28-28B Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service

Attachment F - 28-28B Proposal January 2018 Service Change
12.I.f

Packet Pg. 250

Attachment: Attachment G – Route 34 Proposal January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service Change)

Attachment G – Route 34 Proposal January 2018 Service Change
12.I.g

Packet Pg. 251

Attachment: Attachment H - L Line Concept January 2018 Service Change (3276 : January 2018 Service

Attchment H - L Line Concept January 2018 Service Change
12.I.h

Packet Pg. 252

12.J

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 11, 2017

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 6, 2017

Board Meeting Date: October 24, 2017

Subject:

Approval of Budget Transfer between Accessa-Ride Service Providers

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to transfer budgeted funds totaling $1,120,030.00 from
MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055) to All Aboard
Transit (Contract 13-DH-054) and Transdev On Demand (Contract 13-DH-035) to account for changes
in Access-a-Ride service delivery during the period of January 1, 2017 through September 30,2017.
Funds will be transferred from the MV Transportation fuel line item ($240,000.00), from the Via Mobility
service line item ($672,030.00) and from Via Mobility fuel line item ($208,000.00) and will be
transferred to All Aboard Transit (290,000.00) and TransDev Mobility on Demand ($830,030.00).
BACKGROUND
As the Board is aware, during late 2016 and into 2017, the Denver Metro region experienced a low
unemployment rate. This, along with other factors, impacted the ability our contracted service
providers, including our Access-a-Ride contractors, to hire qualified operators. This had a negative
impact on Access-a-Ride’s ability to operate all scheduled driver manifests without significant amounts
of last minute adjustments and also negatively impacted Access-a-Ride on-time service delivery. As a
result, RTD re-bid the provision of Access-a-Ride service rather than execute options to continue existing
service provision contracts. As a result of this environment and the competitive procurement process,
two things occurred, 1) there was a shift in demand from the then-existing service providers to Yellow
Cab (TransDev on Demand) who was not as severely impacted by the hiring challenges as were our
other service providers, and 2) there was a change in service providers effective October 1, 2017 as a
result of the procurement process.
Due to these changes it is necessary to reallocate and transfer funds among our various Access-a-Ride
service providers in order to account for the changes in the service delivery patterns realized during the
early parts of 2017 as well as to pay for contract close-out and transition costs not initially anticipated
when the 2017 budget was initially prepared and subsequently amended. This reallocation of funding is
due to the fact that All Aboard Transit is not continuing as an Access-a-Ride service provider and All
Aboard and RTD have negotiated mutually agreed close out and transition costs, and TransDev on
Demand has picked up much of the work that MV, VIA and All Aboard were not able to provide in the
early months of 2017 and was thus operating at a level in excess of that originally anticipated.
DISCUSSION
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities that is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. This
includes having zero trip denials. RTD is required to provide all of the Access-a-Ride trips that are
requested each day. The ability to shift trips from our dedicated vehicle providers to Transdev On
Demand (our non-dedicated vehicle provider) has enabled RTD to meet the demand for ADA paratransit

Packet Pg. 253

12.J

service on a daily basis. This in turn ensured that RTD was in compliance with ADA requirements and
that we continued to meet the needs of our passengers.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact as the funds are simply being transferred between existing Access-a-Ride
service accounts. No additional funds are being requested.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Approve the budget transfer from the MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services accounts to
the Transdev On Demand and All Aboard Transit accounts. This is the recommended alternative.
2. Do not approve the budget transfer from the MV Transportation and Via Mobility Services
accounts to the Transdev On Demand account and All Aboard Transit accounts. This course of
action is not recommended as it will not allow RTD to pay for Access-a-Ride services provided by
Transdev On Demand nor the transition costs incurred by All Aboard Transit.

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 254

