Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 17,
2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

January 18, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
January 17, 2012 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tobiassen, Walker and Williams.
Directors Deadwyler, McMullen and Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Jeff Kay, Marla Lien,
Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, Brian Welch, Phil Washington and Susan Wood,

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry – Brandeberry-McKenna, Michelle Brier, Steve Cook
– DRCOG, Jane Donovan, Dave Hamon, Joni Goheen – Vertegic Group,
Sherman Hamilton – Vertegic Group, Jonathan Johnson, Julie McKenna
– Brandeberry-McKenna, Brian Middleton, Bill Mosher – DUSPA, Ray
Murphy – First Southwest, Jacob Riger – DRCOG, Julie Skeen,Michael
Swan – DU, Elena Wilken – CASTA, and Bob Wilson.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 6:28 p.m.

Update
 Denver Union Station Project
Bill Mosher indicated that construction progress is 52% complete and $255 Million
has been spent. Light Rail is substantially complete and we will be focusing on the
Light Rail Plaza. Also, The Regional Bus Facility is a critical path for the entire
project and goes through the Bus Box structure. A new section is the Commuter
Rail Facility and all of our underground work for CRT continues north up to 20th
street. There will also be several bicycle amenities including lockers, racks, a bike
share kiosk and a proposed commuter bike station.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 17,
2012
Page 2 of 2

Director Cohen added that at the Rail-Volution conference last October, a session
that he attended focused heavily on these types of bike facilities. The examples
from around the world were creative, innovative and were complementary to the
overall landscape.
Bill Mosher further added that in the next few weeks DUSPA will have its Annual
Meeting to review the 2012 plan.
 Denver Union Station Historic Building Negotiations
Bill Sirois explained that a schedule was established with key milestones for the
contract negotiations with the USA team. Staff will come back to the Board
regularly to update the status of the negotiation process and in some cases, an
executive session will be required. Also, there is a series of public forums that the
USA team will be holding to get input on the retail options which will begin this
week. There will also be a separate set of forums to address the public plaza space.
 Station Naming Rights
Scott Reed noted that staff will be sending out a request for expression of interest
on Monday regarding a potential contractor for Naming Rights. This will help us
develop the RFP as well. We have been working through procurement and will come
back to the Board with the design of the RFP.
II. Other Matters
Committee Chair Bagley indicated that in 2011 he and Director Hoy prepared some
Planning and Development items for the Board to discuss, and the same has been done
for 2012. Some of the items for 2012 include Station Addition Policy, Sustainability
Issues, Public Outreach Process, DUS Updates, and TOD Pilot Programs.
III. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for
February 14, 2012
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m. to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee.

