Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 14, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 14, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 14, 2009
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck; Treasurer Tayer;
Secretary Daly; via phone-Vice Chair Martinez

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; Paula Perdue

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb, Denver Post

Call to Order:

Chair Lee Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:02
p.m.

Cal Marsella reviewed the action items on the May Board agenda. There were
no major concerns.

I.

May Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
May 19, 2009.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED unanimously.


Unanimous Consent



August 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve moving the
proposed August 23, 2009 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to
public review and comment.



Architectural/Engineering Contract with the Merrick & Company,
16 DO-025 Contract Amendment

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 14, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 2 of 4
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to amend contract 16 DO-025 with Merrick & Company
for architectural and engineering design services in the amount of
$500,000 for a new contract amount of $1,100,000. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The amended
amount is to be funded by annual capital projects for the duration
of the contract.


2008 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the
District’s audited financial reports relating to the year ended
December 31, 2008 as prepared by Staff and audited by the
District’s independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.



Sales and Use Tax Compliance Review Agent Designation and
Permission to Further Pursue Legal Appointment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manger and
Staff to designate MuniServices as the District’s representative to
review RTD’s sales tax and use tax records, contingent upon
RTD’s obtaining permission from the Department of Revenue for
such an appointment under Colorado State Statutes and all
pertinent regulations.



Database Administration – Operational Systems Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to initiate the third-year contract option
with Dataman USA for time and materials Oracle DBA support
contract, RTD Contract No. 17DJ001.
This contract was
originally awarded on July 1, 2007 through the competitive bid
process. Within the contract, Article 6.0, allows for an initial year
plus three one-year options to renew based on positive
performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed
$170,000. The second year option is to begin on July 1, 2009
and remain in effect for 365 calendar days until June 31, 2010.
The Board is being asked to approve this contract because Legal
has determined it to be a personal services contract.



State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an
agreement (for state legislative liaison services) with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a oneyear option (July 1, 2009 through June 30, 2010) to extend

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 14, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 3 of 4
Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of $98,000.


RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2009 -Colorado Principles for
SAFETEA-LU Reauthorization



Recommendation for Authorization of an RTD Funding
Commitment to the Denver Union Station Project Authority for the
Design and Construction of the Denver Union Station Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize a payment of $12 million a year
for 30 years to the Denver Union Station Project Authority
(DUSPA) subject to acceptable agreements for the financing,
design, and construction of the Denver Union Station (DUS)
project described in the Record of Decision entered on October
17, 2008 and supplemented by the Letter of Intent signed by RTD
and its partner agencies on January 31, 2008. RTD’s obligation
will be reduced if Tax Increment revenues and other City tax
revenues for the project are sufficient to pay off project debt
early.



Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy Update
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt this policy, which updates the
District’s current established procedures and guidelines for
evaluating proposed new stations on RTD’s existing and planned
light rail and commuter rail lines. Since each potential station and
station area is unique, no one set of guidelines should determine
whether a station is appropriate for a specific site. The criteria
described below are meant to serve as a policy framework for
issues that should be considered when planning for and approving
new stations. RTD staff will evaluate each of the criteria, and
provide the results for the RTD Board’s information when
considering the approval of a new station. Final determination
regarding whether new stations will be added to light rail and
commuter rail lines, and who will provide associated funding of
new stations, will be a Board decision on a case by case basis.



Recommended Action


Revised Eagle Stipend Agreement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and
enter into a compensation agreement with the three pre-qualified
teams invited to respond to the Eagle Project RFP (the Proposers) in
an amount not to exceed $20,000,000 to be payable in the event
that RTD elects not, or is unable, to execute and implement a
concession agreement with the selected proposer through no fault of

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on May 14, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 4 of 4
the selected proposer. Payment will only be to the team that is
selected and not the unsuccessful teams. As a condition of this
compensation RTD would receive all of the design work, including
calculations, analyses and other supporting work that the selected
team completed as part of the proposal process. Funding for the
compensation agreement would be provided in 2010 through the
FasTracks financial plan for the East Corridor and Gold Line projects.

II.

GM Transition Team Status
Director Busck shared the GM Transition (Search) team will be
meeting later today to identify the process and recommendation for
using a search consultant in this process. He emphasized this is one
of the most important decisions the Board of Directors will make and
they will follow a process that is completely transparent, open and
will involve feedback from key stakeholders in the community,
elected officials, employees and other sources. Three key things he
hope to accomplish in the meeting today:
 Identify and make recommendation to Board next Tuesday to use
a search team for this process
 Establish a buddy system such that all Board members will be
informed of the discussions and decisions from this search
committee within 24 hours of
the meetings (open
communications)
 Meeting schedule for future meetings.

III.

Other Matters
Director Daly noted that the P&D agenda is getting smaller and
smaller and suggested that perhaps it could be combined under
FasTracks or Operations.
Chair Kemp explained that the P&D
committee serves the full base operations and is not appropriate to
roll under FasTracks. Cal Marsella added that per Board Bylaws, P&D
is one of the standing committees and the Bylaws would need to be
changed.

IV.

Meeting Adjournment
The Executive Committee adjourned at 12:20 p.m.

