Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
December 14, 2017
I.
Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy, 1st Vice Chair Francone, 2nd
Vice-Chair Deadwyler (via phone)
Secretary Walker, Treasurer Menten

Other Board members present:

Directors Tisdale and Lubow (via
phone)

Others present:

Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating
Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, Barbara
McManus, Executive Manager of the
Board Office, and John McKay, Board
Office Administrator

II.

December Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy reviewed the December Board Meeting agenda and discussed the number
of employees who would be retiring from RTD in December.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, noted that Jerome Hall, a bus operator with 37 years of accident-free
service, was retiring.
Chair Hoy asked if Mr. Hall would attend the meeting, and Mr. Abel responded that
he hoped so. Chair Hoy asked whether the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee would have an update, and Director Francone
responded that it would not.

Chair Hoy stated that anyone wishing to move unanimous consent items to
recommended actions should do so at that time. Regarding the recommended
actions, he said he did not know whether any of the items would be controversial
but stated that problems could be dealt with during the meeting.
Motion:

Chair Hoy made the motion to approve moving
the December 19th Board agenda to the full
Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0
opposed.

Other Matters
Chair Hoy stated that there had been some recent discussion about the Board-only
retreat scheduled for February 2018.
Director Francone said that the elephant in the room was the agenda. She said
there were questions about what the Board hoped to accomplish and how the goals
could be achieved.
Chair Hoy said the initial discussion indicated that there was a feeling among
Directors that the Board was not as cohesive as people would like to see. He said
the retreat, as currently structured, was planned as a training exercise in Board
effectiveness. He stated that he had spoken with several Directors, all of whom
had differing opinions on the purpose of retreat. He said the Directors he spoke
with about the retreat did not offer a lot of direction on how to proceed. He said
that he welcomed input from the Directors.
Director Menten asked who had stated that the Board was not cohesive.
Chair Hoy said the feeling was among Directors, not staff. He said that the
Directors who spoke with him had said the Directors should be collaborators not
competitors.
Director Francone said Directors were concerned that they would not have an
opportunity to sit together as a Board in the same room, at the same time, and be
able to discuss ways to communicate better and work together more effectively

toward a common goal. She said there were questions about where the Board was
going, whether the Directors felt as a whole that the Board should be moving in a
certain direction, and how the retreat would help to decide. She stated she did not
want the retreat to become a complaint session.
Chair Hoy agreed that the retreat should not be used as a vehicle to complain about
particular issues. He said he would like the Directors to walk away from the session
with a path forward on how to work together to solve issues. He said another
focus of the retreat could be to establish the roles the Directors should perform,
whether creating policy, overseeing the agency, or serving as the agency
watchdogs. He said the Directors would know how they should perform once they
knew what they were supposed to do.
Director Francone noted that Directors had certain statutory definitions as to what
the Directors’ duties responsibilities were, which were also codified in the bylaws
and directives that have gone forward.
Ms. McManus added that Board-approved Board operating guidelines and specific
policies also governed the Directors’ roles.
Director Francone said she heard what Chair Hoy was saying. She said she felt she
knew what she was supposed to do as a Director but thought a refresher could be
helpful. She said the thought it would be helpful for new Directors to hear what
their responsibilities were but did not think an entire retreat would be necessary to
reinforce that.
Chair Hoy said he anticipated the retreat would take four hours, which would be
less time than some Tuesday night meetings. He said that half of the Directors did
not agree about how the retreat should be structured. He said a lot of Directors
were reticent about attending the meeting, but he stated that he would take
responsibility if the retreat failed. If successful, though, he said the retreat could
change in the following years.
Director Menten asked how many Directors indicated they would not attend.
Chair Hoy said there were three, with differing levels of enthusiasm. He said none
of the Directors who had spoken to him said they simply would not attend.
Director Deadwyler said she stated she would not attend if the retreat were
structured in the same way as the joint Board/Senior Leadership Team (SLT)
retreat. She said she was not interested in hearing from a facilitator about the role

of the Board. She noted that the Board, being a democratic entity, would never
have consensus, because Directors were responsible for answering to their
constituents.
Chair Hoy said he was not looking for the Directors to agree but rather to
understand how the Directors can get along, how Board can work together, and
how individual Directors can relate to one another.
Director Lubow agreed with Director Deadwyler that she was not interested in
hearing from a facilitator about the role of the Board. She said her goal was to have
the Board come together to discuss the areas of concern, what was going on with
agency, where improvements could be made, and where the Board would like to
see the agency go. She said the Board did not have the opportunity to debate those
things but rather tended to discuss focused issues. She said intelligent people
coming together to talk about areas of concern created synergy. She said the Board
would not know what the outcome would be, but she felt the exercise would be
useful.
Chair Hoy said what Director Lubow was saying was different from her earlier email
response.
Director Menten said she did not remember being polled on how the retreat should
be structured.
Director Tisdale said that he felt that periodically getting together to provide a highlevel refresher regarding the role and function of Board was best practice. He
suggested that the Board was capable of self-facilitating the retreat and that the
retreat was an opportunity for each Director to express a point of view and a
personal agenda. He said that knowing what motivates the other Directors would
give the Board the opportunity to work more collaboratively. He said the Board
would have to agree in advance not to resolve issues but rather to flesh them out
and to find strategies to address areas of concern.
Chair Hoy said that Director Tisdale had eloquently expressed what he himself was
feeling. He asked Director Tisdale whether he knew a person named Bob Widner.
Director Tisdale said yes, that Mr. Widner was a city attorney in Cherry Hills Village
and was currently the city attorney for Centennial. He said he was a good lawyer
and a thoughtful person and had come up with a simplified parliamentary procedure
guide called Bob’s Rules of Order.

Chair Hoy said that he and Director Francone had the opportunity to hear Mr.
Widner speak, and they reached out to him to see if he could participate in a
segment of the retreat. Chair Hoy said Mr. Widner’s specialty was Board dynamics
and how to get things accomplished and that he walked away from Mr. Widner’s
presentation with the concept that Board members need not agree to get along.
Director Francone agreed with Chair Hoy and said that Mr. Widner was a great
speaker who had valuable things to say regarding organizations and the duties of
Directors. She said she hoped for some assurance that Mr. Widner would only be
asked to participate for a short time during the retreat, with the bulk of the time
dedicated to the Board’s discussion about the agency’s direction, the agency’s
challenges, and the Directors’ duties and obligations. She said that Directors need
not always agree with one another but stated that rowing in same direction would
make the Board effective.
Chair Hoy agreed that was the goal of the retreat. He said that the Directors all
agreed that they would like to be a stronger Board as a result of the retreat. He said
that did not mean the Directors would have to agree on everything and should
respect dissent. He said the retreat was a great opportunity for the Board to be
more effective.
Director Walker said that everyone could use a Board effectiveness retreat and that
he agreed that Directors did not have to agree with one another. He said that how
the Directors disagree was more important. He said he did not have a personal
agenda because his district was already built out. He noted that organizational
effectiveness information was readily available but stated that some people simply
did not want to play nicely in the sandbox. He said that he would be interested in a
session that helped all the Directors understand how to play well together in the
sandbox. He said the Directors had an opportunity each week to talk about new
business, old business, and other matters and that the Board did not need to spend
four additional hours to discuss those matters.
Director Menten asked whether Director Walker was polled about his preference
regarding the structure of the retreat.
Director Walker said he did not remember.
Chair Hoy said that he may have just had conversations with individual Directors.
He said he could send out and email asking for feedback.

Director Menten said that, during the retreat, she would like to address the
agency’s challenges. She suggested that the polling email could solicit the top three
challenges from each Director, which could be used going into the March retreat.
She said that the agency’s goals were set during March but noted that there were
certain obstacles that needed to be recognized. She noted that she preferred selffacilitation to outside facilitators but noted it was difficult to do a Board-only retreat
when staff had a better understanding of the agency’s day-to-day challenges. She
suggested that the meeting could start over breakfast and begin immediately, with
a short introductory statement from each Director of their main concerns.
Chair Hoy said he would support Directors bringing issues but would not support a
retreat dedicated to discussing those issues. He said the joint Board/SLT retreat
would follow a month later and that was the appropriate venue for discussing
issues. He said that some Directors had district-specific issues and that the retreat
could help them figure out how to address those issues.
Director Deadwyler said that the Directors would largely be in agreement if they
were asked to submit their choices for the top three agency challenges. She said
her biggest concern in all areas of the agency was communication. She said the
Board would not need to go through 45 individual issues during the retreat because
there would be common ground. She said she did not have any problem with Mr.
Widner attending for 30 minutes.
Chair Hoy said that Mr. Widner would need more than 30 minutes but stated that
the Directors would enjoy his presentation.
Director Menten said that her preference for the retreat would be to discuss
challenges and solutions. She said the Board did not have to have the last word.
Director Tisdale agreed that concerns should put on table and that the Directors
should agree to listen to those concerns but not resolve them. He said he did not
want to get bogged down in the weeds but preferred to hear out potential
solutions, so that the Directors will have already had the initial discussion prior to
the joint Board/staff retreat, which would then yield a more informed discussion.
Director Menten suggested a questionnaire could be sent out soon, with a
turnaround time of January 15.
Chair Hoy said that a two-week response period would be sufficient. He reiterated
that he did not want the retreat to turn into a complaint session but rather saw it as

an opportunity for newfound respect for everyone. He said the goal should be
professionalism, respect, and tolerance of dissenting opinion.
Director Deadwyler said that would be possible if the Board established ground
rules.
Ms. McManus said that what she was hearing was that the Board did not want an
outside mediator. She said that the Board needed to be comfortable with the
outcome if there were no external person.
Chair Hoy said there had been some controversy about bringing in an outsider. He
said that the mediator could be someone whose role was to monitor the discussion
so the Board could get through the ground rules.
Director Deadwyler said she had worked with the Federal Mediation and
Conciliation Service (FMCS) in the past and that they were excellent. She said that
the Directors could bring in a free facilitator if they chose not to self-facilitate. She
said she did not think any of the Directors wanted agency staff involved in the
retreat.
Director Francone said that she felt a facilitator was necessary. She said that Chair
Hoy should be able to participate in the discussion and not have to run the retreat.
She said that a Board-only retreat should only be attended by the Board, rather than
agency staff.
Chair Hoy said that inviting FMCS was a good idea but noted that the Board would
need an agency employee in attendance for technological reasons. He said
deviating from normal meeting procedure would not help the Board to seem
transparent.
Director Deadwyler suggested that John McKay, Board Office Administrator, could
attend, take notes, and operate the equipment.
Director Menten asked whether the facilitator would lead the discussion.
Chair Hoy said that FMCS would be there to watch the group dynamics and to keep
everyone on track.
Director Deadwyler said they would not get involved unless they were asked to do
so.

Chair Hoy said that Director Deadwyler had suggested the agency use FMCS for
other agency efforts. He said they knew when to jump in and when to stand back
and were a free service from the federal government. He suggested that the Board
could discuss lessons learned and determine whether the Directors liked the format
and what they learned from the process.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 1:06 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

