Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 24, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 25, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 24, 2011
at 5:35 p.m. in Rooms RT D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Pro Tem Cohen; Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, and O’Boyle.
Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, McMullen, Riley,
Tayer, and Tobiassen.

Staff Present:

Bill Beuthel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer, Bob
Downes, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Marla
Lien, Barbara McManus, Tony McCaulay, Anthony Menendez,
Karen Morales, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak,
Daria Serna, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta
Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Brian Lewandowski – CU Boulder, M.
Light – CU Boulder, Robert McNown, Professor – CU Boulder,
and Bob Wilson.
****

I. Call To Order
Chair Pro Tem Cohen called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.
II. Sales and Use Tax Forecast
Robert McNown, Professor from the University of Colorado’s Leeds School of
Business and member of the Business Research Division presented the
Econometric Model for Sales and Use Tax Forecast for 2012. Highlighting a
few key points, Mr. McNown noted that the one-year model revenue forecasts
were based on Colorado and RTD district economic activity, especially retail
sales, and national economic forecasts which drive Colorado’s individual state
economic forecast. Based on information from historical data and current
revenue forecasts, the Business Research Division from the Leeds school of
Business is anticipating a 5.4% increase over 2010 sales tax revenue, driven
by a 4.2% rise in district retail sales.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 24, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 2 of 4
General Manager Washington noted that this was a lot of information for the
Board to take in, but we will come back periodically with more information
and will also provide the Board with updates as the Business Research
Division from the Leeds School of Business can provide them.
Director Bagley added that this information is very helpful for the Board to
recognize economic trends with the nation and our state and was very
appreciative of all the work that went into creating this Forecast Model.
III. Communications Update
Scott Reed explained that the 18-month Communications Plan will become
quarterly updates, with tonight’s update being the first. The Communications
Department is collaborating on developing a comprehensive plan for the
remainder of 2011 and 2012 for Public Relations, Government Relations,
Marketing, FasTracks Public Information, and Capital Programs and Planning.
Our intent is to inform, educate and engage the public with regards to general
RTD elements and the FasTracks program. Mr. Reed further noted that RTD
has recently engaged the services of Zuma Communications to help us collect
information from the public.
Daria Serna indicated that for the Public Relations portion of the
Communications Plan the focus will be to:
 Collaborate on light rail/operations changes related to opening
of new DUS light rail station
 Implement Board Member speaker training and speaker’s
bureau
 Coordinate the 5th anniversary of the Southeast Light Rail
Sherry Ellebracht explained that Government Relations will cover:
 Coordinated logistics for state and federal officials
participation in RTD Special Events
 Briefings for local and state elected officials and their
respective staff
 Coordinated tours for state and federal officials and their
respective staff
Tony McCaulay added that Marketing will focus their efforts for:
 General Ridership Promotions
 Image campaigns
 Website and Social Media strategies
Pauletta Tonilas noted that Public Information will concentrate their efforts for:
 Milestones/Special Events such as the FFGA Award/Gold Line
groundbreaking event
 Public education effort
 Telephone town hall meetings in each district

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 24, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 3 of 4
Bill Van Meter explained that Capital Programs and Planning will spotlight:
 the 2012 Annual Program Evaluation
 Coordination with metro mayors and regional coalitions
 Continued pursuit of grant opportunities
Director Daly noted that since our Eagle P3 contract is one of the largest in
the country, if we had considered inviting the President or Vice-President to
the ground breaking. General Manager Washington explained that we have
invited the Secretary of Transportation and if Mr. LaHood deems it
appropriate, we will send invitations to the White House as well.
Director Brohl referenced the General Ridership Promotions, and inquired as to
how we determine that someone is new to the area. Tony McCaulay noted
that we reference new utility accounts, or change of address forms. Director
Brohl then inquired as to the anticipated date of the FFGA approval. Sherry
Ellebracht indicated that the 60 day review period ends July 2 nd 2011 and the
FFGA could be signed at the end of the July, or sometime later in August.
Director Cohen inquired as to what efforts were being made to reach out to
the younger riders, specifically teens and pre-teens, to reverse the stigma of
using public transportation. Tony McCaulay noted that this effort might be
more effective in some areas more so than others, but the City of Denver
discontinued their school bus system and gave all of their students bus passes
and those students seem to have no issues or problems with using public
transportation.
IV. GM Benchmark/Compensation Philosophy Model
Director Bagley explained that the General Manager Oversight Committee had
a work session today discussing the Benchmarking Process, and the GM
Salary with the help of Paula Perdue. The Colorado State Audit Department
asked for benchmarking which is a great point of reference, but it will not be
the only consideration. Director Cohen added that the completed document
from the committee will be very self explanatory and even APTA does not
have a model, so it is important for us to know the industry standards for
General Managers, but RTD is special and unique unto itself.
V. FRA Update
Walt Stringer explained that the Federal Railroad Administration (FRA) is one
of ten transport agencies within USDOT. FRA regulates Rail operations,
equipment, signal/control systems, safety, emergency preparedness, engineer
certifications, and hours of service. The FRA will review the Eagle P3 project
including the dispatch center coordination, and conduct their own witnessed
testing of signal systems, vehicles, integrated testing, emergency
preparedness, drills, and other project activities.
Director Malpiede referencing the Rail Safety Advisory Committee (RSAC)
inquired about the committee member structure. Walt Stringer noted that

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 24, 2011 at
5:35 p.m. Page 4 of 4
RSAC is comprised of representatives from the industry, FRA members, and
suppliers.
VI. Other Matters
Chair Pro Tem Cohen noted that Greenwood Village Mayor Ron Rakowsky had
referenced a recent arrest in his city citing that the individual was arrested for
a warrant issued after failure to appear in court for an RTD fare evasion ticket.
Director Daly added that his youngest granddaughter was graduating from
High School tomorrow.
VII. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 7:20 p.m.

