Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 4, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on May 3, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Brohl, Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, James, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Directors Brohl and Deadwyler arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Directors Malpiede, McMullen, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda
Tierney, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland
Vaughn, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Paul Burck – Orion Register President, Mac Callison – City of Aurora,
Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Scott Weeks – DRCOG.

Call to Order

****
Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

I.

CAC Update
Committee Chair Cohen noted that there were no CAC Updates at this time.

II.

Recommended Action
Before moving to Recommended Action, General Manager Washington noted that
the FFGA countdown has begun. The FasTracks website has been updated with a
countdown clock as we mark down the days, hours, minutes, and seconds until the
review is completed. Various committees will be reviewing the package, a
combination of 3,000+ documents to ensure everything was completed and
submitted correctly.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 2
Chair Kemp added that the Board recognized staff’s time and effort in getting this
submitted, and was very appreciative of a good job done.
 Station Names on West Corridor
Rick Clarke informed the committee that Brenda Tierney would explain the
recommended action item concerning the Station Names on the West Corridor.
Brenda Tierney explained that RTD had received a request in February from
Lakewood to change some of the station names on the Gold Line. We agreed to
review any proposals that they sent forward, and in order to be fair we sent a notice
to our main stakeholders; Denver, Lakewood, Jefferson County, and Golden asking if
they had any station name requests and justification for any names they wished to
have changed. Five names were submitted: one from Denver, three from Lakewood,
and one from Jefferson county. Of the three Lakewood station names, only one
change was deemed acceptable which concerned the Lakewood/Wadsworth Station.
The City of Golden had several requests regarding the station name; however, we
are staying with Jefferson County Government Center Golden Station. Currently,
Jefferson County is not in agreement with this name and they are working with the
City of Golden to come a consensus.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve final station names for West Corridor (Knox Station, Perry Station,
Sheridan Station, Lamar Station, Garrison Station, Oak Station, Federal Center
Station, and Red Rocks College Station) including revisions to the names of three
stations: Federal Decatur Station changing to Decatur Federal Station; Wadsworth
Station changing to Lakewood Wadsworth Station; and Jefferson County
Government Center Station changing to Jefferson County Government Center
Golden Station.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the May 17, 2011 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.

Discussion:

Tayer

seconded

the

Director Anderson asked if there
was a way that we could structure
the motion so that Jefferson
County must come to an agreement
by the end of the month.
Agreeing with Director Anderson,
Director Tayer added that both
entities should approach the Board
with their joint recommendations

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 3
concerning the name preference for
the end of line station.
Chair Kemp noted that we should
keep the current station name as is
and allow the City of Golden and
Jefferson County the two weeks
until the May 17th Board Meeting to
present a revised draft/motion. If
there is not an agreement between
the two then the station name will
stand as is. Directors Hoy and
Tayer agreed with this proposal.
Director O’Boyle asked if it was
common practice to name a station
after the city if located near the city
center. Rick Clarke noted that there
are several stations that are named
for a city even though the station is
not directly connected to the down
town area.
Committee Chair Cohen added that
Lakewood is requesting certain
identifiers since the West Corridor
is passing through three separate
municipalities.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
if Jefferson County and the City of
Golden cannot reach an agreement
the station name will remain
Jefferson
County
Government
Center Golden Station.
Director Hoy clarified that the way
that the motion is written now will
move forward unless there is a
change, which staff can deal with
in a timely manner as long as it
comes before the May 17th Board
Meeting.
Director Bagley added that we are
not seeking any further input from
any
other
local
government

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 4
regarding name changes; this only
applies
to
the
Jefferson
County/Golden station.
Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that
this action item is moving forward
under recommended action.



Request for Approval of RTD 2010 Annual Report to DRCOG on FasTracks

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2010 Annual Report on FasTracks to
DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes to the FasTracks Plan, including
financing and alignment, that have been approved by the Board in 2010. These
changes are included and referenced in the Annual Report.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
forward this item to the full board
at the May 17, 2011 Board
meeting.
Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley noted that on page
9 of the summary, the last
paragraph 5th line from the bottom
the election in 2010 should be
corrected to say 2012.
Committee Chair Cohen explained
that the Board noted last year that
if a vote was delayed to 2012 there
would be an increase in the overall
capital costs of the project to 6.8
Billion.

Vote on
the motion:
III.

The motion passed Unanimously.

Update
 FasTracks Quality Management
Kevin Deviness explained the benefits to RTD of pursuing quality certifications:
i. The Criteria/Core Values are consistent with RTD’s quality philosophy
ii. Critical feedback helps RTD to improve
iii. Recognition for meeting these criteria provides confidence to RTD’s

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 5
stakeholders
iv. RTD should hold itself to the same standard that we require of
contractors.
The RTD FasTracks program is currently a registered organization in the Orion
Registrars, an accredited entity under the Department of Commerce. Since the CPEx
Certification mirrors that of the ISO 9001, we have decided to do both concurrently.
Receiving Certification Certificates/Awards is not RTD’s main motivation; we are
concerned with continuous improvement to our services.
Paul Burck, President of Orion Registrars presented the certificate that represents
FasTracks certification of ISO 9001.
Director Tayer noted that the certification is wonderful, and the value of doing this is
to make sure that the internal processes are checked and balanced to ensure the
highest standards are maintained. Director Tayer proceeded to ask if any other
transit authority was ISO certified. Kevin Deviness mentioned that we are in a very
small minority that has received this certification. Only a handful of other transit
authorities have this.
Director Tobiassen noted that this certification only applied to FasTracks, and not
the RTD organization as a whole. Rick Clarke explained that a number of the
processes implemented under FasTracks also apply to the base business as well.
 Eagle Project Intergovernmental Agreements
Committee Chair Cohen posed a question to the Committee asking if they knew
what the acronym Eagle stood for. With no correct responses Director Cohen noted
that the Eagle name represented East and Gold Line Enterprise.
Ashland Vaughn presented the Status Update regarding the Eagle Project IGA’s.
Currently, there are 6: Adams County, Arvada, Aurora, City and County of Denver,
E-470, and Wheat Ridge. All items are in the completion stages and should be
completed before the FFGA is signed in the next 60 days.
Director Tobiassen inquired as to if any of these would potentially impact the FFGA
if not finalized within the next 60 days. Mr. Vaughn indicated that if one of these
items were not settled, it would influence the FFGA finalization.
General Manager Washington added that we are tentatively looking for a site for the
FFGA signing event, and one being considered is Old Town Arvada. This would also
be a ceremonial groundbreaking for the Gold Line.
 North Metro Record of Decision
Jane Donovan, Engineering Project Manager for North Metro presented the Preferred
Alignment presentation. This is also available on the FasTracks website.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that there is a lot of potential for this line.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 6
Director Deadwyler inquired as to how many miles this line encompasses. Jane
Donovan indicated that this North Metro Line will be 18.4 miles long, and the flyover
near SunCorp is 8,300 feet, 1.5 miles of single track.
IV.

Other Matters
None

V.

Next Meeting
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for June 7,
2011.

VI.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the Planning and Development Committee at 6:40
p.m.

