1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, October 21, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:16 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:03 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:02 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

5:20 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:27 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:51 PM
5:20 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:21 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Vice-Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:09 PM

Director Menten arrived late. Director Lasater dialed in for the Operations and Customer
Service committee meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Lacy Bell, Rachel Carson, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Kalee Freestone, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Adrian Mabry, Brian Matthews, Doug
MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara McManus,
Jeff Miessel, Vivian Morales, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Cherie
Sprague, Errol Stevens, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Claude Vigil, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,
Michael Washington

Also Present:

Michael Barnes, Chris Chang, Jacqueline Curry, Jane Dani, Doug
Gragg, MS N. Hague, Eugene Howard, Anthony Forrester, Tina
Francone, Adrina Gibson, Kent Moorman, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions

• Request for Increase to ACS Smart Contract (Howerter/McMurphy)
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager or his designee
to increase the Xerox Transport Solutions contract not-to-exceed amount by
$2,349,912 to a new contract amount not to exceed $19,731,382.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 28, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, introduced George
Hovey, Manager for the Program Management Office. George
Hovey mentioned that the approval of this action would allow
the Smart Media System project to progress.
Director Solano said that it is good to be proactive. He
pointed out that RTD is in the process of a Fare Study, yet the
recommended action assumes a new fare structure. George
Hovey answered that his team is being proactive in case there
are changes.

Director Folska asked where the project was timeline wise.
George Hovey said that currently staff is working on
technological and administrative functions. A testing
environment will be launched on November 1st. This
environment, he said, will test the anticipated volume. George
Hovey added that the final launch is still projected for summer
of 2016. Terry Howerter noted that more information will be
included in the quarterly update.
Chair Sisk said that such a high cost contract needed a game
plan. He asked staff to distribute a timeline of the project to
the Directors. Terry Howerter said that he will distribute the
timeline to the Directors.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

• 2015 Salaried Benefit Plans (Howerter/Sprague)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the 2015 Plan Year Salaried Benefits plan
and authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into agreements
with the Insurance Carriers.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 28, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, noted that any
changes in benefits are brought to the Board for approval. This
allows staff to budget properly. He introduced Cherie
Sprague, Senior Manager for Human Resources. She
explained that there is a slight increase of approximately 10%
in the self-funded plan due to a number of large claims. Cherie
Sprague explained the details of the chart included in the
Financial Impact section on page 8 of the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Meeting packet for

October 21, 2014. Terry Howerter also noted that there will
be an employee contribution increase of 10%.
Director Solano asked how the salaried plan differed from the
represented plan in both coverage and cost. Cherie Sprague
said the costs are different due to higher utilization on the
represented end. She said the design and co-pays of the plans
are pretty much identical.
Terry Howerter asked Cherie Sprague to address the Stop-Loss
coverage on the self-funded plans. Cherie Sprague explained
that one of the ways to protect the District is by purchasing
stop-loss insurance. This is a level of claim above which the
insurance will pay the remaining cost. The level on the
salaried contract is $150,000. The level on the represented
contract is $400,000.
Director Anderson asked if the represented employees have a
way to increase their wellness and health aside from the
insurance costs. Cherie Sprague answered that all RTD
employees have access to a very robust wellness program and
staff. She said that the represented workforce has a number
of opportunities through classes, safety tips, wellness
programs, sports programs, and in-house physical therapy (PT)
for anyone with a PT prescription. The in-house PT has
reduced the agency’s net claim costs. Cherie Sprague added
that next year the wellness department will launch onsite
health clinics which will provide additional benefits to both
salaried and represented employees.
Chair Sisk asked Cherie Sprague what the insurance increase
was for 2014. Cherie Sprague said it was a minimal increase
of 5%.
Chair Sisk asked Cherie Sprague what the plan is to avoid
such a high number of claims. Cherie Sprague said that the
plan is to provide more communication and education on
health clinics, proactive disease management, and clinics as
alternatives to the ER. She provided background on the current
plans provided by Cigna and Kaiser. She said staff does
regular Requests for Proposals (RFPs). RTD is interested in the
strongest network with the deepest discount as well as
customer service needs and management. Cherie Sprague
said that the plans chosen by RTD are very competitive. She
added that staff looks at utilization. She noted that on the

represented side most of the utilization was emergency room
(ER) visits. The diseases that most affect the represented
employees are diabetes and heart conditions. Cherie Sprague
said that the diseases that affect the salaried employees the
most are cancer and heart disease.
Director Solano asked if the represented employees had a
higher contribution percentage due to the physicality of their
jobs. Committee Chair Walker reminded the Directors that the
motion in discussion regards insurance coverage for salaried
employees. He asked that the question and discussion remain
on this topic.
Director Hoy asked for the difference between self-funded and
self-insured. Cherie Sprague replied that even though the
terms are used interchangeably, they are different. Selffunded insurance is one end of the spectrum where the
employer pays all the premiums. Self-insured is the other end
of the spectrum where a third party pays the premiums.
Director Hoy asked if RTD had any way to control the benefits
the employee receives. He asked specifically about employee
behavior modification on claims. Cheri Sprague answered that
there were some modifications to the contract, including a
higher ER copay to encourage other options.
Director Deadwyler asked for clarification on alternatives to
the ER as this may force employees to go out of plan. Cherie
Sprague said that there are 24 hour health clinics within the
District for employees to use. Data shows that employees
have been using the ER instead of 24/7 health clinics. Cherie
Sprague said that within the Kaiser insurance employees are
expected to use Kaiser. She added that within Cigna there are
in-network and out-of-network options. Cherie Sprague
pointed out that within both insurance plans employees have
stayed within network, meaning that employees understand
their plan’s rules. She noted that the ER issue was prevalent
on the Cigna side.
Cheri Sprague explained the new fees under Affordable Care
Act (ACA) found on the Financial Impact section.
Director Deadwyler asked if the ACA fees were something
new for 2015. Cherie Sprague replied that there are new
requirements added on each year. These are the requirements

for 2015. Others will be added on 2016, 2017, and 2018.
She said that each of those instances will have an impact on
the Agency’s costs.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

• Certification of the 2015 contribution for the RTD Salaried Employees'
Retirement Plans (Howerter)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2015 contribution to RTD’s Salaried
Employees’ Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a
specified monthly benefit at retirement. It is also recommended that the
RTD Board of Directors certifies a 2015 contribution to the Salaried
Employees’ Defined Contribution Plan Trust (the “DC Plan”), which
contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment, at a
percent of each participant’s eligible compensation.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the October
28, 2014 Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, explained that the RTD
Board of Directors closed the Defined Benefit Pension Trust
(DB Plan) to new employees with hired date of January 1,
2008. Employees hired on and after this date are under the
Defined Contribution Plan (DC). From January 1, 2008 to
December 31, 2012 both the DB and DC Plan have been
funded on a 9% of salaries basis.
Terry Howerter added that for the DB Plan the Board could
continue to approve a fixed contribution amount of $3.1
million and be fully funded in 2028 or fund it at the Actuary
Recommended Contribution amount of $5.7 million and be
fully funded in 2024.

Director Solano asked for the lowest, highest, median, and
average pay of salaried employees. Terry Howerter said that
he will provide the Directors with those figures.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 3]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

• Proposed 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement (Howerter/Scarpino)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors approves and adopts the 2015 Fiscal Policy
Statement.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 28, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, introduced Jannette
Scarpino, Manager for Budget and Financial Analysis.
Jannette reviewed the redlined 2015 Fiscal Policy Statement
included in the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Meeting Packet for October 21, 2014.
Jannette Scarpino pointed out the main two changes in the
document:
 On page 19, the phrase “or to mitigate service
disruptions as a result of economic downturns affecting
revenue” was added for clarity.
 On page 22, a new bullet point was added to the
Budget Policies, “exclusion of the non-cash portion of
long-term unfunded pension accruals.” This addition
will not impact the fund balance.
The remaining changes are clarifications in wording.
Director Folska asked if an example for the addition on page
19 would be taking the $60 million from the fund balance for
buying Right of Way and putting it somewhere else. Jannette

Scarpino replied that this could potentially happen. She
envisions staff asking the Board to use fund balances in the
event where the unrestricted balance goes to zero and there is
no cushion to support any downturns or economic difficulties.
Staff would look to the Board to approve use of the Capital
Acquisition fund balance and/or the Board Appropriated fund
balance if RTD found itself in a difficult economic situation.
Director Folska asked if there would be a differentiation
between capital projects, such as FasTracks, and base
operations. Jannette Scarpino replied that in the case of an
economic downtown, staff will use all resources available to
fund operations and maintain service levels.
Director Tobiassen asked for an explanation on the use of
“enterprise funds” as changed on page 23. Jannette Scarpino
said that under government accounting terms RTD is
considered an enterprise fund because the Agency is
operations oriented. Terry Howerter added that any entity
expected to support itself, for example water and golf courses
are considered enterprise funds. Others, like police and fire
departments, are funded by the corresponding government’s
general fund. Director Tobiassen noted that water, for
example, is fee based, not tax based, thus not needing a
Board for decisions. Marla Lien, General Counsel, clarified that
Colorado’s Tax Payer Bill of Rights (TABOR) created its own
definition of an enterprise fund. This definition can be found
on Article X, Section 20. Marla Lien said that what Jannette
Scarpino is referring to is the Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles’ (GAAP) definition of enterprise funds. Director
Tobiassen thanked Marla Lien for the clarification.
Director Menten asked staff to go over the other changes in
the document as the document on her electronic device was
not showing the red lines. Terry Howerter said the first
change was changing the word “increases” to “adjustments”
as this more accurately reflected the nature of fare
adjustments. He said there were 5 or 6 similar changes
throughout the document. Staff provided Director Menten
with a redlined copy of the document.
Director Menten asked if staff had an update on the pension
crisis regarding the represented employees. Marla Lien noted
that there is a difference between the legal and the accounting
requirements. RTD has fulfilled all of its contractual legal
requirements to fund the represented pension fund. Marla Lien

said that GAAP has determined that governmental entities
have to report the pension liability whether they are
contractually obligated to pay it or not. RTD has taken this up
with GAAP on the salaried pension fund because it is a direct
commitment of the Board. If there is an unfunded liability, the
Board will be liable. Terry Howerter added that staff tracks
both expenses and the long term requirement to recognize any
unfunded liability for GAAP purposes.
Director Menten asked if on the represented side RTD says
that it has fulfilled its obligation and the rest of the problem is
for the Unions to deal with. Marla Lien said that RTD can say
yes to the first part of the question. Terry Howerter said that
every payday there is a 9% expense of all the salaried wages
on the salaried side to fund the pension commitment. Every
payday there is a 12% expense of all union wages on the
represented side to fulfill the Collective Bargaining Agreement
(CBA) obligations. He said that the long term liability is being
worked off.
Director Solano asked if private and public accounting
principles are different. Jannette Scarpino answered in the
affirmative. She said that RTD follows GAAP principles. He
pointed out his concern in relation to revenue and high
efficiency when it comes to public versus private entities.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• 2015 Budget Update (Howerter/Scarpino)
Jannette Scarpino, Manager for Budget and Financial Analysis, reviewed the
2015 Budget Update included in the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Meeting packet for October 21, 2014. The presentation
included the budget theme: Building Fiscal Responsibility. It also addressed
assumptions, challenges, and next steps. She reminded the Board that the

2015 Requested Budget update was presented to the Directors during the
September 30, 2014 Study Session.
Director Folska noted that it is important for the Board and the Agency to
recognize the anticipated decrease in Sales and Use Tax revenue. She said
that according to slide 6 of the update, the CU Leeds School projected Sales
and Use Tax revenue at 3% by the year 2020. The Sales and Use Tax
revenue funds 58% of RTD’s operations. Jannette Scarpino said that was a
correct statement based on the forecast. She also noted that forecasts tend
to change as time progresses and economists incorporate more actuals into
their numbers. Jannette Scarpino said that the actual for 2014 is at 9%.
Director Folska said that in the State of Colorado there is a consistency of
budgets decreasing at about 6% while the cost of salary and benefits
increases. She added that it would be a good idea to look at worst case
scenarios which could project how this discrepancy would work in practical
terms. Jannette Scarpino reminded Director Folska that the Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) is a 6 year forecast from 2015-2020 which incorporates
the CU Leeds School forecast. The unrestricted balance in the SBP will be
positive. Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, added that the chart on
slide 6 refers to growth over the passing of time. Director Folska noted that
this meant the Sales and Use Tax revenue would accelerate at the same rate
of change that it decreases. Terry Howerter said that was correct.
Director Bagley said that the Sales and Use Tax Revenue Growth slide
presented is a great slide. He noted that Director Folska’s questions were
very pertinent. He said that the information on this slide is important for
future Boards to understand as the Sales and Use Tax revenue accounts for
59% of the total revenue. He said that future Boards need to be sensitive to
this issue in the next years.
Director Solano said that staff did a great job with the presentation. He
asked staff to explain why the forecast does not foresee any increases in
fares while an earlier recommended action asked for a vote based on fare
increase. Terry Howerter said that the Xerox contract request was mostly
for software changes to support the Smart Card infrastructure, including
cyber security for customers. The fare increase change was a small
percentage included in order to be proactive in implementing any changes as
quickly as possible. No fare changes have been modeled since nothing has
been proposed by the Fare Task Force.
Director Folska asked what staff is doing to invest in providing a very robust
cyber-security system across the agency. She noted that staff may not have
the answer right away; however, she is interested on cyber-security beyond
website: trains, buses, scheduling, etc. Terry Howerter said that he cannot

provide all the information. He did mention that there is a new cybersecurity officer that is working on the Information Technology end of all
cyber-security issues.
Director Menten asked how much parking fees contribute to total revenue.
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Security and Facilities and
acting for General Manager Phil Washington, said that there will be a parking
update during the Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting. He
asked Director Menten to postpone this question until then.

• August 2014 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Manager of Financial Reporting, reviewed the August 2014
Monthly Financial Status Report included in the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee meeting packet for October 21, 2014. The report includes
ridership, fare revenue, and Sales and Use Tax revenue as well as other
financial statements.
Director Folska asked for the annual interest expense percentage. She noted
that this amount is important because there are so many moving pieces.
She added that fare box revenue and Sales and Use Tax revenue are
decreasing while interests are increasing. She said this information would
help create a holistic view. Doug MacLeod said that on the presentation it
was divided into base operations and FasTracks interests. The annual
interest expense on the base operations is $26 million, 5.8% of the base
operations budget. The annual interest expense for FasTracks is $71
million, 56% of expenses.
Director Lubow mentioned that she remembered reading that the national
ridership trend is flat or decreasing. Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer,
said that he does not have any figures but that he is aware of an upward
trend. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications, added
that at the APTA Annual Conference ridership was discussed to be at an alltime high. RTD’s August boarding figures are also at an all-time high. Staff
continues to see increases. Director Lubow said she stood corrected.
Director Lubow asked how staff analyzes trends and how they are
incorporated into the SBP. Terry Howerter said that for SBP purposes trends
are based on Sales and Use Tax projections. He noted that, for example,
the Sales and Use Tax was low during the recession. The economic growth
in recent years has increased that figured. In order to incorporate it into the
SBP staff carries all of this information into a longer term financial plan (30
years). All the known revenue items and known debt payments are
incorporated as well.

Director Lubow noted that in order to be proactive we need to include
revenue forecast into what we do in operations for the 6 year plan. Terry
Howerter agreed, saying that it is a 6 year plan and a 30 year model. He
added that every time a new service is incorporated these items are taken
into consideration by staff. He said that staff is very thorough.
Director Lubow asked if the SBP projected a lower Sales and Use Tax. Terry
Howerter said that the SBP includes dollar amounts per year but not
percentages. He added that the percentages may be valuable in further
discussions. Director Lubow said that she would love to have percentages
on the next discussion.
Motion:

Director Anderson moved to call for the orders
of the day.
There was no second to the motion.

Committee Chair Walker declared the motion FAILED but noted.
Committee Chair Walker said that it was important to note that percentage
of growth does not mean dollar amounts.
Director Folska said that the SBP, aside from the General Manager Oversight
Committee chaired by Director Bagley, is the most critical subject the Board
handles. She encourages detailed questions on the matter. She would not
support the motion made by Director Anderson.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley reminded the Directors to complete the General Manager Oversight
survey sent via email.
Director Solano mentioned that he attended the APTA Annual Conference. He said
that it was a great conference in which General Manager Phil Washington was
inducted as APTA Chair. Director Solano said that during the Expo he met a
gentleman who invented a technology called zone defense. This technology is used
by Amtrak to stop or slow the train in case of fauna on the tracks. He wondered if
this was something that RTD has used and/or explored.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 18, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:05 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

