Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

July 21, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
July 20, 2010 at 5:31 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen Board members were present and two absent (Malpiede and Pulliam).

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees for the month of July.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
The Board recognized the participants of the 2010 International Rail Roadeo for receiving the
Grand Champion Award.
Chair Kemp and Director Daly presented the 2010 International Rail Roadeo participants with a
plaque and a resolution that passed unanimously later that evening.
Cal Shankster expressed gratitude on the performance of the Rail Roadeo Team. Phil Eberl and
Bill Bell talked about how proud they are of the team and presented them with certificates.
International Roadeo Participants:
Operator: Robert Dennis
Maintenance Team: Randall Lovegrove and George Sweeney.
Chair Kemp thanked everyone for their hard work and a job well done.
Chair Kemp awarded General Manager, Phil Washington with his 10 Year Anniversary
Certificate.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Doug Connor expressed concern with access-a-Ride dropping passengers off on 17th Street and
indicated that there are too many bus stops for ADA vehicles to access curb. ADA vehicles
can’t pull into the Blake lot on Board meeting nights because he has been told they are not
allowed to backup due to insurance requirements. All parking spaces are filled and they can’t
turn around without backing up. Doug asked if arrangements could be made for access- a-Ride
to pull into the lot on Board nights. He also mentioned that access-a-Ride needs someone to
help with the logistics in scheduling.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Director Tayer requested that the following be added to the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee:
“Board and staff should have an equal opportunity to provide input, but it should be up to
the Board…”
“Fare Model also needs a new revenue model as sales tax does not equate to services.”
GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee—Committee Chair Busck said there
was nothing to report other then there are three items on unanimous consent agenda this
evening. Benchmarking statistics will be brought to the full Board in September to meet the
deadline with the Audit by October 1, 2010.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Chair Kemp reported that he and Director Busck attended the meeting this past week. An
update on the P3 signing was given by staff. They received great comments from the Mayors;
they were pleased with the decision that was made and happy with the General Manager
and staff for moving things forward.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE 22, 2010
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the June 22, 2010
regular Board Minutes.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Malpiede and Pulliam were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE 29, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Busck moved for the adoption of the June 29, 2010
Special Board meeting minutes.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Directors Malpiede and Pulliam were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JULY 13, 2010.
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the July 13, 2010
Special Board meeting minutes.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 11 votes in favor, 0 against
and 2 abstentions (Kemp and Tobiassen). Chair Kemp and
Director Tobiassen abstained since they were not present at the
July 13, 2010 Special Board Meeting. Directors Malpiede and
Pulliam were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
National Veterans Wheel Chair Games 2010
General Manager, Phil Washington mentioned that Bruce Abel and Brian Matthews
received kudos from Veterans from all over the County for the service RTD provided
during the games. The RTD Honor Guard participated in the Closing Ceremonies.
Conference of Minority Transportation Officials (COMTO) National Conference
Cleveland, OH
Phil Washington did a presentation on the Eagle P3 Project. The conference was well
attended. Karen Morales also did a presentation on the FasTracks Program. Director
Martinez was in attendance.
Eno Foundation Presentation, Washington D.C. – July 19, 2010
Phil Washington just returned today from giving a presentation at the Eno Conference in
Washington D.C. This organization holds Senior Transit Executive Leadership courses
three times a year. Phil participated in the pilot course back in 2004 and this was his
third time being asked to present. The Eno Foundation paid for the travel expenses.
FasTracks Funding Strategies
Three weeks ago Phil presented the tactical plan for the priorities that came out of
Board Advance. FasTracks funding was the top priority. Part of the strategy is
updated ridership numbers and we have been working with DRCOG to update the
numbers on all corridors and will present them to the Board. RTD is preparing so they
are well positioned when the new evaluation criteria comes out.
WTS Colorado Leadership Series Speaker – July 14, 2010
Phil was asked to speak at the Local WTS Leadership Series, all went well.
Federal Highway Administration Workshop
Phil reminded the Board of the workshop that is being held this Thursday July 22,
2010. The workshop is listed on the Board two-week calendar.
Phil mentioned that a Local Governments Officials meeting is scheduled for July 29,
2010, where updated ridership numbers will be discussed with an understanding that
with higher ridership numbers comes higher costs.

Chair Kemp asked Director Bagley to give an update on the DUSPA. Director Bagley
reported that he and Chair Kemp signed the documents today and it is scheduled to
close on Friday. There has been a lot of effort put in by a tremendous amount of
people and the money that RTD has been advancing to DUSPA over the last four
months will be repaid once these loans close. Credit is due the RTD Board for
advancing the money and having had the foresight to understand this project was going
to get completed.
Chair Kemp also thanked Director James, General Counsel, Marla Lien and the rest of
the Senior Leadership Team.
IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to approve the unanimous
consent agenda items A through K.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for items A through K with
13 votes in favor and 0 against. Directors Malpiede and
Pulliam were absent.

A.

RESOLUTION NO.____ SERIES OF 2010 Honoring the RTD International Light Rail
Roadeo Team

B.

Authorization to Accept SB1 Funding for the Table Mesa Pedestrian Bridge
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to receive Senate Bill 1 grant funding in the amount of $3,500,000 from the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), Division of Transportation
Development for the Table Mesa pedestrian bridge, and pay the required local match in
an amount of $3,500,000. Funding for the project is included in the 2010 Adopted
Budget for the US 36 BRT Phase 2 project.

C.

Authorization for the Transfer of Land Sale Proceeds – Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to transfer to the Denver Union Station Project Authority
(DUSPA) land sale proceeds from parcels sold by RTD at Denver Union Station (DUS)
and Market Street to be used for the DUS Project construction funding.

D.

Grant of Permanent Easement for Utility Facilities to the City of Lakewood,
Approximately 13th Place and Kipling Street
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a permanent easement for utility facilities containing
approximately 1,465 square feet plus improvements to the City of Lakewood for the
construction, operation and maintenance of the City’s Intersection Improvement Project
to be placed in part upon RTD property located at approximately West 13 th Place and
Kipling Street.

E.

Resolution Regarding Property Acquisition, Exchange of Property and Indemnification of
Claims for Union Pacific Railroad’s Burnham Lead and sections of Moffat, Greeley and
Limon Subdivisions
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the attached resolution. The resolution authorizes the General Manager or his
designee to enter into Purchase and Sale Agreements for (i) portions of the Union
Pacific Railroad’s (UPRR) Burnham Lead for RTD’s West Corridor; (ii) portions of the
UPRR Limon and Greeley Subdivisions for RTD’s East Corridor; and, (iii) portions of
UPRR’s Moffat Subdivision for RTD’s Gold Line. It further authorizes the General
Manager to transfer exchange property needed by UPRR or to authorize payment to
UPRR for exchange property UPRR has acquired directly for its relocation, and to enter
into Relocation and Construction Agreements (Relocation Agreements) for relocation of
existing track and facilities and construction of new facilities necessary to restore
functionality to the UPRR. The General Manager is also authorized to enter into
Operations and Maintenance Agreements (O&M Agreements) for the East and Gold Line
Corridors. The resolution authorizes capital expenditures for these Agreements in an
amount estimated at $84.5 million (eighty four million five hundred thousand dollars).
Funding for the agreements is included in the 2010 Amended Budget for the FasTracks
capital program.
RTD by the attached Resolution waives sovereign immunity to the extent it may be
applicable up to the amount of available insurance and agrees to indemnify the UPRR
for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership and/or use of the acquired property, and
obligates RTD to purchase insurance for various types of claims. Liability insurance in
an amount up to $200 million (two hundred million dollars) during construction and
$400 million (four hundred million dollars) after commencement of operations is
required, as is automobile liability insurance in similar amounts. Railroad protective
insurance is required on the East and Gold Line Corridors. Pollution liability insurance in
the amount of $5 million (five million dollars) per claim is required along with other
insurance applicable to construction projects or required by law. The resolution
acknowledges that indemnity and insurance requirements may increase based on
changes in law or market conditions.

F.

Architectural/Engineering Contract with Merrick & Company, 16 DO-025 Contract
Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 16 DO-025 with Merrick
& Company to allow for additional architectural/engineering design services in the
amount of $500,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of $1,600,000 and to
extend the contract duration to June 30, 2012. Work is administered on an as-needed,
work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by annual projects for the
duration of the contract.

G.

FasTracks Desktop Support Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award Dataman a 3 year contract with two 1 year options for IT Desktop Support
Services (Contract # 10DY001) in the amount of $246,000 not to exceed for 3 years.
Dataman, an SBE company, was selected through the competitive bid process. The
contract is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services Contract per
RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.

H.

Reduced Duration of Eagle P3 Project Concession
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate a change to the Concession
Agreement with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) to amend the expiration date of the
concession from December 31, 2056 to December 31, 2044.

I.

Board Approval of updated General Manager Job Description
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve this updated job description for the
General Manager.

J.

Board Policy on Goal Setting Process for the General Manager
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt a policy (guidelines) for the General
Manager goal setting process.

K.

Board Policy on the Evaluation Process for the General Manager’s Annual Performance
Review
It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt a policy (guidelines) for the process to
perform an annual evaluation of the General Manager performance that is inclusive of
feedback from all Board members and the process is transparent to the public.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to approve Item L.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

L.

Award of “Group 22” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for
the provision of “Group 22” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit,
Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed $33,046,625 with
two (2) one-year options in the amount of $11,615,882 (option year 1) and
$11,877,437 (option year 2), for a total five year amount not to exceed $56,539,944.
In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be approximately $6,477,610 for the initial three year contract term,
$2,238,799 for option year 1, $2,274,389 for option year 2, for a total of
$10,990,799 for the five year period. This results in a total contract amount not to
exceed $39,524,235 for the initial three year contract period and $67,530,743 for the
five year period. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal
received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 10-DH-007, to provide “Group 22”
Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be
effective with implementation of the January, 2011, service changes on January 9,
2011.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

XI.

An electronic vote was taken for item L with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Directors Malpiede and Pulliam were
absent.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no Executive Session.

XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director Bagley mentioned that several Board Members attended and participated in the
Downtown Denver Partnership Annual Breakfast this morning. Kent provided a copy of the
report and year end review to the RTD Board. These items were given to the participants at
the DDP breakfast.
Director James talked to the Board about the 16th Street Mall. This Friday a decision will be
made on the recommendation for the Urban Design Plan.
Director Daly commented that he just found out Robert Merriman is no longer with RTD and
wanted to wish him well.
Director O’Boyle expressed his extreme pleasure serving in this capacity with the ladies and
gentlemen here.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Kemp asked that the Board attend the Bus Roadeo on September 11, 2010. He also
reminded all that there is a challenge on the table with the General Manager.
General Manager, Phil Washington mentioned that as long as he beats the former, Bus
Operator Director Daly, then he will consider it a win.

XV.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 6:22 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, July 20, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Jenny Barket
Bill Bell
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Carolyn Conover
Robert Dennis
Phil Eberl
David Genova
Terry Howerter

Marla Lien
Beverly Lindsay
Randall Lovegrove
Caitlin Magee
Doug MacLeod
Carla Perez
John Perry
Trent Ratcliff
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna

OTHERS PRESENT:
Justin Kelly – Spectrum A/V
Doug Connor
Janet Sweeney
Mark Sweeney
Michael Sweeney
Tanya Lovegrove
Jon Forbes – JP Morgan
Camille Cassidy
Bob Wilson
Lorraine Anderson
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post
Brian Middleton
Stu Livensparger – First Transit
Judy Dennis
Gary Forbes – General Manager, First Transit
Ed Bush - CRMCA

District I
District B
District K
District H
District O
District D
District J
District M
District N
District A
District E
District G
District F

Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster
George Sweeney
Stan Szabelak
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Del Walker
Phil Washington

