2025-07-29
Board Meeting
JULIEN BOQUET: Staff, are you ready? I'll now call the Tuesday, June 29th RTD Board meeting to order.
We're convened as of 5:34 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone present to remain silent, and those joining
us online to remain muted, unless you're recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this evening.
As the Board has moved to in-person meetings for monthly gatherings, please note that Committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom, and will be audio and videorecorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon
as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page.
During tonight's meeting, we're also providing communication access real-time translation, translation also
known as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice.rtd-denver.com. And the link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can
be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who'd like to access a live transcript of this meeting in
Spanish. I will now ask Director Harwick, could you please lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance?
IAN HARWICK: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America. And to the Republic for
which it stands. One nation, under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
JULIEN BOQUET: I will now read the land acknowledgment. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges
that the land on which our buses and trains operate is the traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho,
and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to these lands. We honor our Indigenous
elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains, throughout
generations.
May the acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing legacies of
inequity of the Native and all historically-oppressed peoples, and recognized their current and future
contributions to the district as we move forward. I'll now call the roll. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger

LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
JULIEN BOQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I am present.
JULIEN BOQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOQUET: Excellent. We have 15 present, 0 absent. And we do have a quorum. All right. I will note
that, due to significant public interest, we anticipate a number of items. The Executive Committee adjusted
our agenda. And for this evening, to ensure the Board debate and vote on a number of items will occur
earlier in the evening than normal.
These items will include the collective bargaining agreement with ATU 1001, the honorary renaming of Civic
Center Station, and the Access on Demand program modifications. These items will be taken up shortly
after our public comment period ends. I'll now move forward to the retiree awards. There are no retiree
awards for this evening. The third quarter retiree awards will be announced at the September 30th Board
of Directors meeting.
Next, we're moving forward to our public participation, which will be open to anyone who would like to
address the Board. As we have both in-person and remote attendees, in-person will go first, followed by

those who are participating remotely. For those attending in-person, please come up to the podium when
your name is called.
If you've not already done so-- not already done so signed up to speak and would like to do so, please
approach the podium when I call for any additional speakers. For those attendees who are attending
virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please make sure that you raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak, if you're dialed in.
Please make sure you're pressing star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please also bear in mind that, by
participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments
will have to be submitted via writing.
If a speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would
like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you'd like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office
at rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and will have
up to three minutes to provide their comments. Our first speaker of the evening is going to be Maria Riccioni.
AUDIENCE: The proper pronunciation of my name is Maria Riccioni. I normally would be in an electric
wheelchair. I never left home without it. And so I've been a member of Access-a-Ride since about 1995.
I'm a lifetime member. We're going to talk about the AOD, Access on Demand. This is a program-- until my
chair broke down. And I would be without it for a total of six weeks, that I didn't even think I qualified for.
And so what I want to focus on is not necessarily-- I know you guys want to increase the fares. But maybe
you should increase the knowledge that these services are available to us because more availability, more
people using the program, and more cash flow, from what I understand.
So what I want to focus on is, first of all, I don't like computers. I had someone help me. But not everybody
who has disabilities is able to ask for help. And I got my help from the Mental Health Center. And I didn't
know that even with my wheelchair. I knew about the program. But I thought I was exempt because I always
used my wheelchair.
But for example, today, I used Access-a-Ride to get me to my doctor's appointment. From there, I used
Access on Demand, Lyft, to get me to the Mental Health Center. And to get here, I use public transportation.
And then I took another ride to Blake because I couldn't walk anymore.
But the problem really isn't to raise the fares. And I know, even if it was considered, just let more people
know. I'm literally two weeks into knowing. So please, before you raise the fares, which will make it
inaccessible for us financially. Think about it, adding $13.50 to everything you do, because you have to get
there. And you have to get back.
That's a lot of money. And some of us are not paying anything out of pocket, just anything over $24. So
yeah, a short ride to you, who are able-bodied, or even with people with mental health or intellectual health
issues, this will limit access. And no one wants to be trapped at home. And thank you very much. I have
five seconds left. I thank you and appreciate your time.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Maria. Our next speaker is former Director, Jaime Lewis.

AUDIENCE: Good evening, Directors. My name is Jaime Lewis. And I'm the Transit Advisor for the
Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. First of all, congratulations on the collective bargaining agreement. We
believe a well-paid driver is a happy driver. And a happy driver is a productive driver. So thank you so much
for that agenda item tonight.
And hopefully you guys will put a bow on that. Second issue, on the agenda tonight, there is a request for
$3.5 million for a comprehensive operation analysis. However, when I read the notes on that, it's for rail
and bus only. I do not see anything concerning para-transit. I think this is a grave oversight.
RTD is kind of like a three-legged stool. You have rail. You have bus. And you have para-transit. And they
all need to have the same attention and comprehensive operation and analysis. And hopefully that will cut
down on some of the confusion that we've had for the last two years.
Concerning your AOD decisions tonight, I just ask that you do not strip the components of it that's made it
so popular, and keep a price that might actually out-price people from using it. The old expression, if it ain't
broke, don't fix it. There's a lot of issues that we have not addressed concerning Access on Demand,
including, we've never considered a monthly pass.
We have not considered how to deal with Medicaid waivers. And we've never really talked about maybe
contracting some of this stuff out for the waives to companies like Via. So I think there's a lot more work to
be done. And I would really like to see a working group, I hope the Board of Directors put together maybe
by this fall, to address these remaining issues.
And lastly, I am so proud of the people that showed up today. I think Wade Blank would have been very,
very proud. 44 people showed up today to express their concerns about AOD and to communicate with
you. So I hope you hear them. And I hope you saw them. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Jamie. Our next speaker is Mary Henneke.
AUDIENCE: It was! [LAUGHS] My name is Mary Henneke. I'm a disability advocate. Thank you for having
me here tonight. We can celebrate 35 years of ADA because a lot of progress has been made, particularly
for those who use wheelchairs. My son used a combination of wheelchairs and walkers for the first 15 years
of his life. I appreciate all that was done before he was even born that allowed him to go places that others
couldn't, before ADA was passed.
It's not perfect yet. And we continue to advocate for making life more accessible for wheelchair users.
However, ADA has not kept up. Its policies are outdated and limiting, if all you're doing is trying to meet the
minimum requirements. And that is exactly what RTD is trying to do. You're trying to reduce services to the
bare minimum standards established decades ago. Why?
The ADA is heavily focused on wheelchair accessibility. But there are many more barriers to using public
transportation, for those who are blind, have autism, intellectual disabilities, and other challenges. Different
disabilities have different needs. Unfortunately, RTD doesn't seem to recognize this. So many of us,
hundreds and hundreds, have spoken individually here and through feedback sessions. But we're still not
being heard.
This feedback has never been summarized, analyzed, or presented in any meaningful way. Isn't that the
purpose of soliciting feedback? RTD is just checking a box to say they did it. And that is not OK. You need
to be aware that tonight, you may be hearing an Amendment from the Board Chair that represents limited

interests within the disability community. This Amendment, if passed, would be devastating to so many of
our AOD riders.
RTD has failed to gather a representative group of voices to understand the riders that you're about to do
something really crappy to. Here are the facts. AOD is fully funded through 2025. In fact, the 2025 cost
projection of $15.3 million comes in under budget by half a million dollars, and matches 2024 actual costs
of $15.3 million, resulting in 0% growth.
Look at the numbers. Do the math. And continue to provide services for disabled riders in the most costeffective manner, which is AOD. You must vote no on this crappy AOD proposal. Furthermore, Director
Ruscha knows more than anyone here about para-transit. You need to restore her position on OSS and
remove all sanctions. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Mary. Our next speaker is Michael Cummings.
AUDIENCE: I'm Michael Cummings. I'm a rider and a political scientist. And I just want to reflect on a couple
of problems in our democracy that are relevant here tonight, that continue to be very upsetting to me.
Number one is the grossly unrepresentative nature of the bodies that govern us. It's a problem with our
politics, with our government, with our public policy.
But 20% to 25% of Americans have a qualifying disability. And we have, as I've counted it, one member of
this Board who has a qualifying disability. So 93% do not. And that is just an example. And there are
hundreds of such examples of the unrepresentative nature of our governing bodies.
The second thing that continues to bother me a lot is just, at all levels of our government, local, state, and
national, we have negligent and even cruel policies. And as I look at this proposed backing off from Access
on Demand, or cutting it by over a third, and in effect, making it unaffordable for some people, this can
actually be a matter of life and death.
And I just hate to see us, here in the wonderful city of Denver, Colorado, be another example, the epitome,
even, of an unrepresentative Board, unrepresentative with respect to people with disabilities, and willing to
consider what I regard as a cruel dereliction of duty in terms of promoting the public good. So I just hope
that people will think about this, members of the Board will think about this seriously.
And I've looked at the data. It doesn't seem to make sense. It's going to move people from Access on
Demand to Access-a-Ride. Access-a-Ride is considerably more expensive per ride than Access on
Demand. Access on Demand is way more flexible. And it works for many more people. That's why it's
extremely popular.
So I just hope there are people on the Board that will consider or reconsider, if they were thinking that
maybe this needs to happen. I mean, it's a few million dollars out of a budget of $1.2 billion. It doesn't seem
to be necessary. And there seems to be some other ways that cost could be spared. It is under budget.
And I think that it's something that we don't need, this proposal. I think it would be a cruel act by the Board.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Michael. Our next speaker is Kristen H. Kristen?
AUDIENCE: Good evening. And thank you for the opportunity to speak. My name is Kristen Heiser. And
I'm the Executive Director of the Broomfield Housing Alliance, the independent housing authority serving

Broomfield. I'm here to urge you to protect the Access on Demand program and to expand eligibility for
Access-a-Ride so that it reaches more of Broomfield, especially our neighbors with disabilities.
I am speaking about Broomfield. But I think this is across our region, what I'll be sharing. This is experienced
by so many of our neighbors. Access to transportation isn't just about mobility. It's about opportunity, equity,
and inclusion. For low income residents, adult, older adults, and people with disabilities, reliable transit is
essential to fully participating in community life, whether it's holding a job, attending a day program, seeing
a doctor, or simply visiting a park or family member.
Yet most of Broomfield residents, including our 2,000 neighbors living with disabilities, are not eligible for
Access-a-Ride because there is no fixed route RTD services in Central Broomfield. FlexRide helps locally.
But it doesn't connect to the surrounding communities where many of their services are located. This issue
is becoming more urgent to our community. In late 2026, BHA will be opening the Grove of Cottonwood.
It's a neuro-inclusive community designed for individuals with intellectual and developmental disabilities.
We intentionally designed the Grove to be in the heart of Broomfield. It is designed to facilitate access,
inclusion, and integrate into the broader community. We want our future residents to be able to access jobs,
programs, community events, really whatever their heart's desires, to participate in community.
But to do this, we need consistent regional transit. And we must take the action. We ask you to take the
action that is necessary to make this happen. We urge RTD to address this in one of two ways, at a fixed
route service through Central Broomfield, or expand or waive the 3/4 mile eligibility boundary.
Fewer than 10% of people with IDD derive their lives, like everyone, across city boundaries. Their
transportation options must, too. Let's ensure everyone, regardless of income, age, or ability, can connect
to the places and lives that they deserve. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Kristen. Our next speaker is Gina Coufal.
AUDIENCE: Good evening. My name is Gina Coufal. I'm the parent of an adult son that has intellectual and
developmental disabilities. I'm also the Founder and CEO of Friends of Broomfield. And we are a service
agency serving almost 200 individuals through our day, residential, supported employment, social, travel,
and behavioral services.
We have a supported employment program that's quite successful. 99% of our participants in that program
work in the community. 90% of them use some sort of para-transit in order to get to work, mostly Access
on Demand and Access-a-Ride. Over 30% of our day program participants use some sort of para-transit,
again, Access on Demand and Access-a-Ride, to and from program on a daily basis.
Almost 50% of our social program attendees use para-transit to get to and from those social activities in
our community. Increasing fares and scaling back Access on Demand increases riders on the Access-aRide system and complicates an already chaotic system. We serve a vulnerable population who are working
towards independence. And as it's been said, having transportation breaks down barriers to community.
Increasing the costs and limiting options and service routes for vulnerable populations takes away their
independence, access to health care, inclusion in community, social activity, and in some cases creates
isolation and undue burdens on aging caregivers.
At our agency alone, and I have many colleagues who share these same issues, our riders have been
dropped off hours too early, picked up hours late. Rides have been canceled without notice. Services and

appointments have been missed. And we've even had the case where two people in the same host home
have been put on separate routes to be picked up and taken home.
Many times, there is no transfer of supervision for the adults that are dropped off. We're constantly taking
people home and picking people up in our own cars, on our own time. You should invest. You shouldn't be
cutting dollars. You should be investing dollars to fix some of these issues for an incredibly critical, but
clearly messed up system.
It's clear that some of you that are leading the campaign for increased costs and limited services in
transportation areas that serve vulnerable populations haven't experienced what it's like to have to depend
on public transportation in every aspect of your life. You have the power. And you should do the right thing.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Suzanne Eck. Suzanne?
AUDIENCE: Good evening, Board. Thank you for hearing me speak. My name is Suzanne Eck. And I'm a
resident of Broomfield and a parent advocate of a disabled adult. I am concerned not only with the proposed
changes to Access On Demand for the entire disabled population in the RTD service area, but also the
current lack of Access-a-Ride available to all eligible Broomfield residents.
According to RTD, AAR serves an area of 2,342 square miles. As evident on the Access-a-Ride boundary
map, Broomfield is one of the few urban areas where a large portion of their citizens are excluded from
Access-a-Ride services. Approximately 10 square miles in the Central and Eastern portion of Broomfield
are not within the boundary.
That 10 square miles equals 0.009, or 9/1,000, of the AAR boundary area. I don't see how including 10
square miles of Broomfield can affect RTD's bottom line. But it most certainly will improve the lives of the
IDD community in Broomfield. Please remember that the ADD mandate is 3/4 of a mile, is the minimum
required, not the maximum allowed.
AOD without the ARR boundary requirement provided a solution for my friends and neighbors to be
independent and travel outside Broomfield for their jobs, medical appointments, or visit family and friends
in neighboring communities. Your own data shows that 5% of the 2024 AOD trips were outside the ADA
minimum 3/4-mandated area.
There is a need. Your propose going back to the minimum mandated boundary will discount-- it will
disconnect and negatively impact the lives of hundreds of disabled individuals who have used AOD this
past year. The implementation of AOD was a popular option for the disabled population-- option for the
disabled population in the Denver Metro area.
RTD data shared at the May 25th Board meeting shows that more riders chose AOD over AAR, and that
AOD is significantly more cost-effective per trip than Access-a-Ride, saving RTD $84 per trip. AOD is a
financial success for RTD. Yet RTD proposes to add a charge of $6.50 for each one way fare. This places
a financial burden on a population who has very limited resources.
We aren't asking for a free ride. We are asking for a fair ride. RTD's mission statement is to make lives
better through connections. And one of RTD's priorities states that we are dedicated to serve the public and
meet the transit needs for our riders and communities.

The AOD program reflects your priority to serve the disabled community. But the current proposed changes
to this popular, successfully financial, and community-connected transport program will have a negative
impact for the disabled population in the Denver Metro area.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you.
AUDIENCE: Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Our next speaker is Corey Gonzalez.
AUDIENCE: Hello, my name is Corey. I'm the mom and a caregiver of my 32-year-old daughter, who has
an intellectual and developmental disability. I'm writing to urge RTD to keep the current Access on Demand
service without modification. AOD has been a safety net for my daughter when Access-a-Ride fails to
provide timely service or when she needs same-day transportation.
I want you all to change places with me for a minute. I want you to imagine you're the parent of my daughter.
And she has the opportunity to move to a planned community that will provide the support she needs for
her to live independently. But you overhear a couple of other parents talking about a situation where there's
not access because the planned community is outside the 3/4 mile boundary.
This isn't something that you've thought about because you live in the metro area. You do some research.
And you see that they're correct. And you find that central Broomfield, the town your daughter was born
and raised in and has lived in her whole life, doesn't have RTD service at the location of the Grove. It's at
14th and Cottonwood where these apartments are being built.
So you give up hope. But then you pull your bootstraps up. And you search for solutions to another obstacle,
because that's what you've done your entire life. Then you remember there's Access on Demand. Your
dreams of a safe and secure environment for your daughter have been answered. And she'll be able to
move to the Grove. And you'll be at peace, knowing, once you're no longer alive, your daughter will have a
safe place to call home that will provide the additional supports that she needs.
With AOD, my daughter can now travel to her chiropractor for same-day appointments. She can make last
minute plans to get together with a friend. She can get to work close to on time when Access-a-Ride fails
to show up during her pickup window. In fact, just this last week, half of her scheduled pickups were past
her pickup window. And the other half, the driver went to the wrong location.
If the proposed changes take place, an entire area of central Broomfield is now inaccessible for those who
rely on the Access on Demand program they qualify for because they qualify for Access-a-Ride. My
daughter needs Access-a-Ride and AOD because her work and her doctor and her dentist are outside the
Broomfield area, making Flex-Ride not an option.
The solution to this problem faced by my daughter and many others like her is to establish a fixed route
RTD service through Central Broomfield, expand or waive the 3/4 mile boundary requirement for Accessa-Ride, and keep AOD as it is, because it gives those who need it an opportunity to have freedoms many
of us take advantage-- take for granted. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Earl Lee.
AUDIENCE: Hello, my name is Earl Lee. Thank you for letting me speak here tonight. I, like many people
here, are very concerned about the changes that everyone is considering on AOD. I believe initially, AOD

was implemented to resolve some of the issues with Access-a-Ride. And I don't believe that those issues
have been resolved yet.
So by taking away AOD or making it more like Access-a-Ride, you're only making more of a problem. For
those of us who use programs like Access-a-Ride and Access on Demand, these are programs that are
very important to us. When we set a time and say we need to be someplace by a particular time, that's a
hard time for us.
And with Access-a-Ride, that appears to be a soft time for them. They don't understand that it's important
that we get there by that time. I had a situation just last week where I needed to be someplace by 9:00. And
the dispatcher told the driver, oh, don't worry if he's not going to be there by 9:00. It's not important.
So that tells me that Access-a-Ride has no concern for me as a passenger. So I think that, number one,
Access-a-Ride needs to be reviewed. I think their program is not working properly. It can be working better.
And I think that Access on Demand needs to be a true supplement to Access-a-Ride.
And I think the extended area, work area, is important. I think the cost needs to be equal to Access-a-Ride.
And I think that we could make Access on Demand a pioneer program. So when we celebrate ADA on
Friday of this week, we can say, RTD in Denver has championed another program for the disability
community.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Thank you. Our next speaker is Pippy Adams.
AUDIENCE: Hi. I'm-- sorry, Pippy Adams. And I want to speak about being a mom. I came to Colorado.
And I adopted my daughter as a single mom and came from a very small town in Kansas so that I could be
more independent and make a better life for my daughter and myself. And we've been able to do that in
Colorado.
One of the really important things is to be able to have multi-stop rides. This would make it so much better
for dropping her off at school, and then instead of having to wait and order a second ride to go to work, it
would save money because those initial fees aren't there. Also, having Access on Demand has completely
changed my life. I am able to get to and from work.
I own a small coffee shop, for lack of a better word, inside our state Capitol. And so I'm a small business
owner. And there are times that I have to be there at 2:30 in the morning. There are times that I can come
at 5:30 in the morning. And then there's times, especially during the General Session from January to May,
that I don't know what time I'll get off work.
So Access on Demand has been a game-changer for me for that in where Access-a-Ride doesn't work,
because I can't always know when I'm going to be able to get off work. I really encourage you all to vote no
on this tonight.
Put together a working group with people like myself, who can help give strategies and ideas. Work with
the National Federation of the Blind. Work with the Cross-Disability Coalition, CCDC. And work with others
who this affects, and work with us to make what will work for RTD and what will also work for us.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Tim Keenan-- Tim Keenan.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, everybody. I'm Tim Keenan. Thanks for allowing me to speak. So I was reading
over the peer review report. And one of the things they actually made a point of calling out and urging you

not to do is to create transit deserts. And that is exactly what you would be doing to those folks up in
Broomfield, and to people like Pippy, and to people like me, who have to work.
I work at Amazon right now. So I go from First and Broadway, all the way over to Aurora. Sometimes I go
for 2:30 AM shifts. Sometimes I get out at 12:30 AM. None of that would be covered under these new
policies. And as Pippy was saying, the multiple stop trip thing is just a common sense way to save RTD
money, to make it easier for us and whoever is depending on us.
And it's allowable by both Lyft and Uber now. So there's every reason to allow us riders to take advantage
of such a useful tool. And as far as-- right now, there is $0 fare. For whatever reason, there is $0 fair for
Access on Demand. I'm kind of waiting for the other shoe to drop on that for a while. But you gotta keep in
mind that, going from $0 to $6.50 per trip?
That is a huge increase that will impact so many people. And a lot of them don't have the ability to apply for
the Liv program to get the discounts that that would provide. So the moral of the story is, you have an
awesome program here that everyone likes. It's super efficient. It's working like a charm.
Slap a fair on it, $4.50 or whatever. Whatever you think is fair without putting people through serious
hardships, and call it good, and congratulate yourself on having an awesome program that increases
mobility for people, and independence for people across the entire RTD area. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Tim. Our next speaker is Keith Brooks.
AUDIENCE: Howdy, howdy. One of the nice things about putting the complicated and bureaucratic stuff in
a letter before the meeting is this time, I get to talk about something fun. The number 31 bus, arguably one
of the most important buses in the system, giving the 15 a run for its money. It's frequent. It's every 10
minutes. We all love it.
One problem, though, is it's often at crush load capacity, throughout the day, not just one bus in the morning
and one in the afternoon. For a bus like the 15, this would and kind of is a problem. But for the 31, it's an
especially big problem because the bus is stuck running, 40-foot buses, the standard buses you see
everywhere.
If it was another route, you could run 60-foot buses, Artics if you want to sound cool, or bendy buses if you
want to talk to everyone else. The problem is that the 31 is not run by RTD. It is one of the routes contracted
out to Transdev. And Transdev's contract does not include the operation of 60-foot buses. Their facilities,
the garages that they're meant to manage, as far as I'm aware, cannot handle those.
Their drivers, as far as I know, are not familiar. Though an afternoon looking through CDL regulations gives
no indication that they couldn't run those buses. There's a few solutions to this. Either. RTD could take back
over the route, which means digging deep into the contract and paying money.
And I'm sure it'll be a nightmare. Or you could do what is already done every day with the N line, but in
reverse, where in the N line, RTD picks up a couple trains in the wee hours from DTO and returns them at
night.
Transdev could pick up a few articulated buses in the morning and return them every night. I'm sure a few
dollars would have to be exchanged one way or another to make sure everything is square. But this is a
very precedented program, to split the maintenance of the vehicles from the operations of the vehicles.

And this would be a relatively simple way to get almost a 50% capacity boost on a route that does stupid
numbers. So just one little kernel, just to make things just a little better. I offer this as a suggestion. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Keith. Our next speaker is Erin Daly.
AUDIENCE: Oh, I did it! OK, hi! My name is Erin Daly. And I'm an AOD user. So when I was little, which,
I'm not going to confess to you how long ago that was at this point in my life, but my dad was a single
parent. And he was totally blind. And I remember, there were a couple times when I would get sick at school.
And he'd be able to pick me up. But sometimes he couldn't. And he would always say, oh, you can toughen
through it.
But I knew what the reason was. He wasn't able to get transportation to get me. And that is one of the
difficult things that I'm glad that I don't have to make that decision on right now. And I know many of my
friends and many people here in this room don't have to make that decision either, because right now they
have a system that, if their child is sick, if their child needs something, they can go immediately. They don't
have to schedule it 24 hours in advance. They can get it done.
When I originally moved to Denver, again, we don't have to talk about how long ago that was, I applied for
jobs. And I got something very rare that I feel like a lot of blind people can say, it doesn't really happen that
often. I got two competing offers. One of them was some really good money. And I told the other company,
hey, this is their offer. And they said, name your salary. I have never had that happen before. And I don't
think I'm going to ever have it happen again.
I had to say no to that offer. I had to say no to naming my salary at a job that I wanted because, when I
looked into the nuts and bolts of it, there was no bus that got me within a mile of their office in an office
park. I don't like to think about, maybe, the different choices I could have made in my life, had I had a higher
salary. But I did have a job. So that was great.
But at this point, I actually have a job in that same office park, now 10 years later, that I am able to get to
because of this, because of this program. It has opened up whole new worlds to me. And I am looking into
buying a home right now. And I'm sure everyone knows, home prices are really expensive. I wish interest
rates would go down a little. But that's not up to you all.
And I'm able to look outside of where a bus line picks up, right there. I can look into neighborhoods that are
maybe a little less expensive, where I can afford a home, not just where I have to live because I have to
live directly on a bus line in order to be able to do what I want to do. One other simple thing that I think that
no one really thinks about if you have a car is grocery shopping.
When I would go to the grocery store, I got a cane in one hand. So I gotta think of what I'm going to bring
first. I got a backpack on. I'm probably going to get scoliosis. I don't know. But I'm trying to carry it all. And
I'm wondering, do I get the 24 pack of water, which I need. Do I get the toilet paper, which I need. I can't
carry them all. What am I going to do? I have to make these choices. And then I have to go back out and
do it all over again.
Because of this program, I don't have to think about that. I can just get the things I need at the grocery
store. And I can go home. I don't have to balance it on my shoulder, this 24 pack of water. All I have to do
is carry it to a car and carry it up the stairs. That's life-changing. It's something that, I mean, my whole entire
life, I never even thought about. That wouldn't be something I would have to deal with until now. So--

JULIEN BOQUET: Erin, if you could wrap it up.
AUDIENCE: Oh, yeah. Sorry.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you.
AUDIENCE: There are so many good things about this program. And I hope that you're listening to everyone
here today, because you built a program that works. It is equitable. And I think that we should make it more
equitable for everyone, instead of reducing it and punishing us for having such a successful system.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Erin. Our next speaker is Chelsea Cook.
AUDIENCE: Hello. This is-- OK, good. This works. Thank you very much for hearing my comment. I'm
Chelsea Cook. And I am a blind AOD user. I know that, in this discussion, you all like to talk about numbers.
So let me throw a couple more at you. An AAR trip costs 80% more than an AOD trip. Think about that
when you're putting this proposal and amendment together. I hope you vote no.
Not having multiple stops would cost a parent $26 a day to take one kid to one school. Guess we're not
having multiple kids anymore. The point that hits home for me is, if you drive to work, as I'm sure most of
you did to get to this meeting, and you didn't have access to a car for a month, would you still be employed?
Like Tim and Pippy said, many people with disabilities who live or work outside the AAR boundaries are
going to lose their jobs because you are voting no on this.
Think about this in the wallet. Instead of paying taxes and contributing to RTD's revenue, they will cost the
taxpayers and stop contributing to that revenue stream. If you put back all the fixed routes, including the
one that runs by my apartment complex and the ones in Broomfield, we might have a different conversation.
Ironically, many people here are standing in this room tonight, including me and my boyfriend Dave,
because of the AOD program. I couldn't take off half a day of work to hope and pray that Access-a-Ride
would pick me up to come here. I attended the Operation Security and Safety Committee meeting two
weeks ago.
They chose to kick the can down the road. But once a program that works for people with disabilities is
made worse by policy, see original Access-a-Ride, someone kicks the can so far down the road that it is
never seen again. And the problems created are never fixed.
It would be a cruel irony if you were to vote to rename Civic Center Station after a pioneering disability
rights activist, and then turn around and cut this program. And an attack on our transport is an attack on
our freedoms. Don't take away our freedoms and our rights just because we can't drive. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Chelsea. Our next speaker is Dave Barr.
AUDIENCE: Yet another blind person. There we go! Dave Barr here. Excuse me. Have you been stuck
inside of your house? Maybe you've been at a doctor's appointment for hours after the appointment ended.
Maybe you've been told that this condition will last at least 90 days. You may be suffering from Access-aRide user syndrome.
Now, hold the applause, guys. I get it. This condition is serious and afflicts at least one-fourth of the
population, primarily those persons with disabilities. Serious side effects include, but are not limited to,
riding a big bus which screams out to the world, I have a disability! Never getting to your appointment or

your job on time. Feeling helpless, extreme shame. Decreased bodily autonomy. And the inability to go
where you want to go because it's outside the prescribed area and time schedule.
But there is hope. Introducing the Access on Demand. Please keep it like it is. And for the love of God,
bring back the multi-stop option program. Thank you. This under-budget and successful program has been
shown to increase freedom of people with disabilities in just two trips. Users reported feeling human after
six self-administered applications.
Positive side effects include, but are not limited to, freedom to go outside a prescribed area or restricted
hours. Feeling safe. Actually getting to your appointments on time. Having a tax-paying job. Taking an Uber,
like everybody else in society. Not being ashamed of having a disability. Increased self-worth and bodily
autonomy.
Having friends and romantic partners who know you'll see them on a regular basis, and feeling like a human
being who isn't seen as a hopeless and helpless creature. The Access on Demand, leave it as it is, and for
the love of God, bring back the multi-stop option program, where having a disability feels good again. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Dave. Our next speaker is Andrea Brandies.
AUDIENCE: My name is Andrea Brandies. And I live in Broomfield. And I moved to Colorado five years
ago. And one of the greatest things about Colorado is Access on Demand. Because of that, I have freedom
in my life that I have never had before. I'm able to go to the grocery store for something that, if I realize, oh,
I forgot this for this recipe, I can go pick it up.
I can go to the doctors. I can participate in church activities, in political activities where I remember, when I
lived in a different state a long time ago, there were things I couldn't do because I would struggle with taxi
drivers who wouldn't bring me to an appointment on time. So I couldn't participate.
So the only thing I'm asking is that, please, as everyone has said, please keep Access on Demand as it is
so that we can have complete freedom of movement, something that all of you Board members have
because you can drive. Those of us who can't drive are simply asking to live the same kinds of life that you
live.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Dan, Dan Hlavinka.
AUDIENCE: Good afternoon, Board members. Thank you for allowing all of us to speak. I really, really do
hope that you listen. There's part of what I just said that I'm worried because, the last time you saw my face,
there was many of us who spoke and really pleaded with you to, please, please, work with us. Work with
us to understand how to make this better, not only for y'all, but also for us.
And I have twins at home. And they were actually here, marching around. So thank you for creating a
situation where I could bring them to their very first protest. You're never too young to be an activist. And I
really wanted you to see their faces because these sorts of things that you're trying to say yes to is creating
big no's in their life. Not only their life, but my life, because they are my life.
What was a big deal about having the ability to roam around my world freely was, about a year ago, my
father became very ill. So I'm at home taking care of him, taking care of them, their mother, a very needing
mother. And to be able to get to work and not have to spend my day's salary to get to work is fantastic. I
live in West Arvada.

So I'm with y'all in Broomfield, that these new changes are going to exclude me from being able to start my
master's program here this fall, to continue going to work. I work at the Colorado Center for the Blind. I
teach tactile art.
I also am the head of a beekeeping program there. So I'm also responsible for about 60,000 little lives, that
also make a huge difference in their world and our world. So me being able to get to these places is
detrimental to many things. And I witnessed everybody stand up and give pledge to a flag.
And the last things I heard you say was freedoms and justice for all. Freedoms and justice for all, right?
And really being able to include us on your decision making, not just to listen and just make your decisions.
But actually including us on data collecting would be supremely important for your decisions, especially for
our lives.
Please, please, please work with us. Because, I mean, just spit-balling an idea. You could work with the
companies like Uber and Lyft and say, you want to reduce to $15. Well, ask them to include $15. So now,
instead of just $15 from y'all, Uber now has $15. Now there's $30, which is a step up. And then go to Senate
and go to the Congress and say, well, these are disability monies we're getting.
And those could be tax-deductible. I don't know. Make it work! All I'm saying is, there's ways to go about
this. And just include us, because that was just something I thought of right here. Thank you so much for
letting me speak, and listening to me yammer. And listen to everybody. Please, please!
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Dan. Our next speaker is Cody Baier.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

AUDIENCE: Good evening, everybody. I'm Cody Baier. I'm an Access on Demand user. And like everybody
else that spoke before me, this program has been revolutionary in changing the way that I do things and
the places that I'm able to go. For once in my life, it opened up the ability to be able to go where I want,
when I want, to do the things that I need to and want to do.
So I urge this Board to consider that when deciding the future of the program. A couple of things to think
about as we evaluate the future of the program. We're throwing out a $6.50 fare for proposal now. Keep in
mind that a $6.50 fare does not equate to a $6.50 fare, considering that tipping is customary in all rideshare apps.
I don't know about many others in this room. But I presume most all of us feel the need to at least tip our
drivers 15% to 20% per ride. And on a $20 ride, that makes your fare now $10.50. I think it's absolutely silly
to increase the fare any above the Access-a-Ride fare.
The Access-a-Ride program costs significantly more, as pointed out by other members of the community,
than Access on Demand. So from an economic sense, it does not make sense for RTD to encourage people
to use Access-a-Ride, when we all know that the program as well doesn't work very well.
I think we've got these arbitrary hours. And I've heard that it-- due to equity, because we need to have an
off-period from 1:00 to 4:00 because we don't have enough Wave vehicles. Equity isn't giving people less
service to match the lower group of service. We should be bringing up the service for Wave vehicles. Let's

figure out how to contract with companies and get wheelchair user service up to what ours is, instead of
cutting everybody else's service down.
My friend Tim here mentioned about his work hours. And I've heard from several others in the blind
community, mentioning about, hey, if we make blackout times, we're not going to be able to get to work.
That's cutting somebody's jobs that are taxpaying citizens, and are now going to go on to social programs,
which cost our government way more than Access on Demand does.
And I think, to this 3/4 of a mile rule as well, we're cutting people out that are in the most need of transit and
making their lives more difficult. So I hope-- that said, to wrap up my comments here, I hope that the Board
will consider lowering the fare to $4.50, as well as removing the arbitrary and capricious rules around the
time zone limits, as well as the 3/4 mile rule.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Cody. Appreciate your comments. Our next speaker is Zoran Stojic-- Stojic.
I tried, my apologies.
AUDIENCE: Good evening, everybody. My name is Zoran Stojic. I'm 55 years old. I'm new to the disabled
community. I live in Littleton, Colorado. And I'm attending the Colorado Center for the Blind. I don't use any
of your services. I don't use this ride on demand. I wish I did. Guys, listen. We all, every last person here,
has been paying taxes your whole life, OK?
Give us some of our money back and keep it cheap and free. That's all I'm asking. We paid our taxes. And
we still are. And I know everybody here woke up this morning, did everything, got in your car, went to work.
I can't do that. I'm pretty much paralyzed on my left side. And I'm visually, severely visually impaired. I
brought a pair of eye covers here and a cane. Does anybody want to try this and get to the door?
Let alone get over to downstairs and get a cab or whatever. It's a nightmare. Go try buying groceries.
Everybody here, everybody here just needs help. We're not begging you for help. We paid in. And that's all
I'm saying. Call your Congressmen. Call your bosses in Washington. And tell them, quit making bombs and
help the people who need help. Nice to talk to you guys. God bless you all. Have a good night.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker is Kyle Lee.
AUDIENCE: GCB, who are we?
AUDIENCE: GCB!
AUDIENCE: Yay!
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

AUDIENCE: Do you have to hold the mic down or anything?
AUDIENCE: Yeah, just a few inches.
AUDIENCE: OK. Hello. Can you all hear me?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Kyle. Thank you.

AUDIENCE: Yes, hi. My name is Kyle Lee. I'm a current student at the Colorado Center for the Blind. I have
cortical blindness and hemiplegia paralysis on the left side of my body. It was due to the sequential strokes
that I had from COVID-19 back in September of 2020. It's given me a cognitive disability, and also an
auditory processing disorder.
I have Access on Demand. And it helps me get to places such as CCB and to my appointments, because
I want to be able to work again in the accessibility field, to make life better for other disabled people,
especially other blind people. So I've been working with the Division of Vocational Rehab and the Center
for People with Disabilities, CPWD. And I dream of an accessible future for everyone.
And so, with Access on Demand, it allows me to get to these places on time. And I had used a service
before through Metro Taxi service. And I had to wait sometimes an hour. And I think the longest I waited
was seven hours before someone came to pick me up. It was really miserable.
So Access on Demand is an incredible thing. And it helps people like me, being blind and being paralyzed
on the left side of my body, be able to get to appointments, and also to school, and also to do all these
things that I want to do. Thank you for your time.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Kyle. Our next speaker is Cindy Vaughn.
AUDIENCE: Hi, I'm Cindy Vaughn. I'm an individual who has low vision and is hard of hearing. And the
person here with me, by the way, is a service support provider who gives me some tactile cues about things
that are happening around me, and whether people are smiling at me, or frowning at me, or falling asleep
and so forth. So just a note to be awake. Anyway. [LAUGHS]
So I want to tell you guys a quick story. Back in 2002, I've always had limited vision. And I've been hard of
hearing. And in 2002, I worked for the State of Colorado. And I took the public bus. And I took the light rail
everywhere.
And the one thing I could do is set my Clockify, when I was going to be picked up, when I was going to get
dropped off, except for inclement weather when the whole city shut down because of a lot of snow.
But I could absolutely depend on getting picked up. And I would usually be across the street, waiting. My
bus was across the street, picking me up. The bus was gone. And I was missing my bus. I had that happen.
I'm sure you guys have had that happen, too.
Well, in 2007, I was hit by a car while waiting at the bus stop. And a car lost control. So it changed my ability
to use the bus and light rail system. And I began to use para-transit. And the most notable thing that people
have talked about, but you need to hear, is the absolute unreliability of the service, Access-a-Ride and
Access-a-Cab.
The fact is that, when I worked for the State of Colorado in 2018, 2019, I might be picked up two hours after
work was done. And I might get home four hours after work, even though I, in fact, would have only had to
take a 25 minute commute. I think it's important that you realize that this Access-a-Ride, this para-transit,
should be mirroring, quote, the public transportation.
But it doesn't seem to mirror the on-time service. Neither did the Access-a-Cab, which ran for 10, 15 years.
That service, you didn't hear about people signing up for that because it just didn't show up at all. I was left
many times, trying to get somebody to come and get me because it failed to show up. And the place I was
at was closed. I really want you guys to consider other options.

I have listened to Board members talk in the Operation and Safety Committee and have had wonderful
ideas. And I frankly think that what is being proposed overall doesn't reflect the thoughts that you all have
shared as Board members. If you all worked with disability leaders in this room amongst us, and we came
up with a work-group and a plan, I honestly think we would come up with something that does work, and
we could be proud of. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Cindy. Our next speaker is Brian, Brian G.
AUDIENCE: Hi, everyone. My name is Dr. Brian Grewe. And I am the Executive Director of Atlantis
Community. I am also an internationally-recognized scholar in the areas of cultural discourses of disability,
ethics, and education. I bring this up because the middle piece that I work in is ethics. This isn't the issues
of right and wrong or good or bad. It's our orientation towards people.
I want you to take just a second here. And I want you to really look at this room. Look at the people behind
me. We are just a fraction of the disability community here in Denver, let alone Colorado. I also want you
to look at the person next to you. Look to the person on your left, and look at the person on your right. Odds
are, if they are lucky enough, they are going to join our community at some point.
And here's the thing. We're not interested in just surviving anymore. You've been dealing with my
organization for 50 years. We've been fighting for our rights for 250 years. It's not about survival anymore.
It's about thriving. 21 people have spoken before me today to talk about all sorts of different issues.
The $6.50 fare. It doesn't seem like a lot of money when we just say, $6.50. But it's just one trip. It's oneway. It's one location. It's one stop. It's $13 if they want to go home. It's $26 if they want to book multiple
things, to try to get all their things that they need to do in one day done, hoping that they can make it with
all the different times and possible delays that exist.
Right now, they have 25 rides that they can use in a month. If we drop that to 20, if we have a 31-day
month, there's a possibility that one of their rides to and from work will not be covered. Multi-stop has been
talked about by a bunch of folks. It makes sense from a practical or logistical perspective. You don't have
to call new drivers out to different locations. And it saves people money.
We also had issues like having a three-month wait before people are able to access Access on Demand
come up. We've had conversations about fixed routes. People have talked to you about your business
practices and costs. And all of that is very valid.
But I want you to think about how you would feel if you had to use the services that you're making rules
about today. I want you to really think about how that would impact you. And so, in the words of my
forebears, we will ride and keep our people free.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Brian. Our next speaker is Kaylie Medina.
AUDIENCE: Hello. My name is Kaylie Medina. And I am an Access on Demand rider. For me, Access on
Demand has been absolutely life-changing as I navigate progressive vision loss. I know that you guys don't
need to hear how important and impactful Access on Demand is for myself, people in the blind and low
vision community, and people with all disabilities in Colorado.
My concern is that the changes proposed will make the program inaccessible by cost to so many people
that rely on the program. A base fare of $6.50 easily becomes $10 when you are including the expectation

for tip. Over the course of one month, that would make the program completely unusable to so many people
with no viable alternative.
Currently, Access-a-Ride is a program that is not reliable, not cost-effective for RTD. It's not time-efficient.
And until a viable alternative is made with either fixed route buses or Access-a-Ride, I don't think changes
should be made to Access on Demand because a lot of people will be priced out.
Thank you so much for your time and for letting me speak today. Please consider making a pause on
changes to Access On Demand until viable alternatives become available.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Kaylie. Our next speaker is Trent Taylor. Trent Taylor? Oh, perfect.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

AUDIENCE: Good evening. Good evening. My name is Trent Taylor. I'm an attorney. I work here in Denver.
I'm also a blind individual. There have been many great and persuasive comments that have been raised
here today. So I don't want to duplicate that. But I want to add a couple notes, and then present something
from a different perspective.
First to add, I think what's important to note about the Access-a-Ride on-demand program is that these
proposed cuts and modifications are very premature. They were spurred by the overwhelming interest and
use of Access-a-Ride and on demand because it was a good program. We should keep popular programs.
And there was a fear that this would outspend the budget allocation that was determined for it previously.
But now, subsequent to this proposal, we have seen that this program is actually operating under budget.
And how often is it that government cuts programs that are under budget? This is a no-brainer here.
The other thing that hasn't been mentioned here that is very relevant is that we shouldn't cut things when
we don't have a reasonable alternative. And we've already heard about the deficiencies of the Access-aRide program.
But also, what's important to note is that, in conjunction with these proposed cuts, we have seen over the
past couple of years, reductions in service in the traditional public transportation options, such as bus rides
and the light rail system.
We're facing cuts from both ways, from both directions, if this Access-a-Ride program proposed cuts go
into effect. So give us an alternative. Give us an option. And give us something that's workable. And we
say, you don't have to look far for that. We already have it here. Finally, I'd like to close by asking you to
take the perspective and try to conceptualize what it is to develop a disability in your lifetime. Some of you
may know, or may have witnessed people who have gone through that experience.
But from my perspective, and for many of those who are standing with me and behind me, it's a traumatic
experience because you lose something, not just something, but many things that you've taken for granted,
that other people take for granted, such as being able to choose the job that you want to work at, being
able to enjoy the activities that everybody else around you enjoys, and many more. And access to the
health care that you need and depend upon.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Trent. I appreciate it.

AUDIENCE: The last thing I will say is, to implement these cuts would be an additional traumatic experience
for everybody here, because they will be stripped of something that they have, for this short period of time,
taken for granted and relied upon. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Trent. Our next speaker is James Flattum.
AUDIENCE: All right, good evening, everyone. Good evening, RTD Board. My name is James Flattum. I'm
with Greater Denver Transit.
Thank you for the opportunity to speak. So our group submitted a letter this afternoon, outlining a series of
topics that are super important for this Board meeting in terms of the short term goals for the General
Manager/CEO, as well as additional oversight for budget. To be respectful of everyone's time, the piece
that we wanted to reaffirm is a lot of the voices we've heard in this room tonight in terms of the para-transit
options.
We would like to reaffirm what we have said in the letter, which was, to any and all possibility, to please
avoid outright cuts to the Access on Demand program, especially at a time when we understood that there
was a para-transit review underway, which was going to consider both the Access-a-Ride and Access on
Demand programs, which appears as though it has become a little bit more myopic on the Access on
Demand program which is more popular, and has actually a lower subsidy per rider than the Access-a-Ride
program.
So we would just urge to make sure that everything is done to make sure that these offerings are not
executed in silos. We understand that they are funded by different mechanisms. But that should not be any
reason to plan or integrate them separately, that these are opportunities to provide perhaps a more
advanced service in terms of both programs in the future. And we would love to see more details on what
the findings were on both sides of this review, for both Access on Demand and Access-a-Ride.
The only other comment, or the only other subject I would add that were outlined in the letter, was that one
of the things that we've been expecting from RTD was that SB-24-230 was a piece of legislation that
required RTD to complete some public outreach in terms of the uncompleted FasTracks corridors. This was
updated as well in SB-2025-261. That was going to give RTD a little bit more time since it fleshed out some
of the additional asks.
But we at Greater Denver Transit have not heard a whisper of any of these activities in terms of what this
public outreach is going to look like. So given that the year is progressing very quickly, the summer is flying
by faster than I wish it was, to ask for an update on where the agency is at with this outreach.
We know that the Boulder and Longmont Train Corridor has been one of enormous amounts of discussion
in terms of trying to gain back public trust in RTD as a steward of the public's money, as well as several of
the other corridors, where the public appears to-- huge parts of the Denver Metro appear to be losing faith
in RTD for completing, particularly some of the voices we've been listening to on the Welton Corridor. So
we'd love to see an update on that. And that concludes my comments for this evening. Thank you for the
opportunity to speak.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, James. Our next speaker is Maryann Miller-- Migliorelli. Apologies.
AUDIENCE: We're all going to give help. Equity, integrity, conscience. These are words of import. My name
is Maryann Migliorelli. I represent the National Federation of the Blind, Boulder Valley Chapter. I am its

President. And I am pleased that many of my members came here to express our concerns about the
programs being discussed today.
I mention equity, because the idea of charging $6.50 for a ride that costs RTD less money to provide than
any other service that RTD funds is not equity. I mentioned integrity and good conscience, because cutting
service, restricting hours, restricting the places that Access on Demand can service is unconscionable and
is not an act of integrity.
And I will tell you why. I have chapter members, several. And I really thought about it recently. And I'm one
of them, who, at different times of the day, and sometimes not at any time of the day, would be eligible to
use Access on Demand simply because of where we live. I live in South Boulder, where there used to be
buses that ran regionally at a stop that was very close to my house.
Now my nearest bus stop for the regional Park and Ride is a mile away. Oh, man. I guess I can't go out late
at night! How many of you would give up that opportunity if your friends had said, let's go out to the piano
bar in downtown Denver, or some other such place.
Equity, integrity, and good conscience are all things that are part of your charge. I want to ask a quick
question of the audience here. How many of you used Access on Demand to get here today? Say, aye.
AUDIENCE: Aye.
AUDIENCE: Any of you who have signs in the room that were out on the street, raise them up for a moment.
And I want to encourage, Board members, take your eyes away from your screen and look up for just a
moment, and see our hearts.
Behave with integrity. Make equitable decisions. And please, when you are making your votes tonight, and
in the future, act in good conscience, knowing the decisions you make affect all of us here. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Maryann. Our next speaker is Dawn Russell.
AUDIENCE: I am one of those multi-stop riders. And I just wanted to say that, before you don't allow that,
you need to know what's really going on. If it costs too much, it's because of your own bad policies and
practices and the way you do business. Because how many times-- and just check my RTD record or my
Access-a-Ride record or AOD. For me, I get all stressed out about how I'm riding.
And if you check both Access-a-Ride and Access on Demand, you could fix your problems. So often, I have
needed those multiple rides. And I'm sitting on a bus, refusing to get off, because you're about to send a
para-transit bus across town from Denver to Lafayette. And you want to say that multiple stops are a
problem? Maybe it's the way you do business.
So stop sending a bus from Denver when there's already one in Lafayette. And I have sat and watched the
Uber, or whatever you call it. And I know that there's an Uber driver. And your system didn't work. So when
good drivers call to tell dispatch about it, instead of assessing the situation in front of you and dealing with
it then, you make some ridiculous idea that the driver must come from Denver, and don't deal with it right
there, at any time.
So that driver that's coming 35 minutes away could go somewhere else for someone that's waiting on a
ride. And I can catch the one or two in front of me. That's what I want to say about that. So don't cut us. Go

back and address your own practices, and give dispatch and drivers what they need in order to provide the
service. You should be able to make a practical decision when it's in front of you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Dawn. Our last in-person speaker, I have Claudia Folska, former Director.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

AUDIENCE: First, thank you so much for your comments, Dawn. Thank you, guys, for having us all here,
and me. My name is Doctor Claudia Folska. I have a dual PhD in Cognitive Science and Architecture
Planning from the University of Colorado Denver and Boulder.
I did them simultaneously. And I did them using RTD. And I did them using a multi-modal transit system,
which, if you didn't notice, you were the first in the country to make the largest investment in a multi-modal
transit system ever in the United States.
RTD, yeah, multi-modal means multi. You got Access-a-Ride. You got AOD. You got the mall shuttle. You
have the buses. You have the BRTs. You have the commuter rail. You have the light rail. You guys are in
such a unique and special situation. Number one, you're one of three transit agencies in this great country
with an elected Board of Directors.
And that means you guys have a unique obligation and duty to be good stewards of the job the voters
entrusted in each of you. That means that you are responsible for looking after the most vulnerable people,
what they call in the FTA language, disadvantaged communities.
And you can also think of this as, there's two kinds of people in this world, right? You heard Brian talk about
that earlier. Those with disabilities, and those who will become disabled. And we come in every shape, size,
and color.
I want to just acknowledge for a moment, my friend Dawn Russell here, because she, like many of her
colleagues, for me, warriors in hope, because of the work that she and her colleagues do on the steps of
our Capitol in Washington, DC. And I think Dawn's rap sheet might be longer than her arm. And I think she
takes a little pride in that.
But because of the work that she does, not for her, not for the people standing next to her, sitting next to
her, but for all of us, each and every one of us in this room, to protect our civil rights, to protect our
transportation, our housing, our education, and our health care, and on and on. And I think she just got
back from DC. Maybe they just let her out of jail. I don't know. [LAUGHS]
But these are important decisions. Now, you know very well by looking at the budget that the numbers don't
add up here. You know very well that the subsidy for Access on Demand is a whopping $16 a boarding.
And it would be less with multiple stops. Access on Demand is a natural extension of Access-a-Cab, right?
And those were similar numbers as well.
And while those numbers are going down, Access-a-Ride is going up, to the tune of $106 a boarding, with
500,000 boardings a year. Ours is under budget. That's going up. But let's take a look at the whole budget.
$1.32 billion, that's a good-sized number. How much money of that $1.32 billion should be allocated to
para-transit services?

Well, they are 25% of the population are people with disabilities. So maybe it should be 25% If you don't
like that, we could go down to 20. That's $264 million a year. And right now, the combined services are
costing you around 53. You can add it up-- 68, is that right? 68.5. Or you could even go lower, down to 10.
You could even take a look at what the other transit agencies across America spend, on average, on their
para-transit services. And I mean on average. That's 10%. Access on Demand is a fraction. Figure it out.
Look on your computers. Use your phone. What is $15.3 million into $1.32 billion? I've heard it said before.
It's couch change.
Here's the thing, guys. You don't have a great reputation. You haven't for decades. When I was on the
Board for two full four-year terms, we tried really hard to change that. And when you get a chance to change
it, it's gold. Tonight, you're going to make a decision that will affect and impact your reputation even more.
So when you think about your vote tonight, think about, are we people who are elected to do crappy things
to people, and create a crappy organization, and throw all of the goodwill, earned goodwill, which is gold,
down the toilet? I hope not. This could be the grooviest agency in the country, setting the standard once
again for what good para-transit looks like. So get to work. Engage us.
Really engage us in a meaningful way. We've been here for the last 17 months. And tonight is the night to
make something really impactful. Dive into why AOD works. Maybe the whole model should apply to the
whole system! And maybe 97% of the people in the district could start using it! OK, that's all I have. Thank
you so much.
JULIEN BOQUET: That was our last in-person speaker. Mr Kroll, our online speakers?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Boquet. Next, we have Joe Triplette.
JULIEN BOQUET: Joe, you're recognized.
JACK KROLL: Joe, we've now moved to online participants. I see you've come off mute. And you've been
recognized by the Chair.
AUDIENCE: OK. Chair, can you hear me?
JULIEN BOQUET: I can hear you, Joe.
AUDIENCE: OK, thank you. I am Joe Triplette from Inglewood. And tonight, I'm going to talk about Accessa-Ride. But I want to remind people who are in the room and spoke for the last 17 months, I've been out
there, too. People need to hear something that they're not willing to admit. Number one, I know friends who
are addicts that's on the mend. That's great!
But you guys got something we don't have. You can get in your car. You can get the car 24 hours a day,
seven days a week, 365 days a year. We have to plan our trips. You don't have to plan your trips. And I
know people on Access on Demand who get left off or are totally blind, in the wrong place. Sometimes,
they get left by the curbside.
Sometimes, and this is just the way America is today, they have a language barrier. And that language
barrier causes them to get left off in the wrong place. I have a friend of mine who got left off, not in her
workplace, across the street. She's totally blind, OK? So we need to talk about both sides of the issue.

And everybody needs to understand. Access-a-Ride is a vital, vital program. There's people like me, and
I'm not the only one. I'm speaking for the people who cannot speak for themselves, whatever their disability
is.
Some of us, we're not good on technology. I'm going to admit that. I'm not ashamed of that. I'm not! There's
a lot of people who ride Access-a-Ride who can't use the app. Well, that's not fair. We should be able to
call in to a place where we could get Access on Demand. We can't do that. On Access-a-Ride, we're very
limited in our service, OK? But to say that there's never a bus on time is wrong.
Look, I get buses quite frequently. Yes, sometimes they're late. But a lot of times, they're on time.
Sometimes they're early. Yes, we have to ride with more than one person on the bus. OK, I get it. But at
least it gets us there most of the time. Is it broken? Yes. Access on Demand needs improvement. I agree.
But you know what?
Think about other people that have to use Access-a-Ride because not all of us-- all of us can't do modern
technology. That's just the facts of life. Accept it! And I'm going to tell you a little bit about-- you forget that
people on Access on Demand, we have a life, too. We have to go to doctors. We have to go to work. We
have a house. We have an apartment, OK?
That 3/4 of a mile, you know what? If you take it off the bus line, you got to sell your house. How good is
that, OK? Or you got to move out of your apartment. How good is that? You realize today, to have to leave
an apartment before your contract's up, it's anywhere from $200 to $400.
So when you're thinking about Access on Demand, also think about those people like me and others. I
represent people who can't necessarily speak for themselves because of their disability. So let's think about
both, OK? Almost this whole 17 months has been Access on Demand. All right, I get it. If you can use it,
great. Hallelujah! Go for it. Praise God.
JULIEN BOQUET: Joe, if you can wrap up your comments?
AUDIENCE: Could I have just a few more seconds, please? Because I think it's important. Thank you.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just want to say, I'd like to see a committee form like you got. But let's form a
committee for both Access-a-Ride and Access on Demand. And let's get together the disability community.
And let's work together with RTD, whatever that means.
And let's improve Access-a-Ride. Yes, Access-a-Ride might be a little higher. But that's just the way it is.
So please, let's work together. Let's work together with both. We are a para-transit organization. Thank you
very much, Mr. Chairman, for allowing me to have the extra time. That's it. I'm done.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Joe. It's good to hear from you. Our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next is Derrick Selbo. Derrick, you're recognized. Derrick, if you are speaking, we
cannot hear you.
AUDIENCE: Sorry about that. I forgot to unmute. Good evening. Thank you. I would like to just ask a few
simple questions. And excuse my voice. I've got COVID. Firstly, for those that are making the decisions,
what would you do if, like two of the previous speakers who had strokes, went to bed and woke up in the
morning with a stroke and were partially blind, in addition to everything else? And do you think it couldn't
happen to you tonight?

One of the two speakers earlier was a long distance truck driver. He went for his annual physical. The
doctor pronounced him in great shape. He went out for dinner. He went back to his truck, getting ready to
pick up a load in the morning, an 18-wheeler. And he woke up having had a stroke. And he's now partially
blind.
Do any of you think that could not happen to you tonight? My next question would be, what would you do if
it did happen to you? How would you handle it? I can almost guarantee you that you would be sitting, if
you're not voting in favor of keeping AOD as it is. What would you do if you needed AOD tomorrow? How
would you handle it? And probably, my final thing would be just something very simple that happened to
me today.
I've been very ill with COVID. And I won't go into details. But I had to go to my primary care doctor today.
They had a cancellation that they could squeeze me in. There's no way in hell I could have called Accessa-Ride and got to the doctor. But I called AOD. And within 20 minutes, I was right there.
And they gave me what I needed in terms of medication and checkup. That is the sort of value that AOD
has. And it's just one very small example of thousands, maybe tens of thousands. So please, when you
make your decision, be very considerate. It could happen to you. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Derrick. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, there is a Katie Abraham.
AUDIENCE: Hello, everybody. Hello. Can everyone hear me?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, we can. Thank you, Katie.
AUDIENCE: OK. Well, I imagine from the agenda that this meeting's gone a little long. And so I appreciate
that you've allowed people to speak because they made extra effort to get here, either on AOD or some
other means. Transportation's hard. So speaking of delay, you guys can all, once the meeting's done and
you voted, hopefully, to preserve the services we have and maintain RTD's reputation of being disabilityforward, you guys can all go in your cars and go home.
Well, if a meeting ran long for people either on fixed service or on the Access-a-RIde, well, what would they
do? They wouldn't have that flexibility to just get in their car because a very important meeting ran over for
an hour. So I mean, you guys have that convenience.
Our people that participated, they probably have that convenience right now, that they could call AOD, get
back home, and not have to be like, well, my meeting ran over. Now what? So I just, in closing, I ask you
just to recognize the humanity of the people in this room that have made the extra effort to speak up.
And just, RTD needs to get its reputation back after the construction from last summer. And cutting disability
services is the absolute wrong way to restore any sort of reputation that RTD is clinging to right now. Thank
you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Katie. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next we have Joe Beaver.
JULIEN BOQUET: Joe, you're recognized.

AUDIENCE: Good evening. Thank you very much for having me here. I came to speak about Wade Blank
and the renaming of the station to Wade Blank. But after listening to all the testimony tonight, I ask you the
question. What would Wade Blank do? Wade was a pioneer in disability rights movement.
Everyone on the Board already has heard me, or listened to me, or seen letters that I've written in behalf of
Wade Blank and the renaming of the station. The important thing about Wade Blank is that he didn't just
show up with a gang of 19 overnight. He pleaded with RTD for months before that ever happened, and then
finally had to take action.
I'm also a member of Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. I served on the Board for about 15 years. Our
motto was, nothing about us without us. And that's what I'm asking you to do now. Nothing about us without
us. You have an excellent source of information from us. You just heard lots of it. Do not pass those
proposed cuts to AOD. Thank you very much.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Joe. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes, next, we have an individual identified as Ricky.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ricky, you are recognized.
AUDIENCE: Hello, thank you. Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, we can.
AUDIENCE: Yeah, so I just want to say, my mother was a disabled person. And she recently passed away.
She was unable to benefit from a service like Access on Demand. It is extremely important for those who
need this service, and those who would benefit from these programs. My concern is that those who are
able to take a private car, their own car, or any other service doesn't understand what the individuals that
have to use programs like Access on Demand are going through.
I ask that you think of the many people who have to make many trips during the day, or at least a few more
than just to work and home. And I want you to think about all the things that you do in your car when you
have an opportunity, and all the destinations that you have to go to during the day, and how easy it is for
you guys who are able to drive your own cars.
Coming from a household with an individual who would have benefited from this but was unable to, I can
tell you that making cuts to the AOD program would be greatly impacting all of those who need this program
the most. It may not affect you. But it affects a lot of people, and your constituents.
When you asked us a year ago to override TABOR to give more money, you said that it would keep you
from cutting para-transit services. And in retrospect, I feel like you're just using disabled people like a prop.
To me, it sounds like, as a taxpayer, that I got hoodwinked. At the end of the day, the Board makes the
decisions. And the buck stops with you. Please do the right thing.
And finally, in conclusion, I am a constituent of Director Harwick's. While I respect his work and know he is
an ally of the people with disabilities, I do concur with an earlier commenter, that Director Ruscha was the
most knowledgeable about ADA issues and was a disability rights champion.

I, too, think they should be reinstalled to the committee, and the chair sanctions removed. Director Ruscha
is a known ride or die, pardon the pun, champion for people with disabilities, and the only openly-disabled
person on your Board right now. Please, don't be crappy. Do better. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Ricky. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes. Next, you have-- there was a number that popped up here. But I believe Ileen Gallegos
was next.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ileen?
AUDIENCE: Good evening. Thank you for allowing me to speak. Excuse me. I just want to thank, first of
all, you for listening to all of us today. And I just want to stand with many people, in hopes that the Access
on Demand program, first, does not decrease our rides, and secondly, doesn't make us pay $6.50 each
ride. I am a proud native of Colorado. And I raised three children here. I'm a single mom.
I have spoken before. So thank you for allowing me to speak again. But because of my health conditions, I
have been forced into early retirement, which is something I really didn't want to do at this time in my life.
But I feel very honored and blessed that I can travel around to see my grandchildren in their sports and in
their recitals, and able to just go visit with some older people, and just to have the dignity, I feel, as I travel
around town.
And even dealing with the language barriers and being dropped off at places where I shouldn't have been
dropped off, I mean, all of those things, we could experience. Riding the bus, we could get off at the wrong
stop. That could happen.
But if this service is taken away, or if it goes to a decrease in the amount of rides, or if I have to pay $6.50,
it takes away a lot of my dignity, and then affects my confidence. And as a person who did have to go in to
early retirement, I am just really happy that, as of for now, I've been able to enjoy all the things that I've
worked so hard for in my life. Thank you for hearing me today.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments, Ileen. Mr. Kroll, our next speaker?
JACK KROLL: We have no speakers online that have raised their hand at this juncture. I do believe we
have a few-- oh, there's one more here. Charles Perko.
JULIEN BOQUET: Charles, you're recognized.
AUDIENCE: Can you hear me?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, we can.
AUDIENCE: All right. Thank you so much. My name is Charles Perko. I'm President of United Steelworkers,
Local 3267. I am speaking tonight on behalf of a couple of reasons, actually, I wanted to speak. First of all,
I wanted to thank Director Ruscha for the work she's done in the area of disability advocacy, as well as rail
safety. Those are two areas that, personally and professionally, are both very important to me.
Coming from the steel mill, where your rail products have been made over the last 30 years or so for the
light rail system, rail safety is something that I know affects the Denver area as much as it does anywhere

else that has a rail program. To take someone who's asking the hard questions off of these committees is
questionable, why the Board would want to do that.
This is something that the community needs to feel safe. There have been far too many accidents with
RTD. And the way in which the equipment is operating has been a big part of that. I also, as I've been sitting
here listening to the testimony from those who have spoken before me, it's just come into my mind that it's
absolutely heartbreaking that these people are having to beg for a program that, it sounds to me, is working.
It's inhuman to force people to want to live their lives without a program that they depend on. And so I would
urge the Board from that standpoint, just as a human being, to reconsider removing this program from the
toolbox of those who rely on it so heavily.
But I would also like to urge the Board to restore Director Ruscha to her committees because we need
someone who asks the hard questions, and who serves the community in the way that they do. So thank
you so much.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you for your comments. Our next speaker, Mr. Kroll, online?
JACK KROLL: Chair Boquet, there are no further speakers online. I do believe there's a handful of
individuals who did not sign up or did not get a chance to sign up for public comment who are present in
the room that would like an opportunity to say a few words as well.
JULIEN BOQUET: Excellent. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Just for a note, we will be taking a break after public
comment for-- we need to give our CART transcriber a break once we hit the two hour. So if there's any
speakers in-person that would like to speak, if you wouldn't mind lining up to the podium, that'd be excellent.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

AUDIENCE: Hello. My name is Sabine Shake. And I just want to start by saying, thank you guys for listening.
And I know there's obviously so many intense emotions here. So I appreciate you having an open mind
and open heart while we're all sharing things that are very dear to us and important to us. I'm going to share
a little story. And I'll be as fast as I can because I see the time going.
Five years ago, I was celebrating a friend's birthday. And we were at a bar. And a man kept coming up to
me and my friend and was very aggressive and wouldn't leave us alone. And I kept telling him, get away
from us. Leave us alone. Eventually, he ended up taking a pint glass and cracking it over my head. And I
was covered in blood. I was unconscious. It was a very traumatic, obviously, experience.
And my partner at the time wasn't living here. But my mom lives here. And my mom is blind. And of course,
I didn't want to call her and say, hey, I just got assaulted! Can you come meet me at the hospital? Hoping
she can get there. It's midnight. We're out. But thanks to Access On Demand, my mom was able to make
it. And my mom is here today. That's Claudia Folska! And she made it!
The point of me sharing this gruesome, sorry, also trigger warning, story, is that, what would you do if you
were in that position? How are you going to be there and show up for the person that means the world to
you? And I'm going to say that because I think I mean the world to you. But she is my most important person
in this whole world.

That's why I'm standing here. I'm shaking. I'm not really great at public speaking. I'm working on it. But she
fights for everybody, all the time. Her entire life, she's had to not just fight for herself, but everybody else in
the room. And the reality is, when accessibility works for the people it's supposed to work for, everybody
else benefits. Curb cuts, let's think about those. People use those all the time, not just for wheelchairs.
But that's why these are such important programs. And I really urge you to do what we can to make sure
that those things are safe for the people that need it most. And then people like me also can benefit and
not have to have the unfortunate experience of not having their loved one be there for them in a very
traumatic experience. So, that's all. Thank you very much!
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Sabine. Our next speaker?
AUDIENCE: Paulo Solorzano, RTD Riders Alliance. I just-- it's a great showing. I want to start out by-again, I don't want to be negative. But I think I've been seeing, after maintenance, a lot of drops in RTD
management. Again, I founded the RTD Riders Alliance because I do believe the RTD can do better to
communicate.
I know the US as a whole is experiencing institutional decay. I mean, it's everywhere. And RTD needs to
start paying attention to just the basics. So on July 9th, during-- I guess there was the A line. Again, this is
an international station.
People that come into Denver now, when they see the A line not functioning correctly, it's going to be a
global reputation we have now. And it is consistently becoming more of a bad reputation. So if you guys
can look at my website on Facebook, Azucar Negra, she showed it, all right? And that's all I'm going to
have to say.
There was no communication on the A line. People were not able to get to their flights. I showed up there
afterwards. And I talked to a person from Oregon. And they were about to miss their flight. I mean, I don't
know. So again, I'm going to point to another July 7th Denver 7 article titled, Rider Questions RTD's
Reliability After Waiting More Than an Hour in the Middle of the Night.
Quote unquote, "a friend of ours who has never taken the light rail up there before were like, oh god, it's so
easy. We take it downtown all the time, she said. Though the cheap fare turned into a $40 Uber trip, she
said, after she and her husband and friend waited for over an hour for a train that's scheduled to come
every 15 minutes.
When pressed on why the train took so long, Summers explained, Stuart Summers, explained, it's a
cascading effect because that operator is canceling their trip if they call out all the way down the line for
that specific train, Summer said. When Denver7 shared this information with Beaucamp, how was I
supposed to know? Summers said, they also placed signage on their platforms and list times at each stop,
which is not true."
I have been telling all of you guys, every single one of you guys, all of you for years that your timing is not
correct. You are not displaying correct information. And if all these people who showed up-- and thank you
to JoyAnn Ruscha for being a great Director. And having the community be involved like this and come up
for something that is urgent. Years and years, we need to-- just start paying attention to us. That's all I'm
saying.
JULIEN BOQUET: Paolo, if you could wrap up your comments.

AUDIENCE: Yeah. And then props to the Chief Martingano. I've been talking to a lot of security officers out
there. And they all believe in him. And props to the news articles coming out, saying that there's a 35%
decrease in calls to police. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Paolo. Are there any further speakers in-person? OK. Seeing no other
participants in the queue, I wanted to thank you all for your public comment. But at this time, we will now
close public participation. Oh, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: If I could just read into the record the names of those who submitted written comments.
JULIEN BOQUET: Oh, my apologies.
JACK KROLL: So if I may, Chair Boquet?
JULIEN BOQUET: Of course. You're recognized.
JACK KROLL: All right. So we received public comment from Greater Denver Transit, as outlined by Mr.
Flattum earlier. And then the following individuals submitted public comment with respect to Access On
Demand, and/or Access-a-Ride. Susan Eck, Corey and Tracy Gonzalez, Kristen Heizer, Wayne Ekerling.
Corey and Tracy Gonzalez submitted a subsequent public comment. Shannon Sawyer and Katie Abraham.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. As stated earlier, we do need to take a break for our
CART transcriber. So we will take a 10 minute break. We will be back at 7:45. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Folks, we are back to our meeting. We are now moving on to External
Entities Reports. There are no External Entity Reports this month. So checking off that item. Excellent.
Moving on to action items.
As I mentioned previously, in response to anticipated public interest, the Executive Committee elevated
three items, the Collective Bargaining Agreement, the honorary naming of Civic Center Station, and the
Access on Demand program modifications to a dedicated section of the agenda under header. Action items
will be introduced, debated, and voted on individually.
The first action item, Action Item A, is the recommendation for the approval of the RTA-ATU collective
bargaining agreement, or the CBA. And this is to authorize our General Manager and CEO to execute a
three-year collective bargaining agreement with ATU Local 1001. And this would be effective January 1st,
2025, to December 31st, 2027. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
JULIEN BOQUET: Whitmore is the mover. Guzman is the second. All right. I'll now call on Ms. Johnson to
talk a little bit about it.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening, Debra Johnson, General Manager
and Chief Executive Officer. Pleasure to be with you here tonight. This item is recommending approval of
the collective bargaining agreement with the Regional Transportation District and the Amalgamated Transit
Union, Local 1001.
I'm going to yield the floor to Ms. Charlene Polege, who serves as our Chief People Officer, and Kent
Enright, who is the Director of Labor Relations, to orient you to this item, relative to the successor agreement
for collective bargaining agreement that would be effectuated by virtue of a vote, if you so desire to approve
this recommended action, commencing January 1st of 2025, hence the retroactivity, going through the end
of the calendar year for 2027. With that, Ms. Polege, the floor is yours.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Can I make more noise while I'm getting ready? Charlene Polege is introduced,
Chief People Officer. I am here today to just present to you briefly on the aforementioned recommended
action. As noted in your Board report, on March 27 of 2025, negotiators for RTD and the Amalgamated
Transit Union Local 1001 reached a tentative agreement on a successor collective bargaining agreement.
That agreement was reached after eight months of bargaining, and with some assistance, two days of
assistance from a mediator. On June 27th of 2025, ATU Local 1001 President Longenbohn had notified
GM and CEO Johnson that the ATU-- I want to read this. The ATU 1001 members of the RTD Bargaining
Group have voted yes to accept the tentative agreement.
The notification included the results of that vote. That vote was 97% yes and 3% no. Notable changes to
the successor bargaining agreement are included in your Board report. I will not take the time to go through
every one of those changes. However, I do want to highlight that the tentative agreement, as indicated by
GM and CEO Johnson, covers a term to include January 1, 2025, through to December 31st, 2027.
It includes wage progression, as follows. So effective January 1, 2025, a 6.5% wage increase, 4.5%
effective January 1 of 2026, and an additional 4.5%, effective January 1 of 2027. That equals a cumulative
increase over the three years of the agreement of just over 16%. Additionally, significant time and effort
was spent by the bargaining committees to restructure and consolidate the successor agreement.
The intent there was to better organize the agreement, enhance the flow, increase ease of reference, and
reduce any redundancies. A key change in the successor agreement would be to have a transportation
section, which would include both bus and rail, as opposed to two separate sections. The intention is, we
are hoping that those changes will enhance readability, and then, ultimately, understanding of the
agreement for the members of ATU, as well as RTD management.
Lastly, I would just flag that the financial impact of the agreement is noted in your Board Report. You will
see that the Finance team, under the direction of our Chief Financial Officer, Kelly Mackey, have included
and accounted for the fiscal impacts of the agreement in the 2025 fiscal, as well as through the term of the
agreement. At this time, I will yield the floor and take any questions that you may have.
JULIEN BOQUET: Excellent. Well, thank you very much, Ms. Polege and Ms. Johnson, Mr. Enright as well.
Any questions for our staff at this time? Secretary Nicholson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I just wanted to flag that this was an incredibly long negotiation.
Obviously, you want to wrap these things up before the start of the year. But it was worth it. You and
GM/CEO Johnson, the negotiating team, I think we came to somewhere that nobody was incredibly happy
with. Nobody got everything they wanted, but that we could all look and say, we avoided a labor action.
We pay our workers well enough that they can afford to live here. And we are staying within our budget in
a way that we can look at our riders and the broader community and say that we were responsible with the
taxpayers' money. So I really-- of all the things that you've done, I think so far, this was deeply important to
me. And you did it incredibly well. So thank you for that.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Any further comments or questions? Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I just have a question of clarification. It says, the 2025 Board-approved budget
anticipated increase in cost for fiscal year 2025 of $9.3 million. The total increase in cost, is that $9.3 million?
And then you've got, for 2026, $9.8, 2027, $10.3. So that's an additional, above and beyond just the
budgeted item currently. Is that correct?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you for the question. The $9.3 is the total cost.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Total cost, not just the increase. OK, thank you. Thank
JULIEN BOQUET: You.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry, I just want to be clear. The cost of the change in the collective agreement
from what we had previously, so 2024, so it's an additional cost. But it's considered and contemplated in
the budget.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK, so say that one more time just for my hearing. I just want to make sure.
CHARLENE POLEGE: There is the cost of the collective agreement, including all labor and expenses. The
$9.3 represents the change to that cost for 2025. That's the total change in cost, increasing cost.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK, thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Any further questions or comments? Excellent Well, thank you very much, staff. I know
that this process takes a lot of energy, energy and effort. So I do thank you all for all that you've done. Are
there any no votes on this matter? Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Would you mind doing a roll call vote, please?
JULIEN BOQUET: Absolutely. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin?

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director, or Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, I am also a yes. That'll pass, 14 yes, one no. Thank you all. OK, moving on to our
second action item, Action Item B, that is recognition of Reverend Wade Blank, the honorary name for Civic
Center Station.

And this would be for the Board of Directors to adopt an honorary name for Civic Center Station to recognize
the life and career of Reverend Wade Blank, and adopting the honorary name change, the name of Civic
Center Station, to Wade Blank Civic Center Station. Do I have a motion? I have Ruscha as the mover.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: I have Chandler as the second. Is there any discussion on this item? OK, seeing none,
I just, before we do take the vote, I do want to thank everyone involved. It was an honor to be able to sit
down in one of those Committee meetings. Mr. Kroll, thank you for your leadership with that.
It was excellent to hear all the different stories that I was able to hear and learn more about Reverend Wade
Blank. And as a school teacher, it is one of the questions we always ask ourselves of the individuals that
we teach in history, and the people who make history.
And definitely, Reverend Wade Blake is an individual, I believe, that more people should know about. Are
there any no votes on this? Seeing none, that item will pass, 15 yes, 0 no.
Our third action item, which is Action Item C. And that is for the Access on Demand program modifications.
And this is for the Board of Directors to approve modifications to supplemental premium Access on Demand
service for RTD's para-transit customers, as described herein, effective October 1st, 2025. Do I have a
motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOQUET: Nicholson is the mover.
KAREN BENKER: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: Benker is the second. So prior to us getting in discussion, I do want to thank RTD staff
for their continued engagement on this issue. Para-transit staff were bold to pilot a new program.
And their innovation should be applauded. When it became clear that additional structure needed to be
placed on the program, the staff invested countless hours of time and immense energy to engage with our
community and key stakeholders on the future of this program.
I want to especially recognize CEO Johnson for tackling this issue head on and in good faith. Thank you to
your team for bringing forward to this Board recommendations that respect the input from the community
and align with our agency's fiscal limitations. Your leadership on this issue, as well as that of your team, is
to be commended.
It is clear to all that have followed the issue that the Access on Demand program provides a tremendous
benefit to the community. And I want to acknowledge and recognize those members of the public who have
consistently engaged with RTD staff and the Board, regarding their insights as to the best path forward for
Access on Demand. I also want to recognize RTD Board members, past and present, for diving into the
issue over the last year. There's a lot to understand on this issue.
As with most services that are new or innovative, there's a learning period, followed by a period of
adjustment. Adjustments are often made to put an innovative service on a more stable, long term trajectory.
And that is just what these proposed modifications are designed to do.

I've personally spent a great deal of time, though, engaging on this topic. And I'm hopeful we can chart a
path forward that meets the needs of the community, honors the insights of our customers, and balances
the financial realities.
So in a moment, I will be offering an Amendment to this recommended modification which has been
developed by staff and was tweaked slightly by the OSS committee. The changes I offer in the forthcoming
Amendment are the result of efforts I undertook to listen to the Access on Demand customers, community
leaders, members of the Board, subject matter experts, and GM/CEO Johnson.
As such, I will be proposing the following. A decrease in the base fare. A decrease in live fare. Clarified
language regarding service area to better match the intent of Director Nicholson's previous Amendment, to
expand AOD services to customers living within 3/4 of a mile of commuter or regional bus routes. And
finally, explicitly stating that there will not be a waiting period to begin using AOD once a customer has been
appropriately certified as eligible for the service.
The first two changes regarding fare fair are straightforward, and aligned fares for AOD with fares for
Access-a-Ride. The change to the service area is a result of conversations I've had with staff who believe
that, as approved, the original Amendment language does not match the intent of the Amendment. For
those who wish to see the language of Mr. Nicholson's Amendment, I would like you to look at packet page
87.
And finally, even though prescribed waiting period is not included in staff's recommendations, many in the
community believe that there will be a waiting period implemented as part of the program modifications.
The language that I'm offering is intended only to further clarify to the community that there will not be a
waiting period. With that, I move that the Access on Demand program modifications be amended as
followed.
Reduce the base fare from $6.50 to $4.50. Reduce the Live fare from $2.75 to $2.25. Clarify that Accesson-Demand service shall include all areas that lie within 3/4 of a mile of any and all fixed route bus service,
including regional and commuter routes, and explicitly state that there shall be no waiting period to begin
using AOD services once appropriately certified. Do I have a second? I have Benker as the second. Is there
any discussion on this motion to amend? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. As a Director who was pushing for the geographic changes, I really do
appreciate that, particularly for districts such as mine. I know there was mention of the Broomfield area. But
there's a huge transit desert in the southwestern part of this region. And this helps to address those needs
for an ever-aging population. So thank you for offering that Amendment.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Director Catlin. Any further discussion on the Amendment? Secretary
Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Chair Bouquet, I want to thank you for your leadership and for elevating the equity
concerns in our conversation here. I appreciate the motivation behind your Amendment. That said, I'm
deeply concerned that we are considering a significant change to the AOD fare structure at the last minute,
after multiple modifications have already been considered over the past year.
With each, the agency has already made significant changes to the proposal due to the concerns of AOD
riders. Making a change to our regular fares would involve months of study and detailed reports. Instead,
we're going to take a few minutes. This Board has spent a full year reviewing these changes through the

proper channels. When we ignore process, we increase the risk of poor decisions that will come back to
hurt the agency.
That is one of the main things I have learned from you this year. We are already facing a decline in sales
tax revenue this year, and a nearly 30% increase in Access-on-Demand costs, year over year. Our
revenues are not growing by 30% per year.
This Amendment will force other trade-offs. Fewer fixed route operators, fewer service hours, fewer staff in
departments that are already overextended. It will leave us less prepared to weather a downturn that is
already causing painful cuts by the state, the City of Denver, and transit agencies around the country.
I appreciate the motivation here. It is not a pleasant thing, to vote to cut services to people with disabilities.
As I said in our first Board meeting, our decisions can hurt people. And we have to remember that. We have
had extensive, heart-wrenching outreach, people sharing very real stories about what this change will do
to their lives. It is deeply human to want to soften the blow.
But we also have to consider the impact of these changes on the other people who are not in this room
tonight. We serve over 100,000 customers every day and have thousands of staff who make that possible.
The impact on their lives is just as real. According to the data staff recently provided us, this Amendment,
as I understand it, is equivalent to cutting the 43 bus in Parker, or cutting the commuter routes to Conifer
and Brighton, combined.
That is not couch change. In fact, it's greater than the budget of the entire Board Office. That's the tradeoff we're making here. We should follow our process, make the difficult choice now, and approve the staff
recommendation as written. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Secretary. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was a new member of the Operations Committee. And my first
vote was on this topic. I was a no vote. I did not think that it made sense to go forward with the staff plan. I
understand the time and effort. And I understand the parameters that have been put into it.
My district doesn't get a lot of service. District H, it's kind of a trapezoid at the bottom. Don't feel bad for
them. It starts with Cherry Hills, goes down to Highlands Ranch. But the one thing that is true is, people
understand the value of transit in a community. And I believe the fundamental place for transit is moving
people who could not move themselves without it.
And I think, rather than looking at this program as a uncontrollable cost, I look at it as the beginning to our
future. We aren't going to have fixed route buses and fixed route rail serving everybody. And we're probably
going to Waymo or some other connection that brings people into regional systems.
So I actually look at this as a successful laboratory experiment for how people will move. And I would rather
not cut it off at this point. There may be a point where we're making budget choices. I don't think we're there
yet. And so I'm happy that this Amendment is closer to where I think the final program would end up.
I certainly would listen to people that understand more about the program than I do with additional
Amendments. But I ask my colleagues to consider further improving this program and getting it to a more
accessible cost and accessible availability for people that use it. Thanks.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also do want to commend the work that you've done and the
conversations you've had with staff, our GM/CEO, and your 14 colleagues on the Board. I'm sure your
phone has been blowing up. So I appreciate that. Being in a position of leadership is difficult. And often, we
walk away with not everybody quite happy.
That being said, I would like to just make a few comments regarding the cost in dollars that this will cost the
community, even with your generous Amendment on the table. So if we took $4.50 and multiplied that by
60, which would be the trip cap, that is $270 a month. When you couple that with the subsidy decrease,
from $25 to $20, that is quite a hike for those who are less likely to be able to afford it.
Even if we had live at half of that, $135 a month, or even less, I will note that Secretary Nicholson pointed
out in previous meetings, about 60% of our para-transit riders qualify or are enrolled in Live, meaning they
are at or below the poverty line. That's real money. That is people deciding, do I buy food, or do I go to the
doctor? Do I get a used coat for winter because mine is torn or worn or lost, or can I pick up my kid from
school?
Now, for folks, for most of us here that are making these decisions, $4.50 to get downtown for an Uber
sounds like a great deal. But that is not the lives of our constituents who have been telling us for over a
year how much this is going to devastate them. People will lose jobs. They will lose access. Pardon me if I
cry.
But someone is going to call their mother or their parent or their loved one and say, I need you. And that
person won't be able to show up because we did this. And for what? Up to-- and these are staff words. And
I'm not demeaning staff. I'm talking to my colleagues because, at the end of the day, the buck stops here.
Up to $2.5 million to $5 million in savings on what is a near $900 operating budget.
When services are popular and routes are popular, we increase them. And we find it in our budget to make
it happen. We just did that last month. And nobody asked, what does this cost? So why is it, for the disability
community, for my community, we're the first on the table to be gutted? Our services come first. Why is it,
when it comes to people with disabilities, we get what we get. And we don't throw a fit.
And I am not saying this to disparage anyone here who worked really hard on what's before us. And my
comments are not directed at you personally, Mr. Chair. But I also know that, as a person who is of the
community, who is a teacher and a leader in his community, that you understand, as I also was a teacher.
And I taught in special education.
And I have walked very similar halls, as you have, that my words are coming from the heart. And budgets
are moral documents. We make no errors tonight in not increasing the fair. We can hold off for a couple of
months, remand it to OSS, or the Chair can call an ad hoc. But we do risk grave and serious error to our
constituents and taxpayers if we move forward without fully thinking this through.
And again, I respectfully remind everyone. When that peer review was done, we did not interview a single
person who used para-transit. Subject matter experts are people who use para-transit. We also, with I'm
sure the best intentions because we felt like we were on a deadline-- so I'm not disparaging our GM/CEO
on this.
We also brought forth version 2.0 to the Board, 7 and 1/2 weeks ago. That's 7 and 1/2 weeks, not 10 months
or 12 months ago. And we did not run it by our Disability Advisory Committees, which is against FTA

guidelines. And we did not run it against our Citizen Advisory Committee, which is against our own charter
and our own policy.
And so I am pleading with my colleagues. Please, if we have to decide things tonight, let's not increase
fares and decrease that subsidy, because we all know, once we put the cork in the bottle, or is it take the
cork out of the bottle? You can't put it back in. We're never going to roll that back.
AUDIENCE: Genie in the bottle.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, genie in a bottle. You know what? It's going to be a done deal. But people
with disabilities-- and I'll wrap up, Mr. Chair. People with disabilities, my community, our community, whether
or not you have a disability today, that is temporary. Our bodies are temporary.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Oh, yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: We don't experiment on disabled people. That has a long and nasty history. And so,
while I understand this idea of, let's make these cuts and come back later. At what cost? There is a human
cost.
Finally, as a commentator noted, and as I have spoken with a few Directors, and I did put on everyone's
desks, it was less than one year ago we went to taxpayers and said, in our talking points, in our town halls,
in press releases, and in this boardroom, that we needed to de-Bruce and keep the TABOR override in
order to-- I'm quoting from the ballot language-- "Maintaining the availability of services for people with
disabilities." We can't, less than one year later, take that off. We just can't, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And that
concludes my comments. And I appreciate you giving me grace, sir.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Director. Treasurer Benker. Yeah, just-- and just as a reminder, we are
debating currently the Amendment, the Amendment that is getting proposed, so.
KAREN BENKER: First of all, thanks. Thank you, everybody, for coming tonight. You made some wonderful
speeches. And it certainly was heartfelt. And it hits home here. A couple of comments. First of all, thank
you for offering the Amendment to reduce the fare from $6.50 to $4.50. I've also been told by some folks
that the Live fare, sometimes it's difficult for some to go through the paperwork or the app online to get that
done.
So I'm hoping that our staff can assist folks that need help to apply for the Live fare, because then that, of
course, would reduce it substantially, in half. So it'd be great if we could assist or work with other non-profits
to help them assist folks to get that discount. One of our speakers, in fact I believe it was a former Board
Director here, suggested that we come up with a monthly pass idea.
I think that's excellent because we've got a monthly pass for all our other riders. Perhaps we should have
a monthly pass for our riders here on Access-on-Demand, and perhaps even for Access-a-Ride. So I'd like
to know if you would be open to an Amendment to your Amendment, to ask our operations folks to come
back in September with a proposal for a monthly boarding pass for Access-on-Demand.
JULIEN BOQUET: So I'm not-KAREN BENKER: I need some help on the administrative.
JULIEN BOQUET: So I want to be-- yeah, Mr. Kroll.

JACK KROLL: My recommendation to Directors, because I know there's a number of different ideas
percolating out there, is Director Bouquet has attempted to address four areas in his Amendment.
So an idea such as yours, Director Benker, or some of the others that have been bandied about, would be
perfectly fine to just discuss and debate, separate and apart from the motion to amend. You could simply
make a subsequent motion to amend once you've moved through this Amendment.
KAREN BENKER: I will withdraw, wait for the vote on the Amendment that's on the floor, and propose my
Amendment at the right time. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I'm going to give just a small spiel. And then I'm going to try to amend the Amendment. I
think, though, that we should look at AOD as-- I know that this is a little bit of a four letter word for some
people. But this is the future of transit, in my opinion. Director O'Keefe, you really stole so much of my
thunder. I just want to replicate what you said.
I think that we are a multi-modal agency, which was referenced earlier. We are leading the future. And this,
to me, is the beta test of what we can become, and I think what we are likely to become in the future. So I
think, instead of trying to make this less accessible to our community, we should try to make it more
accessible to our community.
And we should figure out how to make this work better, and use it as an example of what we could do to
AAR, and then also to the Partnership Program and other things that we operate. Because I think that this
really is-- this is the future. And we should figure out how to utilize it and not shy away from it. So I want to
amend the Amendment, to actually lower this from $4.50 to $2.50, and have the Live fare be $1.25.
JULIEN BOQUET: Do we have a second?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: And Ruscha is the second. OK.
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouqet, if I may?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Just a point of parliamentary process here. The Amendment may be amended. But the
amendment to the Amendment may not be amended. So Director Harwick's question before you all is,
relatively, it constrains the conversation specifically to the base fare and Live fare conversation. And the
reduction again, Director Harwick, was-JULIEN BOQUET: So it was $2.50 for base fare, and then $1.25 for Live.
IAN HARWICK: Correct.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir, I have a point of order and maybe a point of clarification, because it's getting late.
Is that OK?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah.

JOYANN RUSCHA: When you introduced this, did you introduce it as a substitute motion, or did we vote
to put the original motion coming out of OSS on the table first?
JACK KROLL: We removed the original.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, we removed the original.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Removed the original, OK. Thanks. It's late. I forgot.
JULIEN BOQUET: You're good, yep. OK. So now, again, as a reminder, we're now specifically talking about
fare. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So this is actually a question for GM/CEO Johnson. Do you have numbers for what
the Chair's Amendment would cost? And do you have, by chance, the ability to put together quickly,
numbers for what the sub-amendment would cost?
I realize we got this far in the conversation. And no one's told us how much we're going to spend by passing
the Chair's Amendment, and then how much it would cost to do.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very kindly for the question, Secretary Nicholson, and Mr. Chair for the
recognition to address. I have Erin Vallejos who's approaching the table, who's serving as the Acting
Assistant Deputy General, or, sorry, the Assistant to our Deputy Chief Operation Officer. But it's easier to
say it that way-- who has been shepherding this initiative.
And she does have preliminary numbers relative to the Amendment that the Chair put together. I do not
have numbers relative to what was just discussed, as that was less than five minutes ago. So if you could
please give us grace. But Ms. Vallejos could address the Amendment posed by the Chair. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Vallejos?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you, everyone. Erin Vallejos, Acting Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations. Oh, I'm sorry. And I'll try to go a little slower as well. I think I have the longest title, possibly, at
RTD. So thank you, everyone. And looking at the numbers, it does look like the proposed changes with the
Amendment would lead to about $1.4 million less that we would receive in revenue.
And again, we've been kind of trying to keep the numbers that we use for assumptions consistent. So that
$1.4 million, if usage continues to increase, that number would obviously increase as well. But that is what
we anticipate, based on the Amendment.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you very much. Secretary, does that conclude your question?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. I have a quick follow-up to that. It's my understanding from our 2025 budget-and maybe this is a question for GM/CEO Johnson, that an hour of bus service for us in 2025 is about $210.
That's what we had in the budget. Am I getting that figure correct?
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Recognizing I don't have that in front of me, I can say that sounds good. But I don't
like to operate based on assumptions. We have our CFO here, Jessie Carter, who is our Senior Manager
of Service Planning.
And if they can't answer the question, I would be more comfortable in circling back with something
memorialized, whereby I can stand by that number, as opposed to talking off the top of my head. I don't
think that's a prudent course of action.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. CFO, or?
JESSIE CARTER: It doesn't want to work for me. I'm sorry. No, it finally came on. So I think we're good. I
think we're good. I, like CEO/GM Johnson, I don't want to speak out of the side of my neck or in the wrong
place.
But I believe, the cost per hour, it does vary by type of service. And there's a round number that I don't have
in front of me. But I will certainly get that to you as soon as possible. But I think that number is closer to
$180 per hour, to tell the truth. But I will double check that.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. CFO?
KELLY MACKEY: I concur. I concur that we should go back and review and provide you a more accurate
figure. But thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Appreciate it. I'm going to come back to you, Secretary. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have a question of procedure. Thank you, Chairman. This is extremely difficult
to vote on. Each of these, is there a possibility to break up this Amendment so that we can vote on each of
those individually? You're trying to group all of these together.
And I think it's a little more difficult for someone to come up with a singular vote. So I would propose that
you break these up based on the Access-on-Demand services, including the area of 3/4 of a mile. And then
the second, explicitly state, there's no waiting period. And then the fare be also its own. So that's what I
would suggest.
JULIEN BOQUET: So would this be a motion to divide the question? Oh, sorry. Yeah, Mr-- we can't.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yeah, we have to wait until after the Amendment is voted on, or the Amendment
to the Amendment. But I was in the queue of asking a question. So I wanted to get it in.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of order, sir.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Could we check for a second? I believe you can ask to divide the question on an
Amendment, if it's a multi-part Amendment.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, you can, yeah. But this would be the Amendment of the Amendment.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Right. So my discussion has to come after the vote on Director Harwick's discussion
on the cost, or the price.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thanks for all the amendments. I'm trying to figure out. My first
question is kind of a math question that does seem relevant. My other ones, I think, would help me make
the decision. If going from $6.50 to $4.50 means $1.4 million in less revenue, does going to $2.50 mean
another $1.4 million? Does $2 each mean another $1.4 million in lost revenue? Ish, yeah, thank you.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Ish. But again, that's probably close. But I'm not really comfortable, without having fully
analyzed it, committing to anything.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure, I understand. And then, one thing that I've heard tonight-- and thank you all for
coming. I think you raise a lot of really compelling arguments. But one thing I've heard tonight, or two things,
I guess, one is that this saves about $84 per ride.
And I'm not sure if that's the right number. I'm not sure if Access-a-Ride costs $106. But is this program, is
there a way to see if this is moving people from Access-a-Ride and saving us money in Access-a-Ride? I
haven't seen that presented to us. Or is this new people? Or I assume, maybe, a combination of both.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes, I would say it's probably a combination of both. But again, we are not seeing a
decrease in Access-a-Ride usage directly, or even anywhere-- definitely not correlated. But we are not
seeing that decrease in Access-a-Ride use. We are seeing both programs. Access-on-Demand is a little
bit more extreme. But also, demand on Access-a-Ride has been going up as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, that is interesting. And is this program currently under budget? And what does
that mean to you? I mean, I don't know where we are. We're certainly mid-year.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yeah, so again, these were scenarios that we put together with information that we had
at that time. But we are continuing to see usage increase. So it is possible by the end of the year without
any changes that we may exceed budget.
Again, I know there were some numbers out there that made it seem like we might not. But as usage
continues to increase, it is possible that we could exceed that budget by the end of this year. And we would
have to come back and ask for additional funding.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair, further-JULIEN BOQUET: Miss Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: --add some information. Additionally, when we put together the budget for fiscal year
2025, recognizing that discussions have ensued, relative to us exploring this program for 17 months, we
based our budget for 2025 relative to modifications being made.
Hence, when the conversation ensued with this body looking at 2024, 2025, we said that we weren't making
any adjustments at the time. But for the projection aspect, from a fiscal vantage point, that's where we're
talking about, we could have a situation where the costs exceed what is budgeted just by virtue of the time,
relative to our assumptions about program modifications. That's just contextual. Thank you.

JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director Larsen?
MATT LARSEN: I don't know. I just wanted to ask the question, really of anybody. What do we spend as a
percentage of our total operating budget on para-transit, relative to other peer agencies? Do we know? Do
we have any sense of that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may. So first and foremost, it's important to consider that we have a 2,345 square
service mile area. So say you looked at the City and County of San Francisco that has 49 square miles. So
while I wouldn't qualify it up here. There's different operating characteristics. Oh, I'm going too fast. I
apologize. Let me back up. So I was stating that we have a 2,345 square mile service area.
There's different sizes of service areas with different transit agencies. Recognizing that, by far, RTD has
the largest service area by virtue of vehicle miles traveled, there's the probability that there could be
additional costs. But I can't state that for certain, recognizing that there's different para-transit programs
that are more in line with the operating characteristics of a service area for a transit agency. Hence, I cannot
give you a definitive answer.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: OK.
JULIEN BOQUET: All right. And going back again, we are currently discussing, specifically, the Amendment
to the Amendment. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, sorry, Director Buzek. I'm sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, my hand's been up for quite some time. And this will be Director Nicholson's third
time speaking. So-JULIEN BOQUET: Well, I haven't seen your hand. My apologies. So you're recognized, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks very much. So my comments will not only apply to the Amendment to the
Amendment, but indirectly to the Amendment itself. I first considered the Bouquet Amendment last week.
And I thought, well, maybe this is the best we're going to get. Maybe it's the best we can do. It's a bitter pill
to swallow. It's a lesser of two evils.
Then I thought, why do we have to settle for that? Then I got calls from constituents. And then I heard the
impassioned pleas from the people present in the boardroom today, most notably in my mind, my friend,
the Groovy Director Folska, who really talked about, what's this going to do to our reputation and the trust
that we're trying to rebuild in the community, when we make a decision that negatively impacts a critical
component of our community?
I'll keep it short. I agree with what Director Ruscha had to say and her impassioned speech as well. And I
also agree with Director O'Keefe, in that he said that, maybe there does come a time where this is a budget
issue. But I don't think we're there either. I'm going to vote in opposition to all amendments, including the
main motion. Thank you.

JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Director Buzek. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Respecting Director Buzek's comment about, we're not there, I just have
a couple of quick fire questions for GM/CEO Johnson to raise that question.
The first one is, if we were to do nothing, as Director Buzek wants us to, and let the program go on the way
that it is, what kind of impact would that have on our budget? And what choices as GM/CEO would you
have to make to account for the increase in spending on this program, were it to continue in the way that it
is right now?
JULIEN BOQUET: Miss Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much for the question, Secretary Nicholson. And thank you, Mr.
Chair. So holistically, as we're in the midst of project development, we are going to have some difficult
choices. I know I've had independent conversations with you all today. And I'm going to be forthright in my
response. We have yet to engage on this topic.
I, as your employee, collectively, you as the policy body, but just today, I was surprised that we're going
back to our leadership within the organization because we have to make some difficult decisions, relative
to what our various work units have put forward for their budget requests for 2025. We are looking at a
myriad of different elements. And we're going to have to have some difficult decisions.
As we look at our five-year financial forecast as it relates to bus and rail services, we're projecting no greater
than a 1% increase, if that's where we're going to go. But on the flip side of it, there could be a hiring freeze
because I've been very adamant, we are people in the people business. It's not my intention to do a
reduction in force. I want to avoid that at all costs, moving forward.
A lot of this information I'm giving you is hot off the presses, relative to a meeting I had today with Finance
staff. And I'm having a further meeting next week with the CFO and members of her team. And so even my
leadership team has yet to hear this because we had a discussion. And then I participated in this meeting.
So I'm not trying to cause alarm. But I believe it is my responsibility to apprise you accordingly. And that's
where we sit currently today.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. OK.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I follow up with that?
JULIEN BOQUET: You got 30 seconds.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. And then, second question, I pulled up the Board briefing documents from
May. And it's my understanding that this program, as it is currently construed, is growing 28% year over
year for 2025 in the number of trips that we are offering.
So we're talking about potentially around a 30% per year expansion in the usage of this service as of right
now. Is that about your understanding for where we're at with AOD, if we were to do nothing?
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will yield the floor to Ms. Vallejos. Once again, I don't have the documents in front of
me. And I am not one to answer questions without doing my due diligence.

JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Vallejos?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you for the question. Right now for 2025, we are seeing, actually, trips increasing
about 11% per month. So it is a little bit lower than the 28% that you were seeing. But again, that is updated
with some additional information from June. And so it is very likely, it could have been a little bit higher. But
again, I do think we could see that increase again come the fall.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK. Director Guzman, final comment. And then I'm going to take us to a vote for the
Amendment of the Amendment.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: District C lost a hell of an advocate in Margaret Atencio, who passed away and was
a dedicated Access-a-Ride user, not using Access-on-Demand by her own decision, even though there is
plenty of opportunity to improve Access-a-Ride here. I am struck really hard in this moment to move any of
this forward. I think it's wrong. If we're going to consider-- please, please let me finish.
If we are going to consider giving hundreds of thousands of dollars to a train, and we are going to turn our
back on the para-transit community, people with disabilities. I will be there one day with you. I don't drive
on a regular basis, y'all. I will be losing my vision because of a disease that has no cure. And we all get old.
I just had to help carry my grandmother up our front porch steps today at 88 because her knees lock
because of her arthritis. I've never had to do that in my life. And it broke me as a human being. I cannot in
good faith move forward with this. I will be voting no on all of the changes until we do better. It's the one
thing we have been asked to do for over 12 months.
And it is the only thing that we need to be focused on right now. So I'm sorry. But on any amendments and
on the main motion, I will remain a no. We have to find a different way to do this. And I will not go back on
my word when I stood up in front of the community that I gathered, hosted a town hall. And I used this very
talking point on this paper, with people present, to ask them to continue to debrief us so we can use the
money the right way.
I know it's hard. Other people have said their part. I am in agreement and alignment with what Director
O'Keefe said. To our constituents, to my constituents in District C, there may come a time when we have
to have a different type of conversation. But you get to elect people to the state and to the federal level that
we all get to lobby together.
And we need to make sure that we put funding into public transportation in a different way than what we're
doing right now. And I'm sorry. This is going to affect any future vote about anything to do with Northwest
Rail, or Northern Trains, or any type of infrastructure vote that we have if we move forward with this, the
way that it has been presented. From District C, I'm a hard no.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK. Thank you, Director Guzman. We're going to do a vote. So the vote is on Director
Harwick's Amendment to the Amendment. So just as a reminder, Directors, this is Director Harwick's
Amendment to the Amendment, which would reduce base fare to $2.50, and then the Live fare to $1.25.
Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek?

VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keeffe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.

JULIEN BOQUET: And I am-- I'm a yes. So it'll pass. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine, 10.
I have 10 yeses and 5 no's. So now, the Amendment has been updated with Director Harwick's language.
The base fare will now be, as the Amendment's proposed, it would be down to $2.50. Live fare would be
down to $1.25. OK, back to now, the Amendment. Is there any further discussion on the Amendment itself?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Your Amendment?
JULIEN BOQUET: My Amendment, yes, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I ask that we split the Amendment up according to the different sections, putting
the Base fare and the Live fare together, and the Access-on-Demand service area separately, along with
the AOD certification separately. So we have three additional questions at hand, sir.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, so, yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information, since we're on the Amendment. Oh, sorry. Yes, you're right. I
cannot amend that motion.
JULIEN BOQUET: So we're right around now-- so Director Chandler has asked to split the motion into
three. And so we have to vote on that. And I need a second on that. Yeah, Director Ruscha.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think-JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of information, point of-- I need some information. So my understanding, and I
probably misread the CART. And our transcriber is having a hard time keeping up with us. I thought that
Director Harwick's Amendment to lower it to $2.50 would come after. Did we just vote for a fare of $2.50 or
$4.50? So I'm not-- could you politely entertain me for a motion to reconsider so that I can vote yes?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOQUET: You're welcome. So it passes, 11-4. So now, the motion now would be, I need a second
from Director Chandler to actually-BRETT PAGLIERI: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK. Paglieri is the second. So now we're good-- yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: If I'd like to divide the question, including the Base and the Live fare, so that we had
the Base fare, the Live fare, the region, and the waiting period as separate questions, because some of us

have very different opinions on the Base fare and the Live fare, would that be acceptable to you, Director
Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sure, I'll accept that friendly Amendment to my Amendment.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, so now we're voting on to divide the question into four parts, Secretary? OK.
We've got to take a vote on that, then. This is to divide the question. This is to divide the question. This is
what you're voting on. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mildly confused yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: What Director O'Keefe said, or first Vice Chair O'Keefe.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm not confused, and yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm a no. But they got outvoted. OK, so we have divided the question into four parts.
Each are going to be their own separate Amendment now. What conversation do you all want to have? So
we're starting with reduced base fare from $6.50 to $2.50. So we're going to vote on this. Have we-- Oh,
sorry, yes.
JACK KROLL: Just to clarify, you're not voting on the final motion here. You're voting on the Amendment.
So you're going to now tackle each of the four component parts of the First Amendment. And then you
would return, in theory, to the main motion on the floor.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yep.
JACK KROLL: Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: So what you all passed was an Amendment to the Amendment. You are now voting on the
Amendment in four parts. So you all need to re-vote on whether you want the fair to be $2.50. That's where
you're at.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yep. Yes, Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: If I have another Amendment, do I offer it now? Not yet. That's all I wanted to clarify. That's
it.
JULIEN BOQUET: Not yet. Thank you. Any discussion regarding the base fare reduction, $6.50 to $2.50?
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: We had some questions about what the overall cost could be. And I think we weren't able
to come up with a number. But I would really like to see what that would be.

JULIEN BOQUET: Any further discussion on Base fare? Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: This is for GM/CEO CEO Johnson or staff. Based on our surveys, I believe we had
a number in one of the packets on what percentage of the AOD ridership is likely to be regular versus
qualify for Live fare. Do we know, off the top of your head, do we have the information of basically how
would it break down?
What's the likely breakdown between the number of riders, percentage of riders who would qualify for the
Base fare, versus who would qualify for the Live fare? I feel like, if it could help us understand the size of
what we're talking about here. If most of these riders are low income, then they would get the Live fare.
And so I was hoping maybe you could speak to how you've seen that when you've done budget estimates
of the Live fare versus the Base fare in previous months. Because I know that there were specific estimates
around the cost of the Live fare changes, cost the Base fare. I was hoping somebody could speak to how
that splits up.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Once again, I do not have that information readily
available to provide for you all in this forum. And while I hear chuckling in the audience, I think this is a very
serious matter. And I would be remiss and derelict in my duties if I were to make an assumption upon which
you are taking a critical vote for the betterment of our customer segment. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Yeah, Director Guzman. We will have order in the room. Thank
you. Enough of the side chatter. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah, I believe it would be proper order to request that 1 and 2, currently what we're
looking at, number 1 and number 2, because we need financial information from the agency, and they need
to have time to do that, be committed. Which means those two questions must go back to Operations and
Safety and Security until that information can be presented, and then brought back to the Board.
The proper motion is to commit, which means it goes back to a committee. I'm not asking lightly. I know
what I am suggesting. But I would move to commit 1 and 2 back to Operation Safety and Security until such
time as we have answers that have been thoroughly researched and presented back to the Board of
Directors.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't really oppose moving that back. But I guess maybe Ms. Mackey can help me.
If we have a number, and we take $2 off from $6.50 to $4.50, and it's a $1.4 million loss in revenue, we
take $2 off, it should be another $1.4 million loss in revenue, right?
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson or Ms. Vallejos?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I suppose we could induce demand. But we don't know what that is.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Correct. Thank you very kindly. That's the point that we were trying to express. Sorry,
once again, Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. There's different factors to take
into consideration. If it were simply as put, as you did, Director Guissinger, we would provide those numbers.
But there's so many different elements relative to this topic at hand.

LYNN GUISSINGER: So we would go back to the Committee to analyze the induced revenue, I guess. Is
that the answer?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, what I would offer up to this Committee, it would be extremely helpful, while I
heard some chatter in the audience that I should have done my homework, on the flip side of it, I didn't
know what I didn't know, relative to what we put forward. And we have Amendments coming. So I just want
to ensure that everybody is well-versed in where we are sitting as staff, because I'm proud of the work that
my team has done.
This has been a continuous conversation. We want to lean into the moment and provide you with adequate
information to make an informed decision. But without having the professional courtesy of having the
information beforehand, we are remiss in not doing what we need to do in the most professionally-courteous
fashion. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I mean, if that's the preference of staff, I don't have a problem with taking it
back. I just was hoping we could make some decisions tonight.
MATT LARSEN: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, so then we're in discussion to bring this back to the committee?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So just the-- sure. For the record, what I am what I am suggesting comes from
Robert's Rules, 6.53. But it may be that much time would be required to amend the main motion properly,
or that additional information is needed so that it would be better to turn the motion or resolution over to a
Committee for study or redrafting before the Assembly considers it further.
We are the Assembly. Such action can be postponed by moving to commit the question or refer it to a
Committee. That is what I'm asking for. That is what has been seconded. It is for number 1 and 2, to return
that back to OSS for financial information that we do not currently have. So we give and afford our staff the
opportunity to bring back numbers so we can fully understand what this entails.
I think that's a reasonable request. I know it's not something any of us wanted to do tonight. But I do believe
that's the proper way to go. So I would encourage a yes vote. And I thank in advance, Chair Harwick and
Vice Chair Chandler, for taking that back through Committee so that we can bring it to the Board for a vote
later.
JULIEN BOQUET: Do we have a second on that? Larsen was the second. Excellent. Before the vote,
Director Gutschenritter?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah, I would just ask that we repackage all four of them together to keep it
complete as we're discussing it, as it goes back to the Committee, and then comes back to the Board.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm not sure if we can repackage is the only thing.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: So we're currently on an Amendment, not the main motion. I don't believe we can
refer an Amendment. I believe we have to pass or not pass an Amendment. And then you can refer the
main motion back to Committee.
And maybe we could split it to accomplish what you're going for, though I agree with Mr. Gutschenritter,
who is saying that it would probably be better to put the whole thing back to Committee if we were to
somehow divide that. Mr. Kroll, is that correct, that we would have to pass the Amendment before we could
refer it back to committee?
JACK KROLL: I believe Director Guzman cited Robert's Rules there, which, it indicated, if there were
questions pending on the Amendment that deserved further inquiry, you could send it back. It is getting
very convoluted here, though. My recommendation is that you tackle the Amendment, and then have a vote
to send the whole thing back, or not, to the committee of reference. You could divide the question at that
point and send back.
But again, you've started your conversation on an Amendment to the recommendations, which is removing
everything one step further from the main motion, which is your end goal here. So my recommendation is,
get yourself back to the main motion of the recommendations.
And then move to recommit the entire thing, or divide certain elements back to the Committee. That being
said, Director Guzman did indicate that it is allowable under Robert's Rules to do it this way. It's just getting
very convoluted. I think people are losing the train here.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Point of order, Mr. Chair. Director Guzman did make a proper motion. It's a subsidiary
motion, because what we have before us is dividing the question, which means each individual question is
acting as its own action. So it is proper. And while I respect Mr. Kroll's opinion on how we should govern, I
just want to offer that it is proper and appropriate, and common.
Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah.
MATT LARSEN: I think what Mr. Kroll is offering is a way for us to more clearly describe what we're passing
and what we're not passing. And so I think it's absolutely allowed for us to do it right now. I think it would
be better, not just for the understanding of people in the room.
But also, I think the Board has these questions in front of us. And the Committee would be better served by
knowing how the Board is going to vote in the future, when we're going to basically be reconsidering this
again in a month.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, agreed. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Well, both of the points that I was going to make were made. So I'm not sure what we
would like to do.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, I think the best method, actually, probably would be to vote on each of these
Amendments, and then go to the main motion at hand. And then, if we want to split it and send it back to
Committee, we could do that. Does that make sense? I think that's the best way to follow. I think that it's
just best to vote on all these, so. And then, yeah, these are just the Amendments themselves, and then go
back to the main motion.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: For the record, the listing of individual subsidiary motions, which happens when you
divide the question, which is where we're at right now, this is the proper motion to commit. So if we commit
after we vote on each of these, let's say we go through.
And we vote on each of them. Fine. When we're back to the main one, there's no way to assure that we
are going to commit this financial piece back to the Committee unless we send the whole thing back, or we
divide the question a second time and do this.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yep, you divide the question the second time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I'm going to trust that my fellow Directors are not going to call the question
immediately after we finish this because that would be truly unfair, or I'm going to stick with where we're at
and not withdraw my motion and make you vote right now.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yep.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Do I have your confirmation, everybody? A hand or a nod, please.
JULIEN BOQUET: All right. Thank you. Thank you. We got to keep this going, guys. So any further
questions or comments regarding the first, to reduce base fare from $6.50 to $2.50? OK. I'm going to take
a roll call vote. Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: Verification. We're voting on the first part, $6.50 to $2.50.
JULIEN BOQUET: Correct, Treasurer.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.

JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Absolutely not.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm also a yes. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine-- pass. It passes. OK,
moving on to the second. Reduce Live fare from $3.25 to 125. $1.25. Is there any comments or questions
on this? Roll call vote. Treasurer Benker? Director Buzek? Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm a yes, passes, with 10-5. Moving on to the next one. Is there any discussion or
comments of clarification on the third offered Amendment? Yes, Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: How would this change the trip subsidy from what already exists to this Amendment?
What is it right now? And then it changes to $20?
JULIEN BOQUET: The quarter mile one, Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Oh, I'm sorry. I was looking at the wrong one.
JULIEN BOQUET: That's OK. Director Nicholson, yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, not to be self-interested. But can you just explain what the issue is with the
language that was passed out of Committee versus what's in this, just for my own edification?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, I think-- so my interpretation, and I don't want to speak for staff on this, is it kind
of makes it clear and just kind of cleans up the language in regards to all areas that are lying within 3/4 of
a mile of all fixed route bus service, including regional and commuter routes. Yeah, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: I believe my understanding is that the term, origins and destinations, was the hang-up.
Origins and destinations are a term of vernacular for service planning. And that was what's tripping-- if
you're a customer and you're a rider, origins and destinations mean something different than if you're a
service planner.

DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, I would like to have staff within the Operations realm. No disrespect intended,
Mr. Kroll, but just for clarity purposes. Because as we're talking about service planning and talking about
these other elements, I believe what's germane is to ensure that there's a clear-cut understanding from the
policy body relative to what we're trying to do and the operational impact. So, Ms. Vallejos, if I could yield
the floor to you, please. Thank you.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you. Erin Vallejos again. Yes, the origin and destination terminology was the
concern because I think the intent was to include the regional routes, for example, AD, CD, P. And expressly
stating that then does include the full route, whereas, again, origin and destination would just be where that
route started and where that route ended, which I don't think was your intent.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah. Any further discussion on this? Yeah, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I think I know the answer. But details matter. I just want to clarify. If one of our vendors
goes a quarter mile or a few blocks outside of our service area because that is the shortest distance
between two lines, or that's the fastest route, that is OK? In their route.
ERIN VALLEJOS: Yes, this would not impact routing, . But this would impact, again, ensuring pickup and
drop-off locations.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to make an Amendment. I'd like to amend the language to simply say, the
Access-on-Demand service area shall include all areas within the RTD service area. I believe that members
of the public made a good point.
And if we're going to be making changes to the fare that will cost lots of money, we can make a small
change to the service area that will not cost very much money and accommodate some of the folks who
live in rural parts of Broomfield and other areas, so.
JULIEN BOQUET: Do you have a second on that?
IAN HARWICK: Sure do.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, Harwick is the second. Director Ruscha, yeah.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm in support of this concept. And I also don't use para-transit. I could just hop on a
bus or a train and know what that's like. But I'm not a para-transit user. So could someone from staff please
explain the functional difference between what the Amendment is and the Amendment to the-- or, excuse
me, the motion and the Amendment to the Amendment. I am all down for this. I just want to know what I'm
voting on.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, from what I gathered from Secretary Nicholson's Amendment, basically, by saying
the service area, if I want confirmation here, you remove the 3/4 of a mile.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, this would take it to what it is right now, which is anywhere in the RTD service
area.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. That's what I inferred from your statement. Regardless if it was within, because
this is a supplemental premium para-transit service, not that of complimentary ADA, relative to the Federal
Transit Administration guidelines.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Correct.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have a question. I'm not sure who to address it to, maybe Ms. Vallejos. So
currently, Access-a-Ride has a geographical limitation. The Amendment, to my knowledge, would take a
geographical limitation away. And is that considered an equitable-- or what would that be considered? I just
see that the disparity between these two would now be even larger.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Director Chandler, answer that question. Keeping in mind what I just
responded to Secretary Nicholson about, relative to where we sit, I don't want to use the term equitable in
the sense of being a legalized term. But from a fairness vantage point, the difference is we have a
supplemental premium service.
And it's up to this body to have a discussion and draw boundaries around that whereby, as being a recipient
directly of federal funding from the government, we have to ensure that we adhere to some guidelines. So
on the face of it, if we're looking at it through the lens, yes, there's some fairness issues.
But keeping in mind, as we look at the different modes that we provide service to relative to how we may
deadhead a service and not allow people on a bus because it needs to get back to a division, one could
say that's unfair, when you have people standing at a stop.
So it really, in the grand scheme of things, is within the purview of what this body wants to do. But if I were
to answer the question and we talk about our services as a whole, we're trying to have a comprehensive
transportation network. And one could argue the point that it may not be fair to all, just as we've heard from
some public commenters, that not everybody-[AUDIO OUT]

And they may not all have wheelchair-accessible vehicles. So in a sense, it may not be fair for somebody
in a mobility device versus someone else to utilize the system. So I leave that with you from that perspective.
JULIEN BOQUET: Excellent, excellent. Any further comments, questions, on the Amendment? Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just a question for Ms. Vallejos. It's my understanding that, it was something on the
order of 95% of all AOD trips start within the 3/4 of a mile service area as of right now of the fixed route. So
we would not be talking about a terribly large number of trips. And obviously, everyone pays taxes to RTD,
regardless of where they live in the service area.

So there does seem to be, especially for Director Catlin's district, Director Whitmore's district, even Chair
Bouquet's district, substantial areas that are not within that 3/4 of a mile that would be left out of this. Am I
correct in understanding that 95% of trips are within the current boundaries? So we're not talking about a
huge amount of money here.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Vallejos?
ERIN VALLEJOS: Thank you for the question. So when we did our last analysis, that is an accurate
statement, that 95% of the trips would still have occurred. But again, I want to note that, as the program
continues to grow, the number of those trips is probably going to continue to grow. And something that
we've discussed but I want to make sure is reiterated is, a large part of this recommendation is related to
our wheelchair-accessible vehicles.
The majority of trips provided, Access-on-Demands that need a wheelchair-accessible vehicle, are provided
through RTD Access-a-Ride vehicles. And again, as the demands for that increases, we are pulling away
from our Access-a-Ride service. When we first did our analysis, it was reducing capacity on Access-a-Ride
by about 10%. At most recent analysis, it was about 17. So that number is increasing. I just wanted to note,
that was part of why staff is making this recommendation.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. OK, we are going to vote on Director Nicholson's Amendment. And again,
that would be the motion to amend the Amendment to read, the Access-on-Demand service shall include
all areas that lie within the Regional Transportation District. Director Benker?
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This would be looked at again by Committee, but-JULIEN BOQUET: Your vote.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This would be looked at again by the Committee. But I think yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: By all means, yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm a no. But it will pass, 9-6. OK, yes, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Just a reminder, that was the motion to amend the Amendment. So now you need to vote
on that as part of the division of the question, if that makes sense.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yep, got it. Are we ready for the vote on that? Any discussion on that? OK. So we're
now voting. That was just to amend the motion. We're now on the motion itself. Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just quickly, this is going to have another impact on finances. So we're probably
needing to send this back to make sure that it's reviewed and properly vetted so that we can make it a vote.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yep, yep. Secretary Nicholson, quickly.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I just have a question for GM/CEO Johnson. Would you prefer that we pass this as
is or send it back to the OSS Committee?
JACK KROLL: She's not a Director.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, not a Director.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chairman?

JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Considering that this came out of OSS Committee as a recommended action, I think
it would behoove us to understand the intent of this policy body, because we can do our due diligence and
be prepared. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Yes, Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: The motion that had just passed is huge. So there is a big fiscal note attached to it that
we do not know at all what it is. With regard to the reduction of fare from $6.50 to $2.50, I can do a back of
the envelope amount. And I can tell you, we were going to be adding $5.6 million to our budget, our
revenues, minus approximately, my number, not staff's, about $2.4 million.
So we'd still be making some additional revenue of $3.2 million. This motion that just passed is going to
take a long time to do a fiscal note. And it's going to cost a lot. So I was not in favor of sending this back to
Operations or to Finance, either committee. But now, after this particular Amendment has passed, now it
has to go back to Committee because we have no idea what we just voted on.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm going to call the vote.
VINCE BUZEK: Hello?
JULIEN BOQUET: Any further-- yes, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks. Yeah, I just want to make sure I have this clear. So we're going through these
components of the Amendment one at a time. Once we get to the point where we have a brand new
amendment, we're going to vote on that.
Then we're going to entertain, I believe, probably, Director Guzman's motion to send it back to Committee.
If that passes, everything goes back to the Committee. The main motion, as amended, goes back to
Committee. Is that right?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK. All right. Let's take a vote on this, then. Treasurer Benker?
SPEAKER: Sorry, point of information. What are we voting on?
JULIEN BOQUET: So you're voting on the motion to amend. So you're voting on, the Access-on-Demand
service area shall include all areas that lie within the Regional Transportation District.
SPEAKER: We just took that vote.
JULIEN BOQUET: No, you voted if you wanted to amend it. And now you're going to vote on it now, as
amended.
SPEAKER: OK.

JULIEN BOQUET: Treasurer Benker. Treasurer Benker?
KAREN BENKER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Buzek, say again, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes on this one.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Also a yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: No.

JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm a no. It passes, 12-3. OK, moving on to the fourth Amendment, explicitly stating
there is no waiting period to begin using AOD, appropriately certified. Is there any discussion on this?
SPEAKER: Do you need a move, somebody to move it?
JULIEN BOQUET: It's already moved and seconded. Yes, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just a clarification question. What does appropriately certified mean in this context?
Are we looking at regular certification, just appropriately certified for AOD, or are we using other government
forms of certification for that? I want to make sure I understand.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. It's the same certification process we do for the ADAmandated para-transit program.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Any further comments or questions? Are there any no votes? That
Amendment will pass, 15-0. OK, we're now back-- we're now back to the main motion, as amended. Director
Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I move to commit.
JULIEN BOQUET: The whole motion? The whole motion is moved to commit. Do you have a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler-- or, excuse me. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: At the risk of being dense here, if there are other policy matters that you all want the
Committee to look at that you had intended to introduce, I think it would be best to set the table now, as
opposed to making that a surprise, so that staff has direction on what analysis to complete. So am I making
sense here?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, I think that is more than appropriate, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I withdraw my second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll withdraw the motion.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Director Harwick.

IAN HARWICK: Sorry, everybody. I'm going to make an Amendment to explicitly allow multi-stop trips and
leave it up to individual transportation network companies, TNCs, to decide whether to provide this
functionality.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, we have Harwick as the mover and Ruscha as the second. Any discussion on this?
Yes, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I really hear the issue on multi-stop trips. I'm very sympathetic to it. But I feel
like that hasn't come to us. And it may need-- I mean, what does that mean? Can people stop four times?
Does it need some guardrails? I'd like to see that. Personally, I'd like to see that just committed to the
Committee to examine and bring something to us, because we haven't had anything brought to us yet.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I'll be, I guess, a no vote on that, but maybe make a motion after to commit this
to be decided.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: I just want to say that, if we proceed with all of this, I will vote to bring this back to OSS. I
know that, in OSS, I pushed this to get this done. But there have been a lot of changes. And a lot of them
were made by me. So, no-JULIEN BOQUET: You have to.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, but I am fully in support of bringing this back, looking at this with these decisions that
have been brought, again, a lot by me. Because I think it's important that we look at the fiscal note and
really look at what this is.
And if we could get a little bit more information about-- really get into the weeds about multi-stop. Again, I
think that it's vital that we bring it back. But I think for everybody's edification, that's a good thing.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So maybe a friendly amendment rather than moving to bring back multi-stop. Could
we just ask staff to bring it to the Committee? Because we haven't had anything, a recommendation from
staff. It hasn't been considered. Like I said, is it one stop? Is it several stops? I'd like to see it. I'd like to see
something a little more defined and considered at this point.
VINCE BUZEK: Point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm asking you if you would be open to that as a friendly Amendment.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick?
VINCE BUZEK: Point of order.
JULIEN BOQUET: Oh, yeah, Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, just like numbers 1, 2, and 3 of the Amendment, I think we need to get this into the
Amendment of the motion if it's going to get there. And then it will be part of the referral back to the
Committee.
But if it's not part of an Amendment, I don't know what we're really going to be talking about, how it's going
to come out of Committee if it's not part of an amended motion. So I think we should probably go through
the process of seeing if it's going to get in as an Amendment, and then referring it back.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, I think that would be the best recommendation, is just add it as the Amendment.
I'm going to recommend as the Chair. I'm taking Chair privilege here. This has to go back to the Committee,
as it is amended. So we can put this to a vote, or any further discussion on this? Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I think the biggest concern that I think a number of us have with multi-stop is
just the increase in cost. You end up with people taking multiple stops, and as a result of that, using more
of the per trip subsidy.
If we build this in a way where multi-stop doesn't mean more cost for the program, then obviously it's more
convenient. So there's no reason not to do it. We just might have to make other changes in other places to
keep the fiscal note the same.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Ms. Chandler, Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have just an overall point, that all of these discussions can happen within OSS.
If you have a concern, you need to talk to the Chairman of OSS, Director Harwick. And we will bring all of
these so we don't have to sit here and debate this tonight. It should be debated in OSS, not here. That is
why we have these subcommittees.
And if you are not attending OSS on a regular basis, then you should be, if you have additional things that
should be brought before that Committee. So I would recommend that we just stop this entire discussion
and move forward to putting this entire Amendment to OSS, back to the Committee. And if you as a Director
have additional comments, please bring them before the Committee so that we don't have to continue to
have this discussion tonight.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Director Chandler. I agree with that. My one ask, if we are going to be
sending this back to OSS-- and I think my one big ask is going to be, we've heard a lot of public testimony.
We've had two hours of debate now on this conversation itself.
If we're sending it back to OSS and we actually see what the note is going to be, with the cost of it, that is
something that I'm going to respect what the decision is that comes out of OSS. And I think that's where
we go forward. OK, so we do have a motion. Director Harwick as the mover, and Director Ruscha as the
second. I'm going to do a roll call vote on this Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: We're voting for motion to amend the AOD program, modifications to explicitly allow
multi-stop trips, and leave the decision on whether to provide that functionality to the Specific Transportation
Network companies. Treasurer Benker, you're a yes. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.

JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm a yes. That passes, unanimously. Any other amendments we want to add? Director
Ruscha. Could this be submitted via writing? Are you offering an Amendment, or?

JOYANN RUSCHA: How about I make a comment-JULIEN BOQUET: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: --for OSS's consideration.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: May I, sir?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. One thing we did not discuss tonight or in the initial staff proposal that came before
OSS was the reduction of the subsidy. So right now, it is at $25. Staff has proposed that we lower it to $20,
which is also a fair increase. So I'm just asking that OSS also take that into consideration in Committee.
And I will not make an Amendment tonight.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: You're welcome.
JULIEN BOQUET: So now there's a motion to send this back to OSS. And that's what we'll be voting on
next. Are you all good with that?
BRETT PAGLIERI: For clarification, would it send the whole thing back to OSS, or just parts of it?
JULIEN BOQUET: As amended.
BRETT PAGLIERI: The whole thing?
JULIEN BOQUET: As amended. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: I think you technically need that motion on the floor. I know it's been mentioned several
times. And I would offer-MICHAEL GUZMAN: Everybody ready? I moved to commit this back to OSS.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I second.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm going to give it to O'Keefe. Guzman is the mover. O'Keefe is the second. Are there
any no votes?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd like to make an Amendment to the motion. Oh, OK. The motion to recommit, I'm
sorry. The motion to commit it.
JULIEN BOQUET: You may not.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK, point of information, then. Can we make sure this comes back in September?
Because we really should get this over with in the sense of not dragging it on for 10 more months.

JULIEN BOQUET: I'm going to relay that on staff. That's a lot of new information for staff. So I would hold
it down to them.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, we are committed to doing that because time is of the essence, recognizing
another item on your agenda relative to contract extensions. We don't know what we don't know, because
just by virtue of not taking any action, while we have interested parties in Access-on-Demand, by virtue of
not taking action, we may not have any contractors. So time is paramount. Hence, we will come back in
September. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Are there any no votes on the motion? OK, the motion will be sent back to
OSS and will be discussed and decided on in September. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: So you are roughly four minutes from the four-hour mark of your meeting here. And per the
Board's bylaws, the matter is that the meeting would be set to adjourn upon the conclusion of the agenda
item that is currently under consideration. So this one is no longer under consideration. But you're going to
move into your Committee Reports, and then into the GM and CEO report, and the Chair report, followed
by Unanimous Consent, and then two additional recommended actions.
My recommendation to you, given that you're coming up on the four-hour mark, and that it's been just about
two hours since the CART provider had a break, is to determine before breaking what you all want to get
through, and make that motion and have that conversation, and then take a break so you have a clear
understanding as to what you're going to get done tonight.
JULIEN BOQUET: Sounds good. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would like to consider-- I would like to consider adjusting our agenda. And current
items about Committee Reports may be submitted in writing to all Directors to the Board Office. Let's get to
the-- quickly, we can get through the approval of the Board meetings.
I think that will only take a few moments of our time, and then move to the Unanimous Consent agenda and
try to tackle the last two items on our agenda, so we don't have to have a continuation of the meeting. I
believe that would be the best approach.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just, I'm not sure if that was a suggestion or a motion. But I just wanted to ask that we
leave time for other matters because our colleague passed away. And I think some of us want to make
comments.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
JULIEN BOQUET: Yes, Ms. Johnson.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So recognizing this Board's action relative to Access-on-Demand, just for
everybody's edification, it would be most prudent that Item K is carried over. Because, basically, the way
it's written, it talks about a six-month contract extension with existing providers.
However, with that Not to Exceed amount, we don't know what that is, recognizing that there could be
adjustments in reference to the financial commitment. Hence, that would not be heard tonight. So I just
wanted to ensure that that was clear. Thank you for the opportunity to put that forward.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Item K, excellent Any objection on that before?
JACK KROLL: So then, would the motion that you would be considering would be to complete all items on
the agenda through Item J, with the exception of the Committee Reports, which would be submitted in
writing?
JULIEN BOQUET: To Item K.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I don't have the letters in front of me. And I can only see through Item F. What I would
suggest also is that, maybe-- and this is up to the two of you to decide. I would leave it to you.
But maybe all of our reports can be submitted in writing, rather than verbally expressed in this meeting and
added to the record later, but shared with all of the Directors. So both the GM report, the Chair report, all
of those reports, put them in writing. Get them out to us. We can publish it with the packet as an addendum,
rather than take up time.
SPEAKER: I second that.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson, are you OK with that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm fine with that.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK. Director Ruscha?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm just going to forfeit it and all, but OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just want to make a point of order because I don't know if we're proposing a motion.
But the Chair does have the exclusive right, because it's not otherwise outlined, to rearrange items on the
agenda. So I don't know if perhaps that's something you can huddle with our GM/CEO with during our
break. But just, I trust you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, well, yep. OK, we do have to take a motion to extend, though. Yes, Director
Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I was going to make the motion to extend. And then I realized, I forgot the other half of
Mr. Kroll's instructions. So I lowered my hand.
JACK KROLL: OK, so I believe the motion to extend would be to extend the meeting to include approval of
the Board Minutes, the Unanimous Consent agenda, Recommended Action J, and a slight amount of other
matters so that you all may make some comments on the Director who recently passed.
JULIEN BOQUET: Correct. And it's Recommended Action K, K as in kangaroo.

JACK KROLL: It's J.
VINCE BUZEK: It was J.
DEBRA JOHNSON: A point of clarification, sir. We need to go through K because you have to take action
to carry that over. Yes, to take it back.
SPEAKER: Sorry, may I amend my-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information.
JULIEN BOQUET: Point of information.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: What happens if one of the Unanimous Consent items is pulled?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

CHRIS NICHOLSON: No, I'm serious.
VINCE BUZEK: No, it won't be.
JACK KROLL: So if something comes off the consent agenda, you would just tackle it as you normally
would.
JULIEN BOQUET: Yeah, you would just tackle it. You would tackle it normally, so. Yep, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hi, sorry. I wanted to modify the motion that I was about to make. I would like to make
a motion that we recess for a period of time, the Chair's determination, and then come back and finish the
agenda as written, given that the Chair may amend the agenda as needed. And we trust him to figure that
out during our break.
JULIEN BOQUET: Sounds good.
SPEAKER: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: Second. Are there any no votes? Let's do, what, a 10 minute break? Is that good? OK,
9:42.
Excellent! All right. It is 9:45. So we are going to get through this as quickly as we can. We are now moved
on to our next item, which is the approval of the Board Meeting Minutes. The Board and Committee Meeting
Minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the Board for the minutes to be
approved this evening?
Seeing none, unless there is objection considering the minutes, all at the same time, may I please have a
motion to approve the minutes for the following dates? June 24th, 2025, June 20-- excuse me, Special
Board Meeting, June 24th, '25, Board meeting, July 7th, Performance Committee, July 10th, Audit
Committee, July 15th, Finance and Planning Committee, July 16th, Operation Safety and Security
Committee, July 24th, Executive Committee. The latter of all happened in 2025.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mover for Guzman.
JULIEN BOQUET: Guzman. Who's a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: All right, Guzman, Chandler. Is there any discussion? Is there any no votes? Item
passes, 15-0. We will be skipping the Chair's Report and the General Manager's Report. We can submit
that via writing if necessary. We're moving on now to Unanimous Consent. July has been a very busy month
for our Committees. And as a result, there are nine items on the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
They are listed as, under Section 16, as actions A through I. Those items are 2026 Comprehensive
Operations Analysis, the Bus Stop Infrastructure and Accessibility Assessment Contract Amendment, the
Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project, the East Metro Hoist Replacement Contract award, US-36 and
Sheridan Bus Platform expansion, Bus Maintenance Facility, Alternatives Analysis and National
Environmental Policy Act Study, August 2025 Title VI, Service Equity Analysis.
August-- August-- my apologies, CART. August 2025 Service Change. Ratification of Appointment of
Director O'Keefe to the Operations, Safety, and Security Committee. If anyone has a change to discuss or
questions about any of the Unanimous Consent items, please feel free to advise the Chair at this time. And
I'll of course be happy to pull the Unanimous Consent item for consideration under recommended action.
First Vice Chair O'Keefe?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Just real briefly, I spoke with CEO/GM Johnson on the Downtown Rail Reconstruction
contract. Recognizing that she's in a position right now where she's going out to negotiate the terms of this
contract, that there is nothing for us to review. But she and I did talk about an Executive Committee action,
or Executive Committee consideration for contracts above some certain amount.
And clearly, $125 million one would be one that I think would fall in that. I don't think we should be trying to
capture every contract that we empower her to negotiate. But I do think that, going forward, hopefully we
can come up with a process for what contracts come back before the whole Board, where she has exercised
her expertise in negotiating it.
JULIEN BOQUET: Duly noted. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for your patience. So I think we should certainly
remove item I off of consent. Just kidding. I'm fine with that First Vice Chair O'Keefe. I wanted to lighten the
mood because I do want to ask that we remove item C, the Downtown Rail Reconstruction Project, off of
Unanimous Consent. I'm just going to vote no, for reasons I already stated in OSS without any other
comment. Thank you, sir.
JULIEN BOQUET: Item C has been removed. Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I just want to echo Vice Chair O'Keefe's comments. I look forward to establishing a
better process for these larger projects to better inform myself and my fellow Board members, just so we
have a little bit better understanding and can track some of these larger items. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Director Paglieri, for your comments. Any further comments or questions?
Do I have a motion to approve items A through H?

VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, so moved.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: Buzek is the mover. Nicholson is the second.
SPEAKER: Minus C.
JULIEN BOQUET: It's A through H because it was A through I originally. And so we adjusted it because
there is some agenda item moved.
SPEAKER: The Chair is still on his toes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Well, thank you. I appreciate the correction. All right-SPEAKER: What correction?
JULIEN BOQUET: The suggested correction. Moving on, is there any no votes on the item? Don't worry. I
know what I'm doing. Seeing none, the item will pass, 15-0. But I appreciate it. You guys are all looking out
for one another, which I appreciate.
There are now three remaining Recommended Actions on the agenda now. That is going to be-- the first
one is going to be the 2026 GM/CEO Short Term Goal-- oh, excuse me, Downtown Rail Reconstruction
project. See, we're a team here. Project, Progressive Design Build Contract Award. Do I have a motion?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So moved.
JULIEN BOQUET: I have Chandler as the mover. Do I have a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: I have Catlin as the second. Any discussion on this item? Yes, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, so I actually want to talk a little bit about phase 4, which did not come up in the
OSS Committee. There's obviously been some discussion at the city level around the impact of the work
on Welton and concerns from community over there about whether or not they even want the rail at all.
And I was just wondering if you could talk about-- because I didn't see a date in the packet on where we're
at right now for that phase of the project and what the planning is looking for phase 4. So can you maybe
expand a little bit? I know it's not what we're going to be working on this fall. But it was included in the
agenda item. So I figured I would ask about it.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair and Secretary Nicholson for the question. As you
may recall at the meeting that we had in June, I provided the presentation that's contained in the packet.
So with that as a backdrop, if we move forward, recognizing that this is a phased project and we have to
work in tandem with the City and County of Denver-- and as you spoke specifically about the Welton
Corridor, I received some correspondence from Mayor Johnston, relative to the City and County's desire,

especially as it relates to the Council Member who represents that area, Council Member Watson, talking
about what may be done to have a transit-enriched corridor.
Recognizing that this project is critically important as it relates to our asset renewal and maintaining our
assets in a state of good repair, I communicated back in that correspondence that we were in the midst of
this project, recognizing where we were. The City and County leadership basically understood that.
And as we look at where we are with the schedule, once we are able to negotiate a contract with a
contractor, we had agreed that we would look at this as a last phase. This would potentially give the city an
opportunity to assess what they may want to do from a planning study. And there's monies that have been
appropriated via DRCOG's Mechanism.
And so, recognizing that context I just provided, I don't have a date for you. But we know that would be the
last phase of the project. And as we progress in working with the vendor, we'd have a better understanding
of what that sequencing may be. Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll be quick. Welton Corridor is in District C. I can confirm and affirm that the
communication is going on. I am also involved in it with the City Council Member Watson. There is a new
Transit Committee at the City and County of Denver. They have reorganized this year. It is a constant
conversation that's happening right now on multiple levels.
We are using a city right of way. And so that is a community conversation that will happen within my district.
And I am happy to report back to this body any information that I have. It's in the nascent stages at this
point. Because this is not what we are looking at right now, I am going to ask that we continue on with the
matter at hand. And we save that for a more appropriate time when there's more information to be shared.
Thank you.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Any further comments, questions, or discussion? OK, I know Director
Ruscha indicated that they would be voting no. If you could raise your hand if you're voting no on this item?
Director Ruscha. Any other no's? Seeing none, so this will pass 14-1. Thank you.
Moving on, we're going to go to Item J, which is the 2026 GM/CEO Short Term Goals for the Board of
Directors to approve the General Manager and CEO Performance Framework adopted in January 2024, in
alignment with the Board's employment agreement with the GM/CEO. The proposed short term SMART
goals for the performance period commencing January 1st, 2026, and continuing through November 8th,
2026. Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved, Guzman.
JULIEN BOQUET: Guzman is the mover. Do we have a second?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm going to give it to Gutschenritter. Guzman as the mover, Gutschenritter as the
second. Any discussion on this? Yes, Director Benker.

KAREN BENKER: Yes, I have a question for our CEO. Over the past five months of this year, our ridership
numbers are down 6.4% from the same period last year. Can staff please explain why our ridership numbers
are down 6% instead of going up?
Because I know we've added more service. I understand it's going to take a little bit of time for the new
service to be utilized. And people know it's there and start using it. But why are our ridership numbers
lower? Can anybody answer that?
JULIEN BOQUET: I would also just remind, we are in discussion of the GM/CEO's short term goals.
KAREN BENKER: The 3%, measure number 2, is a 3% increase. So I can add that. But right now, for this
year's short term measures, it was also 3%. And we're down minus 6.
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson, would you like to comment at this time?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you for the question, Director Benker.
So it's hard to pinpoint. I can't say why they're down. There's a myriad of different external factors that I
believe are contributing factors. Recognizing that-- you talked about the past couple of months.
Recognizing that we have been doing some critical work as we've moved forward in reference to asset
renewal, preventative maintenance, track inspections, and things of the like, we just lifted the slow speed
orders just two months ago. That was a contributing factor, as we clearly know from survey data, as we
engage via intercepts.
Additionally, as we look at what's happening around the downtown as well, contributing factors in reference
to vacancy rates and how people are now working. Just collectively, I actually just met this morning with
the President and CEO of the Downtown Denver Partnership. And we were talking about the various
aspects and some initiatives that we're working on to entice people to want to utilize transit once again,
from the vantage point that people traditionally aren't utilizing it to come into downtown.
As you think about the Downtown area plan, the Denver Downtown Area Plan, recognizing that office
workers, basically, there's about 158,000. But maybe only about 65,000 are coming into the office. And
that's not five days a week. There's different initiatives they're taking, relative to lease renewals, and
incentivizing that from the Downtown Denver Partnership. And so there's different elements that we can
contribute.
But you can look nationwide. There's just been various articles. And I believe Secretary Nicholson sent out
one today that was featured in Bloomberg. This is not indigenous to the Regional Transportation District,
nor Denver. Our colleagues at Tri-Met that serve the Greater Portland area are making some harsh
adjustments relative to service cuts and things of the like, due to the fact that the ridership is not there,
transit utilization, by a myriad of different factors.
So that's what I have to offer up to you. I can't say for certain what that is. We have not done a detailed
analysis. But those are critical elements that have been germane throughout the North American continent
relative to service. Basically, the United States has been harder hit than others.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Even the A line is down 12%. So I am still puzzled as to why our ridership numbers
are going down instead of going up, since we are putting more service on the street. I think it's just really
important. We all had our retreat. We all agreed that ridership increases were very important to us, the most
important thing that we wanted to work on as a Board.

And so I do believe the 3% that's talked about, mentioned in the short term goals that we have before us is
still too low. There are many things that we could be doing to increase ridership. I would hope that we start
working on those things, special events, doing some sort of marketing program, trying to find out why people
have almost given up on us.
I've heard so many negative comments up in the Northern part of the RTD district. There's such frustration
in terms of not getting service, and so many other issues. So I'm going to be a no vote on this. I feel that,
RTD, we can do much, much better.
And the first thing we have to do is fix this minus 6.4% hole that we're in, and then try to figure out how we
can go up, hopefully another at least 5% So I just find this information disheartening. And I would just hope
that all of our managers really dig down and try to figure out how we can get this thing fixed, because we've
got to get RTD running again and getting people using RTD again. So with that, there are my remarks.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you. Any further comments? Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. So to piggyback on what Director Benker just spoke about, I think it is
noteworthy that we have only a 2% decrease in our fixed route regular bus service, a 6% increase in Flatiron
Flyer service. That's the one service where we're seeing a significant increase, year over year. And then,
as Director Benker pointed out, nearly a 12% decrease in A line ridership, even though the other heavy rail
lines, the G and the N line, are both around 1% or 2%.
So I do think that there are meaningful trends in these numbers that are unique to the specific services that
we're talking about. There are people who want to take the FF, even at a time when maybe they're pulling
back from some of our train services, and certainly from our light rail. My concern with this item in the short
term goals is that, as Director Benker pointed out, there is a disconnect between what the GM and CEO
can actually have control over, and what the output is.
And we're running-- and I have a question. And then I have a motion. For GM/CEO Johnson, how many
additional service hours are we running now compared to last year? What is the increase in service hours
that you're delivering in 2025? Put it in whatever terms is easiest for you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. I don't have that number off
my head. It's late in the day. I've been here for 15 hours. So I'll have to ask staff Mr. Carter, do you have
that information off the top of your head?
JESSIE CARTER: It is late for me as well. Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service Development. And
looking at the changes that we were proposing for January, May, I believe we're at 55,000 annualized
service hours increased in 2024. What I don't have on the top of my head is what was August. And that
number, I can get for you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Appreciate it. So to that point, may I, Mr. Chair? So to that point, I believe that it's
much more effective to frame this goal in terms of what we have all talked about, and what I have heard
from every single person here, which is more service. We want more buses on the streets. That is the thing
that I have heard from every single person here.
And so I think incentivizing ridership is totally up to the whims of the public, in ways that I have no idea
whether or it's actually going to be conducive to something that the GM/CEO can control. So I'm going to
make a motion to amend short term goal number 2 to say-- sorry, to increase system-wide service hours,

revenue service hours, by 3% from the period commencing October 1st, 2025, and continuing through
September 30th, 2026, over the previous year.
JULIEN BOQUET: Do we have a second? The Amendment fails. Thank you. Any further conversation?
OK. Director Benker indicated that she would be a no vote. Treasurer Benker, yes or no? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director. Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director. Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: No.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.

JULIEN BOQUET: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
JULIEN BOQUET: I'm also a yes. The motion will pass, 13 yes, 2 no. Moving on, we're going to go to the
Access-on-Demand contract extensions. As requested, we would be sending this back then to OSS, based
on the conversations that we had earlier in the night.
JACK KROLL: So the motion would be to commit the item back to OSS.
JULIEN BOQUET: So I'm making that motion. Do I have a second? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Ruscha is a second. Any discussion on that?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I just have a question. I'm sorry.
JULIEN BOQUET: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Would we be able to put a time frame on that? Because obviously, to GMC's
point, this contract needs to happen sooner than later. So I would suggest that we perhaps put a time frame
on that, just so that we can make sure that this is done before the actual contract.
JULIEN BOQUET: I don't want to speak for the CEO/GM. But September would be the ideal time, correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair. It's my intent that it would be September and be
coupled, because then we'd understand what was happening from a program modification vantage point.
Thanks.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you very much. Thank you for the question. Further question?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yeah, continued clarification. So this would be on the OSS agenda in September
for a vote, and then get back to the full Board in September as well?
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it would go to the Operation Safety and Security Committee on Wednesday,
September 10th. And based upon the action that the Committee would take, if it was favorable, it would
come before the full Board at the September Board meeting.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And that's in plenty of time to make it happen?
JULIEN BOQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So relative to a contract extension, the contract sunsets in December. We're looking
at September. That would be the latter part of the month. And we would have two months to do that. And
with the holidays coupled, we will try our darndest.
JULIEN BOQUET: OK, thank you. Thank you.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Just making sure we're all on the same page.
JULIEN BOQUET: I appreciate it. Any other discussion on this? Are there any no votes to basically send
this to OSS again, or not again, but to OSS? Thank you. That was our Recommended Action Items. Moving
on to other matters-- sorry, we're going to skip Director Activities. So when it comes to other matters, I'm
actually going to take my Chair's privilege real quick.
And this was part of my Chair's report. And this would be a moment to recognize an incredible, incredible
public servant to this organization and many more communities throughout Colorado. And that is to
recognize the life and dedication to former Director Marjorie Sloan. So Marjorie and I got on the Board at
the same time. We both got elected back in 2020.
My interactions with Marjorie, always kind, always positive, always empathetic, but always knowledgeable,
bringing experience, being rational in her decisions, and acting as a great mentor for all of us who are new
to this public service. And I'd be remiss if I wouldn't give it to our former Chair, Director Guissinger, to share
a couple words regarding former Director Sloan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And I agree with all you said. I'll keep this short. If you haven't read
Marjorie Sloan's obituary, anybody listening to this, you should Google it. It's very inspiring. She excelled
at everything she touched. She was named Teacher of the Year when she was a young teacher back East.
And she graduated third in her law school class when she had young kids at home.
She was-- almost every job it looked like that you could have in the City of Golden, including being mayor
for eight years. And she served with us from January 2021 to 2025. In Board meetings, Marjorie was very
selective when she spoke. But when she spoke, you knew it came from a place of deep understanding and
knowledge.
And when I was Chair in 2023, I started calling her for the same reasons that the Chair mentioned, that she
had so much experience. And she was always very helpful. And we became friends. Marjorie believed that
transit and transportation were important in building community and in taking care of people. And she
always kept her eye on RTD's bigger role in achieving the region's air quality and climate goals.
And I'll just mention two things in the last two weeks that she had her hand on, the Civic Center Station
policy that led to us naming the Wade Blank Civic Center. And just days before she died, the Lakewood
City Council approved an agreement with RTD to relight the iconic, I guess, light rail bridge that Marjorie
had worked hard to help put together. So she left the world a better place. And we'll miss her.
JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you very much for those words, Director Guissinger. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Marjorie Sloan was my colleague, my mentor, and my friend. Her favorite
color was yellow, which I think is fitting, because Marjorie brought warmth and light to every community she
served. And she helped people, including myself, find clarity when things felt stuck or dark, whether it was
policy or just life.
I've caught myself reaching for my phone more than once in this last week, wanting to ask her what she
thinks the Board should do next. I'm sure I'm not the only one tonight who had that feeling. I need to stop
because it's late, and because I don't like talking about Marjorie in the past tense. So Marjorie, if you can
hear me, I love you. I miss you. And I can't wait to hang out again.

JULIEN BOQUET: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll now offer a moment of silence for Director Ruscha-- or
sorry, Director Sloan. My apologies. My apologies. My apologies. A moment of silence for-- my apologies.
My apologies. I know Director Sloan would probably be laughing at me about that. So she would be giving
me a pretty hard time on that, so.
TROY WHITMORE: Take a moment to laugh.
JULIEN BOQUET: And on that note, Director Whitmore, I think a moment of laughter is more appropriate
for our former Director. Thank you. Any other matters? Well, thank you all for your patience tonight. I greatly
appreciate it. I greatly appreciate this conversation and us doing our public due diligence. Everyone, have
a lovely evening, a lovely break. Motion to adjourn.
SPEAKER: So moved.
JULIEN BOQUET: I heard many. Have a great night.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as Public Comment to the RTD Board Meeting, July 29th, 2025
July 29th, 2025
Julian Bouquet, RTD Board Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Chair Bouquet,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) writes regarding the following topics:
August 2025 Service Changes
GDT thanks the Board Office for including our letter regarding the service changes, dated June 14th, 2025 in
the Agenda Packet. It can be found on page 256.
2026 GM-CEO Short-term Goals
GDT is pleased to note the amendments made to the goals since they were first suggested by the GM & CEO.
The goals as they presently stand are well-rounded and a marked improvement over the previous set of goals.
However, we are of the view that further tweaks would make the goals more robust.
 Goal 1 addresses customer satisfaction, and GDT urges the Board to limit the analyzed and
reported results for this survey and all future community surveys to respondents who ride RTD
at least once per month or more. As we are evaluating the success of the General Manager & CEO
in directing the agencys quality of service, the results on how RTD is doing should be framed only by
those who have direct, recent, and regular experience with the system. That being said, we are pleased
to see the addition of a mystery transit customer program which we hope will provide a better
on-the-ground evaluation of the rider experience.
 Goal 2 addresses a 3% ridership growth target, and GDT urges that this target is out of touch with YoY
growth drivers, and is inappropriately small. The purpose of RTD is to provide useful public mobility, for
which ridership is the most meaningful indicator; we acknowledge that the metric does lag actual
service improvements, however this lag is still contained within the overall evaluation period of the goal.
Instead, we would urge the adoption of at least a 5% or higher YoY growth in network ridership.
Additional reward for the GM & CEO on top of a base salary should depend on successfully putting the
RTD agency back on a ridership growth trajectory after the post-pandemic recovery has stalled over the
past two years. On a year-over-year basis, ridership beyond 10/01/2025 will be compared to a highly
depressed prior-year period where light rail ridership was heavily impacted by more severe disruptions
than anticipated for the next fiscal period. The core criticism is that achieving a 3% ridership growth
comes entirely from a less-disrupted light rail service alone, and this should not require any new action
by the GM & CEO over the coming year. Meanwhile, one of the primary reasons for the conservative
ridership growth goal during the last goal period was that the budget had already been set leaving little
leeway for the GM/CEO to try different strategies to improve ridership. However, since these goals are
being set before the budget, a more ambitious ridership target should be easier to achieve.
www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 1

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com



Goal 3: The first part of the goal relating to rail reconstruction work is too narrow to reflect the broader
state of the agency. While we encourage the Board to devise a more suitable goal related to the overall
state of the agency's Capital Programs division for next year including the publishing of a Capital
Investment Program (CIP) book with much-needed project visibility requested in earlier letters, a simple
but separate target for this year should be brought in as a replacement. Instead for this year, GDT
recommends replacing this target with another that addresses RTDs #1 operational deficiency:
the persistent light rail operator shortage causing continued train cancellations and negatively
impacting customer perceptions. This problem needs to (and can) be mitigated within the goal
evaluation period - we propose replacing Goal #3 with a new goal that specifies 97% or better full time
+ part time light rail operator headcount vs. budget as of July 2025. Additionally, bus operator
headcount must be maintained as-is - near 100% of budget.

Approval of Contracts Without Proper Oversight
GDT is disappointed to note tonights unanimous consent agenda contains over $136M worth of contracts for
approval for which the Directors have not been provided basic documentation with sufficient detail (e.g. line by
line cost breakdowns, actual costs of similar projects to determine risk of overruns) to make a truly
independent judgement on whether or not a contract provides good value for the agency. This lack of basic
detail is a fundamental hindrance to the Boards function.
GDT urges the RTD Board to take swift action to direct staff to begin providing the level of detail needed for the
Board to provide its oversight.
Access-on-Demand Program Modifications
GDT urges RTD not to outright cut the Access-on-Demand (AoD) program, and consider more robust
alternatives that concurrently modernize the offerings from both the Access-a-Ride (AaR) and AoD programs in
tandem to meet the needs of RTDs riders with disabilities.
GDT also notes the apparent shift in scope of the Paratransit Peer Review from a comprehensive review of
the agency's paratransit services to one that only focuses on the AoD service. We refer to a memo to the RTD
Board, written on Aug 21st, 2024 where GM & CEO Johnson writes:
On Tuesday, February 27, 2024, I commissioned a peer review of RTDs paratransit service delivery, to be
conducted by subject-matter experts. APTA convened the peer review panel, which included a
geographical representation of panelists from across the country. During the course of the months-long
thorough review, the panelists leveraged their expertise and professional experience to assess both RTDs
Access-a-Ride (AaR) service, the agencys complementary American with Disabilities Act (ADA) paratransit
service, and RTDs Access-onDemand (AoD) premium supplemental paratransit service.
GDT is curious as to why the majority of RTDs efforts have focused on studying and reducing the costs from
approx. $15M to $10M per year of the popular AoD program which now carries the bulk of eligible ADA
customers. This is in contrast to the AaR program which has been reported as costing RTD over $60 per trip
(compared to AoDs $25), is roundly criticized by ADA customers and advocates for its shortcomings, and yet
has so far escaped major attention directed toward the way it operates, despite it clearly being involved in the
Paratransit Peer Review.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 2

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Recognition of Reverend Wade Blank via Honorary Name for Civic Center Station
GDT is in full support of RTDs proposals to implement this honorary name change for Civic Center Station. We
are pleased to see Civic Center Station remain part of the new name, which will minimize confusion for
customers.
Thanks for all you do,

James Flattum

Richard Bamber

Emma Griffin

Joe Meyer

Keith Brooks
CC:

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO
Angel Pea, RTD Deputy CEO

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page 3

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Susanne Eck <rseck89@gmail.com>
Monday, July 28, 2025 3:30 PM
RTD.Directors
Fwd: Paratransit and lack AAR in central and east Broomfield

---------- Forwarded message --------From: Susanne Eck
Date: Mon, Jul 28, 2025 at 12:36 PM
Subject: Paratransit and lack AAR in central and east Broomfield
To: <Karen.beckner@rtd-denver.com>
Dear RTD Board Members,
My name is Susanne Eck, a resident of Broomfield and a parent advocate of a disabled adult. I am
concerned not only with the proposed changes to Access on Demand (AOD) for the entire disabled
population in the RTD service area, but also the current lack of Access a Ride (AAR) available to all
eligible Broomfield residents.
According to RTD, AAR serves an area of 2,342 square miles. As evident on the Access a Ride Boundary
Map, Broomfield is one of the few urban areas where a large portion of their citizens are excluded from
AAR services. Approximately 10 square miles in the central and eastern portion of Broomfield are not
within the boundary. That 10 square miles equals .009 or 9 /1000ths of the AAR boundary area. I dont
see how including 10 square miles of Broomfield can affect RTDs bottom line, but it most certainly will
improve the lives of the IDD community in Broomfield. Please remember that the ADA mandate is 3/4 of
a mile is the MINIMUM required, not the MAXIMUM allowed.
AOD without the AAR boundary requirement provided a solution for my friends and neighbors to be
independent and travel outside of Broomfield for their jobs, medical appointments or to visit family and
friends in neighboring communities. Your own data shows that 5% of the 2024 AOD trips were outside
the ADA minimum 3/4 mile mandated service area. There is a need. Your proposal going back to the
MINIMUM mandated boundary will disconnect and negatively impact the lives of the hundreds of
disabled individuals who have used AOD in 2024.
The implementation of AOD was a popular option for the disabled population in the Denver Metro
area. RTD data shared at the May 25th Board meeting shows that more riders chose AOD over AAR and
that AOD is significantly more cost effective per trip than AAR, saving RTD $84/trip. AOD is a financial
success for RTD, yet RTD proposes to add a charge of $6.50 for each one way fare. This places a
financial burden on a population who has very limited resources. We arent asking for a free ride, we are
asking for a fair ride.
RTDs mission statement is to make lives better through connections. One of RTDs priorities
states: We are dedicated to serve the public and meet the transit needs for our riders and
1

communities. The AOD program reflects your priority to serve the disabled community, but the current
proposed changes to this popular, successfully financial and community connecting transit program will
be crippling for the disabled population in the Denver metro area.
I look forward to sharing my thoughts at the board meeting tomorrow night.
Sincerely,
Susanne Eck

2

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Kori & Tracy Gonzales
Friday, July 18, 2025 11:00 AM
RTD.Directors
RE: Donut hole in Broomfield

Hi,
Im the parent of an adult with Intellectual and Developmental Disabilities (I/DD). We live in Broomfield and are
frustrated there is a whole area in Broomfield that does not have access to Access-A-Ride because a regular bus
route (along Sheridan past 120th) was removed during COVID and never brought back, so there is no service within
the range requirement. The area no longer serviced is located at 1354, 1374, 1377 and 1394 Cottonwood St in
the Northmoor Estates Subdivision in Broomfield.
With the proposed changes to Access-on-Demand this area is completely inaccessible to those who rely on
Access-a-Ride. Because of the disabilities our daughter was born with, she will always need Access-a-Ride or
Access-on-Demand.
A new apartment complex is being built that will be beneficial in providing services to those with I/DD. The address
is: 1355 Cottonwood Street, Broomfield, CO 80020. Because this address is in the donut hole for RTD service in
Broomfield, our daughter will not be able to live here, which is a shame as this apartment complex will provide the
services she needs to live as independently as possible. This lack of service impacts her ability to live the life she
deserves.
Please bring back the route that was removed so the addresses I have listed above will be serviced by Access-ARide and Access-on Demand. If you wont bring back the route, please make an exception for the addresses
above. I know exceptions can be made because I saw the story Steve Steger did on Next with Kyle Clark about the
woman who had medical issues and Access-a-Ride wouldnt provide transportation even through there was a bus
stop she could see from her home. With Steves help, an exception was made for her.
This lack of service impacts all in the area who rely on Access-A-Ride.
Thank you,
Kori Gonzales

1

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Kristin Hyser
RTD.Directors
Fwd: Protect and Expand Access-a-Ride and Access-On-Demand for Broomfield Residents
Monday, July 28, 2025 12:36:21 PM

WARNING: This email originated from outside of the RTD organization. The sender could not be validated and may
not match the person in the "From" field. Use caution with any information or links contained in this email.
Dear RTD Board of Directors,
As Executive Director of the Broomfield Housing Alliance  the independent housing authority serving the City
and County of Broomfield  I am writing to urge you to protect and expand the Access on Demand program and
reconsider the eligibility boundaries for Access-a-Ride.
Access to transportation is about more than mobility  its about opportunity, equity, and full participation in
community life. For low-income residents, seniors, and people with disabilities, reliable transit is essential to
accessing employment, education, healthcare, social connection, and independence.
Today, most Broomfield residents  including many of the 2,000+ neighbors living with disabilities  are not
eligible for Access-a-Ride because central Broomfield lacks a fixed-route RTD service. While FlexRide is a
valuable intra-city resource, it does not extend to surrounding communities where many vital destinations are
located. This leaves too many residents isolated from the services and support systems they need.
This issue is becoming more urgent. In late 2026, the Broomfield Housing Alliance will open The Grove at
Cottonwood  a neuro inclusive community located at 14th Avenue and Cottonwood. The future residents, many of
whom will have intellectual and developmental disabilities (IDD), will rely on consistent and accessible regional
transit options. Notably, either proposed Community Connector route would bring The Grove within Access-aRides -mile eligibility zone.
However, the underlying challenge remains: Access-a-Rides eligibility criteria excludes too much of Broomfield.
This could be resolved by:
1. Introducing a fixed-route RTD service through central Broomfield, or
2. Expanding or waiving the -mile boundary requirement for Access-a-Ride.
Fewer than 10% of individuals with IDD drive. Their lives, like all of ours, extend beyond city borders  to jobs,
day programs, medical care, and loved ones. We must ensure their transportation options do too.
Transportation access is foundational. We urge RTD to maintain and enhance services like Access on Demand and
take meaningful steps toward regional inclusion by expanding Access-a-Ride eligibility.
Lets ensure that all Broomfielders  regardless of income, age, or ability  are connected to the places and lives
they deserve.
Thank you for your consideration.
Sincerely,
Kristin Hyser
Executive Director
Broomfield Housing Alliance

Kristin Hyser
Executive Director



www.broomfieldhousingalliance.org

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

RTD.Directors
Access A Ride Changes
Tuesday, July 15, 2025 2:33:22 PM

The proposed changes to $6.50/3,50 per trip and reducing the ride voucher to $20 penalizes
the occasional users more than the most frequent users. Consider something like a $25 dollar
subsidy for the first 20 trips, $20 for the next $20, and $15 for the next 20 vouchers.
Wayne Eckerling
-Wayne Eckerling

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Kori & Tracy Gonzales
Tuesday, July 29, 2025 2:07 PM
Karen Benker; RTD Board Office; RTD.Directors
Kori & Tracy Gonzales
RE: Protect and Expand Access-a-Ride and Access-On-Demand for Broomfield Residents

Dear Members of the Board of RTD,
As a mom and caregiver of my 32-year-old daughter who has an Intellectual and Developmental
Disability (I/DD) Im writing to urge RTD to keep the current Access on Demand service without
modification. AOD has become a safety net for my daughter when AAR fails to provide timely service, or
she needs same day transportation.
Imagine, youre the parent of my daughter and she has the opportunity to move to a planned community
that will provide the supports needed for her to live independently. But you overhear a couple of parents
in your same situation mention this planned apartment complex is not within the  mile boundary
required for Access-a-Ride  something that hasnt crossed your mind because you live in the metro
area. You do some research to see if theyre correct and you find that central Broomfield  the town your
daughter was born and raised in and has lived in her whole life, doesnt have RTD service at the location
of the Grove at Cotton at 14th and Cottonwood  where the apartments are being built. You give up
hope. And then, start to search for solutions to another obstacle  because thats what you do because
youve done it her entire life. Then you remember theres Access on Demand. Your dreams of a safe and
secure environment for your daughter have been answered and shell be able to move to the Grove and
youre at peace knowing once youre no longer alive, your daughter will have a safe place to call home
that will provide the additional supports she needs.
With AOD my daughter can now travel to her chiropractor for same day appointments. She can make
last minute plans to get together with a friend. She can get to work close to being on time when AAR fails
to show up during her pickup window. Just last week half of her scheduled pick-ups were past her pick
up window and the other half the driver went to the wrong location.
If the proposed changes take place an entire area of central Broomfield is now inaccessible for those
who rely on the AOD program they qualify for because they qualify for AAR. My daughter needs AAR and
AOD because her work and her doctor and dentist are outside of Broomfield making Flex Ride not an
option.
The solution to this problem faced by my daughter and many others like her is to:




Establish a fixed-route RTD service through central Broomfield
Expand or waive the  mile boundary requirement for Access-A-Ride
Keep AOD as is because it gives those who need it an opportunity to have the freedoms
many of us take for granted

Thank you,
1

Kori Gonzales

2

From:
To:
Subject:
Date:

Shannon Sawyer
RTD.Directors; BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com
Do Not Cut Access-on-Demand  This Program Is a Lifeline
Monday, July 28, 2025 6:55:40 PM

Dear RTD Board Members,
I am writing to urge you not to move forward with the proposed changes to the Access-a-Ride's Access-on-Demand
program.
Access On Demand is not a luxuryit is a lifeline. For people like me, it means the ability to work, to manage daily
responsibilities, and to participate in our communities with dignity and independence. This service is not just
transportation; it is freedom.
The changes you are considering would strip that freedom away from many riders. You are not just balancing a
budgetyou are deciding whether thousands of people can continue to live full, self-directed lives. The cost savings
youve identified may appear small on paper, but the human cost is enormous. This is not a tough decisionit is a
harmful one.
Please look elsewhere for cuts. There are ways to balance the budget without cutting people off from jobs,
healthcare, and community life. Denying access to basic transportation is not an acceptable solution.
Do not vote for these changes. Protect Access-a-Ride's Access-on-Demand and the people who rely on it every
single day.
Sincerely,
Shannon
-Shannon Sawyer

Jack Kroll
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Katie Abraham
<katie.s.ms@gmail.com>
Tuesday,
July 29, 2025 5:16 PM
Board Office
For 7/29 board meeting Paratransit cuts are a bad idea and a slight to RTDs reputation

To the RTD board:
I am submitting a comment that hopefully gets to you before you begin your meeting. NPR all things
considered through Colorado Public radio reported a story this evening about paratransit cuts being
discussed at tonights board meeting. They pointed out that cutting paratransit service and increasing
fees for it would be a significant inconvenience to many individuals with disabilities.
The Colorado Public radio story also pointed out that cutting services to riders with disabilities would be
a giant step back for the agency who 50 years ago was the first transit service to adapt buses to
accommodate riders using wheelchairs.
Given these two factors, and given the RTD is still trying to repair its reputation from the many delays and
mis handling of the construction project last year, cutting paratransit would only signal to individuals
with disabilities and RTD customers that the board only cares about their bottom line and not about the
humanity of individuals to rely on the service every single day.

Katie Abraham
Sent from Gmail Mobile

1

