1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Communications & Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, February 4, 2020
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Communications & Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Lynn Guissinger

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Communications Update
• Local Update - CRL Associates
• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
D. Other Matters
E. Executive Session
Personnel matters, CRS 24-6-402 (4)(f)(I) and Conference with Legal Counsel on
RRP contract matters, CRS 42-6-402 (4) (b) (conferences with an attorney for the
local public body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal
questions).

F. Next Meeting Date - April 7, 2020
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Heather McKillop, Acting Interim General
Manager and CEO

Date: January 29, 2020

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: February 4, 2020
Communications Update

ATTACHMENTS:


Communications Update 2.4.20 (PDF)



2019 Communications Department Accomplishments



Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20



2020CommProjFINAL



2020 Outreach Packet - RTD Board (2)

(PDF)

(PDF)

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager, Communications
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Communications Update

Pauletta Tonilas AGM, Communications
Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

2019 Highlights
Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 5

•

Created departmental
strategic vision, goals and
team charter

•

Developed Strategic
Communications Plan

•

Launched the News Stop

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Strategic Initiatives

1.C.1.a

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 6
Regional Transportation District

Developed and launched*
•
•
•

RTD newsroom, the News Stop
Campaign for grand opening of G Line
Campaign for grand opening of E, F,
and R rail extension
Rebrand of Call-n-Ride as FlexRide
61AV pilot with multiple partners
50th Anniversary celebration

•
•
•
•
•
•

LiVE low-income discount fare program
Reimagine RTD campaign
Your Voice Matters outreach effort
Uber/Lyft/Transit collaborations
Customer satisfaction survey
RTD employee survey

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•
•
•

* See comprehensive list of 2019 accomplishments
Packet Pg. 7
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Major Programs and Initiatives

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Awards and Recognitions

1.C.1.a

RTD was selected for two APTA
First Place AdWheel Awards:
•

“Stopped in Your Tracks: A
Suicide Prevention Campaign” for
our partnership with Colorado
Crisis Services and the Colorado
Office of Behavioral Health

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

•

Reimagine RTD under the
Comprehensive Campaign
category

Packet Pg. 8
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Strategic Approach
Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Communications Department Charter

1.C.1.a

In the spirit of being a dynamic, high-performing
team, the RTD Communications Department has
two levels of alignment: core values that define
the team culture, and behaviors on how we
conduct ourselves as a team.

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 10
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Strategic Communications Plan

1.C.1.a

Strategic Priorities:
•

Refine and Enhance the RTD Image

•

Foster Community Partnerships

•

Improve Internal and External
Customer Information

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 11

Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Refine and Enhance
Enter
Presentation
Title
the RTD
Image
Title Case
Packet Pg. 12

People Who Move People Campaign
“Without RTD I would not be able
to have the life that I have or the
career that I have had.” – Joe

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•

In late Q1, launch campaign to highlight
positive impacts RTD makes in people’s
lives across the region

•

Will showcase economic, quality of life,
community, and accessibility benefits to
increase awareness of RTD’s contributions
to its communities
Packet Pg. 13

Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

[

[

1.C.1.a

•

Valentine’s Day dates by transit

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•

Restaurant Week

Packet Pg. 14
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Engaging Social Media Campaigns

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Foster Community
Enter
Presentation Title
Partnerships
Title Case
Packet Pg. 15

Reimagine RTD

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

• Education will evolve as Reimagine evolves
• Collaboration with regional partners is a key
pillar of Reimagine
• Important to communicate through layers of
information as we develop the roadmap of
how we provide service in the short-term
and long-term

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
o

Short-term – optimizing service with the
resources we have

o

Long-term – developing the mobility plan
for the future

Packet Pg. 16
Regional Transportation District

N Line Art Project
• Community collaboration to enhance
communications houses around 48th &
Brighton National Western Center Station
with artwork

• Partners include Swansea Elementary, City
of Thornton, City of Northglenn, City of
Commerce City and local artist Bimmer
Torres

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

• Art selection process part of IGAs with cities

Packet Pg. 17
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Improve Internal and
Enter
Presentation
External
Customer Title
Title
Case
Information
Packet Pg. 18

New Rider Alerts – Phase One
Launched December 2019
Overall System:
•
•
•

Expedite delivery of alerts through templates
based on mode/cause
Integration with Twitter (Customer Care only)
Reminder email alerts and tweets
(Customer Care)
Systemwide Alerts on Bus and Rail

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•

Next Ride:
•

Cancelled Light Rail trips display as “Cancelled”

Open Trip Planner:

• Cancelled Bus and Light Rail trips not included
in itineraries (same day only)

Third Party Apps using GTFS-RT:
• Can display Rider Alerts
• Cancelled Bus and Light Rail trips not
included in itineraries (same day only)

Packet Pg. 19
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Phase Two
2nd Quarter,
2020

Phase Three
Early 4th Quarter,
2020

Next Ride:

Overall System:

•

Icon links to
Rider Alerts
Bus shuttling for
Light Rail displayed
as “Bus Shuttle”

•

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

New Rider Alerts – Phases Two and Three

1.C.1.a

SMS (Text Messaging)
of Rider Alerts
Alert Subscription to
station/stop level
versus entire route/line

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•

•

Open Trip Planner:

• Icon links to Rider Alerts
• Future Cancelled
Bus and Light Rail
trips not included
in itineraries

Packet Pg. 20
Regional Transportation District

N Line Safety and Community Outreach
N Line school safety outreach
Flyers to residents near at-grade crossings
RTD E-Newsletters to stakeholders
RTD N Line project web page
RTD Read-n-Ride
Meetings with local Public Information Officers
Safety messaging in Thornton and Northglenn
water bills
RTD service change public meetings
Presentations to ward meetings, Association for
the Blind, realtor associations, senior groups
Local events, summer concerts in the park
Thorntonfest – spring; Thornton Harvest Fest

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

•
•
•
•
•
•
•

1.C.1.a

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•
•
•
•

Packet Pg. 21
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Employee Communications

1.C.1.a

Employee communications efforts:
• Results from the 2019 all-employee survey
• Enhanced communications through
division public information displays
• COO division visits
• Mandated overtime outreach and follow-up
• New internal resource tool,
Information Gateway

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 22
Regional Transportation District

Proactive Media Strategy

News Stop – a dedicated
newsroom section on our website
Our commitment is to be
transparent and share the good, the
bad and the ugly, and explain what
we are doing, why we are doing it,
and how we are facing our
challenges and opportunities

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case

Packet Pg. 23
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

News Coverage

•

1,019 Media Stories from
Dec. 1, 2019 – Jan. 25, 2020

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•

507 million touches through
media reach

Packet Pg. 24
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

•

Community education and outreach for
May 2020 Service Changes

•

Speakers Bureau Management

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
•

Outreach for 20+ Construction Projects:

• Light Rail Wire/Rail Replacement
• Park-n-Ride Enhancements
• DTO Commuter Rail Requests

Packet Pg. 25
Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Other Ways We Will Improve Information

1.C.1.a

•

Reviewed 253 new bills as of Friday, Jan. 27

•

Continue to meet with legislators and board
members on RTD matters

•

Working with Squire Patton Boggs
on the Credit Risk Premium issue

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

Government Relations Overview

1.C.1.a

Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 26

Regional Transportation District

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Questions?
Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Communications Update 2.4.20 (4089 :

1.C.1.a

Thank you.
Enter Presentation Title
Title Case
Packet Pg. 28

1.C.1.b

STRATEGIC INITIATIVES
• Led development of department strategic vision, goals and team culture
• Initiated development of Strategic Communications Plan
• Developed proposal for department reorganization
• Initiated concept of establishing an RTD newsroom
• Revised System Advertising Policy
• Negotiated contract extension with system advertising vendor
ANNIVERSARIES AND COMMEMORATIONS
• Designed and implemented 50th anniversary campaign
• Planned and orchestrated 50th anniversary event and activities
EMPLOYEE APPRECIATION EVENTS
• Planned and implemented summer employee event
• Organized 50th anniversary employee appreciation barbeque lunches at each facility
• Planned and orchestrated employee awards event
EMPLOYEE COMMUNICATIONS
• Produced the weekly Monday Morning Dispatch internal newsletter
• Held monthly Facts-n-Snacks at select offices to provide information on timely subjects
• Facilitated employee focus groups at operating divisions
• Led rollout of information about 2019 Employee Survey
• Planned and implemented annual GM Forum
• Restructured content for division public information displays (PIDs) and the Hub intranet
GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
• Served as a member of transit-related committees and represents RTD at chamber and
other organization meetings
• Oversaw state legislative strategy for 2019 Legislative Session
• Oversaw federal legislative program implemented by federal lobbyist
• Coordinated internal review and responses to legislative bills
• Coordinated elected official and key stakeholder participation in rail line openings and
50th anniversary events
• Coordinated RTD delegation activities during APTA Legislative Conference
• Compiled and distributed talking points, key messages and information packets for
Congressional meetings during APTA Legislative Conference
OPENINGS/SERVICE LAUNCHES/EXTERNAL EVENTS
• Led and orchestrated grand opening events/activities for G Line and E,F,R Extension
WEB AND DIGITAL INITIATIVES
• Migrated website to upgraded platfrom
• Developed web infrastructure to accommodate launch of the News Stop
• Increased social media presence and developed an editorial calendar
REQUESTS FOR PROPOSAL
• Initiated restructure of System Advertising Contract to include digital advertising
• Established video production bench of contractors to provide video services
rtd-denver.com
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: 2019 Communications Department Accomplishments (4089 : Communications Update)

2019 COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
ACCOMPLISHMENTS

1.C.1.b

2019 COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Attachment: 2019 Communications Department Accomplishments (4089 : Communications Update)

CUSTOMER CARE
• Launched development of Salesforce Customer Relationship Management
system to replace TrapezeCOM and GovDelivery
• Launched Phase One of new Rider Alert system, including enhancements
to Next Ride and Trip Planner
• Integrated staffing of Digital Customer Relations Liaison staff into
Dispatch and Rail Control
PROGRAMS AND INITIATIVES
• Developed campaign and materials for LiVE discount program
• Developed Reimagine RTD campaign and materials
• Rebranded Call-n-Ride service to FlexRide service
• Redesigned pass products for new pass programs
• Coordinated marketing collaboration with Uber, Lyft and Transit
• Implemented new model for utilization pricing for EcoPass, CollegePass
and Neighborhood pass programs
• Collaborated on implementation of LiVE program
• Proposed approach to enhance pass programs for employees at
Denver International Airport
PROJECT CONSTRUCTION/REPAIRS, ETC.
• Provided public outreach for the 15L Colfax Bus Shelter Project
• Helped coordinate 16th Street Mall public outreach
• Provided public outreach for Thornton Park-n-Ride expansion project
• Provided public outreach for several Maintenance of Way (MOW) light
rail wire repair projects
• Provided public outreach for rail replacement projects
• Provided public outreach for Mineral Pedestrian Bridge Project
• Provided public outreach for N Line construction
• Oversaw the Public Art process for the N Line
• Provided public outreach for DTO (Denver Transit Operators)
commuter rail repairs
MEDIA AND PUBLIC RELATIONS
• Hosted media train preview of media for G Line in April
• Hosted media train preview for ERF opening in May
• Hosted press event announcing Quiet Zones
• Held press event celebrating 50th Anniversary
• Held press event for Uber mobile ticketing partnership
• Held press event for 61AV autonomous vehicle pilot program
• Coordinated and attended local media visits
• Hosted Public Information Officer (PIO) meeting with local PIO partners
• Launched RTD news room, the News Stop
• Oversaw content development for the News Stop
• Developed talking points for special events
• Developed key messages for agency developments and issues
• Hosted media briefings with local broadcast, print and online media outlets covering
Reimagine RTD and the operator shortage and proposed service reduction
• Wrote and distributed news releases to promote and inform media and public
of RTD events, services, milestones and current system information
rtd-denver.com
Packet Pg. 30

1.C.1.b

OUTREACH, MEETINGS, TRAININGS
• Oversaw N Line project outreach
• Delivered community and stakeholder presentations about N Line progress
• Staffed information booths at community events and festivals
• Coordinated RTD outreach for 16th Street Mall project
• Coordinated outreach for light rail closures and impacts due to maintenance work
• Conducted one-on-one listening sessions with RTD Board members, senior leadership
team, communications managers and regional stakeholders
• Implemented initial phase of Reimagine RTD public outreach process
• Coordinated and implemented seventeen RTD Board and CEO telephone
town hall meetings with over 26,000 total participants
• Led production of “near-miss” rail safety education video amassing more than
5,400 views
• Held safety outreach events
• Conducted community presentations and engaged in outreach
events reaching over 30,000 people
• Coordinated RTD presence at community events and festivals
• Distributed commuter rail community email updates along A Line and G Line corridors
• Coordinated Citizens Advisory Committee process
• Coordinated and implemented Transit Experience new rider intro to riding
RTD reaching 317 people
• Participated in stakeholder outreach and marketing effort for LiVE program
SERVICE CHANGES
• Developed and distributed materials for three agency service changes
SURVEYS AND FOCUS GROUPS (RESEARCH)
• Conducted Customer Satisfaction Survey and shared results
• Oversaw development of and implementation of Access-a-Ride Customer Survey
• Facilitated Customer Panel and Online Customer Panel
• Conducted research on mobile ticketing
• Conducted fixed-route Customer Satisfaction Survey
• Conducted Access-a-Ride/Cab Customer Satisfaction Survey
• Conducted Mobile Tickets Satisfaction Survey
• Conducted US-287 Survey to measure route preferences for the BOLT and J
• Conducted Asset Management Evaluation to understand employee knowledge and
awareness of RTD asset management policies
• Conducted Service Changes Survey to measure preferences toward communications
surrounding service changes
• Conducted Rider Alerts Survey to understand how RTD can better communicate
Rider Alerts to customers
• Conducted survey with operators of the 0 and 0L to understand their experiences
driving in the dedicated lanes on Broadway and Lincoln Streets
• Conducted four in-person focus groups with the RTD Customer Panel
• Launched Limited English Proficiency (LEP) project to design and implement
a LEP language assistance plan
• Conducted surveys with operator applicants and new hires to inform
recruitment efforts
rtd-denver.com
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: 2019 Communications Department Accomplishments (4089 : Communications Update)

2019 COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT
ACCOMPLISHMENTS

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

Strategic
Communications
Plan
Communications That
Move People

2020
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

Packet Pg. 33

1.C.1.c

01

CONTENTS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY....................................................................................................................... 2
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT INTENT................................................................................ 4
Communications Vision Statement........................................................................................... 5
Department Core Values............................................................................................................. 5
Core Values: Our Culture............................................................................................................. 5
Core Values: Behaviors – Our Conduct................................................................................... 5
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES................................................................................................................... 6
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES...................................................................................................................... 7
Strategic Priority #1: Refine and Enhance the RTD Image.................................................. 7
Metrics. ............................................................................................................................................10
Strategic Priority #2: Foster Community Partnerships.........................................................11
Metrics. ............................................................................................................................................15
Strategic Priority #3: Improve Internal and External Customer Information..................16
Metrics. ............................................................................................................................................19
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT OVERVIEW. .....................................................................20.
Communications Department Organization Chart.......................................................................21
Communications Department Divisions Summary. ............................................................23
Marketing.......................................................................................................................................23
Public Relations and Engagement. ......................................................................................... 24
Government Relations................................................................................................................ 24
Customer Care. ............................................................................................................................ 24
Audiences...................................................................................................................................... 27
Internal............................................................................................................................................ 27
External. ......................................................................................................................................... 27
Communications Channels. ......................................................................................................28
Internal............................................................................................................................................28
External. .........................................................................................................................................28
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

Communications Mission Statement. ....................................................................................... 5

1.C.1.c

The Regional Transportation District (RTD) Communications Department is responsible
for overseeing, directing, and executing all internal and external communications to
align with the agency’s strategic vision and goals. The department is comprised of
four functional divisions within the overall department: Customer Care, Government
Relations, Public Relations and Engagement, and Marketing.
The agency moves some 330,000 riders a day in the largest transit service area in
the country. RTD has 50 years under its belt serving the people of the Denver metro
region, but as transportation evolves, RTD is evolving with it. The agency’s Reimagine
RTD initiative aims to evaluate how RTD provides service and how to best position the
agency for the future to connect people to the places they want and need to go.
And not unlike other public agencies in the region, due to economic, demographic, and
lifestyle factors, RTD is also facing some challenges. Workforce shortages, reduced
ridership, challenges with contractors, and budget limitations have impacted public
perception of and trust in the agency. In order to move through this challenging period
and position the agency as “the mobility integrator, innovator, and instigator” for the
region, the Communications Department is focused on repositioning the RTD brand,
building partnerships within the community, engaging riders and non-riders, engaging
employees, being open and transparent with the public, and providing accurate and
timely information to constituents.
This objective can only be achieved when the Communications Department is
functioning optimally. Vacancies in key positions, a lack of focus and collaboration,
and shifting leadership created challenges within the Department. Now, the
Department has a keen focus on streamlining the organizational structure, defining
general department and individual division mission statements, clarifying roles and
responsibilities for each division within the Department, and embracing a team charter
outlining the values and behaviors by which the team will abide.
This document is a 3 - 5 year strategic roadmap for the Department to focus and
prioritize the team’s efforts, and ensure that the Department contributes to meeting the
overarching agency goals and priorities – all in the spirit of communications excellence.
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

EXECUTIVE SUMMARY

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

03

Packet Pg. 36

COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT INTENT
The Regional Transportation District (RTD)
Communications Department is one of nine
departments of the agency, each focused on
a specific functional area in implementing the
programs, projects and services of RTD. The
Communications Department directs and carries
out the internal and external communications
for the agency, through its four divisions:
Customer Care; Government Relations; Public
Relations and Engagement; and Marketing.
2019 served as a rebuilding period for the
Communications Department. Years of shifting
direction and changing leadership left the
Department without clear focus or priorities.
In addition, a misaligned organizational
structure created confusion around roles

and responsibilities, and resulted in an environment
lacking accountability.
Upon arrival, of a new Assistant General Manager
of Communications, a new organizational structure
realigned some functions to streamline and
optimize resources. Public Relations and
Engagement encompasses public relations,
community engagement, project outreach,
and internal communications. Marketing has
responsibility over all promotional, customer
information, and sales activities, including
market development, digital marketing, creative
services, event management, market research,
and marketing communications. Government
Relations and Customer Care remained the
same (see Appendix for detail).
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

1.C.1.c

05
COMMUNICATIONS MISSION STATEMENT

COMMUNICATIONS VISION STATEMENT
Communications that move people.

DEPARTMENT CORE VALUES

In the spirit of being a proactive, collaborative, dynamic, high-performing team, the RTD Communications
Department has two levels of alignment: core values that define the culture of the team, and behavior on how we
conduct ourselves. The team agrees to embody a common set of core values and behaviors that contribute to
delivering communications excellence.

CORE VALUES: OUR CULTURE

Shared Vision
• T ie ourselves to the mission, vision and goals of the Board of Directors and the General Manager
• Stay focused on team priorities
• Cultivate innovation and take calculated risks
Customer Focus
• Proactively share accurate, clear, timely information
• Embrace openness and transparency
• Make information about RTD’s products, programs and services easily accessible
Collaboration
• Work collaboratively across all work units
• Regularly use active listening
• Be flexible and compromise for a united front
Accountability
• Complete tasks in a timely manner
• Own your stuff
• Admit when you’ve made a mistake and apologize
•M
 odel “Carefrontation” – address matters with team members in a caring way
Commitment/Investment
• Create quality work
• Follow through on commitments
• Support each other and ask for/offer help

CORE VALUES: BEHAVIORS – OUR CONDUCT

Respect
• T reat each other with respect, honor each other’s roles and follow the chain of command
Honesty
• O ffer information that can help others, share thoughts and ideas and address challenges constructively
Positive Attitude
• Create an enjoyable work environment and spread positive energy
• Focus on successes and appreciation, and leverage them to address challenges
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

To proactively engage, inform, educate and serve the District’s audiences with regard to the value and benefits of
RTD’s current and future programs and services.

STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES
The RTD Board of Directors has set the strategic
direction for the agency focused on the pillars of
transparency, fiscal sustainability, safety, reliability,
collaboration, and communication.
Flowing from this framework is RTD’s objective to
also be known as “the mobility integrator, innovator,
and instigator” for the Denver metropolitan region.
To support this goal, the agency has designed and
completed several large-scale commuter and light
rail projects, integrated fixed route bus and bus
rapid transit (BRT) into the RTD system, established
partnerships for first/last mile solutions, and developed
strong relationships with digital integrators like the
Uber, Lyft, and Transit apps.
However, RTD has not received adequate exposure
for the advancements it has made primarily because
of the lack of focused, consistent, integrated
messaging, and an inconsistent approach to
communicating with our key audiences. In addition,
because of the strength of the local economy, low
unemployment, the rapid growth of the Denver
metropolitan area, and the sheer size of our service
area, RTD is experiencing a “paradism shift” that
includes an operator shortage, reduced ridership,
and budget challenges due to declining growth of

sales tax revenues that fund the agency. As a result,
our quality of service has been negatively affected
as well as our reliability and overall image.
To ensure that the RTD Board, riding public, non-riding
public, public officials, transportation agencies (local,
state, federal), and others recognize the strategic
efforts and progress RTD has made and continues
to make for the region, the Communications team
will develop a distinct voice and laser-focused key
messaging geared specifically for and delivered to key
audiences consistently at the right time, in the right
format, and through the right channels. The RTD story
must demonstrate a clear link between the transit
needs of the public and RTD’s current and future
service improvements and mobility plans. This will
require close coordination and collaboration between
all divisions within the Department and the agency,
and the collective focus on a few important objectives.
The Department determined three strategic priorities
that will accomplish our goal and ultimately support
and promote the overarching priorities of the agency:
1. Refine and enhance the RTD image
2. Foster community partnerships
3. Improve customer information.
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

1.C.1.c

Communicate in the way
that is easy, convenient and
comfortable for people.

STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
STRATEGIC PRIORITY #1:
REFINE AND ENHANCE THE RTD IMAGE
RTD has been in existence for more than 50
years and despite its clear mission “To meet our
constituents’ present and future public transit
needs by providing safe, clean, reliable, courteous,
accessible, and cost-effective service throughout
the District,” the agency has not consistently
communicated with a unique, authentic, and
compelling “brand voice” (the visual and verbal
expression of the brand). As a result, there is no
consensus opinion among our various audiences with
regard to who we are, what we do, how we do it, what
value we offer, and (most importantly) why we exist.
This fragmentation over time has created an identity
crisis of sorts for the agency. The lack of a clear brand
narrative has hampered RTD’s ability to “own” our
story and to tell it in a compelling, convincing, and

authentic way. Consequently, others (news media,
elected officials, government agencies, and the
general public) have told our story for us and many
times, that story is both negative and erroneous.
The Communications Department has an opportunity
to develop a brand framework for telling the RTD story
in a way that allows the agency to “take credit” for the
transformational effect the agency has had on people
and the region as a whole, to highlight the positive
impact that our employees have on our community,
and lay the foundation for garnering support for future
transportation transformation in the region with RTD
as the foundation.
Each division within the Department plays an
important role in this effort.
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

07

1.C.1.c

Develop RTD Brand Standards and Guidelines.
At its core, the RTD brand includes all of the typical
standardized brand elements (logos, imagery,
photography, icons, color palette, typography, etc.),
but also goes further to clearly identify our audiences
(customer demographics), brand values, incorporate
an agency personality, “tone of voice” and writing style
guide, as well as key messaging to communicate how
we deliver on and live our mission, vision, and values
every single day. These brand standards, complete
with executed examples of the brand across our
major materials and platforms, are compiled with
a brand toolkit, including templates of commonly
used materials, for adoption across the agency.
Publish brand standards, templates, assets,
and procedures documentation.
In order for people to embrace and activate the brand
in a consistent fashion, all guidelines, standards, and
assets must be made available and communicated
throughout the agency. Directions and guidelines
must be clear and easy to follow. Therefore, all
standards, resources, templates, and brand elements
will be published on The Hub with directions for
requesting brand support if necessary. Employees can
download brand elements for use; however, they will
need to adhere to the Communications Policy which
outlines the proper rules. Communications personnel,
as the creators, owners, and emissaries of the brand,
will be designated as resources to assist employees
with implementation of standard elements as well as
any special requests.
Establish a Communications Policy.
Developing and implementing a Communications
Policy will ensure proper usage of the brand and the
expertise of the Communications Team. In order for
the agency to ensure that the brand is properly used
and represented, people throughout the agency
must understand the guidelines.
A Communications Policy will help internal team
members understand how to properly use the

brand and help enforce the new standard. This
policy will also clearly outline the Communications
Team as the owner and subject matter expert of
the agency’s communications processes, channels
and materials.
Gain Endorsement of the Brand
Standards and Guidelines.
Once all standards, materials, and resources are
ready for publication, we will secure approval and
endorsement by the General Manager and Senior
Leadership Team, who will champion the standards
throughout the agency. They will disseminate
the policy to their respective teams, with specific
instructions to follow the standards to optimize the
RTD brand and voice.
Activate the Brand Consistently Throughout
All Communications Efforts.
At every touchpoint, the RTD brand will communicate
both visually and verbally, the RTD story. This will
be done through consistent imagery, iconography,
typography, and tone of voice. In other words, we
will represent a standardized look and feel as well as
messaging across all internal and external marketing
and communications materials. This will be readily
apparent in advertising, internal communications,
collateral, web and digital, signage, fare media,
outreach and other activities that carry the RTD
name or represent the agency.
Educate the Agency on the Importance of a
consistent, strong, and streamlined brand.
Our employees are the living embodiment of RTD
with each and every interaction. In order to gain
internal buy in and develop confidence at the staff
level, the RTD Marketing and Internal Communications
Team will, prior to internal roll out, educate staff
agency-wide on the importance of a brand and the
benefits of consistent application. Through roadshows,
articles in the Monday Morning Dispatch, and the
like, we will also educate our employees on our
brand personality, traits, and attributes, so that
they can fully embrace the agency’s unified brand
in all its aspects.
Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

MARKETING

1.C.1.c

DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS
The Digital Communications Team will utilize,
execute, and represent the cohesive RTD brand and
message across all digital channels, including the
website, social media channels, RTD and third-party
apps, emails, and other digital platforms. The Digital
Communications Team will continue to adjust the
agency’s social media strategy to reflect the
changing needs for digital content.
Implement Engaging Social Media Campaigns
The social media team will create and deploy
interesting digital campaigns that give perspective
to the projects, programs and issues of the agency
and encourage the public to engage. Providing
a visible vehicle for the public to share comments
aligns with the Board and the staff objective of
being open and transparent.
MARKET RESEARCH
The Market Research Team was critical to informing
the brand evolution, our personality, and attributes
through key customer insights gained through
qualitative and quantitative research. The group will
continue to monitor fluctuations that might impact our
brand narrative, customer demographics, or other
key aspects that will enable us to further solidify our
messaging and improve our impact.

SPECIAL EVENTS
Through planning and execution of internal and
external events that are on brand, message, and
consistent with our community commitment, the
RTD Special Events Team will help to reinforce
all attributes of the RTD image across the various
communities that we serve. The team will also play
a critical support role in any activities across the
agency that require event or outreach support via its
RTD Ambassadors program, wherein each individual
will be well versed in the evolved image, brand, and
message, and will easily be able to communicate it
effectively across
our communities.

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT

Our public relations, engagement and project
outreach teams will proactively tell the RTD story
and rebuild the RTD image with the news media
and key stakeholders, speaking in one unified
voice with corresponding visuals. The outreach and
engagement teams will speak directly to members
of our communities and special interest groups,
working with and through them on an ongoing
basis to develop relationships based on RTD’s
authentic narrative. Each team will also benefit from
a standardized set of templates, images, and other
resources readily available to their specific audiences.

MARKET DEVELOPMENT
The Market Development Team will represent the
RTD image through frequent contact and long-term
relationships with specialized clients (businesses,
schools, communities, nonprofits etc.). These
interactions will offer opportunities to not only
convey the true RTD story, but also to reinforce
interactions and rebuild consumer confidence
across multiple channels.

GOVERNMENT RELATIONS

Explore New Ridership Programs
Staff will explore ridership programs that target
certain sectors of the community. Examples include
programs to benefit leisure riders, visitors staying
at downtown hotels and riders using RTD to meet
people for social outings.

Our Customer Care team will demonstrate our
brand image and customer focus on every interaction
with both internal and external customers through
the Telephone Information Center, Digital Customer
Relations, RTD Sales Outlets, and the Division
Customer Care Liaisons.

Our government relations team will serve as the
liaison between our elected officials and RTD. They
will help to communicate the authentic RTD story and
overarching goals of the agency on the local, state,
and federal agencies. In addition, the Government
Relations Officer will assist in educating elected
officials to enhance RTD’s image.

CUSTOMER CARE

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

09

1.C.1.c

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

PRIORITY #1 METRICS
In order to measure the success and impact on RTD’s image and brand, the team will
first establish a benchmark against which we can measure. This will be determined
through evaluation of recent customer satisfaction surveys, internal employee surveys,
and a specific brand-focused survey that will be conducted in the first quarter of 2020.
Additionally, Meltwater (RTD’s media clips service) and News Stop analytics will help
determine if perception has changed. From this assessment, we will then determine our
focus and areas of opportunity as well as the activities that we feel will have a positive
effect on the agency.
Some metrics that will help us track our success and effectiveness include:

• Number of positive news stories
• Number of impressions for stories posted on the News Stop
• Rider perception via surveys
• Public’s perception via surveys and focus groups
• Employees’ perception via surveys and focus groups
• Social media
• Posts
		• Total net follower growth
umber of engagements (e.g., total reactions,
		• N
comments, shares, clicks, etc.)
		• Number of impressions
		• Views on YouTube
•@ Mentions
		• Number of @ Mentions
• Responses to Posts/Direct Messages
		• Response time
		• Messages sent

Packet Pg. 43

1.C.1.c

Be open and transparent.

STRATEGIC PRIORITY #2:
FOSTER COMMUNITY PARTNERSHIPS
RTD has a history of strong collaboration with its local,
regional, state and federal partners. As the agency
leads the way in exploring and implementing future
mobility, collaboration will have many layers. Among
the partnerships that will be crucial to success are
cities and counties across the region in determining
how to best serve local communities; local, state,
federal and private partners to optimize funding
opportunities; and all public and community partners
to engage with and educate the public about RTD’s
projects and programs.
Because RTD provides a public service, strong
community relationships and partnerships are
essential to RTD’s ability to understand opportunities

and challenges, and gain support for changes
and additions to the services that we provide.
This requires proactive participation and outreach.
The most effective way to do this is to leverage
our largest group of advocates – RTD staff.
RTD employees interact with customers and
communities throughout the District daily. As a result,
many of us are regularly conducting some form of
outreach or engagement whether we know it or
not. Cultivating a workplace culture which provides
the tools, methodology, and knowledge of cultural
considerations and community values will allow the
agency to immediately expand engagement in terms
of reach and depth using existing resources.
Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

11

MARKETING
Create a centralized collateral or materials catalog.
This catalog will be available on The HUB as a
resource for the agency to access marketing materials,
key messages, list of subject matter experts and
outreach programs. The portal will provide guidance
for requesting materials or topics which are not
available in the catalog through the Communications
Department.
Communicate Through Multiple
Languages and Formats.
In collaboration with others within the group, we will
develop a formalized plan to make RTD outreach
materials, meetings, and communications more
inclusive of groups for which English is a second
language, have limited English proficiency, or have
visual/hearing impairments as well as other needs.
By utilizing industry best practices, data, the expertise
of the committee, and federal requirements as defined
by Title VI, the group will identify needs, processes,
and activation plan. This milestone will utilize existing
translation services or may require contracting
translation and related services as well as a quality
review process.
Provide Materials and Personnel
Support to Foster Outreach.
Whether through development of materials or active
participation with communities, stakeholder groups,
the Board, and TMOs/TMAs, Marketing will offer
essential support in creating and solidifying
community partnerships.
DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS
Centralize Contact Lists.
Several contact lists exist which have been assembled
by various groups. Through consolidation, we will
develop an opportunity to reduce staff time spent

on re-creating and updating lists, while also creating
transparency. The goal of bringing together lists
for stakeholder groups will also reduce the risk of
inadvertently excluding groups or individuals. A
centralized file containing lists will be accessible by all
communications groups and all groups will be able to
update the list following a process which logs updates
and ensures the latest information is utilized.
MARKET RESEARCH
Listen to All Stakeholders.
In addition to RTD’s annual Customer Satisfaction
Surveys, staff will present opportunities for customers
to provide feedback. Depending on specific needs,
this may occur through focus groups, interviews,
phone surveys, onboard surveys, or online surveys.
MARKET DEVELOPMENT
Grow Pass Programs.
The Market Development staff will continue to promote
and work with businesses, communities, nonprofit,
schools and other organizations to determine the best
pass program and to promote the benefits associated
with each pass program. The Market Development
team will continue to look for opportunities to attend
business and community events to promote all
fare modes including pass programs. The team will
promote new opportunities to partner with hotels,
restaurants, businesses, schools and others utilizing
new technology through the RTD mobile app and
partner portal.
SPECIAL EVENTS
Through its oversights of TMOs and TMAs, Special
Events will continue to cultivate community
partnerships across the communities we serve. Events
and Marketing will work collaboratively to relay agency
initiatives to these organizations and ensure that they
have targeted plans and materials to address our
challenges and opportunities across our service area.
Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

1.C.1.c

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Communicate in a proactive and
transparent manner.
When RTD has progress or news to share – whether
information, good news or bad news – the agency
will develop a communications work plan to ensure
that audiences are notified in a timely and proactive
manner. The plan will also outline a hierarchy or
order of communications to ensure that information
is prioritized and shared with tiers of stakeholders
in strategic fashion. Stakeholders are categorized
in the following tiers:

• Tier 1
• RTD Board and Senior Leadership Team
• RTD staff
• Tier 2
• L ocal, state and federal elected officials and staff
• Area business and community stakeholders
• Tier 3
• Customers
• General public
• Media
• Special interest groups

developed for the RTD website and News Stop using
fact sheets and key messages.
Email blasts to specific stakeholders will be sent as
needed.
Establish a Proactive Media Strategy.
Another component of proactive and transparent
communications was the creation of the RTD
newsroom, the News Stop (launched Sept. 19, 2019).
This allowed the agency to develop its own narrative
and share relevant news and information with the
public instead of allowing the news and social media
to set the narrative for and about RTD. This also
allowed the agency the opportunity to anticipate and
respond to developments and evolving situations that
generate media interest in a rapid manner. The News
Stop has utilized blogs, videos, through leadership
articles and developing and informative news stories.
In addition, periodic media visits help foster and
maintain vital relationships with the media.
Another tactic will be the development and execution
of a Rapid Response Plan that will strategically guide
the agency through these situations.

Speaking in a unified voice is another way the
agency strengthens communications. Developing
key messages and fact sheets on topic areas or
issues helps guide RTD Board members, staff and
key stakeholders share consistent information. When
addressing challenging issues, speaking in one voice
and being upfront and accountable influences the
public’s perception of agency transparency.

Hold Regional Communicators briefings
twice annually or as needed.
A valued resource is the network of regional
communicators, including Public Information
Officers (PIOs), in the metro area to help share
RTD’s information and messages to their constituents.
Keeping regional communicators informed about
RTD’s projects and challenges is an invaluable
extension of the team.

To accomplish this, communications work plans will
be developed for events, developments and issues.
Additionally, topic-area or issue-specific key messages
and fact sheets will be developed. Content will be

Hold annual PIO coordination meetings with police
and fire PIOs to address how accidents, crimes and
threats are handled when they involve RTD property,
vehicles or staff.
Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

13

1.C.1.c

This committee will bring together representatives
from multiple RTD departments which regularly
conduct outreach and engagement. The group will
hold regular meetings to exchange information on
upcoming needs, outreach opportunities, strategy
and collaboration. They also will establish standards
to help reinforce outreach and engagement principals
throughout the agency on an ongoing basis. To
accomplish this, participants will be responsible for
assisting in the roll out of information, standards for
engagement and outreach, training, and related
activities for the successful expansion or community
engagement throughout the district.
Internal Reporting Process for Community
Engagement and Outreach.
With several departments receiving requests for
community outreach, a reporting system will track
where efforts are being conducted, the topic and
outcome. Reporting reduces duplicate efforts
and utilizes resources in a highly efficient manner.
Departments will be held accountable through
monthly reporting, followed by regular updates to
RTD Senior Leadership Team on milestones and
staff participation or challenges.
Target Outreach to Diverse Audiences.
Staff will continue to identify diverse sectors of
the community and develop enhanced outreach
activities to engage with people in a way that is
easy, comfortable, safe and convenient for them.
Regular outreach activities will be customized based
on the needs of community groups and the interest
in or impact from certain topics, issues or projects.
Participate in Monthly Regional Events.
Coordination with the Executive Office and Senior
Leadership is intended to ensure RTD representation
at stakeholder meetings and events. It is critical

that messaging is synchronized, timing is strategic
or appropriate and reach of key topics is spread to
multiple audiences. Below are examples of regular
meetings in which practitioners of Community
Outreach and Engagement will participate in:

• Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) meetings
• DRCOG meetings
• TMA Monthly Outreach meetings
• Local Coordinating Councils (LCCs)
• Local Government Groups
PROJECT OUTREACH
Implement Proactive Project Public Information.
As RTD plans and implements State of Good
Repair maintenance to existing system, FasTracks
projects and new studies, staff will develop
Communication Work Plans to keep elected officials,
key stakeholders, residents and businesses informed
of project progress, benefits and impacts. Activities
such as Elected Officials Briefings, email updates,
community presentations, media briefings, pop-up
events, project tours, fact sheets, key messages
and business outreach meetings will be deployed
throughout the project process.

GOVERNMENT RELATIONS

Government Relations staff will work to expand
engagement with local, state and federal elected
officials, including working proactively to ensure that
the Board and staff are collaborating strategically
with key stakeholders on regional matters. Staff will
continue to coordinate meetings and communications
with elected officials. Additionally, staff will continue
to coordinate visits from other cities and countries
that want to view and hear about RTD’s successes
and emulate those that will work for them.

CUSTOMER CARE

Customer Care’s Telephone Information Center staff
will continue to staff “InfoRides” as requested by
constituents, sharing information about RTD services.
Customer Care staff will participate in available
ambassador shifts as new services are introduced,
and as needed for special events. By its mission,
Customer Care staff act as ambassadors for our
riders each and every day.
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Create Internal Outreach and
Engagement Committee.
Staff will create a unified voice and process for
outreach which is collaborative, consistent, inclusive,
and relevant to the overarching RTD goals through
a committee.

1.C.1.c

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

15

PRIORITY #2 METRICS
Fostering and nurturing community partnerships is essential to RTD’s
strategic operations. In order to gain the critical input and support from
our many stakeholders, it is important to continually assess our current
relationships, develop new relationships, and look to the future for
opportunities to become and remain relevant within the communities
that we serve. The measures of success and impact of the team’s
work include:

• E xpanded contact lists of key community partners and advocates
throughout the region

• N ew/renewed relationships with interest groups (i.e. disabled,
visually impaired, multilingual groups, low income/transit
dependent, etc.)
• Number of community meetings, events and interactions
• Number of presentations to community groups
• Increased numbers of participants
• Number of participants in surveys about community issues

Packet Pg. 48

1.C.1.c

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

Listen to our customers.
Be storytellers.

STRATEGIC PRIORITY #3:
IMPROVE INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL CUSTOMER INFORMATION
RTD has numerous internal and external audiences with varying degrees of information
needs. The team will employ a process to continuously improve internal and external
two-way communication by providing high-quality information to our stakeholders how
and when they want it. We will evaluate our existing communications channels and
identify additional ones that could potentially help us in this endeavor.
Disseminate information to internal and external audiences that they want, when they
want it, and how they want it.
Packet Pg. 49

1.C.1.c

MARKETING
Expand Marketing, Customer, and
Employee Information Programs.
RTD launches numerous individual and coordinated
marketing campaigns each year to educate and
inform the public about the value and benefits of
RTD, ridership, projects, new or expanded services,
service changes, pass programs, safety, workforce
development and events. We also develop materials
and messaging around internal events and agency
communications. These opportunities provide
powerful methods to share customer information.
By further solidifying our brand and messaging
through these initiatives, as well as measuring
response for calls-to-action (digital, mail, etc.) we
can create better opportunities for education.
DIGITAL COMMUNICATIONS
Make It Easy For People to Engage Digitally.
The Digital Team will continue to evolve the RTD
website to enhance navigation and availability of the
most relevant customer information. Included are
ongoing metrics to measure and monitor usage rates
on a month-to-month basis. Other efforts include
promotion of the text messaging feature for Rider
Alerts and contributing to the implementation of
digital customer information displays.
MARKET RESEARCH
Listen to the People.
Internal and external research is a key component to
improving communication. We do that by conducting

employee surveys to determine awareness and usage
of RTD communication channels. This helps us to
understand the information employees want from
RTD and the manner in which they prefer to receive
it. And it’s important to share results of surveys
across the agency. We will also measure preferences
toward RTD’s information channels to determine the
topics/ information which are of greatest interest to
readership. Measuring customer attitudes toward
RTD is also a priority to understand how customers
view RTD with regard to brand, safety, reliability,
affordability, financial stewardship, etc.
MARKET DEVELOPMENT
The Market Development will continue to provide
on-going communications to coordinators in each
pass program with any updates or changes to pricing
or program policies. The team will provide detailed
information and continue to partner with TMOS/
TMAs to inform external customers of the benefits of
using transit and providing a transit pass. The team
will provide analysis and overall explanations of the
various pass programs to internal customers. The
team will also explore new opportunities with
advancing technology to increase participation
in the various pass programs.
SPECIAL EVENTS
Celebrate Milestones and Create
Awareness of RTD Progress.
RTD has a history of holding grand and small-scale
events to celebrate major milestones and educate
the public about RTD, its programs and projects.
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

17

Make sure the Board knows first.
Keep elected officials informed.
Share timely information.
PUBLIC RELATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT
PUBLIC RELATIONS
Continue and Expand Internal Communications.
RTD’s employees are among the most important
ambassadors to share information and be storytellers
about the agency’s service, programs and
progress. Employees are also brand ambassadors,
showcasing the agency’s values and personality.
Plans are to streamline RTD road shows across the
divisions to share various news items and updates;
get the Senior Leadership Team out in the field
and have “face time” with different work groups;
and establish periodic managers’ messages so
that managers and supervisors can share the
latest news and information in a unified voice.
Internal communications specialist will further
develop and continue the focus group series as
well as maintain ongoing collaboration with the
internal communications committee to enhance
communication with employees.
Work with Community Partners to Enhance
Communications to Our Customer Base.
The team will utilize relationships with community
partners to enhance the flow of information to
their constituents who ride the system. Regional
communicators are key partners to share information
with their constituents by posting information on
their websites and social media platforms, sharing

videos on their cable channels and including
information in newsletters.
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
Enhance Safety Education.
Safety education is an ongoing part of RTD’s
community outreach. Staff makes annual visits to
schools around RTD’s rail lines to educate them
about being safe around trains. Near-miss campaigns
provide an eye-opening message to showcase the
need to stay alert and refrain from being distracted
when maneuvering around trains or buses. And
RTD’s Community Engagement team partners with
suicide prevention advocates with hopes of reaching
those who are facing tough times, and for those who
feel that life has gotten off track, that there’s hope.
PROJECT OUTREACH
Provide Information to our Stakeholders
in a Timely Fashion.
The agency is continually introducing new
projects/studies or providing State of Good Repair
maintenance to existing infrastructure. This ensures
the safety and reliability of the system. Staff will
proactively inform its internal and external audiences
of projects that may cause service disruptions or
somehow impact their daily transit experience. Staff
will distribute periodic information updates/email
blasts to elected officials and key stakeholders and
customers on specific projects.
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

1.C.1.c

GOVERNMENT RELATIONS

Keep elected officials and key stakeholders
informed and engaged.
Local, state and federal elected officials, their staff
members and key stakeholders are partners in RTD’s
mission to provide safe, reliable transit service and
transform transportation as it evolves. They help secure
funding, pass legislation to enhance RTD’s ability to
continue its role as the region’s transit operator and
continue the Denver metro region’s national model of
regional collaboration.
Communications will continue to evolve the annual Fact
Book/Annual Report to the Community to communicate
the facts about RTD, progress being made, successes
and challenges to educate elected officials and make
them aware of RTD’s accomplishments.

CUSTOMER CARE

Enhance the customer experience.
The agency has several tools to communicate
information to its riders, and is working to be more
proactive as it looks to enhance the customer
experience through timely notifications and improved
tools. Customer Care staff provides dynamic information
and customer-focused responses to questions and
complaints via multiple channels. Further enhancement
to our new Rider Alert system will allow riders to receive
alerts via text message as well as email, and the ability
to receive more targeted alerts for the services utilized.
Transitioning to Salesforce as our consolidated and
multi-functional customer relationship management
(CRM) system will provide staff the ability to track,
monitor and respond to customer questions and
concerns more efficiently, while better understanding
customers overall relationship with RTD.

PRIORITY #3 METRICS
Transparency and open communications is
paramount to developing strong, authentic
relationships and public support for RTD.
These include:

• Awareness of best practices by industry
communications partners

• Delivery of real-time information to riders

(RiderAlerts, on system PIDS, etc.) and
gauge comments, reactions, etc.
• Digital media analytics after providing
timely and accurate information about
RTD services, projects and issues
• Impressions of content posted on
the News Stop
• Development and exposure of customer
information tools (i.e. service changes,
openings, programs, etc.) including through
media channels
• Track targeted communications by
TMAs/TMOs to their community group
and business constituents after providing
information in a timely manner
• Employee awareness of campaigns,
announcements, etc.
• Employees’ perception of internal
communication issues via surveys
and focus groups
• Number of students/adults reached
with safety messages/presentations
• Media exposure after tracking number of
releases distributed and stories generated
• Feedback on Fact Book/Annual Report
Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

19

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

Help our employees embrace
their role as ambassadors.
Celebrate employee successes.
Build camaraderie.
Packet Pg. 53

1.C.1.c

21

COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT OVERVIEW
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT ORGANIZATION CHART

Senior Manager,
Customer Care

Administrative
Assistant

Budget Analyst II

Senior Manager,
Public Relations and
Engagement

Senior Manager,
Marketing

Administrative
Assistant

Public Relations

Projects & Contracts

Systems Admin

Community
Engagement

Marketing and
Communications

Customer Sales

Project Outreach

Market Development

Digital Customer
Relations

Market Research

Training and
Customer Service

Digital Marketing

Information Center

Creative Services

Government Relations
Officer

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

Assistant GM

1.C.1.c

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

Educate about the dire
consequences of being
distracted around buses
and trains.

Packet Pg. 55

1.C.1.c

23
COMMUNICATIONS DEPARTMENT DIVISIONS SUMMARY

Responsibilities include:
• Marketing Communications		
• Market Research
• Creative Services
• Market Development		
• Events				

• Project and Contract Marketing
• Digital Communications

PUBLIC RELATIONS AND ENGAGEMENT
Mission: To keep RTD’s internal and external audiences informed and engaged about the agency’s services,
programs and projects through comprehensive, integrated, proactive and accessible communication designed to
educate, enhance RTD’s image, create goodwill and develop collaborative partnerships with the agency’s various
audiences. Provide timely and transparent information to all RTD audiences.
Responsibilities include:
Public relations
• P lans, writes and disseminates news releases
and advisories
• P lans and implements media briefings, news
conferences and other media-specific events
• Creates and oversees content for the News Stop
• Serves as spokespeople for RTD
Internal communications

• Oversees ongoing communication to staff
• C reates and oversees content for the

:employee newsletter
• C reates and oversees content for The Hub
internal website
• C reates and oversees content for the internal
division public information displays (PID)s
Community engagement
•W
 orks in collaboration with the RTD Board of
Directors, staff, public and government agencies
or groups to fulfill requests regarding the agency
and transit-related matters
•M
 anages community engagement activities to
enhance the image and public perception of
the agency
• Implements strategies and tactics to ensure
key information, issues, plans and programs
are effectively communicated to the public
and stakeholders

• Researches and responds to media requests
• D evelops key messages and disseminates
to staff and Board members
• P rovides media training for Board members,
senior leadership and project managers

• P articipates on the organization-wide internal
communications committee
• P articipates in employee market research
activities alongside Market Research staff

• O versees safety outreach and education, general
rider education and dissemination of information
to communities
• C oordinates logistics, programs and activities for
the RTD Citizens Advisory Committee
• A dministers district-wide outreach and
engagement activities to deliver and gather
information on transportation-related programs

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

MARKETING
Mission: To develop and execute strategic marketing programs that enhance the RTD brand and promote
increased use of RTD products, services, and programs.

1.C.1.c

• P rovides support to RTD Board Members
in their communities

• R epresents RTD at ward meetings, North

Area Transportation Alliance (NATA) and
elected officials meetings
• P rovides safety awareness and outreach to
schools and communities
• P rovides support for events, such as grand
openings, community festivals, and telephone
town halls, etc.
• P rovides media relations and key messaging
on projects

GOVERNMENT RELATIONS
Mission: To ensure RTD is well represented at all levels of government—federal, state and local—as well as at
stakeholder meetings; to engage elected officials in RTD activities and events; and to keep RTD board members
and staff apprised of pertinent information.
Responsibilities include:
• O versees work effort of Federal lobby team and
acts as liaison between RTD, federal lobbyists,
and Congressional offices in Washington, DC and
Denver
• C oordinates Board visits to Congressional/Executive
offices during the APTA Legislative Conference
• O versees work effort of State lobbyist team
including committee testimony and other state
legislative meetings/activities
•M
 onitors activities at the Colorado General
Assembly during legislative session and off-season
• C oordinates work effort of Local Government Liaison

• R epresents RTD at metro area meetings, i.e., Denver
Metro Chamber of Commerce, Metro Mayors
Caucus, North Area Transportation Alliance, elected
officials meetings on the corridors
• B uilds and maintains relationships with regional
stakeholders
• C oordinates compiling and distribution of
informational materials for elected officials
• C oordinates speaking protocol issues at grand
openings, special events or other speaking
programs

CUSTOMER CARE
Mission: To be ambassadors of RTD, fostering public trust and an exceptional customer experience on every
interaction by providing comprehensive and accurate information, while enhancing and developing innovative
platforms for customer engagement.
Responsibilities include:

• R esponds to inbound service requests via phone,

email/web form, social media and in-person at RTD
sales outlets
• P rovides outbound service alert communication via
social media and most rider alert notifications, for
both real-time and planned disruptions
• C ollaborates to develop and maintain the
RTD social media voice

• A dministers Lost and Found, Bike Locker program
and walk-up EcoPass service

• A dministers Open Trip Planner, TrapezeCOM, Rider
Alert Management System, Next Ride IVR and
actively designing upcoming Salesforce CRM
• C ollaborates with RTD Transportation Division
management and operator teams to resolve
customer complaints and concerns

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

Project outreach
• O versees and manages contractors’ public
information teams
• C oordinates communication efforts with local
jurisdictions and key stakeholders to provide the
latest information to the communities
• D evelops and maintains project work plans to track
progress and ensure goals are accomplished
• O versees development and approval of collateral
materials for various vehicles of distribution
•M
 onitors and updates project webpages
• R esponds to questions or concerns about
specific projects

Be bold and break out.

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

25

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

Forge new partnerships.

Packet Pg. 59

1.C.1.c

27

INTERNAL
• R TD Board of Directors
• R TD Senior Leadership Team
• R TD managers/supervisors

• R TD staff
• S alaried
• R epresented

• C itizens Advisory Committee
• P roject contractors and
consultants

EXTERNAL
• F ederal agencies
• U .S. Department of Transportation
• R esource agencies [e.g., Homeland Security, State
Historic Preservation Office (SHPO), Army Corps
• F ederal Transit Administration, Federal Highway
Administration, Federal Railroad Administration
of Engineers, U.S. Fish and Wildlife (USFW), etc.]
• C ongressional delegation
• S tate agencies
• G overnor of Colorado
• R esource agencies (e.g., Homeland Security,
SHPO, Colorado Department of Public Health and
• C olorado General Assembly
Environment (CDPHE), etc.)
• C olorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
• Colorado Public Utilities Commission
• C olorado Association of Transit Agencies
• L ocal/regional agencies
• L ocal city and county elected officials
•M
 etro Mayors Caucus (MMC)
• P ublic sector staff
•M
 ayors and Commissioners Coalition (MCC)
• P ublic Information Officers (PIOs)
• T ransit Alliance
• D enver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) • F irst responders (police, fire, etc.)
• S tate/national trade associations
• A PTA
• C ASTA
• G eneral public
• R iders
• T axpayers
• N on-riders
• V oters
• P roperty owners
• T ourists/business travelers
• D istrict residents
• T ransportation Management Organizations (TMOs) and Transportation Management Associations (TMAs)
• N ews media
• D aily newspapers
• T rade publications
• C ommunity newspapers
• G overnment access television channels (local
channel 8s)
• L ocal television news stations
• L ocal radio stations
• N ational television and radio news networks
• B loggers
•W
 ire services
•M
 inority organizations
• N eighborhood associations
• B usinesses
• S mall businesses
• D evelopers
• L arge businesses
• V endors
• N onprofits
Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

AUDIENCES

• C hambers of commerce
• T ransportation, infrastructure, economic development committees
• S ervice and community organizations
• P rofessional associations
• E ducation organizations
• K -12
• H igher education
• H ealth care organizations
• P ass Program stakeholders
• E coPass and CollegePass coordinators
• F lexPass coordinators
• E coPass employees
• H igh Schools outlet coordinators
• C ollegePass students
• H igh School students
• N onprofit and reduced fare agencies
• V aluPass customers
• L iVE participants
• S ubscribers to RTD’s email distributions
• N eighborhood EcoPass coordinators
• U sers of RTD’s website and mobile website
• N eighborhood EcoPass residents
• S ubscribers to RTD’s social media channels
• S pecial discount customers
• T ransit agencies, cities and countries that
visit RTD
• C orporate pass outlet coordinators
• R etail sales outlets
COMMUNICATIONS CHANNELS
INTERNAL
• E mployee Orientation
• E mployee Intranet (The Hub)
• E mployee Newsletter (Monday Morning Dispatch)
• E mail
• D ivision Posters
• P ublic Information Displays (PIDs)

• F ocus Groups
• R TD Road Show
• F acts-n-Snacks
• S taff Meetings
• K ey Messages/Talking Points

EXTERNAL
• B oard Meetings
•W
 ebsite
• N ews Stop (RTD Newsroom)
• E mail Blasts
• N ews Releases
• N ewspaper/Trade Articles
• Informational/Educational Videos
• T hought Leadership Columns
• D igital Displays/Public Information Displays
• O n-Vehicle Advertising/Information
• Information Sharing at Stations, Platforms, Facilities

•M
 obile Apps
• C ommunity Meetings
• E lected Officials Briefings
• T elephone Town Halls
• S peakers Bureau
• P ublic Opinion Surveys
• F ocus Groups
• P roject and Facility Tours
• S pecial Events
• S tation Pop-Up Events
Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: Strategic Communications Plan 1.28.20 (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.c

1660 Blake Street • Denver, CO 80202

Packet Pg. 63

1.C.1.d

2020 Major Communications Projects and Timelines
Client/Initiative/Project

Jan

Feb

March

April

May

June

July

August

September

October

November

December

Anniversary Commemmorations
Rail, Facility, and Misc Anniversaries
Employee Apprec+Events+support

East Metro

Southwest Rail & ADA

Kids to Work promo, support, event (Apr 23)

--Kids to Work, Awards, Vets, Forum, Bike to Work

Employee Award, Vets Day, GM Forum promo, support, event (Oct 29, Nov 6, Dec 3)

Employee Communications
Employee Morale Campaign

Tentative kick off dep on survey, etc.

Focus Groups & Division Outreach (internal)

Various internal focus groups and division visits by SLT throughout the year

WorkDay

Preparation, planning, and active outreach/marketing for inmplementation of WorkDay; launch planned late 2020

Government Relations
2020 General Assembly (Legislative Session)

January 8 through May 6
tentatively planned for fall; details to come

TLRC Pres to State House/Senate Transportation Committees

Openings/Service Launches/Ext Events
Bike to Work Day; Get on Board Day

Get on Board promo/small event

BTWD Prep/Coord. (6/24 event)

N Line

N Line: Potential marketing, advertising, and awareness based on opening date; Empl Event, VIP, GO, Stations
promotion and support pending improvement launch

16th Street Mall

Attachment: 2020CommProjFINAL (4089 : Communications Update)

15L (East Colfax) Improvements

Potential customer awareness based on project start date

Programs and Initiatives
APTA AdWheels & Agency Awards

Distribute requests and compile responses; entries typically due early April

Asset Management/ISO 55000

compile nomination info and entries

Development of initial program support

Board Office

Board Office has periodic needs throughout the year. Need for presentation boards, graphics, business cards, photos, etc. These are on an as-needed basis. This is a baseline # as Board Office pays for certain items.

Brand Guidelines and Templates

Develop and publish brand guidelines, media guide, messaging, Hub resources

Fare media FRC printing; ticket exchange

Design and execute 2021 fare media products for printing; includes fare media poster for internal education

Human Resources Recruitment

HR campaign to be developed and run throughout year; HR to fund in 2020 (approx $150-$200k) in whole or in part

Information Governance Projects
LiVE Program

Information Gateway, Kiosks, etc projects throughout 2020
Marketing/PR outreach enhancements (from LiVE Finance budget)

New Resident Program

12,000-15,000 mailings are sent to new movers every month after list is pulled

News Stop Planning/Execution

Various and timely updates and posts to NS throughout the year

Photography and photo gallery

Photography of RTD system as well as for use in projects and programs (HR, etc).

Read n Ride

migration to PR

REIMAGINE RTD Marketing & Focus Groups

Focus groups conducted

RTD Fact Book (2020)

monthly story sourcing and newsletter development

design and print

Route Promotions East, Flex, North, West

Periodic route promos throughout year based on service need, new service, etc;

Project Construction/Repairs, etc.
Closure notifications throughout year (see official closure process)—developing art for A Frames, producing transfluxes, rider alerts, etc. We have a production process to dictate timelines for specific materials.

Bus and Rail Operations
Infrastructure Repairs and Replacement

Southmoor Station Platform Repairs; Littleton High Block Replacement; Mineral Ped Bridge; Sheridan PnR Curtain Wall; TREX Coping Panels; Niwot PnR Expansion; Central Corridor Rail Replacement

Safety and Security

Roll out new safety scenarios, materials, continue partnerships (Colo Crisis Svcs, etc) and safety presentations; Suicide Prevention Week (Sept 6-12); Rail Safety Week is Sept 20-26

PIO/Media Events, Outreach, Meetings, Trainings

Citizens Advisory Comm Monthly Meetings

Monthly meetings Jan-Nov

Community Events & Outreach

Ongoing throughout year

Media Outreach

Ongoing throughout year

Media Training for SLT

set for March

Misc PIO meetings/exercises

Fire/Police PIO mtg

Telephone Town Halls

Crisis Tabletop Exer.

Partners PIO mtg

15 telephone town halls

Transit Experiences

Ongoing throughout year

Requests for Proposal
Digital signage RFP

Naming Rights RFP

Online Store RFP

Service Changes
Public Notifications

May proposed svc changes w/reductions

May service changes w/reductions final; August proposed service changes

maps updated with
service changes
timetables for May

Maps (updates)
Timetables
Trailblazer

Final Aug svc changes

Proposed and final January service changes

maps updated with
service changes
timetables for August

Prod for May svc change

timetables for Jan

Prod for Aug svc change

Prod for Jan svc change

Surveys and Focus Groups (Research)
Customer Panel Focus Groups
Customer Satisfaction Survey (2020)
Ltd Eng Prof (LEP) Comm Plan Research

Conduct Cust Panel FG

Conduct Cust Panel FG

Conduct Cust Panel FG

Conduct Cust Panel FG

Conduct survey
Research and Planning Conducted throughout 2020

Web and Digital Initiatives
Rider Alert Phase 2
Salesforce Phase 1

Implement push notifications– for content delivery to our subscribed customer base
Salesforce Marketing Cloud replacement of GovDelivery

Salesforce Phase 2

Social Media Campaigns
Website Redesign/Migration

Salesforce Service Cloud CRM replacement of TrapezeCOM
Increased partnerships, targeted campaigns toward specific ridership groups, increased user-generated content throughout the year
Migrate off of Drupal, improve look/feel and content layout, based off updated branding and customer feedback

Packet Pg. 64

1.C.1.e

RTD Community Engagement and Outreach
2020 Plan
Purpose
Attachment: 2020 Outreach Packet - RTD Board (2) (4089 : Communications Update)

To identify and establish both widespread and targeted engagement opportunities that are
convenient, consistent and offer a safe space for specific groups to ensure that the agency is
connected and leading authentic engagement activities across the district consistent with RTD’s
Mission.

Goals






Educate stakeholders about RTD services, key topics and updates
Provide convenient ways for communities to be involved, ask questions or provide input
Promote ways to encourage use of RTD services and programs
Engage regional partners to expand reach of information
Meet people and groups in their community to discuss needs and understand concerns

2020 Community Outreach
Public information and outreach projects
 District Telephone Town Halls
o Overview: These events are a wide-reaching and accessible format to engage a
large audience and discuss the most current updates on services and projects.
Residents from the RTD District can listen in, ask questions and provide input
over the phone and online during these live events. Recordings of these events
are available on the RTD website for those who were unable to participate.
o Schedule: 15 RTD District events hosted March through May 2020
 Rail Safety Week
o Overview: RTD, Operation Lifesaver, Amtrak and local law enforcement to
collaborate to promote safe driving and pedestrian behaviors around rail
systems.
o Schedule: September 2020 (dates forthcoming)
 Reimagine RTD
o Overview: Reimagine RTD is a two-year planning process to answer the
question of “what’s next” for RTD. This includes robust public engagement as
we develop a near-term Systems Optimization plan (for the next 2-3 years) and
a longer-term Mobility Plan for the Future (2050 plan).
o Schedule: Ongoing outreach in phases through 2021, outlined in project plan.
 RTD LiVE Program and other fare discounts
o Overview: With the 2019 addition of LiVE and availability of other discount
programs, the communications team is conducting public information and
outreach activities with community partners. The goal is to increase awareness,

Packet Pg. 65

1.C.1.e











Attachment: 2020 Outreach Packet - RTD Board (2) (4089 : Communications Update)



inform of options when it comes to discounts and encourage applications for
qualifying community members.
o Schedule: Ongoing outreach, outlined in project plan.
School outreach- all ages, preschool through college.
o Overview: With trains and buses always on the move, it is important to educate
our constituents early about adopting public transportation and the importance
of safety along the way. RTD staff promote safe behaviors on and around our
transit system through educational presentations, videos, visits from RTD
Transit Police and mock-crossing demonstrations.
o Schedule: Ongoing, with emphasis on back-to-school events.
Educational presentations
o Overview: Education opportunities for all levels of riders and non-riders alike,
highlighting best practices, rider tips, and ask questions in an effort to boost
transit knowledge and encourage participants to share what they have learned.
o Schedule: Ongoing.
Transit Experiences
o Overview: These immersive educational outings are conducted by RTD staff and
are geared specifically for infrequent or non-riders. These events are for groups
of up to 20 participants within the RTD District who want to familiarize
themselves with the RTD system.
o Schedule: Ongoing (weather permitting).
Outreach events and campaigns
o Overview: RTD led events including rider appreciations, pop-ups, listening
sessions and grass roots outreach tactics will be used as part of larger strategic
and meaningful community engagement programing.
o Schedule: TBD
Public meetings
o Overview: Open house events and public meetings are a key part of the
communications strategies to inform the public, respond to questions and
gather feedback directly within the community.
o Schedule: TBD
Community event participation
o Overview: Each year RTD participates in events planned by the community, for
the community. These opportunities range in format, with staff adopting the
best approach for the audience and may include safety demonstrations, staffing
booths, and speaking opportunities to name a few.
o Schedule: Ongoing (see preliminary schedule of events below).

Packet Pg. 66

District

Event

Location

Tentative Date

A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O

Halloween Celebration
Energy Day Colorado
CU Denver Commuter Services Fair
National Night Out
Summer in the City
Aurora Back-to-School Kickoff
South Suburban Touch-a-Truck
Mile High Fire Muster
Lafayette Public Safety Day for Kids
Latino Fest
Thorntonfest
Arvada Fire Safety Fair
Safety & Prepardness Day
Evergreen Fire Safety Day
Louisville Touch-a-Truck

Glendale Sports Center
Denver East High School
Auraria Campus - Tivoli Turnhalle
Sheridan Town Hall
Del Mar Park
Town Center at Aurora
South Suburban Family Sports Dome
Arapahoe Community College
LaMont Does Park
Westminster Station
Carpenter Park Fields
Arvada Fire Training Center
Golden Fire Station
Evergreen Fire and Rescue
Louisville Rec Center

10/22/2020
9/26/2020
3/4/2020
8/4/2020
6/17/2020
8/1/2020
5/2/2020
6/20/2020
7/15/2020
7/18/2020
6/6/2020
9/26/2020
9/12/2020
8/22/2020
5/30/2020

Attachment: 2020 Outreach Packet - RTD Board (2) (4089 : Communications Update)

1.C.1.e

*Tentative schedule pending agreement with event organizers. Subject to change.

Participation Guidelines
RTD participation in community events is determined using the following criteria:









Staff availability
Budget: No cost or low cost
Schedule:
o Minimum three weeks of lead time to ensure proper logistical planning
o Multi-day events involve significantly more resources. RTD participation is
limited to single day events. Additional days will require approval.
Availability of equipment:
o Bus or other vehicles: two-to three-week notice required, contingent on vehicle
operator availability
o Mock Crossing: Two-week notice. Three-hour minimum.
o Availability must consider regulations for represented employees
RTD-related outreach: Topic must be tied to a specific RTD priority (Reimagine RTD,
increasing ridership, LiVE, safety, etc.)
Audience appropriate and beneficial: consideration of audience size and needs must
align with RTD messaging and demonstrate an appropriate use of resources

Requests for RTD Community Engagement and Outreach



Community requests for an appearance can be made at:
www.rtd-denver.com/connect-us/community-involvement
Director requests for staff support, presentations, event outreach or other related
community engagement can be emailed:
o To: CommunityEngagement@RTD-Denver.com
o Copy: Barbara.McManus@RTD-Denver.com

Packet Pg. 67

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Heather McKillop, Acting Interim General
Manager and CEO

Date: January 28, 2020

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date:
Local Update - CRL Associates

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 01-27-20

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 68

Date:

January 28, 2020

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

Below is our update for February 2020:
\
1. Interim General Manager – We have spent many hours meeting and talking with board
members, staff, local elected officials and community members. The selection process
and pending Board decision are “top of mind” as you are well aware. We have worked
closely with the board office and executive committee and will continue to provide
information and updates to external stakeholders throughout the process and into the
national search for a new permanent general manager.
2. Reimagine RTD – Maria and I met with RTD planning staff and Reimagine RTD
consultants on January 6 to discuss the current political environment locally and
perceptions about the Reimagine project. We also provided insight regarding current
Metro Mayors Caucus member discussions and the impact 13 new mayors in the region
will likely have on the caucus itself. Several cities are concerned about the service
reductions and we expect pushback from a number of jurisdictions. We plan to meet with
staff and the consulting team again soon and will continue to support the effort.
3. Citizens Advisory Committee – The next CAC meeting is from 3-5 PM on February 19.
The Committee heard from new Board Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede at their January
Meeting and also participated in a second workshop with the Reimagine RTD
consultants. Finally, Joanna Morsicato was elected co-chair for a two-year term.
4. Metro Mayors Caucus Annual Retreat – The Metro Mayors Caucus held its Annual
Retreat on January 11. RTD and transportation in general were major areas of discussion
at the retreat. Speaker KC Becker shared information on likely legislation and mayors
shared frustration about service cuts, incomplete rail lines, etc. No surprises, but an
opportunity to vent, Chair Rivera-Malpiede attending the retreat and had the opportunity
to speak one-on-one with a number of mayors as well as provide a short update.
5. Metro Mayors Caucus Transportation and Mobility Committee –The Metro Mayors
Caucus Transportation and Mobility Committee met on January. Agenda items included
1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800, Denver, CO 80264 p. 303.592.5450 f. 303.592.5460 www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-27-20 (4086 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

1.C.2.a

1.C.2.a

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 01-27-20 (4086 : Local Update - CRL Associates)

updates on MobilityNEXT and HB20-1151, Empowering Transportation Planning
Organizations. There was a short discussion about RTD and how communities are
responding to RTD service cuts and changes.

2
Packet Pg. 70

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Heather McKillop, Acting Interim General
Manager and CEO

Date: January 28, 2020

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: February 4, 2020
State Update - Brandeberry McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


Brandeberry McKenna RTD February Board Report

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 71

1.C.3.a

To:

RTD

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)
Date: January 27, 2020
Re:

February Board Report

BBMK continues to have discussions with Senators Tate and Rodriguez and Rep. Jackson about
their potential legislative proposal concerning the district. Rep. Larson has also added his name
as a co-sponsor of the legislation and BBMK is meeting with him this week to provide an update
on our discussions thus far with stakeholders.
Bills of Interest
HB20-1089 Employee Protection Lawful Off-Duty Activities sponsored by Rep. Melton. This
bill prohibits an employer from terminating an employee for the employee's off-duty activities
that are lawful under state law even if those activities are not lawful under federal law. BBMK
will be attending a stakeholder meeting on this bill convened by Rep. Melton this week.
HB19-1138 Public Real Property Index sponsored by Reps. Coleman and Larson and Senator
Bridges and Gardner. The bill requires all municipalities, in addition to all political subdivisions
of the state, to report “usable real property” owned or under their control to the State Architects
office annually. BBMK attended a stakeholder meeting on the bill and requested an
amendment to exempt RTD rights of way from the bill.
HB20-1151 Expand Authority for Regional Transportation Improvements sponsored by
Rep. Gray and Senator Winter. This bill allows a Transportation Planning Organization to act as
and retain the powers of a Regional Transportation Authority, allowing it to impose charges, fees
and, with voter approval, taxes to generate transportation funding. This bill has not been
scheduled for a hearing.
SB20-044 Sales and Use Tax Revenue for Transportation sponsored by Senator Lundeen and
Rep. Carver. This bill would require beginning in July 2020 that 10 percent of net revenues from
sales and use tax as a portion of sales and use taxes attributable to sales and use tax of vehicles
and related items be credited to the HUTF. The distribution of the funds would be 60% to the
state highway fund, 22% to counties and 18% to municipalities. The bill is scheduled for a
hearing in the Senate State Veterans and Military Affairs Committee on January 29 at
1:30pm.
SB20-065 Limit Mobile Electronic Devices by Driving sponsored by Rep. Roberts. The bill
would limit the use of a mobile electronic device while driving to adult drivers who use the
mobile electronic device through a hands-free accessory. The bill establishes penalties of $50
and 2 points for a first violation, $100 and 2 points for a second violation, $200 and 4 points for a
Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: Brandeberry McKenna RTD February Board Report (4087 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | www.bbmk.com

third or subsequent violation and $300 and 4 points if the violation involves text messaging. The
bill has not yet been assigned a new senate sponsor occasioned by the resignation of Senator
Court. BBMK is working on amendment to address the District’s concerns.
SB20-061 Yield to Bicycles in Bicycle Lanes sponsored by Senator Foote. The bill creates a
new traffic offense for failing to yield to a bicycle in a bicycle lane. The offense is a class A
traffic offense unless it is the proximate cause of a crash or if it causes bodily injury, then it is
careless driving and is punished under the careless driving offense. RTD is exploring this
legislation for possible impact to the District. The bill is scheduled for a hearing in the Senate
Judiciary Committee on February 3, at 1:30pm.

2
Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: Brandeberry McKenna RTD February Board Report (4087 : State Update - Brandeberry McKenna)

1.C.3.a

1.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Heather McKillop, Acting Interim General
Manager and CEO

Date: January 28, 2020

From:

Pauletta Tonilas, Assistant General Manager,
Communications

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: February 4, 2020
Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 1 27 2020 v2

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 74

1.C.4.a
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP
2550 M Street, NW
Washington, DC 20037
+1 202 457 6000
+1 202 457 6315
squirepattonboggs.com
O
F

To:

Board of Directors, Regional Transportation District of Denver

From:

Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP

Date:

January 27, 2020

Subject:

Federal Update for February 4, 2020, Meeting of Communications & Government
Relations Committee

Delegation Efforts to Secure RRIF CRP Fix Continue
SPB continues to work with RTD’s Congressional delegation to secure a firm dollar figure from US
DOT’s Build America Bureau and the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) for the pay-for to
fund our CRP fix. Previously, US DOT and OMB gave our delegation staff a $70 million figure,
with many caveats as to the accuracy of the number. Staff for Rep. Perlmutter, Sen. Gardner, and
Sen. Bennet are now in discussions with US DOT to firm up the pay-for figure. As all new
spending must be paid for with either new revenues or offsetting cuts in spending, identifying an
accurate number for the cost of our CRP fix is an essential next step in crafting – and paying for –
our CRP fix in either the 2021 appropriations cycle or in the next surface transportation bill. SPB
will receive an update from Congressional staff on this subject during the week of January 27 and
will update the Board thereafter.
On January 28, the Senate Commerce Committee’s Transportation and Safety Subcommittee will
hold a hearing on US DOT’s Build America Bureau. The Bureau oversees the RRIF program, and
Bureau head Morteza Farajian will testify at the hearing. Senator Gardner serves on this
subcommittee, so SPB has asked Senator Gardner’s staff that Senator Gardner directly seek Morteza
Farajian’s support for the full refund of CRPs for all repaid RRIF loans, including cohort 3 loans like
RTD’s.
In addition, SPB continues our bicameral, bipartisan approach to securing the RRIF CRP fix by
submitting formal FY 2021 appropriations requests, with draft legislative language, to every member
of the RTD delegation. Congressional offices use these appropriations requests to help shape their
spending requests and priorities. By making these formal requests, we help ensure that RTD
pursues every viable avenue for the RRIF CRP fix and we unite the entire Congressional delegation
behind a single legislative proposal.

45 Offices in 20 Countries
Squire Patton Boggs (US) LLP is part of the international legal practice Squire Patton Boggs, which operates worldwide through a number of separate
legal entities.
1
Please visit squirepattonboggs.com for more information.

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: Federal Update 1 27 2020 v2 (4088 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Federal Update

1.C.4.a

House Democrats to Unveil Sweeping Infrastructure Proposal

House Democrats begin this latest infrastructure push with a hearing on the most challenging issue
of all: how to pay for it. On January 28, the House Ways and Means Committee will hear from
witnesses on the topic of Paving the Way for Funding and Financing Infrastructure Investments.
US DOT Publishes Notice of Funding Opportunity for Low or No Emissions Grant
Program
On January 17, the Federal Transit Administration announced a Notice of Funding Opportunity for
$130 million in FY 2020 funding for the Low or No Emissions Program (Low-No Program).
Eligible projects include the purchase or lease of low or no emission buses, constructing or leasing
facilities and related equipment for low or no emission buses, rehabilitating or improving existing
facilities to accommodate low or no emission buses, and workforce development. The maximum
Federal cost share is 85 percent for low or no emission vehicles and 90 percent for related
equipment or facilities. Eligible sources of local match are listed in the Notice of Funding
Opportunity. US DOT estimates it will make 45 grant awards. Grant applications are due March
17.
RTD was awarded a $2.6 million Low-No grant in April 2019 (from FY 2019 funding), and SPB
secured letters from the Congressional delegation in support of RTD’s application. If RTD decides
to apply for FY 2020 funds, SPB will again pursue letters of support and will ensure RTD can take
advantage of meetings in Washington DC in March to directly advocate for the grant award.
White House Releases Proposed Rule Overhauling NEPA Regulations
On January 10, the White House released a proposal for revised regulations to implement the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA), which governs the evaluation of environmental
impacts of major Federal actions, including federally-funded transit projects. Comments on this
rulemaking are due March 10.
NEPA-required environmental reviews generally take between four and seven years to complete; a
major goal of this rulemaking is to expedite the process and shorten the time needed to complete
the review. Specifically, the new rule:
• States that the White House Council on Environmental Quality (CEQ) will no longer have
to consider cumulative effects of new projects;
• Revises the definition of effects;
• Requires Environmental Impact Statements (EISs) to be completed in two years; and
• Mandates a single agency lead for projects, as opposed to all agencies within a project’s
jurisdiction.

2

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: Federal Update 1 27 2020 v2 (4088 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Speaker Nancy Pelosi (D-CA) announced that House Democrats will release an infrastructure
proposal the week of January 27. While little information has been released about the proposal, it is
widely understood that the package will be broad principles rather than legislative text and will cover
several modes of transportation and infrastructure, not only surface transportation. Separately,
Speaker Pelosi has given House Transportation and Infrastructure Chairman Peter DeFazio (D-OR)
one of her reserved bills (H.R. 2) for his still-developing surface transportation bill.

1.C.4.a

On January 8, Secretary Elaine Chao and the US Chief Technology Officer (head of the National
Science and Technology Council) released the fourth version of its Autonomous Vehicles policy
document, Ensuring American Leadership in Automated Vehicle Technologies (AV 4.0). As with previous
iterations, the document includes very broad policies and few specifics. Compliance with the
guidance is voluntary. Unlike prior versions, 4.0 takes a government-wide approach to fostering
automated technologies, including via programs of agencies other than US DOT. AV 4.0
emphasizes the Administration’s commitment to fostering surface transportation innovation and
outlines the Administration’s main principles for AV policy: (1) protect users and communities;
(2) promote efficient markets; and (3) facilitate coordinated efforts. US DOT intends to solicit
comments on AV 4.0, although no formal comment period has been announced yet.

3

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: Federal Update 1 27 2020 v2 (4088 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Secretary Chao Releases AV 4.0 Guidelines

