February 6, 2020
Communications & Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We are beginning the meeting, calling to order the meeting for the
Communications and Government Relations Committee. I'm Lynn Guissinger, Chair. We have no
recommended actions. Before we start, we also don't have a safety moment. So we're going to have
a quick song moment.
COMMITTEE MEMBER: No. No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Very brief, very brief. All right, all right. No, no. The last surviving
member of the Kingston Trio died last week. And if that means nothing to you, they sang probably
one of the most famous transit songs ever. So well, we can do that in a minute. But, you know, it
also had this great preamble, but it's a little more theatrical than I am. So Director Tisdale, can you
help me out with the preamble.
DOUG TISDALE: These are the times that try men's souls. In the course of our nation's history,
the people of Boston-- uh, Denver-- have rallied bravely whenever the rights of men have been
threatened. Today a new crisis has arisen. Citizens, hear me out. This could happen to you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What's the song?
COMMITTEE MEMBER: [SINGING]
DOUG TISDALE: MTA.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Poor Charlie. He rides forever-DOUG TISDALE: Poor Charlie on the MTA.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --beneath the streets of Boston, he's the man who never returned. So you
can google it tonight. It's a good song. All right, sorry about that. We're going to kick it off with
our Communications updates with Assistant General Manager Pauletta Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Directors, it's nice to be before you again. Just
want to give you a brief overview, you've probably had a chance to look through all the materials
that were part of this packet. But it's been a year and we wanted to just articulate to you some of
the highlights that we accomplished from 2019, and that is one of the attachments that is in your
packet.
And there were some strategic initiatives, of course, that were very important to us. And as I started
here a year ago-- can't believe it's been a year already-- but one of the big focuses that we had was
coming up with a strategic roadmap for the Communications Department and for the Agency. That
was, of course, one of our big initiatives.

I won't go through all the items of some of the big things that we accomplished. You have that list.
But really, the strategic approach was something we spent a significant amount of time on. Not
only internally as our Communications team, as we built our strategic vision, our mission, our
goals, our team charter, the behaviors and culture that we wanted to create as a Communications
Department.
But very happy that we finally were able to complete our strategic communications plan. It took
us time to do this. And a lot of it came from you all. And we really did listen to what the Board
said. And as you set your strategic goals, and I listened to all of you, and heard you speak at these
meetings, and we talked as an internal team and senior leadership team, and talked to stakeholders,
how we came up with our strategic roadmap was really coming up with three strategic priorities
that really follow suit with what we heard was important to you-- refining and enhancing RTD's
image; fostering community partnerships; improving internal and external customer information,
our internal customers and our external customers.
And this is not a perfect document. You have a hard copy in front of you that we wanted to make
sure was ease of use for you. But just to kind of showcase quickly how we do this, so our strategic
plan is our roadmap for a three- to five-year process. And it's really our guidepost, not designed to
be changed every year. Doesn't get too much into detail of the tactics and the activities.
That's really more of our annual work plan, which is this document-- the start of it, anyway-- that
you have a hard copy of. This is how all of our different work units within the Communications
Department look ahead to the year. So we take our strategic plan, drill it down to the annual plan
and the work program, and then that, of course, is how we pursue the year ahead.
But just to give you an example of some of the things that we already are doing and will be doing
for each of these strategic priorities as it relates to refining and enhancing our image, we're going
to be rolling out our "People Who Move People" campaign that focuses on real people, internal
and external, that are part of our transit fabric of the region. People who have really had something
to do with RTD and how we got where we are, and who are embedded in transit in getting them
where they need to go.
Fostering community partnerships-- one really neat thing that we're embarking upon right now is
a partnership with some communities along the N Line, so the Swansea Elementary School, local
artist Bimmer Torres, City of Thornton, City of Northglenn, city of Commerce City. And this is a
neat partnership that came out of one of the impacts that communities are experiencing right now
along the N Line, which is the trains going up and down the tracks and blowing the horns. And it's
impacting the school.
And so we are very happy to announce tonight that we actually have this project gelling where the
students of the school will be working with us and with this local artist to come up with this artwork
that will be housed on our Communications houses along this area. And so this is one of those
ways that we're fostering community partnerships.
And of course, then, our third strategic priority, improving internal and external communications,
we're really happy that we were able to launch the first phase of our enhanced rider alert program.

As is the case with any technology, we have to get through some bumps, and we have to make
improvements. And that's what the whole team has been doing, working with our IT Department,
our Customer Care Department, doing really fantastic work so that we can get these alerts out to
our customers in a timely manner.
This will continue to improve, and we will be, then, rolling out the second and third phase this
year. That will involve not only people getting email rider alerts, but they will be able to get those
by text. And then they'll also be able to sign up to get those alerts down to the station or stop levels.
So if they always are at a certain bus stop or a certain station, they'll be able to drill that down to
get notices that can affect that area. So that'll be coming in the year ahead.
And then, of course, as we're getting ready to open up the N Line this year, there's a number of
things we're already doing and will continue to do in the year ahead. We have been working with
Michael Ford and various other partners within the Agency on enhancing our employee
communications. Many ways we're doing that through a new internal resource tool called the
Information Gateway that all employees will be able to use in an easy access by even their mobile
phone.
And as we roll out Workday, which is our human resources system that we're all a part of, moving
forward with that. And then, of course, our new stop, telling our stories. And then many other ways
that we're enhancing information.
And I just want to make sure and acknowledge that this plan is not perfect. There's already things
about it that I've seen that I'd love to change. But it's, again, a guidepost for us. Hopefully you see
yourself in this, because we did listen to you. And the things that are important to you, we're trying
to reflect in what we do. And it's a dynamic daily process. And so I'm happy to get any feedback
from you. But I'm going to turn it over to Sherry real quick to just give you a few highlights on
Government Relations, and then we'll answer any questions that you have.
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Well, there's just-- I think I need this.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Here, do you want to use this one?
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
SHERRY ELLEBRACHT: Technology is not my thing. And there's nothing going on in the
Government Relations office.
[LAUGHTER]
You should see my desk. It is piled high. So far I have looked at, reviewed, about 450 bills. And
that doesn't mean I read them. I can tell by the titles sometimes that they have no impact on RTD.
But there are a lot that I do need to at least skim through. And then I send them out to staff to verify
that it really is a significant bill.

Or maybe it's just one we monitor. Maybe it's one that we just want to know if it passes. And staff
is really good about getting back their comments, and so I continue to monitor them through the
session. And then at the end of the session, I send out a list of what actually passed on the website,
where you can actually pull the bill down if you need to.
So it is really busy right now. And I don't know how Megan and Julie have time for other clients
up at the Capitol. They are just really busy working on RTD issues.
Because of the change in our meeting night, Roger is out of town for CRL Associates, and Mike
Dino is on a plane tonight. But you do have their reports in your packet. And if you have any
questions about them, maybe I can answer them.
But things in Washington have been consumed by the impeachment hearings. I'm sure you all
watch them, [LAUGHS] but not. So I will turn it over to Megan and Julie to give their update.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
JULIE MCKENNA: Thank you. Happy New Year, although it's much past that by now. As you
all know, there been quite, as Sherry mentioned, a number of legislators that have been interested
in RTD. And we started this summer with many of you meeting with legislators, getting to hear
what their issues were top of mind. And it really has been a bipartisan effort, meeting with people
on both sides of the aisle.
And what is the biggest bill, I think, that we're looking at right now is Senate Bill 151, which does
have bipartisan sponsorship, Senators Tate and Rodriguez and Representative Dominique Jackson
and Colin Larson. And those legislators, along with the Chairs of Transportation, Matt Gray, and
the House, and Senator Faith Winter, had been in discussions with us.
Many of you had participated in some of those discussions and received communications from the
bill's sponsors about where they were headed, what they'd like to see in a draft bill that talked a
little bit about accountability in their minds for RTD, both in the area of disability and financial
aspects. So really appreciate all of you spending so much time looking at those drafts and talking
to your legislators, because it's complicated.
And I think we are committed to continuing to work with those sponsors to make sure that the
words on paper reflect the goals that they're trying to achieve. And they have been really generous
with their time, and we're continuing to move along that process. The hearing is now not till
February 25 so that we can continue to meet with them and talk through what they would like to
see in a bill. And then I'll let Megan talk about a couple of the other issues that we're working on.
MEGAN WAGNER: So there were two bills. One bill, Senate Bill 65, which was the hands-free
bill. Last year it was Senate Bill 15. It was Senator Lois Court that ran it. This year Senator Chris
Hansen is working on it in Senator Court's place since she has resigned.
So RTD had some concerns about the impact on our bus operations for the hands-free devices
because the definition of a mobile device is pretty broad. And we didn't want to restrict our bus

operations and their ability to communicate on safety concerns. So we worked with Senator
Hansen and Representative Roberts, and they're going to work on an amendment with the language
that Sherry and Fred worked on. And we should have that introduced in the first committee. The
bill will still have a long way to go, but we can address our concerns early.
And another bill that we worked on was House Bill 1138, which is a public real property index.
There were some concerns raised by senior staff about trying to locate all this information and
relay it to the state, it would be kind of burdensome. And so we worked with the sponsors on an
amendment that would basically take the land index out of the bill entirely, so it would address the
districts concerned about having to provide information about all our right of ways. So we
addressed that issue, as well.
And I really appreciate senior staff. Sherry has been so quick at getting information back to us,
because things are moving so quickly and the bills keep coming out. And it's really helpful to be
able to have tangible information about how the direct impacts the district and being able to get
that to legislators as soon as possible.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I will echo that. I think Communications Department, Pauletta,
Sherry, and Brandeberry-McKenna are all working really hard, and we appreciate that. Questions
or comments? Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. On the Tate bill, I wonder if we could get maybe a onepage write up of outstanding issues that are really of concern to RTD if they were to be
implemented as they're shown in that bill. I mean, you've mentioned several things where you
think you've worked out the language so that it's not a that big a deal for RTD, but if there's still
any sticking points. Because we frequently run into legislators, and they'll ask us, what do you
think of this bill? And rather than-- if there's one or two items that are still left outstanding, we'd
like to know what those are.
And the other thing, going back to this, Communications, and I don't think you asked for people
to respond to this. But I wondered if-- and maybe it's January of next year. But do you have any
plans to work with the National Western, when that line opens, on promoting the use of the N Line
for the National Western?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Oh, of course. Yeah, so there's many things that you won't see on this
year-ahead work program. These are kind of the big things, the things we're mapping out. But it's
obviously not all the detail. But as part of our education about the N Line and the use of the system
and what have you, absolutely, we'll be working with them. They'll be a huge partner for us moving
forward. So yes, we'll make sure and do that.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. And just to be clear, we moved it on quickly. Everybody is aware it's
starting to snow, I think. But questions for Pauletta, or Sherry or any of our guests are welcome.
So Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: I don't have any questions. I just wanted to thank Pauletta because the work
with the school is so important. The train went in front of my grandmother's house when I was
young, and I was always told positive things about the train, and that it was moving people, and it
was exciting. And to this day, I like to hear a train. I get people who don't want to hear it every 15
minutes, maybe, but thank you so much for that kind of outreach. It's good for our future.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also would like to echo my sincere
thanks to your team and the yeoman's work you guys are doing. I also would like to do a huge
shout-out to Jenifer Ross-Amato, who's also done amazing work on the bill.
But Pauletta, I need to also thank you on behalf of the Swansea Elementary students. They love
this stuff. And the one thing I can tell you, since I am not artistic but I'd like to pretend I am, is the
one thing that is really extraordinary is we ride any train on the RTD lines, whether it's light rail
or heavy rail, is the art that you see as you're going on those trains, and that they are a kiss from
the community.
And I think having our kids really delve in, and it becomes theirs, does two things. It gives them
pride that they were able to do something, and that they can ride that train, too, with that student
discount. So I'm really excited about them being involved in the artistic piece of this, because I
think it's going to have a lasting impact on them, being able to point to it. So thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think we moved on without answering Director Broom's question. But I
think that's a really good idea. There are provisions, still, in the statute that concern us. And
Pauletta, would that be coming from us?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. So with a lot of massaging that's going on of the language, and
working and partnering with Julie and Megan, and our legislative partners, we're going to be
refining the messaging and points that will get to the Board so that you have the latest information.
Because the one we sent you a couple weeks ago is different now. And so we'll be getting you out
a new set of points that helps you navigate that information.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. Does that answer your question, Director Broom? And Director
Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Pauletta, you mentioned that there was an impact to the
students at Swansea. Can you talk a little more about that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So that's the noise. So with the trains that have been running on the tracks,
the noise has been an impact to the school. And that's one of those things where we know that it
happens and it's one of those unfortunate things as we're doing the testing right now, before we

establish quiet zones and such. So that was just one way that we thought we could work with the
school to help engage them, and make them feel like they're a viable part of the project, and to see
the end benefit of what the rail line is actually about.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. What's the plan to mitigate that impact? And I ask specifically for this
school because they've had to endure the Central 70 Project, the horns on the University of
Colorado A Line, and so it's a genuine concern for their learning.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. So we are going to be establishing quiet zones on this corridor. And
there's-- the final processes are in place right now before we'll actually be able to announce that
the quiet zones have been established. So that is going to be huge, I think, for the communities all
along the corridor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. When do you intend to implement the quiet zones?
PAULETTA TONILAS: We don't have a set date yet. And I know we'll be updating the Board
more about the progress we're making on the N Line. But it shouldn't be too far out. It's just we
don't have a set date yet.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I was wondering if you think there might be a chance to delay the
Tate bill or put it on hold. Because things are happening in the Agency, like the new interim guy
is going to be coming in. And the Board just requested as a goal that there be plans made for
increasing retention and hiring, and that's going to be coming in at some point. So things are in
motion.
Also, it seems to me that it's not that there aren't issues. There are issues. But I don't think the bill
really addresses issues positively, and that it would be good for people who are very
knowledgeable to perhaps get together and come up with ideas that might be more effective in
making the changes that I think people want to see. So it just feels like it would be good to put this
on hold for a while. And I don't know if there's any chance that that might happen.
JULIE MCKENNA: Thank you for that. And we have talked to them a little bit about that, the
change that's going on with RTD and making sure what's intended here doesn't stifle the efforts
that you're trying to make. I think that's why we were able-- the hearing was supposed to be next
week. And that's why we've been able to get more time, is to really try and work together in a way
that doesn't hinder what you all are doing, but provides the legislators with some feeling that they're
bringing to light some of the concerns they have around disability and financial aspects.
And I think we have a real opportunity in working together to be able to put together a piece of
legislation that allows you all to highlight the good work that you are doing to move toward

addressing some of these concerns. So in a way, while it's not drafted the right way right now and
there are a lot of concerns, there's real opportunity here, I think, to address the concerns that are
out there and get people more knowledgeable, bring them into the good work that's being done and
the changes that are out there.
JUDY LUBOW: So could one say, then, that some bill will go forward as opposed to-- because I
really think it would be best that what was done with family leave, where a committee was formed,
and there was time given to an important, complicated issue so that they could get it right, and it
was kind of adjourned for several months.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, it was a good question. Do you want to repeat that?
[LAUGHTER]
JUDY LUBOW: Well, is there any chance that what was done for the family leave bill, where it
was effectively adjourned for a while so that people could talk, could that happen with this?
JULIE MCKENNA: You know, I think that because we started talking to legislators over the
summer, they really have made it, on both sides of the aisle, very clear to us, we want to work with
you, but we are going to pass something this year. And so I think that it's important, to your point,
that it's done right. And I think we have till May to get it done. And that may not be in the shape
we wanted to do it. But I think we have had great access to all four sponsors and a review of the
concerns so far. So I think we're going to work as hard as we can with-- I mean, staff has, so you
know, devoted an incredible amount of hours, all Board members and staff, to helping us offer real
concrete suggestions to these legislators. So I really do feel like we've had an opportunity to make
our case, and we will continue to do that and work with them to get them what they need, but in a
way that is not detrimental to the Agency.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
JULIE MCKENNA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Anything else? Pauletta.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Madam Chair, just real quickly, one of the pages that's left at your
spot is the outreach events that we're going to be doing before the service change meetings in your
districts. And if you would like to join our team at those, we wanted to make sure you knew what
those were, to hand out the pamphlets, invite people to come to the meeting. If they can't, they
have the information on how to email their comments, and to thank them, most importantly, for
enduring the impacts that they have been having to deal with, given this situation.

I want to thank Christina Zazueta, our Community Engagement Manager, who's been really doing
a lot of work on this process, and Steven Brier, who's also here tonight, our Senior Manager of
Marketing, and others. They've just been amazing to do everything we've done this past year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. It looks like-JULIE MCKENNA: One more real quick thing. And I want to thank you all for your good wishes
for Jenifer. And I thought I'd give you just a quick update. She's doing fantastic. She, a couple of
weeks ago, had a CT scan, all clear for activity. So she really has made an amazing recovery, and
these things take time. But thank you all for your good wishes and for thinking of her. We miss
her terribly, and I hate doing it without her. But she's doing great, and that's what matters.
[APPLAUSE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thank you for the update, and please give her our best. Continue that.
Yep, Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pauletta, you and Christina, all of you guys, for doing these popup events, I want to thank you. You really listen. Because I think it's going to make a tremendous
impact for us to have events in every district where people gather organically and we can really
talk with them. So I'm really looking forward to mine. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you all. And I'll repeat, because I don't know if she was in here
when the Chair said it, but Jenifer Ross-Amato has been doing yeoman's work, and we appreciate
that. All right, let's see. We are-- now I will-- no, no adjourned. I will entertain a motion to move
into executive session for the purpose--.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
COMMITTEE MEMBER: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, did you have something else? Oh. Other matters, sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Unmoved.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just a heads up, at the Federal Center Station pop-up, it's not going to be
all peaches and cream, by the way, just let you all know. I will be there. But OK? 99L, that ain't
going to be pretty. All right.
The thing I wanted to share with the Board, a little bit of food for thought, as we start to get letters
from different political agencies, including recently we got a letter from Denver City Council
delivered by Robin Kniech-- Kniech? Never sure on that, and then I forget. And it had a message
of keep service, we need the service, it's important. Underlying message, we might want to help.
Meanwhile, keep service, keep service. And sometimes it's hard to understand if they know the
pulls and tugs that we've got here at the Agency.

So I responded to Councilor Robin Kniech. And I didn't comment about the letter, but I did want
to ask about a certain funding issue that's been on my mind for quite a while, and it does affect
each and every one of you, and also anybody who is employed within the City of Denver-- and
that is the occupational head tax. Every single person is taxed for the privilege of working in
Denver.
And so I asked, what is the total annual revenue from that program that is taken from the pockets
of the poor, the rich, and everybody in between. And what it amounts to is a shocking amount of
money. So I'd ask that you would keep this in mind when Denver asks us for more and more, to
think about perhaps who is bringing those workers to Denver for the privilege of working here.
And the amount in 2016 was $49 million. In 2018-- and might be a bit scattered, but $49 million,
$50 million, most recent year $53 million. So if we should be asked to put out more, or keep a
service that we cannot maintain, I wanted to share with you all that there might be a source. Again
I think it's a logical-- I don't think that's a total leap and jump to make a connection there as to who
helps bring the workers to Denver. So that's my comment. Thank you. And if you need the hard
copy of that, or email, I'll send that to you. But those are the figures.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Menten-- Director Williams. I'm really not on my
game tonight here.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're doing fine. It's OK. Interestingly enough, to that point, I had a
constituent ask me to continue a service. And specifically, there were several people that were
dependent on it. And what I asked them was, how much would it cost that service to be provided
by Lyft or Uber? I asked our people what it was costing us to run that service now, and we did a
comparison, what it would cost for that number of people who were riding to take a Lyft from their
average distance.
And it was absolutely appalling. I don't have the numbers handy. But if it comes down to that,
that's part of my answer, is, how about if we just take the money and give you a Lyft ride? Because
it was one one-hundredth of the price of running the bus service. So it's just a thought.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is an ideal time, then, to suggest that if anybody else is interested in
creating an ad hoc committee to look at these alternative services, I-- I'm going off memory, but
perhaps three Board Directors can sign up and bring that forward as a motion for alternative
service. Because I've done the analysis on that for the Green Mountain FlexRide, which is a
tremendous subsidy. It's $28 per boarding. And people are already using Uber, Lyft, and it's $7.00.
So we could be providing four rides for-But I would be interested, in this last year in my term, serving on an ad hoc committee that would
join with staff to review the recent RFP that didn't get a request, or a responder, because it really
didn't, perhaps, go out. I think this is a perfect committee to bring this up, and it's been on my
mind. So thank you, Director Williams.

And if anybody is interested in an ad hoc committee on this specific issue, which would mean
transit vouchers, and a way to relieve our situation, provide better service, I would like to go
forward.
COMMITTEE MEMBER: I'll work on it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Looks like some volunteers.
NATALIE MENTEN: Excellent. Here we go. All right, we can talk afterwards.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Will you move that forward, Director Menten, then?
NATALIE MENTEN: I will go and-- Miss McManus, do I fill out the same Board-initiated action,
and then just change it up to be a request for an ad hoc?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So for an ad hoc committee, the Chair can appoint an ad hoc committee.
It doesn't have to go through the full Board. But it does become another noticed and posted bill
meeting if there's more than two Directors. So I would ask you to think about that, based on
everything that's going on this year.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We can talk about it afterwards.
NATALIE MENTEN: Wonderful, thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Now I will entertain a motion to move into executive session for the
purpose of discussing personnel matters pursuant to CRS Section 24-6-402. I'll say that. I'm just
reading this thing. 4-F1 and conference with legal counsel on RRP contract matters pursuant to
CRS 42-6-402(b), conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of
receiving legal advice on specific legal questions.
The first one we are going to consider is the RRP. So any staff that are part of that discussion,
please stay. And we need a mover and a second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Re- moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And can we get a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Moved again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Williams is the mover, and the Chair is the second. All in
favor, aye.
MULTIPLE VOICES: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed. OK. So the first thing we'll discuss is the RRP. Anyone who
is part of that discussion, please stay. All others, please leave the room.

And I would just announce that we're not going to be coming back into open session at the end.
This will conclude the matter. So there's no real need to stick around.
Our next meeting date, I'll say now, is April 7.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

