July 16, 2019
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
BOB BROOM: I guess it's about 12 minutes till 4:00. And why don't, for the sake of the record,
why don't we go around and identify ourselves.
DOUG TISDALE: Doug Tisdale, District H.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board of Directors.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker, District D.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Shontel Lewis, District B.
PEGGY CATLIN: Peggy Catlin, District N.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C.
BOB BROOM: I'm Bob Broom, District F. Thank you very much.
First item on the agenda for discussion is to review the General Managers' mid-year survey
results, which we began with the last meeting. And so we've all now had a chance to read it. I
don't know if anybody's reached any different feelings or conclusions as a result of spending
some more time reviewing it or not. Couple of things. One would be to discuss, at some point, or
if you think the methodology of the questionnaire is something that we like or we need to make
additional changes to.
We obviously provided a lot more opportunities for people to make verbal comments this time
around than we did in the past, which I think was valuable and will be valuable to the General
Manager, as opposed to strictly numbers. So with that, I'll open it up for any comments or
questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't have anything to change. I thought it was comprehensive.
I think people felt comfortable really sharing things. And I thought it was a good mechanism to
utilize.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So part of what we need to accomplish today is any comments that we
need to take back to the General Manager, in terms of how this committee in representing the full
Board, would like to see changed in how the General Manager is moving things forward. Or
whether or not we're happy with how things are going. But part of what this committee needs to
do is give him guidance to move forward with. So that's part of what Chair Tisdale and Chair
Broom will need to sit down and have a discussion with Dave about after this meeting today.
Sometime between now and the next meeting.

PEGGY CATLIN: A couple things I have questions about. I understand that the emphasis is
supposed to be on the core goals and achieving the core goals, and not so much the task goals.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the task goals are the ones that-PEGGY CATLIN: Supporting them, yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, yes and no. The task goals are specific to what come out of the
retreat that the directors specifically want to see happen. The core goals are pretty much aligned
with the job description, as they are for all folks in the agency. So both sets need to be addressed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Exactly.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just didn't know if we wanted to weigh more on the core goals, as opposed
to-BOB BROOM: Yeah, the one underlying comment that I read was that he needs to spend more
time particularly with the new directors. Some of them feel like they haven't had an adequate
opportunity to discuss things with him, and ask questions, and get information that they need.
DOUG TISDALE: It's probably appropriate then to ask the new directors how they feel about
that before you and I go back to talking to him. So let's start with Director Lewis, and she's-- of
the crew, you are the newest Director, because Director Rivera-Malpiede had prior experience,
and Director Catlin was here. So what are your thoughts?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I, personally, felt that way at the beginning, but I was proactive and asked to
schedule one-on-one's with Dave, so I have check-ins with him twice a month because that's
what's true for me. And I resolved it. But of the-- I don't speak for the other directors, I don't
know what they experienced when we haven't had conversations. So if that's something that
directors would be interested in.
BOB BROOM: Well, somebody referenced only having one meeting with him in here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: One official meeting was set up. But, like Director Lewis, I just
go directly to him if I need something. And I communicate with him on a regular basis on issues
that I need, just information on. So I feel he's pretty accessible.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, the reason-VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek is on the line.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Who's that? Troy?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, Buzek.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, Buzek. Sorry, Vince. Decided to go back to your office after being
downtown this morning? Is that it?
VINCE BUZEK: I did, and I'm also just coming back from the Northwest Parkway Public
Highway Authority meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, there you go. Well, I think that's very helpful to hear that. Because the
point is, otherwise, we might be tempted, as you look at the agenda in terms of the move forward
plan, to sit down with the General Manager and say, well, you need to do a better job of reaching
out to new directors. And instead, we can say sounds like in all but one case, you've done a
pretty good job of reaching out to directors and being open. If you didn't in the first instance
volunteer it, they certainly felt free to ask that you do so. And you did so.
And I'm not trying to put words in people's mouth, but I want to get a sense of what do we
communicate to Dave, because that's up to Chairman Broom and me to do. So is that a fair-BOB BROOM: Representation?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, while you were saying that, all I kept thinking about
was new directors might not feel like they have the ability to do what we've done. That's kind of
what I think that might be based on is they're going through a protocol, and they don't feel like
they're able to pick up the phone and call the General Manager. It needs to-- that's what I'm
thinking that is based on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was going to say something along the same lines, that some folks may feel
like they need an invitation. And sometimes that invitation needs to come from Dave. And I also
don't want to dismiss that comment by saying it's not necessarily elevated. But I would elevate it.
Go ahead. I'm finished.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm just-- a comment on. I think you might want to change the task goal,
because I believe the task goal says that the General Manager will be proactive in reaching out to
directors, not the other way around.
DOUG TISDALE: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, there's that.
VINCE BUZEK: Everyone's great about reaching out to the GM, that's fine. But if the goal is the
GM reaches out, then he's either not doing it, or we need to redo the task goals.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, that's fair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is a fair thing to say.
DOUG TISDALE: Good point.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm glad you said that.
DOUG TISDALE: Good point. So that's one specific item that we can address in speaking with
the General Manager.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have a question to Bob, Mr. Chair.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Have you had any feedback or questions from Dave for clarification at all?
BOB BROOM: No. He's waiting for us to contact him.
PEGGY CATLIN: Because if this were me, I would have a lot of questions and clarification.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, yeah. But he hasn't had the opportunity yet. We haven't presented it.
The opportunity that he has for that is when Dave and I-- I'm sorry, when Director Broom and I,
Chair Broom and I sit down with him, and then go through it, and then he can open up. And
that's not to say that that's the end of that process.
PEGGY CATLIN: I didn't know if there were any informal inquiries or anything.
DOUG TISDALE: And just to help me understand, where is the task goal, Director Buzek, if
you can recall. You may be driving, but where is that one address so I can just circle it?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's core goal 5.
DOUG TISDALE: Core goal 5.
PEGGY CATLIN: Core goal 5, not task goal?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, on core goal 5, if you look down where the-DOUG TISDALE: No, that's right. It's core goal 5. That's exactly where it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Communication and Outreach. Community Outreach. Keeps the
Board informed. Periodically meets with the Board So it is a core goal.
PEGGY CATLIN: It is a core goal then. That's why I couldn't find it in the task goals.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK, it is the core goals.

VINCE BUZEK: Sorry, I may have misspoke when I called it a task goal, sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no. That's fine. You're not getting graded on this one, Vince. So don't
worry about it.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank god. Thank god.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Should we just go through it one by one?
BOB BROOM: I think probably so.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It might be a good way to do it.
BOB BROOM: So core goal 1, discuss successful delivery of transit services. Anybody have any
comments on that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think my comment on that is just about the data that we presented recently
about the declines in ridership. And it's more of a let's keep our eyes on that and think about that
as we're measuring this in the future.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, and I still am uncomfortable that the ridership numbers that we were
getting are accurate. It seems like while they were we weren't getting any because they weren't
comfortable with however they will make their projections to come up with the numbers. And
that's a pretty important thing for the Board is whether we're making progress or not.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But nine Board members said that he did achieve that goal. So I
mean, the majority do feel like he has done that. I think in light of the new report that's out about
the light rail numbers, it kind of skews that people are thinking, what does that mean?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it is an issue of concern, I think.
PEGGY CATLIN: This is a little bit off topic, but I've heard anecdotally from folks that they
have stopped riding at the first of the year once the fares were increased.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I've heard that too.
BOB BROOM: But I think that traditionally, any time an agency raises fares, ridership goes
down 5% or something like that. I mean, that's just kind of a rule of thumb. It's not always the
case, but there is a tendency for that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. I just-[PHONE DIALING]

BARBARA MCMANUS: Do we have someone additionally on the phone?
TROY WHITMORE: Hi. This is Troy joining.
BOB BROOM: Sounds like Morse code.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: So, yeah. Who was sending the Morse code?
TROY WHITMORE: I think it's probably me. I will do my best to end that. Hold on a sec.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The other thing that I think is that people like getting to places
faster, so they're taking the commuter rail rather than the light rail.
PEGGY CATLIN: I know that's happened on the W line-- shift from the W line to the G line.
DOUG TISDALE: To the G line, right.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's at least 12 or 15 minutes faster.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, easy. Easy.
PEGGY CATLIN: And it's not that much of a difference end-of-line station to end-of-line
Station.
BOB BROOM: Is that a result of more stations. In other words, they're riding a milk run instead
of a more express run?
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, the maximum speeds on commuter rail are 79, and the maximum
speeds on light rail are 55. Plus there are fewer stops. So it's definitely-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's a big difference when you're commuting and trying to get to
work on time.
JEFF WALKER: So one of the things that I'm confused about is core goal number one "needs
improvement." Achieved at least-- GM did not achieve at least 70% of RTD Board Approved
Performance Managers. This seems to be a pretty-BARBARA MCMANUS: Excuse me. Is there a chance, Director Buzek or Director Whitmore,
that you could put your phone on mute?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, I will attempt to do so. Hold on.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So that seems like a pretty objective measure, but there is one
respondent who said no. Did not meet 70%. Some-- I'm wondering what I'm missing, or how it
could be interpreted. Core number one "needs improvement." So I don't know how that could be.
PEGGY CATLIN: How's that measured?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, it was either achieved or it wasn't achieved. The number was reach or it
wasn't reached.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, if you look at the comments, then not-- let's see. There
were three people with not sure.
DOUG TISDALE: And those are the comments. The "needs improvement"-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There's only one.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, one person. And no comments were provided.
JEFF WALKER: So things like that. The other ones are somewhat subjective. But that one
seems to be pretty objective. That's why I-- that's something that I notice from a lot of these.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, well, I think it is fair to say that when you see 11 people who say
achieved or exceeds, three who had questions-- and I see the comments there-- and one who says
"needs improvement," one can, I think at that point, legitimately give somewhat less weight to
the one individual who said "needs improvement." Particularly where they did not bother to give
any explanation, justification, discussion relative to that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is there a reason that this is anonymous?
DOUG TISDALE: That this is-SHONTEL LEWIS: Anonymous. Is there a reason that the Directors provide this anonymously?
BOB BROOM: Primarily because people, in the past, have felt uncomfortable filling these things
out if their names on it. So to get more people to participate-PEGGY CATLIN: Honestly, yeah.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, that's probably the primary reason. Most people don't care. They'd put
their name on it.
DOUG TISDALE: And if you read the comments, obviously-TROY WHITMORE: Chair Tisdale, may I talk?
BOB BROOM: Sure, go ahead.

TROY WHITMORE: I agree with you completely. When people say needs improvement and
don't include a reason or an explanation. I think, I don't want to say you just kind of dismiss that,
but you certainly shouldn't give it a lot of weight. But when there are other comments related to
needs improvement and people actually took the time to write something out, I think that's
important enough to convey to the General Manager that those are some of the concerns.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I concur.
BOB BROOM: Any more comments on core goal number one? Core goal number two, strong
and ethical leadership. This is a real strong area in this area.
DOUG TISDALE: Now, at least in defense of the one person who voted "needs improvement,"
they gave a comment. So I appreciate that to understand the thinking. Again, as to this-SHONTEL LEWIS: So actually, I said that, and I didn't put "needs improvement." I was just
saying, as a new director I don't have this information.
DOUG TISDALE: No, no, no, no, no. Yeah, one page. I was looking to page 25. That's the
"needs improvement."
SHONTEL LEWIS: I was like, I just don't have the info yet.
DOUG TISDALE: Yours is fine. I don't have the information, I want to do it. And that's
something. And I think in fairness, and I forget if it was-- It might have been one of the other
members of the committee who mentioned that perhaps we need to, particularly as to new
directors, take the time to share with them. You're not going to have all the information, and
really, all you are expected to do is to judge based upon what you have seen. So you should
always feel free to do that. But you should also, as you did, feel free to say, I have the
information. No, I was focused on the "needs improvement." In this case, the one naysayer did
say something specifically.
PEGGY CATLIN: Specific to the senior leadership too.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and ticked off the Building Executive-- Effective Executive team. And
then said, OK, need shakeup. Old thinking prevails. Information is often guarded from
dissemination. Now, that is one person's view. I disagree with that. But that's that person's view.
So that's OK. But I disagree with it, and no one else specifically agrees with it. So I'm still
somewhat free to-BOB BROOM: I'm not inclined to bring it up. I think Dave will look at all of this. So he's going
to see this comment. And maybe he'll know who this is based on the discussions he's had with
that particular Board member.
JEFF WALKER: As I say, again, I'm not clear on how that answer came about because when we
have five AGMs and one COO. Three of them have been here less than two years. And I think

the rest have been here, except for Stopplecamp, everybody's been here less than five years. So
I'm wondering what that person's looking at. What that person sees about-PEGGY CATLIN: I think they're drilling down further in the staff, not just the SLT.
JEFF WALKER: OK, and that might be. SLT is there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I also believe people's perceptions are their reality. And so
that's really how they're feeling. And so we ask them to fill this out honestly. And that's really
honestly how they feel.
JEFF WALKER: Right, exactly. And I believe that, but is there something about the question
that results in that kind of an answer that doesn't seem to make-- that doesn't make sense to me at
least. The SLT, that's what's written-- can be-- needs a shakeup when-PEGGY CATLIN: It has been shaken.
JEFF WALKER: 60% have been there for less than four or five years, in the agency.
BOB BROOM: I could speculate who this is. I don't know for sure. I think maybe it comes to
this request that's over and over again that more information be posted to our website on vendors.
And that kind of stuff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I should say, that was me. And my comment, I didn't put
here, I put it in the back. And you can tell who it is because it says, based on the population in
the metro area, there's not one Latino on the Senior Leadership Team, and I have a real concern
about that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I shared that with you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And so-- but I stated it. I didn't feel I needed to state it here
because I did it on the other side.
JEFF WALKER: Right, yes, so I can see it there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, so that's why I put it-JEFF WALKER: So just a free-for-all. It's whatever else is on your mind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, that was it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Isn't Pauletta Latino?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Pardon? No. She's Italian. So for me it was a big issue. And I
had just come off of another election where it was a big issue in my community. And so I really
felt like I needed to state it here.

JEFF WALKER: Yeah, there in the back or in those other places. What else in on your mind.
Totally get it.
So let me preface, if I may, Mr. Chair. I had a long conversation with Dennis Scottledge over the
years. And what we-- him and Mr. Cripps. And what we were talking about was, are we asking
the right questions to get the right kind of response? Because if questions don't make-- if the
answers don't make sense to the question, then maybe we need to rephrase the question, if we're
not getting responses that are extremely useful, or could be more useful. So that's where my
comment comes from. Based on that conversation [INTERPOSING VOICES].
PEGGY CATLIN: So maybe the feedback to Dave would be, moving forward in the recruitment
of SLT members as vacancies become available, increase the outreach to the Latino community.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, just to communities of diversity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Because Michael Ford, obviously, is-DOUG TISDALE: I say, I think we've done pretty well on some things, but it would appear that
there's always room for improvement. So I think it's sensible to raise it. I don't think it is a strong
criticism on him.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is not, but it is just an observation from this Director based on
what's happening in the community. So that was really it more than anything else.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's worthwhile.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We also can probably get some statistics, just as a general comment,
from HR on what groups are applying.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's true.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Because if they're not applying, then the diversity is hard to happen.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Outreach is important.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Outreach is important. So I think both would be great. This is
who's applying, this is the outreach we've done, and this is what we've received. Would be great.
Just so that I have some-BARBARA MCMANUS: There is some information regarding that in last week's Friday memo
from Dave. A full list of where they do their advertising and things like that.
JOHN MCKAY: Speaking of which, you don't have the Friday memos, if you need those, I can
get them.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, I don't need those.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I think Senior Leadership Team is a different level of
recruitment than what we do for everything else. That's what I'm talking about, is that level.
BOB BROOM: Core goal number three. Comments? There's four "needs improvement" here.
Does anybody feel for what they're trying to get at, in terms of what financial management is
weak? Because you get awarded by GFOA, and for the budget, and for the financial report, and
all that stuff. So I'm not sure what it is we're not doing right that needs to be brought to his
attention.
PEGGY CATLIN: There's a difference in overseeing a budget, and compliance, and grasping at
funding for FasTracks. I just think that we need to temper it with some reality. And they have
come forward with the FasTracks plan-- or, not plan, but just options. And to me that was a
pretty heavy lift.
But in terms of compliance and being responsible, the latest example of right sizing the budget
to-- with the appropriations and dropping it to an achievable level. I think that takes some
courage, and they did that. That was-- apparently the agency has over-budgeted in different
departments. And this was an attempt so that they would avoid carryovers at the-- or carryforwards at year-end to right size the budget. To me, that demonstrates pretty strong financial
leadership.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, my feeling is I think we've got-- that's one of the major strengths in this
organization. Heather and the people that works with her do a good job.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I would like to add, I had John bring in Dave's document that he
submitted to everybody because I think it's important that as we're going through these, we look
at what he feels he did. So we can have that discussion as well. If it's not aligned, then that helps
the Chair and the Chair decide how they need to guide Dave moving forward.
So just an overview, back to core goal number one, he said that he achieved. And he gave all the
statistics that support that. On core goal number two, also achieved with supporting
documentation. So for the most part, we're sort of on par right now so far. But I wanted to add
that component because I think it's important to see if we're comparing apples and apples or
where the disconnects are.
DOUG TISDALE: On core goal number two, what I have noted that Chair Broom and I will
bring forward to Dave is to emphasize that he needs to continue to increase his outreach to the
minority community for SLT recruitment. That's what I heard, right?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Diverse communities.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, diverse communities, not minority communities. Diverse
communities would be great.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know about other Directors, but I looked carefully at Dave's selfassessment when I did my own. I thought that was an important piece of information.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I am sure everybody did, but I think it's important to just refresh it as
we're going through this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think it's really helpful.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Because I don't remember, and I'm not part of the survey, and I've
reviewed everything, but it's hard to remember everything.
DOUG TISDALE: This right. It's good to have it here because as I was going through filling this
out, that's what I did. I had it available to look at it, and validity-tested it, and said, is that what I
saw? If it was, great. I was for it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Or maybe I missed that, and that's nice to know.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, and there's that. And we're talking about core goal three, and we said-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's strong financial management.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And he said achieved.
DOUG TISDALE: We had-- the negative comments were associated with opportunities
presented, but he doesn't seize on them. And I think there have been some conversations I have
heard from one particular Director, in fact, in saying that. And saying hey, you could do this.
And Dave has not followed through on that particular plan because it was one that was
financially, really, unattainable.
BOB BROOM: One thing that I remember a lot of discussions about was naming rights we were
supposed to receive some big bucks on. And leasing land and that type of thing. And we'd gone
through that list of property four or five times. And you can see that the Broncos can't even get
anybody-PEGGY CATLIN: I was going to say, we can't get a stadium named.
DOUG TISDALE: Cheap.
[LAUGHTER]
BOB BROOM: That's a hard way to raise a lot of money.
DOUG TISDALE: And the second negative comment is a begrudging admission that FasTracks
is what it is. It's an albatross. So it's not really a strong criticism. Just the realization that despite
the good financial management, it's still very challenging to complete FasTracks, but that is part
of what led to the April 16 resolution. And the-BOB BROOM: But nothing's changed in 10 years. Everybody has recognized going-- even
going back that far, that the plan had flaws and was not going to be realized.

PEGGY CATLIN: And I think he's been very-- they've been very responsible in not
cannibalizing the rest of the Agency for completing FasTracks. You have to have a balance of
the base system and in everything else. And I think they've had to make trade-offs, but I think
that's important to recognize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm also wondering if this is the perspective of Board members
who are hearing such strong constituent issue-- or concerns, and they felt like they needed to
express it here.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that's what it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I think it is too.
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely, and as I said, there is a begrudging admission that the financial
health of the agency is actually good. But I got to say, we haven't built FasTracks completely.
That's true.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I don't know what else we could say about that.
JEFF WALKER: It doesn't-- it's not specific enough to give any kind of guidance. It just says
what hasn't been done. But I disagree with it because we just opened two corridors, or parts of
corridors a couple weeks ago. So we have made some progress.
DOUG TISDALE: And another one in about six, seven months.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and you can't say have made progress, maybe not all of it. But we have
made progress. So it's hard for me to-- I want to give every Director our 8%. I think -- this 8%.
But things like-- but this comment doesn't help at all.
DOUG TISDALE: I think we're suitably instructed.
BOB BROOM: Core goal four.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Was also achieved.
DOUG TISDALE: And there are no "needs improvements."
PEGGY CATLIN: So this was an important one for me, and I'm sure Director Lewis too. But it's
interesting that even though in the SLT we may not have the diversity that might be desirable, I
think the fact that in outreach to the business community, there are some real positives.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, absolutely. Hands down.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I think those things are excellent.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think we have one of the best programs in the country, and
that's been for as long as I've been involved here. They've done an outstanding job, for sure.
Zamy's group is just amazing. I'm wondering, though, is this new Director, I do not believe I
have the information fairly to assess-- we don't have the Civil Rights Committee meeting very
often. So I can see where people don't feel like they have the information, especially if this is not
in their world. Like that's not what they focus on. It's kind of a new information. So I take this
comment as, I understand what they're saying, but I also understand that they're not getting a lot
of information.
DOUG TISDALE: No, I know. And I think-- and not to shine a light on it, but I think that we
have a self-confession of Director Lewis saying, look, I've said several times, I don't the
information. And as I said I understand that. I hear that. And I think it's appropriate for us to say,
how do we ensure that that information gets out there?
But again, not to beat a dead horse, but so that you don't feel bad about it, the point is, you're not
expected to know everything. What you are asked to do, generally, is what's your assessment.
Based upon what you have seen, based upon what you do know, do you think that we have been
working forward on these things? Does it appear to you that way?
And it's absolutely fair to say, well, I need more information. But it's also fair to say, no, it
appears to me that it's bad or it's good. Any of those is a legitimate response because any
response, literally any response, is a legitimate response. It's your perception.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I did both. If you were all curious. I said when I didn't know. And when I
felt like I had the information, I made the proper assessment that labels fair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think you're right about it only meets twice. It only reports to the Board
twice. And I know that when we met with Zamy we both expressed some concern. We talked
about the infrequency of that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And it looks bad for our agency, that the Civil Rights Committee meets
twice a year.
PEGGY CATLIN: It de-emphasizes its value. So that might be something that we could consider
maybe having quarterly.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We can do it in any frequency. When Dave came to me through
Zamy, he just said that there was not enough information to bring forward other than the
frequency that they chose. So if you, as the Chair Committee and Vice Chair want to-PEGGY CATLIN: I'm looking at that the second comment on the "not sure, needed
information," and there were questions asked, like DBE/SBDE graduation rates, and people that
move out of-- I think just some general statistics to inform the Board about some of the positives
and successes would be-- this wasn't my comment, but I'm looking at that going, well, that might
be a--

JEFF WALKER: When FasTracks was going hot and heavy, and you all remember this, we had
them all the time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, because I was chairing it, we did do it a lot.
JEFF WALKER: This contract was let-- this is the goal, this is what was actually. As FasTracks,
it's construction waned, there wasn't a need. But we can probably request a briefing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The other thing I would say about this as I've been reading these
is it also says to me as a Board member, oh man, you know what, I need to learn more about this.
And so it's an educational kind of aha moment for me on what I need to work on, and maybe
what I need to learn, or something. You know what I'm saying. It's like, this is an area I'd like to
know more about. And I agree with you. Maybe we have a briefing or an update on here's what's
happening.
JEFF WALKER: Or even a second written report is what I was thinking. Just something-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, the other thing about this is that FasTracks was great. We were moving
along, and we were performing at a really high level with the participation rate. Now but it's
waning, there aren't that many contracts that are being let. So now it's probably more important
than ever to really give opportunities even though we have a much reduced program. And so I
think that there-- it's easy when things are going well to achieve those goals, but when we're
struggling with a construction program right now-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But for sure since Zamy's team has regular DBE/SBDE
opportunities, and she holds these meetings. And as Board members, maybe we should go check
one out because they're really great. You go and you meet the businesses who are interested, you
hear what's happening. And maybe that's what we need to do is extend an invitation to just drop
in on one of those events because they're really good.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'd also like to add that we do go through the SBE/DBE process with
all of the internal maintenance projects. But right now, as you see from the list at the back of the
budget, there are so many of those projects that are deferred, that slows things down on that as
well. But they do-- I just wanted to say that they do go through that process when they go out to
RFP for any of those quotes as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: I get the regular emails for DBE and SBE opportunities.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I do too.
PEGGY CATLIN: Because-- well, both of us, we're certified. And so I automatically get it. So I
know that there's some really good outreach. But I'm not sure that that's communicated to the rest
of the Board.
JEFF WALKER: Right, so maybe the message to Dave, to Mr. Genova, is to get this out more in
front of our faces.

DOUG TISDALE: Well, and quite honestly, it's not even so much a message to him because he
doesn't really decide which meetings we have. We decide that.
JEFF WALKER: No, I'm just saying if there's a way to relate this and the information that does
go into SBE and to us. Whether it's [INTERPOSING VOICES].
DOUG TISDALE: I think it is incumbent upon us to say, OK, fine. I think it sounds like Civil
Rights could meet quarterly. And even if it's just to say we don't have any funds to let out
contracts, but we did send out notices to everyone on the list just to validate that we've engaged
in a process.
BOB BROOM: Now, when the program started the major contractors were having a hard time
finding people to do this. Now you've built up all these firms that want to do it. And the amount
that they're going after has shrunk. So it's a different dynamic.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is a different dynamic. Challenge.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's a challenge.
JEFF WALKER: But what has happened with my [COUGH] committee, we had-- I remember
meeting them at a FasTracks mixer back in '03 or maybe early '04. And now they've got offices
all over the place and--. So as they get experience that's [INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: That's why I wanted Zamy to highlight that success. That demonstrates the
success of the program. We've talked a lot about a core goal where there weren't any needs in
there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I know,
DOUG TISDALE: I know, that's-- we do manage to fill the time, don't we?
BOB BROOM: Core goal number five.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Was also achieved.
DOUG TISDALE: And we already talked about the fact that there was concern about his
initiating contact with Board members. To reach out to them. And I'm looking at, on his-- I'm
sorry, on the summary sheet. Page 4, under core goal number five, under Achieved Goal, meets
periodically with Board members. Identify, confirm, and address priorities.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is not my comment, but I think it is something important to take back
to Dave, and I probably will go down to Pauletta. Should that blindsided by calls from reporters
about information we should have been briefed upon? Well, there are some folks who have a fun
time talking to press. I'm not one of them. And so I've gotten calls from reporters, and it would
just be nice to know that something could be potentially brewing just so I could prepare myself
for that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what--I think-DOUG TISDALE: That's a very valid-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think we should just get a training as Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I told Pauletta the same thing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So if you get a phone call-DOUG TISDALE: Funny you should mention.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It's OK to say, can I call you back. And then call. You don't have
to respond. You can just say, let me give you a call right back.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me get back to you on that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That would be great to go to the training because I was like-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You didn't know what to do.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh god, here we go.
DOUG TISDALE: I have to tell you, those are eight words-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, look who's here.
DOUG TISDALE: That will save your life, save your lunch. They were beaten into my head
many years ago.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mine too.
DOUG TISDALE: By a client who said, Doug, just say let me get back to you on that to any
reporter. And we got through a big deal. Anyway, to address the immediate question, yes, we're
scheduling media trainings for Board members now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's great.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have a correction. Director Walker remembered this. At the end of
this one, so Dave highlighted achieved, but also did highlight the "exceeds expectation" with this
particular goal.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think the difficulty for Chairman Broom and I is whenever we get
these things, you tend to focus on what do we tell the guy he needs to fix as opposed to, hey,
you've been doing a great job. That's not how these reviews typically go. Usually it's, here's what
you need to fix. So we are focused on that, and that's OK.

And I think in terms of the three "needs improvements" that it absolutely is fair to say that-- I'm
sorry, it's four. Excuse me. The four "needs improvements," the one really compelling thing is
the being blindsided by calls. And you can say, well, but that's not really his job. And the answer
is, of course it is.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, to do the best he can.
DOUG TISDALE: Right, he can have somebody there to make sure that it's addressed.
BOB BROOM: Hundred of issues out there at any given time, and it's awful hard to know which
ones going to rear its ugly head in the eyes of the press.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think the other part for me is when I look at this core goal and I
take it piece by piece, I go, OK. But then if I look at it holistically, he did do an "exceeds goals."
He's been a national panel member, he has been to every city council meeting, he's been at the
tack, he's been-- he did that transportation symposium. He's doing amazing work holistically. But
when you come down to our little world here, then you go, wait a minute. This reporter called
me.
And so I think that when I look at that goal, I think of it holistically and then I look at it how it
affected me. But taking into account that he's very respected across the country, and that in turn
is good for our agency. And being out in the transportation community and seeing the leverage
and the respect that he has is really quite amazing. So I will just say that for the record.
BOB BROOM: Just look how quickly we responded to the situation on the Boulder Turnpike.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: US-36. He's a key player.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, we had a plan immediately, practically, on how to deal with that. And it'd
be kind of nice to hear a little blow by blow about how that worked.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It would be.
DOUG TISDALE: He's going to do that tonight, I know.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can tell you while I was at the bus rodeo he shared with us that
he'd already been in meetings with CDOT, and they were having another meeting at 2:30. So he
was on it big time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and also this is a little bit of a learning tool for us as we move
forward. When we write these goals and come from the retreat, and then take Dave's tactical
plan, and hammer things out with him when we want to put the different elements on paper that
we learn from this process this year that next year-- well, we've already done one for next year,
but as we just move forward in the process, that it's ever-changing and we're ever learning how
better to fine tune and do this evaluation. And I've been here for almost nine years, and we are

miles from where we had been. So I just want to let everybody know that as well, that everything
is being heard, and whatever we need to change as we move forward, we do what we need to do.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Chair?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: And I apologize for having phoned in late. I was at that meeting. So this
may have been addressed. And just give me a real quick answer. So the purpose of doing this is
the two Chairs are going to go to Dave and talk about the evaluation. He's already seen all his
comments, right? So I guess part of what I think is if there are "needs improvements" that seem
like there are a number of comments and maybe more critical, you can talk to him about that.
He's seen these things. He's not going to ignore them, I would think. I would think he's going to
take them all to heart and work on them.
But one thing I saw, I want to make sure that-- he's already seen him, so there's no issue of
censorship. We're not we're not trying to trim out anything that we don't like or agree with. He's
seen them all, and that's all that matters. I think he knows what to do.
DOUG TISDALE: And you actually addressed a question that Director Mal-- Second Vice Chair
Malpiede-- Rivera-Malpiede wants to bring up after we get done with this part, based upon a
conversation he had with Treasurer Cook because it ties into what I think people thought I was
saying last time, which, of course, I wasn't. But in terms of the comments and how we report this
stuff publicly.
But in any event, yeah, you're right. And that's why I would suggest getting through this process
is perhaps easier than we're having ourselves do. Because yes, he has already seen all of this. The
question is, are there things that the committee wants to make sure that Chair Broom and I
highlight? Emphasize. Bring home. And I think we ask him-TROY WHITMORE: What do you think about these comments.
BOB BROOM: Is there anything that the Board could do to help you do your job better. If we're
making him spend an undue amount of time on unproductive issues, then he needs to tell us that.
Because that takes away from getting what needs to be done, done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's a good point.
BOB BROOM: We're down to task goals, I guess. And then we've got that one other question we
wanted to deal with before we rap up. Task goal one, Enhanced Safety and Security.
BARBARA MCMANUS: His self-assessment was "exceeds expectations."
SHONTEL LEWIS: If I may, Chair, I-- safety and security, I think what I've heard from David
and what I've heard from my constituencies are maybe different. and some alignment, but
different in how safety and security is defined. And I've heard increased police presence-- or the

transit police in buses and trains and platforms. And one of the things that I've heard from my
constituencies is quite the opposite of that. And so if there was one thing that I'd like for you all
to take back to Dave is to really think about how we define safety and security, and how our
constituencies and our riders are experiencing safety and security.
DOUG TISDALE: Help me understand that because I want to make sure I'm able to capture that.
So go on ahead and expand. I'm curious.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think oftentimes when we talk about-- at least what I've heard, when we
talk about safety and security it's usually an increase in police presence or security presence, or
cameras, or some kind of security mechanism. And what I've heard from my constituents, and
from communities, and from some of our riders is that that action actually does not feel like
increased safety for many communities. It actually feels like putting their bodies closer to those
things that are not safe. Or those things that they deem as not safe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm not understanding.
JEFF WALKER: Not everybody looks at police as-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: As a help.
PEGGY CATLIN: As a safety-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, I get it.
PEGGY CATLIN: More of a threat.
DOUG TISDALE: And because I had-- I'll tell you. I'm curious, and I want to-- the reason I do
want to understand this because I spent a fair amount of time talking to Mike Meador and Dave
this afternoon. Because I told Dave that I very much wanted to talk to him about the incident at
the Sheridan station, saying, somebody explain to me how this happened.
We pretty much have caught a free ride on this one, I'm thrilled to say, in some respects that we
have not been pilloried in the press. But that was an awful, abysmal, abominable circumstance
that arose. And if we had had a police presence on the train, the incident wouldn't have occurred
and the result wouldn't have occurred.
So I need to understand that, too. Because I just spent a half an hour telling them, look, you've
got to do something here because you just had one of the most awful circumstances and incidents
that we've had since I've been around.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, this is a really tough task. I don't care how you look
at it, it is tough. And I have worked with four Chiefs of Polices in Denver doing consulting, in
terms of how to do outreach to communities of diversity. And I've talked to Mike Meador about
this in depth as well.

I can tell you from my own experience-- If you see my son-in-law, he's African-American-- and
at the opening of the G Line I was with my family. And they were walking through. And the
minute Darnell went in, they started being followed. And the minute they saw me, they backed
off. And I hear that all the time. And it just is something that happens.
And so my thing has been consistently, can we look at the training? Who's being hired for
security, representing RTD, to talk about cultural diversity. People who ride our buses and trains.
And we do want to be safe. We don't want people to get hurt. We want to be-- as a woman, I
want to be able to get on the train anytime of the day or night and feel like I'm not going to be
accosted. But I think-BOB BROOM: Or when you get off.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Or when you get off, exactly. But I think that this is a bigger
issue in terms of just working together, to maybe talk about what is the best way to work with
communities. Just all communities, not just even communities of diversity. But people's
perspectives. So I'm on the A train all the time, and those officers are just fun. They're happy,
they're nice. I've been on the G Line and Director Cook has relationships with them, and they
joke with her. I've never seen them be disrespectful.
But I do think that this is a much bigger issue. And it has such a huge public footprint that we
really need to just maybe have some conversation around it. That's what I think.
BOB BROOM: But you have a feeling. It's just like there's an article in the paper this morning
about these cameras they've got on everybody. License plates and so forth. There's just too much
of that big brother crap going on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There is, I agree. But I'll tell you, you feel really uncomfortable- I don't know who you are-- if you see four cops standing there talking to each other. You
feeling immediately intimidated by that. It's just the culture of how people-- how I feel, in terms.
And I work with police officers all the time. So I think that it's just something to be aware of and
to know. And that it could be something we could look at. I don't know. What do you think?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I absolutely agree. And my advocacy is not say, get rid of all the transit
police. It's to say, just as you said, if there's training on it, is it biased? If there was training
around cultural competency, I just think those things are really important because while one
measure of safety may make some people feel safe, it makes other folks feel-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Intimidated. So just a matter of [INTERPOSING VOICES].
DOUG TISDALE: And it's good training on it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aren't you glad you asked me to be on this committee?
[LAUGHTER]

BOB BROOM: Yeah. Task goal number two.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Self-assessment, "exceeds expectation."
BOB BROOM: I don't need to go over that one, I guess.
DOUG TISDALE: So I had one negative comment, with an explanation.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I'm a little bit confused about that. The collective bargaining agreement
was quite a while ago, and it's not scheduled to be up again for a couple of years. So maybe it's
just a understanding what the union and salary pension plan were.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Heather just read out on that at her last meetings, but it was not prior
to this.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just don't see it as an issue.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, the Director didn't have an opportunity to have that information when
this was filled out. Is what Barbara is saying. Now we have better information. And yes, the
Director could ask at any time. And that's all right. But there is a sense of, no, I want this brought
to me rather than my having to reach out. And that's fine. You're entitled to that opinion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can make a general observation? I don't know if it's-- it feels like we read
these comments and it feels like we may feel it's necessary to have a response to that. And I don't
know if it is. And I think every Director should have their own opinion. And as colleagues we
should respect and appreciate that folks have varying opinions from us. And that we don't have
to defend our positions or for someone else to collect data and defend their positions or their
comments. And maybe that is the objective of this committee, and I don't-- maybe I missed it.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I agree. I think if the comments that are negative are the comments
that they are. And that's what was the point of my first comment was that Dave's seen all these.
And then he'll do what he needs to do. But I don't think it's our job to say we disagree or we
agree, or we agree, or you should do this and you should do that. It's what it is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: But it's part of the Board office's job to make sure that when I read
through this that I work with staff to make sure I get all these questions answered for the Board
of Directors. So that's where my comments come from, that that's part of my job and what I need
to do. And that I have to look at this, and I have to track have these been addressed since these
comments have come through. And we don't know what Director it is, so we have to only hope
that they're getting what they need, or else they come to myself or the Chair or staff and do some
know self-evaluation and getting the information that they're comfortable with.
DOUG TISDALE: It's is fair to say that this is a Board, and the tail does not wag the dog. This is
a Board and the tail does not wag the dog. You pay attention to tail, you address the tail, you
make sure if there is something legitimate that perhaps has been brought to your attention that

you were not aware of you absolutely address it. And you help Board office staff to understand
what they need to do.
But it's also-- if there is one person, it's the tail the dog. And the Board office staff is not here to
spend all of its time addressing the tail the dog because then you are disserving 14 other
Directors. No one person rules. I don't get my way on any of this stuff. I have to ask permission
for everything. No one person rules.
JEFF WALKER: And I think the benefit of the discussion is to help-- it is for me-- help me
understand another perspective. So if I-- or if my perception is this and somebody else votes this,
what am I missing?
TROY WHITMORE: No, I get it.
JEFF WALKER: And that even happens with folks that I agree with.
TROY WHITMORE: Sure. But I get Shontel's point. You got some of these "needs
improvement." I think the most number of comments was three. I don't want us to think that you
need eight for it to become an issue. So, Doug, what you were saying seems to indicate that you
got to have a lot more Board members chiming in and saying this is an issue before it's an issue. I
would disagree with that.
JEFF WALKER: Yes, so that discussion might help me understand I didn't think about that.
Yeah, that's a good point. So now we can address things that happen.
DOUG TISDALE: I don't think that's what I said. What I said was is the tail the dog, you got to
understand that. If there's one person who says it, it's not fair to say to Board staff, drop
everything. You must address this one person. If there's two or three, you say, well, wait a
minute. There's something going on here that perhaps I missed and we have to address. But if
there is one person who expresses something, it's unlikely that 14 of us are that out to lunch.
Possible, but unlikely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And in the same thing, if it is just one person, it's only one person. And so
you've satisfied 14 other Directors. And so you have maybe a little bit more time to address the
specific concern of that one individual.
BOB BROOM: We need this kind of speed up here. Otherwise I'm gonna miss dinner.
JEFF WALKER: Don't want to miss that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Achieved, ensure fiscal sustainability. Task goal three.
PEGGY CATLIN: Achieved goal.
JEFF WALKER: His self-evaluation's are on the back of page 12. His and ours.

TROY WHITMORE: Is this another one where there was one "needs improvement" with no
comment? Page 44. [INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Actually, there were two "needs improvements." there was only one
comment, but there were two people who said "needs improvement."
JEFF WALKER: One of the respondents didn't put in what area.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right, I think in our last conversation we said there might be a
disconnect here, if I remember correctly.
BOB BROOM: Any comments?
DOUG TISDALE: Nope.
BOB BROOM: Just need a good repair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What task core goal?
PEGGY CATLIN: Task goal four.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Four. [INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: It's on page 47 of your packet. I'm sorry, 46 is where it starts.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So address future transportation needs-BARBARA MCMANUS: "Exceeds expectations."
BOB BROOM: There's one negative comment here. And we've already talked about it.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah.
BOB BROOM: Now task goal five.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it's the Insure Asset Management State of Good Repair.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And that's "exceeds expectations."
TROY WHITMORE: And there were no "needs improvement" reported for that one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
TROY WHITMORE: Good.

BOB BROOM: And now rather than going through these additional comments, let's go to the
other question at the end, as far as what we're going to release publicly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, Mr. Chair, if I might. I have been thinking about this for a
while, and I've talked to Director Cook, and I know that she has shared-- talked to some other
Directors. One of the issues is our responsibility is to release to the public the numbers-- how
much Dave is making and his review and such.
But my concern is that I'm not feeling comfortable releasing the additional comments because I
think it's a personnel matter between us and the General Manager. Now, if there's a CORA
request, that's one thing. But I don't feel compelled to do everything. We're trying to really
develop this trust and relationship, and working together to move things forward. I believe in
transparency. But I think just on the core goals and the task goals, that information is one thing.
But the additional comments, I'm not sure that I feel comfortable putting that out there. And I
just wanted to bring this to the Committee. I know Director Cook also was interested in that
conversation.
PEGGY CATLIN: She also had a request in to Rolf. And Rolf said he was going to have to
review the contract. But in reviewing the audit report, it doesn't talk about releasing that
information.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: She also looked at the state.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I mean. The state audit report.
DOUG TISDALE: State audit, 2010.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: They just release the numbers, they don't release the additional
comments as well.
TROY WHITMORE: And I spoke with Director Cook as well. And I agree. I don't believe that
RTD needs to post every single item that we've gone through here on its website. Maybe some
kind of an executive summary that just says, here are the categories, here's what he did. And if
you want more information, contact the RTD offices or whatever. But we don't need to put it on
our website. But it's going to be on someone else's website anyway. So that's all right.
JEFF WALKER: Right, I agree. I don't see the need to release the comments, especially when
they're cloaked in secrecy. When they're-- when there's not a name attached to them.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I agree, and I think some of them are a little bit personal.
PEGGY CATLIN: So are we agreeing that what we should release is pages one through 10 of
this report? Page 10 being the General Manager's personal evaluation versus the Board, and the
statistics that back that up?
TROY WHITMORE: Packet page--

DOUG TISDALE: 10. Actually, 12 is the packet page.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, not these. I don't have-- I have [INTERPOSING VOICES].
DOUG TISDALE: Packet page 12.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, through 12.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, I think so. It's always-- just numbers. And if somebody wants to
make a CORA request or some kind of request to get everything, let them jump through the
hoops.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's actually packet page 3 through packet page 12.
TROY WHITMORE: I'd be good with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: What about you, Shontel, what do you think?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So I'm coming from Denver Public Schools and Susana's and Tom's
evaluations and comments are public. And so I would-- I wouldn't have an issue with it, but there
may be something that I'm missing.
BOB BROOM: I think we have a consensus on this.
DOUG TISDALE: I think it is a consensus. I think that it may be appropriate to-SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't have a problem with this being available to the public.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, no. I hear that too. I think it's appropriate for you in your report tonight
to mention that because we did have a discussion at the committee meeting last week, I believe,
where we talked about the fact that the information ultimately was going to be made available to
the public. Of course, I hear nothing that says it's not going to be made available to the public
upon request. It's just not going to be published outright to the public, is that's what I hear. But I
think it's perhaps appropriate at least to articulate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Can I ask a question of the group? If we do not have this available on your
website, and one of the things that I'd say Pauletta particularly has talked about is transparency in
this agency, and something that she wants to work on. And I imagine that there is going to be a
member of this Board who would probably say the same thing. Are we being transparent as a
Board by not really-- by not having this available to the public, and do you think the perception
from the public will be that we're not being transparent?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I kind of don't think so because we're not saying it won't ever be
transparent. If you want to actually see more, you can request it. We're just saying as a Board,
this was our body of work that we worked on. This is what we said and here was the responses.

And you can look at it. If you want to delve into it deeper, then you can request that. I just don't
know that we need to put the whole thing out there.
PEGGY CATLIN: And this is the first year that the additional comments sections have been
expanded. We didn't have that included in previous years.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it's not-- there's not a precedence with that.
BOB BROOM: Anything else to come before the committee before we wrap up?
PEGGY CATLIN: I was curious when you would be scheduling the meeting with Dave.
BOB BROOM: As soon as possible, I guess.
DOUG TISDALE: As soon as we reasonably can.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I would ask that this not be released to the public until
after Dave and you have that discussion.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Always.
DOUG TISDALE: And actually I think we-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just to reiterate.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, right. I think we already said that last time, and I think that it's valid to
reiterate it. Yes. But we already did say nothing's going out until-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: There needs to be a reminder.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks.

