Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on 6/11/08
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Linda Jones, Temporary Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 12, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
June 11, 2008 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:
Board
Members Absent:

Chair Bruce Daly, Directors Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, McMullen,
Pulliam, Quinlan, Yamrick
Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Martinez, Ruchman and
Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Dave Genova, Brian Matthews,
Tony McCauley, Bill Porter, Scott Reed, Dean Shaklee, John Tarbert

Others Present:

Eric Biga (Veolia), Bruce Behncke (Veolia), Tom Coogan (Route Match
Software), Tex Elam (Centennial), Gary Forbes (First Transit), Mike
Setzer (Veolia) Marilyn Shazor (Veolia), Zillie Fonz (Rocky Mountain
News)

Call to Order:

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:31

AGENDA:
I. Recommended Action
Bruce Abel set the stage for this action by referring to the F&A document that shows a
$9.9M shortfall in the operational budget of which $6M is associated with the increase
in fuel costs. If the 2007 year-end Transit & Development reserve surplus of $8.1M is
approved, $1.8M is needed, taking into account a possible $1.3 savings presented in
F&A document. Otherwise, we are looking at the $9.9M deficit. He then turned it over
to Bill Porter who shared information about the public hearings.
Bill Porter stated that after 12 public meetings that included 286 participants and 379 of
additional comments plus another 101 petitions, there are a few changes from what was
proposed one month ago. The most notable changes include:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 2 of 6






G Line—the initial plan was to eliminate the G line in its entirety. However, in
the last couple of months ridership on the G line has increased to a maximum
load of 40-70 people during peak hours. This is still not at standard but total
elimination would put an excessive burden on the H-Line. The current
recommendation is to provide four trips including reverse trips during peak hours
with elimination of non-peak trips.
The Route Lynx has been added as a routing change although it has not started
yet. The schedule will begin at the end of June.
The 145X proposed change has been deferred to January due to the fact there
was an error in the public brochure which may have affected ridership.

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 17, 2008 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of
approximately $3,541,400, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.

Motion:

Director McMullen made
the motion to move the
recommended action on the
August Service Change to
the full Board on 6/17/08.

Second:

Director Daly seconded
the motion.

Discussion: Director McMullen thanked Jesse for adding the rush-hour service of the G-Line
which has calmed the concerns of riders.
Director Kinton requested clarification of feedback from the Highlands Ranch meeting where
almost 50 people showed up. His specific concerns had to do with call-n-ride services.
Director Kinton commented that a lot of people from the Call-n-ride will shift to the Access n- ride, a much more expensive alternative. He feels demand was there to keep the service.
While he understands the need to cut costs, he thinks there are other options to be
examined, if only during peak service, that would still service the segment of the population
affected in Highland Ranch (470-University).
Bill Porter commented that at the Highlands Ranch meeting most of the concerns were on
the Call-n-Ride, followed by the AT, and then the 470 LTD and the G Line. RTD has a
solution on the G-Line. Even with rider suggestions of cutting the AT back to C470 and
University, the AT needs to be cut back to the Arapahoe Park-n-ride to save the dollars
shown, as ridership is too low at 300 people to justify keeping busses running 21 hours/day
7 days/week.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 3 of 6

Bruce Abel confirmed that staff believes it appropriate to change the G-Line as reflected in
this paper. Ridership on the Call-n-Ride or the AT did not lead to a staff recommendation of
change due to our financial circumstances.
Director McMullen commented that in meetings he has attended, riders have expressed they
would rather have higher fares than cutbacks.
Bruce Abel confirmed that we did hear that same comment with public hearings.
Director Daly expressed a concern on this action and indicated he will be requesting
deference on the Route U. He asked to have this item moved to recommended action on the
agenda.
Vote On
Motion:

The motion passed 5 in
favor (Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, McMullen, and
Pulliam) and 1 against
(Kinton). Directors Yamrick
and Quinlan had not yet
arrived.

Chair Daly declared the motion PASSED.
II.

Updates–
 APTA Customer Service Peer Review
Bruce Able presented that the APTA staff is tentatively scheduled to come on site
August 11-14 to conduct the Customer Service Peer Review. The Peer Review Team
would consist of: Fred Gumm, General Manager of Capital Metro in Austin; Vince
Pulligrin, the Operations Manager of MTC in Minneapolis, Cecelia Cooper Smith, General
Manager from Golden Gate Transit in San Francisco; and Joe Caruso, recently retired as
the Director of Marketing from Milwaukee Company Transit. What is needed from the
Board is a decision on whether to pursue at the projected cost of $12-14K given the
current financial status.
Chair Kemp recommended this be brought to the Board as a whole next Tuesday for a
vote since there were a lot of Board members that wanted this survey who were not
present at this meeting.


Update on Route Match

Bruce Abel presented that there are three components to the Route Match program
which is the software program for the ADA Access-a-ride Program: The Reservations
System (or the call intake where the customer calls in to schedule a ride); the
Scheduling System (the customers complaint is placed onto the best run by the

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 4 of 6

software); and the Dispatching System (the real-time process for the dispatcher
tracking of the operators out in the field to respond to real-time customer complaints.)
The system went live last Friday with the Reservation component, Friday night with the
Scheduling component, and Saturday with the Dispatching component.
The
Dispatching Component is working well. The Scheduling component continues to
provide some challenges. The Reservation component has challenges. Since Sunday the
phone queue was filled to maximum capacity where callers received the busy signal
rather than being put in queue. Staff is working with Route Match, the First Transit
Center call folks. Although a possible increase was anticipated and hoped to be
instituted by June 1, IT is working with Quest to increase the phone capacity now
scheduled for June 18, but may occur as early as June 12. There has been an
improvement in the time it takes to get a call to completion of that call from
approximately 7 down to 4 minutes. The growing challenges in the Reservation System
are being addressed.
Director Daly made the observation that at this time Director McMullen had left but
Director Quinlan and Yamrick had arrived.
Questions from Board members included:
Director Yamrick inquired as to whether we have enough trained operators. Bruce Abel
answered that we supplemented the reservation staff and added four additional
reservationists in anticipation of the changeover. This effort helps staff build the phone
queue more quickly.
Director Daly asked Bruce Abel if he is fully confident of the staff down there or if the
problems are merely technical. Bruce Abel responded it will be a combination of
improvements on all areas. The staff always works with a business process associated
with a particular software program. We have seen the impact of people becoming more
familiar with the system and with its shortcuts.
Director Yamrick inquired as to what happens to complaints that come in that are not
put into the GMR process. She asked if there was a formal process in place for the
count of calls that come into the TIC. Scott Reed attempted to explain the
communication process but Director Yamrick remained unclear on if RTD has a formal
process to capture those callers who may have gotten disconnected but whose count
did not get counted or responded to from a customer service perspective.


Update on Federal Charter Regulations

Bruce Abel presented that the FTA has come back to RTD to say that we can revert to
our prior practice regarding Sports Ride Services, not providing one-half fare service to
the elderly and disabled or honoring monthly / ECO passes provided these fares are
during non-peak hours. This will help RTD from a revenue perspective in helping to keep
these services whole. We have one Monday-night pre-football season game to contend
with. RTD will continue to run the Rockies season the way we are. A company bulletin

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 5 of 6

will be done. Staff was directed to send a response to the FTA requested a waiver
since there are no weekday games.
Chair Kemp inquired as to an update on our submission to the FTA concerning charter
service regulations regarding the DNC and providing additional busses because they
could not be filled in the public sector. Bruce Abel responded that the current status is
RTD has not received a waiver from the FTA at this point in time. It is a very hot topic
of conversation in Washington D.C. as well as with private carriers. He is not sure at
this point that RTD would get the waiver to provide the service to the DNC.


Update on Mandatory Overtime by Operators in Longmont

Bruce Abel introduced Gary Forbes as the new manager in Longmont. The comment
was made that mandatory overtime is greatly reduced. It is very rarely imposed
anymore and some drivers are complaining that they do not get overtime anymore.


APTA Outstanding Transit System Award

Bruce Abel stated that a small working group (public affairs/marketing) at staff level will
work to develop some recommendations on winning the 2008 Transit System of the
Year Award. Given the economic times, it will be handled in a low key but appropriate
manner.
III.

Other Matters –
Director Yamrick stated there are some rumors that in Jefferson County busses are
dirty, uniforms are disheveled, and body odors emanate from the drivers, as well as
rudeness & denial from some drivers that they work for RTD. She inquired if we could
have a secret shopper. Director Quinlan indicated he would be a secret shopper.
Director Quinlan brought up the Call-in Ride concerns from when Brian hosted the
conference in Parker and in Highlands Ranch. He reiterated what Director Yamrick spoke
to earlier about catching a complaint if the queue went into overdrive. During peak hours
they have high ridership but during low-peak times, low ridership. When people call the
Call-n-Ride they are booked out with repetitive trips; they cannot take new customers. A
refusal of the customer is called a denial and it is not recorded. When we are looking at
reducing Call-n- Ride service and we are at the margin for ridership, we have to be very
considerate of that. It’s a legitimate challenge. We cannot have the ridership that we
want because it is a small bus running at capacity.
Brian Matthews mentioned that Parker has 12 people on waiting list just to get in during
peak hours. RTD carries a lot of people during peak hours, but the average comes out to
less than 3 people per hour.
Director Yamrick asked if denials could be placed on the monthly report for the Board
members to see. Brian Matthews indicated they could possibly come up with something.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 6 of 6

IV.

Next Meeting Date: This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service Committee
will be Tuesday, July 8 at 5:30 p.m.

V.

Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:25pm.

