1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kenneth Riley, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
SEPTEMBER 20, 2011 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Chair Kemp added that it was his privilege and honor to announce Jeff Walker as the new
Director for District D. Chair Kemp read a letter from Mayor Hancock which had enclosed the
certificate designating Mr. Walker’s appointment.

II.

SWEARING IN OF NEW BOARD MEMBER-DISTRICT D
Rolf Asphaug officiated the swearing in of Mr. Jeff Walker as the new Director for RTD
District D.

III.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board Members were present at roll call. Director Riley was absent from this
meeting.

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
Tim Brosnahan, LRT Scada Controller, 20 years
Chair Kemp and General Manager Washington acknowledged that Mr. Brosnahan was not
present at the Board Meeting. However, Chair Kemp wanted to recognize his 20 years of
service and indicated their sincere appreciation.
Special Recognition
Chair Kemp and Director James presented a Plaque to Claire Huckfeldt in recognition of
Catherine McCormick’s Transit Shelter Advocacy.
Bruce Abel presented the following Roadeo winners with their awards:
RTD - Maintenance Team Competition: 1st Place Boulder
Larry Perkins, Ben Carroll and Marcos Carrillo

Private Contractors – Maintenance Team Competition: 1st Place, First Transit Denver
Mamush Wube, Cesar Hernandez, Sileshi Adgolign
RTD - Service and Cleaning Competition: 1st Place
Mark Buyalsai, Platte (not present)
RTD - Bus Operator Competition:
1st Place: John Deschner, East Metro
2nd Place: Dan French, Boulder
3rd Place: Robert Williams, Platte
Private Contractors - Bus Operator Competition:
1st Place: Jose Ek Chan, First Transit Broadway
2nd Place: Abniger Ek Chan, First Transit Broadway
3rd Place: Paul Zadra, Sr., First Transit Broadway
Bruce Abel added that there were a few awards that were not on the agenda that he would
like to hand out, and those were for the Board of Directors and members of the Senior
Leadership Team.
RTD – Board Driving Competition
1st Place: Tom Tobiassen
2nd Place: Larry Hoy
3rd Place: Bill James
RTD – Senior Leadership Team
1st Place: Austin Jenkins
2nd Place: Austin Jenkins
3rd Place: Austin Jenkins
David Genova and Robin McIntosh presented the following Roadeo winners with their
awards:
Snow Plow Roadeo Winners:
Tandem
1st Place: Jim Shaw (Boulder) and Randy Wagner (Elati). Only Randy was
present.
2nd Place: 2nd Place: Randy Hellinger and Clarence Pauls (DS)
3rd Place: Louis Dorrance and James Mohan (DS)
Single
1st Place: Guy Pierce (DS) and Richard Seedroff (DS)
2nd Place: David Waite and James Salazar (EM)
3rd Place: Bob Alford and Larry Mitchell (Platte)
Chair Kemp asked General Manager Washington to present his Leadership Team to the
Board.
General Manager Washington noted that he had briefed the Board several months ago
regarding the Strategic Leadership Development Program that we have put together to invest
in our human capital here at RTD. We have created a 5-prong program that we have moved
forward to ensure that we make a sustainable organization in terms of how we invest in our
employees and a viable succession plan as we move forward. The five parts of that program
include: the Leadership Academy, Implementing and stressing current training programs,

Mentoring, Departmental Training, and a Multi-Agency Exchange Partnership Program. There
will be 26 individuals including salaried and represented participating in the 12 month
Leadership Academy program and those are: Gary Googins, Gunter Kramer, Gina Callahan,
Greg Smith, Hilberto Medina, Michael Wilbanks, Nataly Erving, Ron Posey, Steve Gieske, Pete
Muniz, Henry Stopplecamp, Isan Fan, Nadine Lee, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Doug
MacLeod, Teresa Sedmak, Jenny Barket, Aprajit Desai, Susan Wood, Douglas Carrignton,
Louis Cripps, George Chenault, Martha Bembry, Matthew Cross, and Bob Grado.
General Manager Washington added that the president of ATU 1001, Julio Rivera is a great
supporter of this program as well.
V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Chair Kemp noted that a lot of people are here tonight to discuss service changes and offer
service suggestions. Chair Kemp reiterated that the action being requested is to allow staff to
take the proposed service changes to the public to solicit comments which will be
incorporated into the final recommendations in October. Again, no Action on service changes
will be requested tonight.
Caitlin Magee was speaking on behalf of her daughter who utilizes the route 32 for both
school and work. Ms. Magee explained that removing this route would eliminate her
daughter’s ability to get to and from work at the zoo as well as the other employees and
patrons.
James Triplett noted that service change public hearings do not include one for access-a-ride
passengers and asked for a meeting specifically for that group. As we go to public hearings,
there is never a representative from access-a-ride that can answer our questions. These
proposed changes could cause people to lose their jobs, or require them to move.
Robert Doi explained that he lived in Windsor Gardens and was concerned about bus patrons
having to find their way to Alameda Station and back. Most of the residents at Windsor
Gardens do not have the ability to drive a car and the bus is their only way of transportation.
Beth Allred noted that her comments were not only for herself, but also for the Colorado
Center for the Blind. Ms. Allred’s concerns were for routes 60, 401 and the 67. As of now
the service changes that are proposed would eliminate service west of Mineral Station. That
would mean that all of the students for the Colorado Center for the Blind who utilize those
buses everyday to get from school to home would have to relocate. While Call-n-Ride service
has been proposed, it would not be adequate to service 30 or more students who have to get
to school at the same time. This is their only access for remaining independent.
Nehemiah Hall indicated that he was representing the National Federation of the Blind of
Denver and Mile High Chapter and asked that the routes that are being cut be considered
more carefully. Also, Mr. Hall noted that the service change public hearings should be listed
on the RTD website since he found the information from a 3rd party website.
Amy Westby explained that she is an elected representative for the Community College of
Denver’s Student Government and was here to present feedback from students regarding the
light rail. Many students have reported that overcrowding is a significant issue both to and
from campus. Students are requesting increased service and additional train cars during
school peak hours.

Adam Dempsey stated his concern for the Windsor Gardens community. The majority of
Windsor Gardens residents cannot drive or should not and this could create a safety issue.
Mr. Dempsey further added that Smart Cards should be tested in Denver instead of Boulder.
Paul Jurado the Student Government President of the Community College of Denver,
explained that students are reporting overcrowding between the hours of 6-9 a.m. and from
4-7 p.m. and many have indicated that they unable to board trains. There is a great parking
impact due to parking lots being razed for the construction of new buildings. Also, students
would appreciate additional cars on trains to keep up with service needs.
VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director Bagley requested a correction to the Planning & Development Committee to indicate
chaired by Director Bagley.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley reported that the committee had met earlier today to review the
summaries from the Q2 online survey. The upcoming survey from Q3, 2011 will go out
the first week in October and will close out on the 15th of October. The Committee also
reviewed the timeline for the General Manager’s 2011 Evaluation process. They are
doing a stellar job in moving everything ahead and demonstrating fair and transparent
process to the state and constituents.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST 16, 2011
MOTION:

Director Malpiede moved for the adoption of the August 16,
2011 Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Deadwyler, Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 0 against.
Directors Daly and Walker abstained. Riley was absent from
this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF AUGUST 23, 2011
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the August 23,
2011 Special Board Meeting Minutes.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Daly noted that Director O’Boyle was listed as absent
but a comment by O’Boyle was reflected in the minutes. The
Board office will check the tape and make the appropriate
correction.
An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Deadwyler, Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 0 against.
Directors Daly and
Walker abstained. Director Riley was
absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp explained that he will begin reporting on a number of activities by the Chair
and the Board members. The Chair’s report will incorporate the metro Mayor’s Caucus
and other items of interest and community involvement by the Board.

XI.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 General Manager Washington reported that he and staff had testified before the Public
Utilities Commission on the West Corridor Crossing. They will modify their practice
so that RTD will seek PUC approval before starting the project. This will be part of
the program management plan.
 General Manager Washington reported that he will be presenting before the Cincinnati
Leadership Exchange Group on Wednesday, September 21. He will talk about
FasTracks and Eagle P3 to an anticipated group of 80 people.
 General Manager Washington indicated that the Industry Forum planned for
September 27 fits well into the goals of innovative and creative financial solutions.
Approximately 400 people have been invited to this event.
 General Manager Washington provided an update on the fatal rail accident that
occurred on the D Line that afternoon. RTD expresses its condolence to the family of
the victim.

XII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to
approve the unanimous consent agenda,
items A through E.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,

Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Riley was absent from this
meeting.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

A. RESOLUTION NO. ______ SERIES OF 2011, NORTH METRO SEGMENT 1 COMMUTER
RAIL PROJECT PROPERTY ACQUISITION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as
necessary for construction of the North Metro Segment 1 Commuter Rail Project and
authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain
law.
B. Boulder Junction – Design / Build Contract Award
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to award the
development of the Boulder Junction TOD Project (the “Project”) to the successful
design/build team of Adolfson & Peterson Construction and Pedersen Development
Company, including award of a design/build contract to Adolfson & Peterson, in an
amount not to exceed $7,145,816, and authority to negotiate and execute all
additional documents necessary for the development of the Project, including transfer
of interests in the property. Funding for this project is included in the 2011 Amended
Budget for the City of Boulder/RTD intermodal Facility Project.
C. Authorization of RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.
D. Execution of 2012 Option with Global Transportation for the provision of
Access-a-Ride Service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing
contract between RTD and Global Transportation for the provision of Access-a-Ride
paratransit services in order to incorporate an option for the provision of Access-aRide service for the period January 1, 2012 thru December 31, 2012. This contract
amendment will be for one year in an amount not to exceed $6,205,151. This will
conclude our 5 year contract with Global Transportation. The combined total
amounts for this contract, including all option years, shall not exceed $24,991,088
for the five year period. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel
costs in amounts estimated to total approximately $2,457,532 for the initial three
year period and $4,445,115 for the five year period.
E. January 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed January 2012 Service Changes (Attachment
A) on to public review and comment.

XIII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
F. Renaming of East Corridor Colorado Boulevard Station
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the name 40th and Colorado Station for the station on the East
Corridor called Colorado Boulevard Station in the Environmental Impact Statement
documents. This recommendation is consistent with the current Board policy on
station naming.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
recommended action item F.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Director Deadwyler shared that she had met with 31 of
her constituents. While they were not particularly
happy with having two “Colorado Stations”, they can
live with the name. Director Cohen commended
Director Deadwyler for her efforts in talking to her
constituents. Director McMullen also indicated he could
live with the name.

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against. Director Riley was
absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

G. Authorization to Award the Design Build Contract for the Wadsworth Parking
Structure
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Design/Build contract with Swinerton Builders not to exceed
$14,000,000. This contract is for the design and construction of the RTD FasTracks
West Rail Line Wadsworth Parking Structure. Funding for this project is included in
the 2011 FasTracks budget for the West Corridor Parking Garages, and was provided
through the Certificates of Participation (COP) issued in 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of
$1,415,319 from the Light Rail Maintenance Facility project to the West Corridor
Parking Garages project to fund project elements that are not eligible to be funded
through the COP.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to approve the
recommended action item G.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against. Director Riley was
absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

H. New On-vehicle Advertising Opportunities
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to implement a pilot program to allow one light
rail vehicle to be completely wrapped with an RTD advertisement at no cost to RTD to
determine the viability of permitting this type of advertising on the rail fleet. In
addition, it is recommended that the current on-vehicle advertising contract with
Lamar Transit Advertising be amended to permit the installation of “headliner”
advertising signage above the windows on RTD buses.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve the
recommended action item H.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Director McMullen commented that the Board should
not be micromanaging this issue and allow staff to
generate as much revenue as possible. Director O’Boyle
asked for a clarification if the headliner was exterior.
He stated he could not support exterior headliner.

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 1 against (O’Boyle). Director Riley was
absent from this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Kemp noted that an Executive Session would not be held at this meeting.

XV.

OLD BUSINESS
Director Hoy reminded all Director’s about the district reapportionment process and urged
those that have not yet made an appointment to speak with him or Director McMullen to do
so as soon as possible. Director Hoy added that we are working with an outside firm to
complete this project.
Chair Kemp asked that Director’s Hoy and McMullen email the Board with the final date for
the Director’s to provide their input regarding individual district reapportionment. He also
asked then to get with Director Walker.

XVI.

NEW BUSINESS
Director James indicated that he visited the block of Court and Tremont where the 16th street
pilot paver program is taking place and indicated that the pavers look really great.
Director Tayer added that he had an opportunity to tour the West Corridor and noted that it is
an eye opener not only for the project but for what we are accomplishing in that community.
Director Daly reminded the Board of the tour of the West Corridor with the lobbyists
(Brandeberry) on October 11 and October 27.
Director Cohen welcomed Director Walker to the Board. Chair Kemp added that Director
Walker is a great asset to the Board. Director Walker expressed he was happy to be here
where mass transit is taken seriously and is supported by the community. In Cincinnati, Ohio
where he is recently lived, the value of mass transit was not understood.

XVII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:55 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, September 20, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District N
District B
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Kenneth Riley

District K

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Jeet Desai
Rolf Asphaug
Jane Donovan
Jenny Barket
Sherry Ellebracht
Jeff Becker
Nataly Erving
Martha Bembry
Isan Fan
Shirley Bennett
Dan French
John Deschner
David Genova
Gina Callahan
Mike Gil
Jessie Carter
Terry Howerter
Doug Carrington
Kate Iverson
Marcos Carrillo
Austin Jenkins
Ben Carroll
Nadine Lee
Rick Clarke
Tony McCaulay
Carolyn Conover
Robin McIntosh Jr.
Matthew Cross
Patrick McLaughlin

Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Caitlin Magee
Brian Middleton
Pete Muniz
Tina Muniz
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Larry Perkins
Richard Petty
Scott Reed
Richard Rost
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna

Dean Shaklee
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Greg Smith
Greg Straight
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Paulette Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Christina Tubb
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter
Randy Wagner
Phil Washington
Robert Williams

OTHERS PRESENT:
D. Abare – First Transit, Selishi Adgolign – First Transit, Beth Allred – National Federation of
the Blind, Dennis Ashley, Celina Benavidez – Celina Inc., Abniger Ek Chan – First Transit,
Jose Ek Chan – First Transit, George Chenault, Adam Dempsey, Ashley Dew, Robert Doi,
Carlos Gonsalez – First Transit, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001, Mike H., Nehemiah Hall –
National Federation of the Blind, Matthew Helfant – Douglas County, Cesar Hernandez –
First Transit, Claire Huckfedlt, Paul Jurado – Auraria Campus, Wesley Majerus, Andrew
Murray – Metro State, Ryan O., Rick Peveler – First Transit, James Pilkington, Ron Posey,
Julio Rivera – ATU 1001, Chris Taylor – Spectrum AV, James Triplett – National Federation
of the Blind, Amy Westby – Auraria Campus, Mamush Wube – First Transit, Christina Zedra,
Donald Zedra, Paul Zedra Sr. – First Transit, Paul Zedra Jr.,

