1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, July 8, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 8:06 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

8:04 PM
8:04 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

8:05 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

8:02 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Absent
Present
Present

8:05 PM
8:04 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:04 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

8:04 PM
8:05 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

8:05 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Absent

8:04 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Chair

Present

8:02 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Chuck
Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter,
Tina Jaquez, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Cheryl Scalfani, Steve Sholtz, Bill Sirois, Cherie Sprague,
Henry Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Walt Stringer, Stan Szabelak, John
Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Brian Welch, Susan Wood, Nikita Zanichkowsky

Others Present:

Nic Dial, Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Matthew Helfant, Nate
Herman, Eugene Howard, Mike Peek, Jeanne Shreve, Joe Triplett,
Gary van Dorn, Hugh Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• 2015 - 2020 Strategic Budget Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP).
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 15, 2014
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, noted that the
Directors have received updates on the 2015-2020 Strategic
Budget Plan (SBP) since March, 2014. He then introduced
Jannette Scarpino, Manager for Budget and Financial Analysis.
She presented the SBP starting on page 85 of the July 8,
2014 FasTracks Monitoring/Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Meeting Packet for approval. She noted the SBP is
RTD’s six year financial plan updated annually. The attached
SBP incorporates the 2014 amended budget and includes all
known adjustments and best estimates at this time. She
pointed out the SBP is balanced through the six year period
after incorporating into the projections both the June sales/use
tax forecast from CU-Leeds School of Business and
reductions, eliminations or deferrals of SBP requested projects.
No service reductions are proposed in the SBP throughout this
period. She also highlighted the revenue and operating
expenses estimated for the SBP period.

Director Folska asked if the assumed 10% fare increase for
2016 was for the $2.25 fare. Jannette Scarpino replied that
the assumed fare increase would be across the board.
Director Folska pointed out that RTD is in the process of
reviewing the fare structure through a Fare Task Force and
asked if it would be reasonable to know if an increase would
happen in 2016. General Manager Phil Washington answered
that the Fare Task Force will have results by the 3rd or 4th
quarter of 2015 in order to be implemented in 2016. He also
clarified that the Board will engage in a fare analysis every 3
years. At that time the board can consider an increase, a
decrease, or remaining at the same level. Director Folska
pointed out that a 10% fare increase seems insignificant when
compared to an almost $500 million operational budget.
Director Lubow asked if fare increases have historically been
at 10%. She also asked how a different amount would affect
the SBP. Jannette Scarpino answered that the Consumer
Price Index (CPI) is typically 2-3% annually. The 10% figure
for a 3 year period is an average. She added that a different
CPI would certainly affect the SBP. The presented SBP has a
positive balance partly due to a fare increase assumption. She
also noted that on every SBP staff works on expenses that
can be reduced. Operating costs are the last expenses to be
affected.
Director Bagley confirmed with Jannette Scarpino that the SBP
is for the base system and not for any FasTracks components.
Under this distinction, staff doesn’t perceive an increase in
ridership affecting the SBP.
Director Solano asked if any study has looked into if lowering
the fare rate would lead to an increase in ridership. Terry
Howerter said staff looks at elasticity whenever changes are
considered. He noted this is one of the items the Fare Task
Force will look into. Terry Howerter mentioned that staff used
the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG)
predictions when assuming no growth in ridership. He added
that the last fare increase was in 2011 and that assuming a
fare increase every 3 years helped balance the SBP. Without
fare increases it would be hard to keep pace with operating
expenses. Director Solano noted that he had more questions
that he would like to think through.
Director Bagley noted that when looking at fare changes it is
important to take into consideration fare box revenue. He

mentioned one of the goals of the Fiscal Sustainability Task
Force from a few years ago was to raise the fare box revenue
from 20% to 25%. RTD is moving toward reaching that
objective. Terry Howerter mentioned that staff needs to
report to the Board on this matter. General Manager
Washington added that the Fare Task Force’s work would
contribute to the fare box recovery rate, which includes
passes and other types of fare media. He also reminded the
Directors to not make any assumptions on the results from
Fare Task Force. Currently RTD is on an unsustainable course
with expansions, operations, and people who think the rates
should be lower. At some point, RTD will have to do
something.
Director Folska asked why RTD could not get additional
revenue from alcohol and tobacco sales taxes. Sales tax
parity and marijuana tax have proven successful. Marla Lien,
General Counsel, noted that RTD does get some cigarette tax
as a result of sales tax parity. Any further taxes would require
a vote of the people.
Director Menten mentioned that the original intent of the Fare
Task Force was to simplify the system but it sounds like it is
evolving into evaluation of fares. General Manager
Washington said the main objective is simplification of fare
structure with the possibility of other ideas coming out of the
study.
Committee Chair Walker asked staff if any of the deferred
projects would lead to a greater expense in the future.
Jannette Scarpino answered that senior staff agreed there are
no other repercussions beyond the normal rise in cost due to
annual inflation.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Larry Hoy, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

General Manager Washington informed the Directors that he had just
received word via text message that President Obama was visiting Denver
Union Station (DUS) and The Crawford Hotel. All RTD operations at DUS
have been temporarily suspended.

C. Updates

• May Monthly Financial Status Report
Terry Howerter introduced Doug MacLeod, Manager for Financial Reporting,
who presented the May Monthly Financial Status Report starting on page
147 of the July 8, 2014 FasTracks Monitoring/Financial Administration and
Audit Committee Meeting Packet. Overall there was a decrease in Ridership
and Fare Revenue but an increase in Sales & Use Tax. Doug MacLeod
pointed out that the monthly report usually compares current numbers to
this date’s last year numbers. The May, 2014 report compares current
numbers with the budgeted numbers because that gives a better indication
of where RTD is at compared to where we plan to be.
Director Bagley thanked Doug MacLeod for adding the “actual” line item in
comparison to the “budgeted” line item on the updated report.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Washington informed the Directors that President Obama has left
DUS. The station is open again. The bus and light rail network is catching up to its
schedules.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 14, 2014
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) Collective Bargaining Agreement – Payments to Health and
Welfare Trust – Determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to
negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move into
Executive Session under C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e)
Collective Bargaining Agreement.
Director Rivera Malpiede seconded the motion.

Committee Chair Walker adjourned the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee into Executive Session at 8:36 p.m.

G. Adjourn from Executive Session
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee meeting from Executive Session at 9:23 p.m.
The meeting adjourned at 9:23 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

