Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Executive Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

April 10, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held April 10, 2012 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Malpiede; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James,
Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, J. Skip Brown, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
James Cook, Martell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil,
Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara
McManus, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross- Amato, Jannette
Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Greg
Smith, Mike Turner, Michael Washington, Phil Washington, Susan
Wood, Don Young

Others Present:

Laura Aldrete – PB, Dan Cohen – DU, Gary Forbes – First Transit, Stan
Gronek – ATU1001, Lee Johnson-First Transit Commerce City, Stu
‘Livensparger – First Transit, Chris Nevitt, Seth Patterson, Larry
Tenenholz – Veolia, Chris Wargetv – DU, Katrina Wert – CCD/WIN
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 6:43 p.m.

Update
 SBO Compliance Monitoring and Reporting – James Cook, Acting Civil Rights
Manager, and Michael Washington from Small Business Office briefly went
over the DBE/SBE monthly compliance reports putting emphasis on the 300M
committed by business and the 120M that has already been paid out to small
business.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on April 10, 2012
Page 2 of 2

Director McMullen stated that in the past there were several issues with the
payments out to small businesses being late and asked if that has been resolved. He
also questioned how the program is being communicated to the community.
Michael Washington states that they are all up to date with payments and that the
program sends out email blasts and that a lot of the information is communicated at
the DBEAC meetings as well.


WIN Program – Katrina Wert of CCD briefly gave an update of the WIN
program sharing that the program has grown from 40 projects to 47 projects
since the last meeting in February so there is growth and they will believes
that it will continue to grow. The flyers that were included in the packet are
for the Directors to pass out in their communities offering information sessions
for the WIN program.

Director Tayer asked what is being done to track the progression of the workers in
the program. James Cook states that the tracking is now built into the report that
they generate and through support services.
Director Hoy gave words of encouragement in response to the report showing that 2
workers were replaced and 1 terminated stating that not everyone will work out in
this program but to keep pressing forward and continue doing a great job.
Director O’Boyle stated that on the employment summary it shows DTP having a lot
of the employees and asked if RTD is hiring any of the workers. Katrina Wert stated
yes, RTD is hiring some of the employees and we should soon see that change over
the months as RTD hires on more of the temporary staff.
Director Cohen asked what the projection start of work is for those that started in
the program over 8 months ago that are not currently working. Katrina Wert explains
that they are currently working on developing other employment relationships that
would enable them to place those currently not employed.
Director Malpiede briefly talks about the outreach program.
II.

Other Matters
None

III.

Next Meeting Date – June 19, 2012

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:05 p.m. to the Finance Administration and Audit
Committee meeting.

