Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 16, 2012,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

February 16, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February
16, 2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, Directors Bagley, Cohen and Tayer.
Director Malpiede participated via phone.
Other Board Members
Present:
Directors Daly and Williams
Subject:

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Call to Order:

I.

Sherry Ellebracht, Paula Perdue, General
Manager Washington
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:02
p.m.

Approval of New Government Relations Standing Committee Changes
Director Daly, Chair of this committee, kicked the discussion off by
indicating a change has been made to the name from Legislative Committee
to Government Relations Committee to reflect the broader scope. The
change was implemented with the awarding of a local government contract
to CRL. The Committee will meet monthly on the first Tuesday of the
month in the rotational cycle.
Director Daly (Williams) also recommended that this action be moved
forward under recommended action to allow for more discussion by the full
Board at the February 21, 2012 meeting.
Motion:

Discussion:

Director Bagley made the motion to
approve the name change for the
Legislative Committee to Government
Relations and to broaden the scope to
include the local government liaison roles.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.
Director Williams shared how pleased she
was to see this issue move quickly. She
indicated that in her meeting with the
Adams County government, they were

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 16, 2012,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 5
elate d to hear RTD has engaged CRL to
work with the local government entities.
Vote on the
Motion:

II.

The Motion PASSED four in favor (Kemp,
Bagley, Malpiede and Tayer) and one
against (Cohen) so the motion could be
moved forward as recommended action.

Approval of February Board Agenda
General Manager Washington introduced this item. Seeing there were no
major concerns, the chair asked for a motion to move the
February agenda before the full Board for approval on 2/21/12.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
the February Board Meeting Agenda
before the full Board at the regular Board
meeting on 2/21/12.
Director Tayer seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The Motion PASSED.




Unanimous Consent
Approval of Board of Directors Redistricting
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the recommendation of the Redistricting
Committee regarding the map
for new Director District boundaries.



2012 vanpool agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement
with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to provide
RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar
year 2012 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $459,084.00.



Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Boulder/HOP
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 16, 2012,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 5
for calendar year 2012 and is for an amount not to exceed
$1,390,348.00.


Cost Sharing Agreement- City of Englewood/Art Shuttle
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD financial
support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and is for an
amount not to exceed $282,656.00.



Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement
with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization (NFRMPO)
to provide RTD support for the expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar
year 2012 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $400,000.00.



Cost Sharing Agreements-FTA Section 5311 Funding
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into funding
agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource
Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section
5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2012 and for
amounts not to exceed $325,532.00 for Boulder County, $133,955.00
for Adams County and $99,270.00for Jefferson County.



May 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the May 2012 Service Change package
as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in a annualized
cost increase of approximately $686,758 and, further, to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.



West Line/I-225 O&M Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer of $828,869
from the West Line/I-225O&M expense to capital for vehicle purchases
for the West Line in 2012. This is a transfer and will not increase the
2012 Adopted Budget. It is necessary to allocate this amount to capital
to facilitate West Line support vehicle purchases and for proper

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 16, 2012,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 5
accounting for FasTracks capital purchases.


Intergovernmental Agreement with the City and County of Denver and
the City of Aurora
for the Peoria Street Grade Separation Crossing
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver and the City of
Aurora for the Peoria Street Grade Separation Crossing. This action
authorizes funding from RTD in the amount of up to $20 million from the
Eagle Project for the Grade Separation Project for the purpose of
preparing appropriate National Environmental Policy Act documents,
design, right-of-way acquisition, construction and all related activities.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute any subsequent
amendments to this IGA, or additional IGAs for this Project, as long as
said amendments or additional IGAs do not exceed the $20 million RTD
contribution authorized in this action.



Recommend Approval of Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) for the
Southeast Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) for the
Southeast Extension project that consists of a 2.3-mile extension of light
rail transit (LRT) from the current end-of-line station at Lincoln Avenue
(see attached). The extension is proposed to continue south from Lincoln
Station, cross over Lincoln Avenue to just north of SkyRidge Medical
Center; continue east over I-25 to the proposed Lone Tree City Center;
and then extend south where it will cross over RidgeGate Parkway and
to a new end-of-line station. Three new stations are included in the LPA,
two new Kiss-n-Ride stations SkyRidge Medical Center and the Lone Tree
City Center, and a new end-of-line station immediately south of
RidgeGate Parkway.



Recommended Action
Cost Sharing Agreement with Ride Provide
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement
with
Ride Provide to provide RTD support for the A-Line operations.
This agreement is for calendar year 2012 and shall be in an amount not
to exceed $168,826.



Approval of Legislative Committee Changes
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors change the name of the Legislative Committee to the
Government Relations Committee and set a monthly meeting time.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on February 16, 2012,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 5
III. Other Matters
 Director Cohen requested the new committee, Government Relations, to
give a five minute update/overview in preparation for the APTA
Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C. Director Williams added it
will be helpful to identify 1 or 2 goals for this trip.
 Director Tayer expressed concern over the Tuesday, March 6 meeting in
which key information on the APE and Northwest Corridor would be
provided. He also expressed concern that this was democratic caucus
night, a lot of people who will be directed impacted by the decision for
the Northwest Rail would not be available, and RTD would send the
wrong message about providing opportunity for serious feedback from
the public.
After some discussion relevant to the impact to the public hearing
process, the Committee agreed that it would be a good decision to move
the meeting and public hearing to March 5, 2012.
V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

