Jun 19 2018 0530 PM Financial Administration &
Audit Committee Committee SD 480
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: With everyone now at their respective seats, it is 6:25. I'm Ken Mihalik, and I
will call the Financial Administration Audit Committee meeting, of June 19th, to order. We'll start
off with the first of two recommended actions. The first being the adoption of the amended budget.
And it reads, "it is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopt resolution number TBD, series of 2018, to amend and appropriate funds for the
proposed 2018 amended budget, to increase the appropriation by $28.6 million to $1 billion 329
million, as detailed below in the discussion section overview of the 2018 amended budget, and to
decrease the appropriation of capital carry forward, previously approved capital funds, by $103.8
million to $639.7 million."
Any questions? I'll take Director Menten. Oh, sorry, yes. Thank you Director Broom, and Director
Deadwyler as a second. And Director Menten, I believe you have a comment.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I would like to make an amendment. Motion to make an amendment.
And that is in the section that you just read, Chair Mihalik, to instead read that is recommended
by the Financial Administration Audit Committee that the Board of Directors adopt a resolution,
series 2018, to amend and appropriate funds for proposed 2018 amended budget, to increase the
appropriation by $28 million 23 thousand, to then a total of $1 billion $328 million 407 thousand,
sorry.
And so I would like to recommend that adjustment. And the specifics of that are a reduction of
$577,000 within the operating budget, which will be identified and reduced from the
communications department budget.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there a second?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, can I add something to that? I'm not sure that you want to
actually reduce the total appropriation. I think you want to move the appropriation from one place
to another, because the money has to be appropriated somewhere, including potentially going back
to the reserve-- the Board operating reserve.
So I wanted to just clarify that I think you want the appropriation to stay the same with a change
in where it's appropriated, from one place to another. So I just wanted to make that clarification.
Otherwise there'll be a small amount of money that's not appropriated anywhere, which is not
appropriate.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that distinction.
NATALIE MENTEN: And I agree, yes. Going to the word appropriated reserves, yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that distinction. Any additional comment or questions at this time?
FEMALE DIRECTOR: Mr. Chairman, is your microphone on?
KEN MIHALIK: It is. Sorry, I need to get a longer neck.
[LAUGHTER]
Yes, this is our discussion time. I see Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: He is in the queue.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Director Menten, can you elaborate on what you're
trying to accomplish here?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. There is currently many priorities that we have within this
organization. And as instated in this amended budget, the purpose of the original action is for
strong financial management and fiscal sustainability.
I believe that the communications department has manager, upon manager, upon manager. And as
we look at our financial priorities within this organization, and the challenges to our customers in
having to trim services for efficiency-- because at the end of the day there are two items we all are
aware of.
We have a shortage of drivers. And we also have a challenge with the amount of funding that we
get in. And, especially in certain parts of the years, sales tax doesn't come in perhaps as expected.
If we see any change in ridership that also affects our revenue.
So this is eliminating three positions within our organization that are currently open. So it's not
that we are getting rid of anyone. It's basically essentially putting a freeze on the hiring in a
department that, in my opinion, is not a driver.
It's not a mechanic. And it is not truly getting somebody from point A to point B, which is the
main mission of this organization. And at a later point in time, if those positions are justified, and
we feel safe in that, we can come back with an amendment. Since the Board appropriated funds
requires our approval, we can address this at a later point in time.
But the three positions within the communications department are what totaled this $577,000 in
one year-- one year. That's a lot of service that we could be providing to our customers within one

year for three positions. And that is the purpose of this, is to further enhance the strong financial
management and fiscal sustainability of the regional transportation department. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Solano, are you-- [COUGH] [INAUDIBLE] Yes.
PAUL SOLANO: So are you insinuating that some of these positions are redundant, that they
overlap, that it could be done by maybe just one person?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I do not feel our agency will, in any way, be impacted by this change
in the financial plan, except that, if we should face a front net revenue shortfall later in the year,
it's going to be easier to address than filling positions where our only choice then, I feel, would be
to cut service to make ends meet.
PAUL SOLANO: OK. I'm good.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Anderson. You have the floor.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. You know, I think we ought to go back to
exactly what a Board of Directors is for, and what we are not. We hire staff. We pay them well to
manage the finances of this organization. And quite frankly I cannot vote on this.
I've set many, many budget meetings. I've seen people change the budget at the last minute. And
quite frankly I think it's reckless. And it is not good management practices. So I will not be
supporting this amended motion.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I will be supporting this amendment. And I wanted to explain why-try to explain it anyway. I have felt, for a long time, that our payroll has been somewhat skewered,
that we have a lot of high paying non-driving jobs. Whereas our responsibility is to be transporting
people.
And I've felt that for a long time, that we're somewhat skewered in that regard. But I didn't know
what to do about it. So I did nothing. But then, now, we're having what I consider to be-- maybe
other people aren't, but I do-- an operational crisis.
I see e-mails, and comments from riders saying that they are not getting reliable service. And
there's enormous frustration, and sadness, with people who are regular RTD riders who say I can't
ride anymore because you don't provide reliable service. And the problem that we all know, and
we all are upset about, is that we've been having a great deal of trouble hiring and maintaining bus
and train operators.
And that's a real problem. And it's causing enormous discomfort to our constituents, and to all of
us who care. So the question is, do the people that were going to be hired, that are going to be the
subject of this amendment-- this budget change-- were they going to help that operational crisis?

And in my opinion, not. It's non-operational. It's admin. And it's very high salaried. And I feel that
it's not working towards the cure. So I can't, in good conscience, support that.
I was actually thinking that-- I don't know the end, or the cure for this problem-- but perhaps one
of the things we could do is do a hiring or promotion freeze. And put some money towards a fund
to pay higher bonuses to more drivers.
Because if the salaries were higher, we would have more people applying. I don't say that that is
the cure. But that's what I've been thinking. And that's why I'm voting the way I'm voting. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, very much. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Our agency has an awful lot of things going on right now. And
we have problems, obviously, going on that have being explained here. But we need to
communicate this with the our customers out there, and not skimp on that end of it.
Before I vote for this, I'd want to know what those three positions were, and what does that mean
in terms of what's not going to be communicated, because they must have tasks that they were
assigned-- to the positions-- to accomplish. And I just think it'd be premature to be changing the
budget at this point in time. And I wouldn't support it. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I'd like to point out, related to this discussion,
that we have a financial administration and audit committee. And we have a general manager
oversight committee. And we have a government relations committee. But I don't think we have a
committee that deals with marketing and communications. Is that correct? So-- yes, thank you,
Dave.
DAVE GENOVA: Typically marketing and communications would report up through operations
and customer service.
KATE WILLIAMS: And do they do that?
DAVE GENOVA: Occasionally. Yes. But if the Board wanted more frequent updates we could,
at the Board's pleasure. But that's typically the committee that the communications department
would report up through.
KATE WILLIAMS: So isn't the communication-- I'm sorry. Can I go on, Ken?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that the communications and marketing department has an Assistant
General Manager (AGM) of their own, right?

DAVE GENOVA: Yes. AGM of Communications is Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager.
KATE WILLIAMS: So-- Hi, Scott. There you are. So I'm suggesting that perhaps this discussion
would have been handled in that committee, if there was a committee, that some of the Board could
be involved in that dealt with marketing, and public relations, and communications, and not just a
department that we get a report from once in a while. So I would like to see that happen. And I'm
willing to be involved at that level. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I didn't catch the numbers of the amendment. Can you remind me of
those? And then I have a-KEN MIHALIK: $577,000.
JEFF WALKER: Sorry, one at a time. I can't hear.
KEN MIHALIK: The transfer is 577,000.
JEFF WALKER: OK. To where, from where?
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, it's-JEFF WALKER: All right. I've got it. So, like Director Broom said, I'd like to know what positions
would be eliminated, at least temporarily. What's the cost of not having those positions? Chair,
you and I were just in a discussion, in the Oversight Committee meeting, where we asked the
general manager if one of the elements of his goal's to do more communications with the public.
What would be the effect of this amendment on that action? You know, the way I see it, there is
probably around $300,000 a year sitting around this table right now. If we're going to look to cut
anywhere, I think we should look within first before we start looking without. So I won't be
supporting this amendment. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So whether we individually think that this restructure,
or change, in our communications department is good or bad, it occurs to me that this is probably
not the way to accomplish that goal. I've had some discussions on this earlier.
And I think that if any one of us has a challenge with the way this organization works, or is
structured, then it is incumbent upon us to talk to our chairman, or our General Manager (GM).
And let them run this organization. I don't think I want a debate right here and now whether or not
we need those people, or don't need those people, and who they are.
And you know, this is not the time and the place. I also am a little concerned that this shows up as
an amendment to our budget tonight. I would think that any one of us-- it's our responsibility as

directors to think through these processes, and vet them, and talk to directors, and talk to our
management group. And not do this without at least some discussion with our management.
So I think, regardless of your position, this is just not the process to get this done. So I won't
support this. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm kind of torn on this. I agree with Director Anderson
that I'm not sure that it's the Board's place to delve into the management with what we charged our
AGMs and our GM to do. That said, I also have not had the opportunity, as I have with other
departments, to have a discussion with the communications department to find out exactly what
they are about, and what their mission is, and what their performance metrics are.
And I've had the opportunity in operations. I've had the opportunity in financial, and other
departments. I have not yet had an opportunity to sit down and have that on-boarding discussion
with AGM. So because I haven't had that opportunity, and I'm really not comfortable voting either
way. So I will be abstaining. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Williams, you have the floor again.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Obviously, there's some concern here. So I get that maybe
this isn't the place to address it. And I give credence to Director Anderson's statement about who
manages this kind of situation, which obviously would be the General Manager. But, again, I'm
with Director Catlin that we have not had a committee of any kind that we can participate in.
And it appears to me that that is rising up here and now. So perhaps if we had some kind of a
commitment to address this further in a different platform we might be able to move on. I'm loathe
to let it go because there's obviously some sentiment here.
I personally have some issues with how well we address our public image. But that's just me. So I
think we're kind of in a no man's land here. And maybe General Manager Genova wants to give
us an option that we can move on from this, and deal with it.
PAUL SOLANO: Can I make a motion to table this issue for another day?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm still in the queue. And I'm up next.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'm done.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. There's a growing queue. So there's still a lot of interest in this.
Director Folska, you have the floor.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I think, in contrary to some of the Board
members here tonight who think it isn't our business to delve into the budget, it is our business.

That's what we were elected to do. We are here to be the stewards of the citizens' money, the
taxpayers' dollars.
And that is why we are charged with the authority to approve or not approve the budget. And so it
is in our purview to say, ah, there is a piece here that probably is worth looking at a little bit deeper.
I also think that it's reckless of this Board to start approving increases in administrative staff,
$577,000, when we know we already have a massive shortfall.
We can barely take care of the ongoing maintenance and operations. Our state of good repair is
safety and security. And the federal funding model has been flipped since this new administration
in the federal government. Where before the highway transportation trust fund provided 80% of
the money to the local governments to provide transportation, of which transit agencies receive
20% of-- and please feel free to correct me if my numbers are wrong. This is just in my memory.
Today it's 20% from the federal government. And local jurisdictions are responsible for 80%. And
of the 20%, I would assume we still get 20% of that. So those dollars are dwindling and dwindling.
The $577,000 of three staff people in the marketing communications and public relations
department are positions that are not filled.
It isn't like letting people go. But I think it's also important, and timely, and I find really
uncomfortable, where we're going to say we're going to hire people, and spend $500,000, cut your
service, and raise your fares. That's troubling to me. That's all, Chairman Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Solano, I'm going to skip over you and come
back to you. There's a couple of people who haven't spoken yet. Director Deadwyler. Actually,
sorry. Chair Tisdale, you are next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. My belief is that this motion comes
perilously close to constituting management. At least as it is seen in my view. And for that reason,
I will not choose to jeopardize my qualified immunity as an elected official by virtue of crossing
that line and engaging in management.
So I will be voting no for that reason and because I also need some more information-- I don't have
enough. I almost, despite the fact that I've been on the Board longer than Director Catlin, I almost
feel as though I should abstain, in terms of understanding this, because I simply have not had an
opportunity to get the information relative to what these positions are, how they will work. As I
say, I fear if I get too much of that information I again cross over the line into management.
But I understand the expression of concern. And that I think is the important, valid point that is
shared here this evening. And that expression of concern can, and should be, addressed, I believe,
with direct communication. We'll come back to communicate with the relevant individuals
beginning with the General Manager. And to have a dialogue with the General Manager.
And I think that's also what Director Williams was alluding to, in terms of having a committee
being able to report on this. So I understand the concern. I appreciate the concern. I'm glad that
there is an expression of it.

But I am opposed to the motion for the reasons that I've said. Most important of which, is I think
it does constitute management. And I'm not going to surrender my immunity for anybody. Thank
you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Deadwyler, you are next.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Thank you. You know, I've been on this Board for eight years now.
Hey, hey, hey. And I know that several of the other people on this committee, not your new ones,
have been unhappy with the way the communications committee have operated. This is not
anything new that we have not brought to the attention of the General Manager, or the chair at that
time.
Because I know I've done it, several times-- you know, unhappy with the way it's structured. We're
trying not to get involved with the management piece. But when you get so far where you have no
choice, then you have to do something differently. If this doesn't do anything but bring awareness
that some restructuring needs to be done somewhere-- because if you're expressing your concern,
and it goes on deaf ears, what else do you do?
No, we're not supposed to be managing employees. Or we're not supposed to be in charge of hiring
and firing. And I don't want to be. But I would really like to see something done before we hire
three more people in there to create another layer of management.
Let's take a look at what we have. Our managers, or Dave Genova, take a look at what you have.
How is it run? Where is it failing. Because it is failing in some areas. And fix it. And then decide
whether you need three new people, or if the people in your department are enough.
That's all I think we're asking. Just don't keep adding layers and layers at a big cost to our customers
when we have not had really good results over the past few years. So I will be supporting this.
Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. And then to Director Archuleta, who also hasn't spoken
yet.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Who am I addressing?
KATE WILLIAMS: The world. The world.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: You know, I look at all the managers here, and if they're going to be
hiring somebody, and they need the help, why am I going to get in the way? I mean, you're the
staff. You're supposed to be doing the hiring, right?
I'm not the one that's going to hire or fire, right? Redirect what you think. You don't want to do
that. Well, I don't want to do that. I don't want to tell Dave, hey, I want you to bring my brother
over here because he's cool and he knows Miss Mihalik. Or tell him, look, I've got a real good
accountant.

Can you hire him? Or tell Scott, hey, Scott, I got some more people over here. Or anybody. I just
don't see this drop in the budget to pin point that we don't want these guys here because they're
making too much money. Well, they're making the money because they're qualified to make the
money. And I don't know. That's all. Just a comment.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. And I apologize for jumping out of order earlier. But I want to make
a motion to table this until we get more information and study it. Until a definite certain date.
Whether it be 30 days-- I don't know what we suggest. But I think it should be tabled for further
consideration. I want to make a motion to table it.
I second.
KEN MIHALIK: A motion to table it for a period of time. Do you have a date in mind?
PAUL SOLANO: 30 days.
KEN MIHALIK: Table the discussion on the amendment until the next committee meeting.
PAUL SOLANO: If that works out to about 30 days. Yeah. Whatever the date is.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. We'll just give this a second. I believe Genova-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order. I rise to a point of order.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: So it's OK to recognize me. The only concern that I have is, I understand the
move and I think it's not a bad idea. But I fear that it puts at risk the main motion. If you table a
substantive amendment, then the question is, is that tantamount to tabling the main motion itself?
Because can the main motion proceed without that.
Now-- I ain't a parliamentarian. I ain't paid that kind of money. But I know that we have a lawyer
who may or may not choose to opine on that. And I merely ask the question. That's why I phrase
it as a point of order, Mr. Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Jenifer Ross-Amato do you have any assistance for us?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Well, I can try. So I would work your way from the bottom up. So I
would first vote on the motion to table. And then I would vote on the motion to amend. Although
I agree with Chair Tisdale that I think there's a question as to whether you're tabling the main
motion, or the amendment. So it would probably be better just to vote on the motion first. Does
that make sense?

DAVE GENOVA: Well, could I ask for clarification. It seems like we need clarification on what
motion to table actually is. Would it be beneficial if the motion to table described what we are
tabling in the motion?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. Dr. Solano, would you care to elaborate?
PAUL SOLANO: Yes. I want to table the amendment. Is that clarified?
FEMALE DIRECTOR: Why?
PAUL SOLANO: Because I think we need more information. Everybody seems confused. I'm
confused. It's a valid argument. I do see communication departments. We need to remain
transparent with our constituents.
We need the communication department. Perhaps we do need these new employers. We need to
remain diplomatic with our constituents. And we need to remain relevant. In order to do so, I think
we need more time to study this. So I table the amendment.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Second.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes, so the motion to table is not debatable. So you need to vote on
the motion to table the amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, we will-- unless, do we do discussion on the motion to table? No. No
discussion. We are going to vote on the motion to table until the next Financial Administration
Audit Committee.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: But can I just add one more thing? If you vote-- if the motion to table
prevails, then the original motion still remains.
MALE DIRECTOR: Right. Still there.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: So you would have to vote on that, as well. The main motion to
approve the amended budget still remains.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: I need some clarification on that. So my question is this, if the motion to table is
successful, then we're kind of done because-- [SIDE CONVERSATION] well, this isn't a
discussion. This is a question for general counsel.
So if we vote to table it then the motion to amend the original motion is tabled. If we then have to
debate, and discuss, and vote on the original motion, and pass it, then the motion that we tabled
doesn't have any credence.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Correct.

LARRY HOY: It can't ever-- I mean it-- OK. I want to make sure.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I ask a question here? I'm not sure why it doesn't have credence.
Because the amendment you're making is 0.0004% of the total budget. You can take up a motion
to amend the budget every month if you want to. That's within your bylaws.
So we could pass the original motion. And next month you could vote on a different motion that
amended the budget at that time. There is nothing in your bylaws that prevents you from amending
the budget every month if you want to. I just wanted to clarify that.
LARRY HOY: OK. So just, again, for me-- not for everybody else, just for me. If we don't table
the second motion then we'll vote on that second one, and then have to vote on the first one-- on
the amendment-- the First Amendment, the only amendment.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Yes, so you would first vote on the amendment. The motion to amend
that was brought by Director Menten. And then you would then vote on the original motion.
LARRY HOY: OK. All right. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: If you're not confused, we're going get ready to vote. We are voting on the motion
to table the amendment-JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: You're voting on the motion to table the amendment brought by
Director Menten.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. I'm glad everybody's trying to keep track of this thing.
The motion to table the amendment is not carried. So we will continue with any discussion, if
necessary. And I believe Director Anderson is next.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I think I decline to say anything. I'm ready to vote.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. With that, Director Menten, you have the floor.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. As Heather-- Ms. McKillop-- mentioned, looking at our budget
of $1.382 billion dollars, this is a very small amount. And whatever communications decides to
do with the positions that are currently on the job board, they can really make that decision. The
fact of the matter though-- it is our responsibility to look over the purse strings of this organization.
So I am not stating what to do with it. I'm simply-- this motion-- and it wasn't just me. This has
come from-- let me tell you all where this stems from. It stems from employees who are distressed
about these positions, and how much it stresses our agency, and what statement it sends.
It was asked a couple of times, what are the job titles. We have Senior Manager of Media and
Public Relations, between the base salary $82,000 to $150,000. That's a lot of money. I know, in
some professions, it doesn't seem like a lot. But when we have mechanics busting their knuckles-

- literally, busting their knuckles lifting hefty trannies out of vehicles-- what does that say to our
organization when we've got administrators making 60, 70, 80 bucks an hour.
I mean I was in the automotive industry. I can't believe this. Another one of the positions is a
Senior Manager, AGM of Communications. That position, $100,000 to $200,000 for that one. The
third one is Safety Communications.
Now we all know safety is very important to our agency. But is that really a 40 hour a week job?
I don't think so. I think that can be fit in. I don't think we'll see any problems with any of these.
And my understanding is, in the past when people were hired for certain things, that's not the job
they did. They were taking off to something else. This just was not because I was cruising around
the job board. These issues came forward from multiple directions. So maybe this might die
tonight.
Or you may think it's going to die tonight. It's not. And we do need to be looking at our agency.
And when I said the $577,000-- what that's doing is taking, for this year, just for the job posting
that's on the board-- anybody can go to and look at it-- it took the top of the range, because I'm
assuming that's what's budgeted in the department, and took 30% benefits.
And that $577,000 is what that amount came from. And if benefits continue to go up, like health
insurance does, that $577,000 is going to jump, and jump, and jump. You look at just a 3% annual
raise, and it becomes from what I think is very serious money into quite substantial money. And
now all a sudden that's a bus route, just between three positions that we hired.
So why is there a reason to do this now? Because we haven't filled the positions. Those jobs close.
And again, I'm not saying-- if that department wants to go ahead and hire them, great. But you
shift your money around to make it work within that $577,000 less.
So that's where I'm standing, is I want to do this before we have filled it, and we would be creating
a harder situation. That's the reason for this timing on this. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. And I will say that, just in the previous committee, we
reduced service by two million dollars, give or take. And this is, in my opinion, coinciding with
that, as far as rightsizing some of the budgets. That reduction in service was a reduction in the
budget for that. And so I don't see that there's a big distinction between the two. And with that,
Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. At this point then, I'm going to abstain. I need
more time to study this. I'm not going to make a decision tonight. I think the communications
department is crucial and critical. But I'm not going to vote on this tonight without more
information.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I just will add that there was a timing issue for the reason for this tonight,
because of the positions aren't filled. It's not firing anybody. It's simply rightsizing the budget for
that particular department. Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So a couple of things. I see the changes that we make to services being
based on demand. The ridership has to meet certain thresholds, certain criteria, to exist. And that's
reflected. So the demand drives the service.
If the demand isn't there then the service disappears. Or is reduced in some way to meet the existing
demand, or just shifted around in some way. I'll assume the same thing is that with our
administration that if there is a demand then positions are created to meet that demand. I think this
body looks at projects.
Get this project done. How it gets done, who does it, is up to staff, and the General Manager, and
the leadership team to determine. Like what Director Tisdale stated earlier, I'm not comfortable
with this body identifying specific positions, other than the GM, that should or should not be filled.
Well, we've brought a few people on staff recently at the AGM level, rail, COO-- not an AGM but
a COO-- and bus ops. We didn't have a say in those because we know that needs to get done. So
those positions have to be filled.
Like I said before, my assumption is that if there is staff being hired for these positions then that
need is there. Like, as also mentioned earlier in my previous turn at the mic, we just asked part of
our priorities was communication with the public. And these positions seem to fulfill that priority,
or meet the steps towards addressing that priority.
So I'm uncomfortable there. I'm uncomfortable with how it was presented. I didn't get a phone call.
I didn't get an email. I did get one about a previous amendment that happened tonight. I didn't get
one about this.
Often staff is told not to bring stuff at the last minute. I don't think anybody on this Board is happy
with receiving information like this at the last minute, especially to a magnitude of that amount.
Half a million dollars-- is over half a million dollars-- I would like a little more notice. I guess the
damage is done.
And we have to vote on it now. So I won't throw the baby out with the bathwater. But this process
tonight, and previous processes, this amendment, leaves a really bad taste in my mouth because I
don't feel that it was fully vetted, or the Board was given time to fully vet it and fully discuss it,
like is appropriate, like what staff brings to us on most issues, all decision issues, some updates.
So that's all I have to say. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I wanted to just acknowledge Director Walker's
comment about providing service for the demand. We're cutting service with a high demand
because we don't have drivers. So that's not always the case.
So I don't think that's right. And I do think that Director Williams is quite right that we need a
committee for communications. Government relations falls within the communications
department. It has a committee. The communications department does not.

Few people here know exactly who's working in communications, what are they doing, what are
their goals, what are the marketing plans. I think this Board overall is very supportive of staff and
the incredible hard work that you do. But again, I find it unconscionable to cut service, raise fares,
and hire, hire, hire white collar workers at huge fat salaries. I'm sorry.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I again, I am torn. I do believe that there is quite a bit
of upper management in, as it appears, as it's presented. But I do need to know more. And I owe it
to the communications staff to hear what their proposals are.
And as Director Folska said, what is the marketing plan, what is the business plan, what are the
plans for outreach. Because I have found that I'm not really sure what the communication strategies
are. And I know that, from a communication perspective, for the public meetings for the service
changes that were in my area, I did receive complaints that they were disappointed that they were
not notified, or properly notified, by RTD.
And so I think I would really like to understand a little bit more. But that makes me ask the
question, since we've raised these issues tonight, just because the money-- I don't know how the
vote is going to go-- but if the money were to stay in the budget, does it necessarily have to be
spent until we get answers to some of these questions? Do those positions have to be filled?
So there could be, just by default, a pause until we learn more information, not delving into the
management of the organization, but just seeking to understand a little bit better about what they're
doing, and what the cost benefit is for our organization for those positions. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Seeing no other speakers.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair. Mr. Chair.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, yes, sorry. Mr. Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Didn't see you.
DAVE GENOVA: If I may just provide some remarks. I've been patient listening to the good
conversation. So I just want to point out a few things. This is not an increase. So these three
positions are positions that were converted from-- well, one's a replacement of a position of a
person that left.
The other two positions are conversions of senior manager positions that were within the
communications department previously. And those two people had left some time ago. There's no
extra money in the amended budget for these three positions. And again, it's not an it's not an
increase in staff.

It's not part of the amended budget. I think that, in this area, this is an area where I constantly get
asked to do more, and to do better. And I believe that this resource alignment puts us in a position
to exactly do better in these areas, to do better with the strategic communications plan, to do better
with the strategic outreach plan.
In the meetings earlier today, and the General Manager's Oversight and Performance Committee
(GMOC) we've been asked to do more public meetings, more outreach. We've had complaints
about, can our outreach be better. And it absolutely can. We need the resources and the people to
do that. I would also say that this is part of core goal number five. And if we don't move forward
with resourcing the communications department properly then it's going to challenge us to meet
that core goal number five, which is part of our 2018 goals, which are set.
And we're right in the middle of a cycle year. And it feels like we're moving resources and moving
goalposts to be able for us to do well at what we really need to do well. The other question that I
have for our CFO is timing on the amended budget. So if this doesn't get approved tonight, does
that create a timing issue for us regarding the amended budget?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the answer would be yes. We would just have to defer things that
we've listed in there on attachment A that were either decreases or increases. As I mentioned
though, you could approve it and come back with an amendment to the amended budget at any
time in the future too. There's nothing prevents-- just because we only do it a few times a year,
there's nothing to prevent us from doing it monthly if we wanted to.
DAVE GENOVA: So I'll just kind of conclude my remarks with, I have very big plans for this
department, and with these resources that I want to bring on board. We've had former people come
and go. I know that there are people, within the organization, that sometimes-- you might be
hearing some feedback, because they're not happy with what was proposed as far as the
reorganization.
We're a large organization. We're going to have sometimes some employee feedback that may not
be the most positive. But I'm hearing some of that from others. But I will just say that, this is an
area where I constantly get asked to do more, and to do better. And I believe that these resources
really align me, and align the team, and this district to be able to move forward, and to do what we
need to do in the communications department.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for those remarks. Director Sisk, you have not spoken on this matter.
CHARLES SISK: And intentionally so. I'm going to use this opportunity to call for a question.
Some people have spoken two, three, four times, and it's time to go up or down. So I'm-LORRAINE ANDERSON Second.
CHARLES SISK: --a question.
JEFF WALKER: I have an amendment.

KEN MIHALIK: I'm sorry, Director Walker, what was that?
JEFF WALKER: I'm sorry, point of order, I have an amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: You have an amendment. Director Walker you have-CHARLES SISK: Add it to your name up there.
JEFF WALKER: So I'd like to recommend that the Board budget, the Board office budget, be
reduced by $60,000. Specifically to be taken from each director's local and travel budget, in the
amount of $2000 respectively.
BOB BROOM: I'll second that.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I was just going to say, point of order. We had a motion and a second.
And we should not have heard Director Walker. We should have voted.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Anderson, you are correct.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: You have to vote on the call to question. So you can vote it down.
KEN MIHALIK: Mr. Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: I just would like clarification on exactly what the Board is voting on and if we
could-MALE DIRECTOR: Question for the budget. You know, the call for question.
DAVE GENOVA: You're just voting on the call for question now? OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: --question. Yup. We are going to be voting on the amendment-DIRECTOR HOY: No, the call for question is we voted on-KEN MIHALIK: Oh, the question.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: : You need to vote on the call for the question.
DIRECTOR HOY: Yes, correct. So an up or a down on that.
KATE WILLIAMS: On what? On what Jeff said?
CHAIR TISDALE: We continue to be--

KEN MIHALIK: Yes. That is simplicity from Chair Tisdale, whether we continue or stop debating.
CHAIR TISDALE: All the questions-- you vote against things, you stop debating.
FEMALE DIRECTOR: Yes.
CHAIR TISDALE: --which we could do by a show of hands.
KEN MIHALIK: Ms. McManus, were you going to pull that up?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I have to create it.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: And so we had Dr. Sisk as the mover, and Director Broom, I believe, as the
second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: This is the call to question.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. So the results on the call to question is 13 yeas and 1 no. And one not here.
So we will then now move to vote on the amendment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Now we're going to vote on the amendment, right?
KEN MIHALIK: Mm-hmm.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: So you need to clarify which amendment you're voting on, and what
that amendment is.
KEN MIHALIK: We will vote in on Director Menten's amendment to transfer the 577,000.

JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Folska is the second on that.
JEFF WALKER: Point of order. Can another amendment you can be entertained at this point?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: No.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: What she said.
[BACKGROUND CONVERSATION]
So Director Menten is the mover. Director Folska is this second.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I'm sorry. Oh, thank you. I rarely move. OK.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry. I couldn't find it
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[BACKGROUND CONVERSATION]
KEN MIHALIK: We have six yeas, six nays to abstain. It's Director Catlin and Director Solano.
And yes, it does not pass. And so, with that, we will get back to the recommended action
discussion. Thank you all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LORRAINE ANDERSON: We've called a question. Someone called a question.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. So we're voting on the call to question.
KEN MIHALIK: And That's Director Broom as the mover, Director Hoy as the second.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: This is-[LAUGHTER]

JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: You're voting to call the question on the original motion.
FEMALE DIRECTOR: Right. Yes.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Main motion.
MALE DIRECTOR: So this gets us back to our first-KEN MIHALIK: There's a couple of you that need to check your-- OK. And with that, it's
unanimous on the call to question. So now we vote on the recommended action.
MALE DIRECTOR: Right.
FEMALE DIRECTOR: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: And on that I had Director Deadwyler as the second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead and vote for her. Vote for her? [INAUDIBLE] Get somebody else.
KATE WILLIAMS: Our second is not in the building.
[LAUGHTER]
FEMALE DIRECTOR: Technically somebody else needs to step in.
CHARLES SISK: I'll be the second.
KEN MIHALIK: The mover was Director Broom.
CHARLES SISK: I'll be the second. Sisk. Standing in for the team here.
KATE WILLIAMS: One for the Gipper.
CHARLES SISK: Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: And with that the recommended action passes 10 to four. The four no's are
Director Menten, Director Folska, Director Lubow, and Director Mihalik. Whew. OK.
[LAUGHTER] We are going to move on to the second of the two recommended actions tonight.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached resolution appointing William Weidenaar hopefully I pronounced
that properly-- to a term expiring December 31, 2020, as a trustee for the salaried employee defined
benefit, i.e. the pension plan, and salaried employee defined contribution plan. And this supports
the core goals number three, task goal number one, and task goal number two.

LORRAINE ANDERSON: Move approval.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Heather, do you have any discussion on this?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I would just be glad to take questions. I don't believe he's in the audience.
Oh, yes. He is, right there. Do you want to go ahead and just stand up so everybody knows who
you are. So that's William.
And he went through a process to be selected. You're chair of this committee, the chair of the
Board. And Scott Reed, who's the chair of the trust, made that selection. And we appreciate his
interest in the position. And ask for a favorable approval today. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I will also recommend his approval. So seeing no questions we will move to
vote. And Director Anderson is the first. And Director Williams is the second. And we have 14
ayes. It will move to the unanimous consent agenda. And now we're into tonight's updates.
MALE DIRECTOR: It's moving right along.
KEN MIHALIK: And the first one tonight is one on the fare change proposal. And I will give it
to-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. I'll go ahead and start. And then we're going to tag team this one.
We wanted, first of all, to thank all of the Board members who took time out of your busy schedules
to spend time with Michael and myself discussing concerns, and issues, and allowing us an
opportunity to talk a little bit more about the process. We know we have a couple of people that
we didn't get to. And we'll follow up with them.
But for the most part, we were able to talk to 13 of the Board members. So we do appreciate that
opportunity. We are just going to run through this presentation, and just highlight a few things on
this. And then we'll be glad to take any additional questions that you may have this evening before
we move forward. So with that, do you want to lead off? Or do you want me to lead off?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: I think it's probably better if you do.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, well I'm going to lead off. So I just want to talk a little bit about the
history because there were some concerns in previous meetings about do we have some scope
creep going on here. Did we address things that weren't in the set up in the pass working group
when it was first approved by the Board.
So just a little information about that. In September of 2015, the Board of Directors did approve a
fare level increase to the business and neighborhood eco pass programs. And with that they
directed staff to establish the pass working group, because there were many issues that were
unresolved that came out of the last fare increase process.

In that, we were specifically directed to work closely with the Affordable Affairs Task Force to
better understand the relationship between pass programs, and what they were requesting, based
on income based fares. In addition, we set the creation of the pass working group. And the Board
agreed unanimously to the objectives and guiding principles. And those are listed there.
And as we've talked with some of you, we feel that the pass working group made great strides in
trying to address those objectives, and guiding principles, and follow the outline of what we all
felt the Board's direction to be-- knowing that some of the guiding principles are in a bit of conflict
when you get into the details of them. But overall the pass working group really tried to stick to
those objectives. And there was a lot of conversation about those objectives, and principles.
And they were also on the back of our name tags. Every time, we looked at them at every meeting.
So we were reminded of that constantly. I'm not going to go through this. But just a little bit on
the history of how the Affordable Fares Task Force played into this discussion. And then the
purpose of the fares.
And really the fares are used to offset the cost of operating and meeting our transit service system
facilities. They're never intended to cover that. Otherwise our fare revenue would be extremely
high. But they are intended to help offset that. And it also helps us regulate ridership.
Because if we didn't have any fare-- we didn't charge fare at all-- we would have demand that
would far exceed any of our resources available to provide that. And so it is a way to be able to
strike a fine balance between what we can operate and how we can pay for that operation. Within
your fiscal policy, it states that staff is to include, every three years, a fare increase equivalent to
the estimated cost of inflation at that time.
And those costs are identified and forecasted through the strategic budget plan and annual program
evaluation, which we now call the mid-year financial plan. I'm going to let Michael cover a little
bit our approach to ridership and fare modeling that we went through, just to give you a little flavor
for that. And then just a reminder of where we are with what the options are available.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes. And I won't spend-- this is Michael Washington, by the way. I
won't spend a ton of time going over all of this. And we have a couple of slides that really dive
into this one brief statement that I'll make, which is that we really try to take a holistic view of all
of our passes, and our fares, to be able to make sure that this whole package actually balanced
down.
And the holistic view there is taking all those various elements, and seeing where there is potential
sensitivity of pricing, and thus movement, from one product to another among our customers as
they see the differences in price, as well as the availability to use our services that's offered under
the different pass programs and fares. And so you'll see just some of those examples graphically
that we've offered here in these various slides.
And I think one that I'll spend a little bit of time drawing your attention to, is really these graphics
here showing what happens with an increase in the price to eco business, or a decrease in the price

to eco business. And you'll see that there's movement between products there. And that, obviously,
if there's a decrease in price we're going to see people moving toward that product.
And if you see that there's an increase in price on that particular product, you'll see people
scattering about to find a better deal. This is the basic process that we went through for 12 months,
playing around with these various levers to see what would be the best option following the
principles that the Board ultimately approved, and that the working group was given. And so that's
what brought about the results that we came up with.
And particularly you see what the effects of those various, if you will, those levers, in looking at
those basic elements and making those changes, what it does from a ridership standpoint, and a
revenue standpoint. So this is the revenue side obviously. And then the ridership side.
And so the next couple of slides really just break down more of the detail that I think many of you
were actually asking for. And this was just our attempt to make sure that we were as clear as
possible on what's included. And so I won't spend a bunch of time on all this stuff, since we did
spend a bunch of time with you guys one on one.
Just to clarify, we do intend to have a fairly robust public engagement process, with eight public
meetings, a telephone town hall, as well as much stakeholder engagement to ensure that everyone
does understand the options that we're bringing forward. And that we're getting contextualized and
meaningful feedback to help us all make the right decision here.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Those are the meetings we have?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes. And you have the meeting dates in front of you. Director
Williams was just holding that sheet up. And so we're planning to move to those public meetings.
Obviously you'll see that they start in mid-July. And then we'll come back to you in August with
a summary of the public comment that we've heard, including results from our survey.
And then we would come back to you with a Board action in September. And so that concludes
our presentation. And we'll open it up for questions, or motions, or whatever you might-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No.
KEN MIHALIK: No motions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No motions.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: It was a joke.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is information.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Anderson, you will lead us off.

LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. You know, this has been an extremely interesting process.
And I've spent seven and a half years on the Board, so this I think was-- you know, it's been talked
about for at least as long as I've been on the Board. And I've attended a presentation this week on
education. And so I realize that education is not what it used to be, that there is more choice in
education.
And students can go different places, and maybe for their education, and it may not be where the
school bus goes. And so the whole idea that this whole metropolitan area would allow students to
be able to go to different schools, for different classes, and hopefully some of them have jobs, and
learn how to work while they're still in high school-- and so I really think that this is going to be a
good thing.
So I am encouraged. I'm a little disappointed about something not being real close to my city. But
I am going to encourage people to attend the closed meetings. Because I think this is very important
for everybody to look at, and probably a new way of doing transportation in the RTD district. So
it's good. And I'm done speaking.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Although I read in here the ideal world would have these all
going out as packages and coming back as complete little wrapped packages, but the end of the
day, this has all occurred? Right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So let me answer that question. So people will have an opportunity to
respond to the various options that we presented. As we talked with everyone on a one on one
basis, if we had gone out with a list of just potential changes, there's a 99.999% chance that you
would get back no fare increases, all discounts, no changes to the eco program.
So that would not be helpful for staff to make a recommendation back to the Board on what you
should adopt, or not adopt, when September comes. We took the approach that we took, with the
service changes you just talked about, and the other every time we go out to the public. And we
give them a variety of alternatives.
And from those alternatives they can respond. Similar to the service changes, we don't go out there
and say here's a list of all our routes. Which ones do you want to have cut? Because everybody's
going to say no. Instead we say, these are the ones that don't meet service standards. These are the
ones that don't have ridership.
And that's what we're attempting to do with these options. We do expect that when we come back
to you they will not look identical to any one of these options. But instead we'll be able to filter
the feedback that we get, and help make an informed decision as to what things we should modify
in the options that are in front of you.
So we don't plan on going out with a laundry list and saying pick which ones you like. Instead
those laundry lists are included in these options. And people can respond to the parts of the options
that they like or do not like.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I'll just give a little bit of feedback that I haven't maybe shared
before. But I like, a lot, the three hour transfer either direction. To me that's actually a fare
reduction. And I can say in one of the public meetings, that I attended with Director Catlin, that
somebody was, two people there, were not at all happy that they had heard we were giving away
lower fares.
And in fact, in that meeting, I believe I heard a couple times they would be OK spending a little
bit more money, as long as they knew at some point that they would have consistent service. Maybe
that was the other meeting, because I attended both of them. But for me, just explaining that I do
like the eco pass utilization process, I do like more of the model with the 270 versus the 290. And
I've already heard, from constituents, they don't want us taking from one person's pocket just to
transfer to another.
So that's why I ask about the a la cart. Is that, yeah, I know the public may have a comment that
we, as the Board of Directors, need to weigh both sides of it. And I'm just giving you a heads up
that I may come back and, after trying to sway some people to see how I'm seeing it, it may not all
be remaining as one package here and there and there.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Just to clarify. You said 270?
NATALIE MENTEN: Isn't it 270? Or wait-- I thought I had 270. Not the 290. It's the-- I thought
we still had a 270 in there.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We have 260, 290, or $3 are our three alternatives.
NATALIE MENTEN: I apologize. I had 270 in my head. But the 260. Because that's tied to then
the bigger discount. Right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, and remember the 260, if we were to keep it at the same level,
does not get us to meet our Strategic Business Plan (SBP) or revenue targets.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So, I'm sorry, the 290 and the 3 in here. So, yeah, the 290. I'm more in
line with the 290 instead of the three, where all we've done is shift from a left pocket to somebody
else's right pocket.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we expect to hear some of those comments at the public meeting.
That's why we're doing a series of eight public meetings, so that people can have that opportunity.
In addition to, we will have a phone survey that will be starting here-- a statistically valid phone
survey-- that will be starting here shortly. And we will have the ability for people to comment on
the website.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. And then, just one last request. If you could send me-- or make sure
whatever we get for those presentations, in a PowerPoint so I can just tweak it-- I'm happy to do a
lot of the outreach on my own, and not require any more of the communications department. OK.
Thanks.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams, you're next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. And thank you, Director Menten. That was fun. I want to
say some things that I say every time, that the Pass Program Working Group (PPWG) put in
approximately 6,000 hours. We asked them to do a lot of the heavy lifting.
They did that. They compromised. They worked through a lot of these options. And a bunch of
them are here. I'd like to ask them to please stand. If you were on the Pass Program Working Group
could you please stand? And we would really, really like to thank you for the work you did.
[APPLAUSE]
And Michael, and Heather, could you stand up. Stand up. You went to all those meetings. You
deserve that applause too.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You know us.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't think I need to repeat myself again that I'm very much in favor of this.
I prefer it as a package. Because as our staff is trying to convey to us that there's been a lot of
balancing going on in this, to try and make it presentable as a whole. And as a La Carte menu, I
think we will lose some of that.
And that's all I have to say. Thank you very much. Good night. Oh wait. I want to know-- I forgot.
At the $2.90 level, could we do like goodwill does and round up and put that dime in a donation?
That's what they do there.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for your comments. Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I'm happy to say that the open house series is
finally here. I totally support the Pass Program Working Group as designed. I mean, they put in a
lot of hours. They're experts.
And if we had a vote today, I would vote yes. And I encourage all my fellow directors to vote the
same. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to thank our Chief Financial
Officer, Heather McKillop, particularly for her response to Vise Chair Menten. I think that was a
very good, and helpful, response in putting this all in focus, and in perspective.
It is, I believe, understood by everyone on the Pass Program Working Group, by everyone on this
Board, and by all of our staff that there are clarifications that need to be provided to the
recommendations that were given. No one is questioning that.

And one of the illustrations that I have used in my own meetings with some of the members of the
group is the, what I pejoratively and short handedly described as kids ride free, is specifically what
age, and how many kids, with how many fare paying adults, and so forth. Because the illustration
we gave is an 18-year-old teaching assistant who brings a class of 30 with him on the bus.
I mean, is that-- there's one person paying a 30% fare. And then everybody else gets on for free.
Or is there some limitations. So of course, there are clarifications that need to be done. There also
is some clarification as to understanding that some things will remain, such as the nonprofit
program.
The nonprofit program is not intended to go away. It's intended to remain. In fact, it will remain
in such a way that there's no longer any cap on the nonprofit program, as we read it here. But there
is some confusion relative to does the discount apply to all fare media, and all forms of ticketing,
or is it restricted to various specific types?
Those are ministerial details for clarification purposes. I think the overall intent and thrust of the
pass group is positive. And I think on balance much of it will be acceptable to the Board as a
whole. I know that there are clarifications and, if you will, tweaks that need to be done in order to
get to that point.
And the best way to do that is to go through this public process and to have lots of opportunities
for people to come in and express themselves on all sides of this issue. So that when it comes back
to this Board for actual action, that we'll be in a position to have the benefit of that thinking. But
again we applaud, and we appreciate, the work of everyone on the pass program working group.
Over 22 people who put in a lot of time. Two of them are staff, but 20 other individuals who
dedicated countless, maybe you can say 6,000, Director Williams-- I don't know. It could have
been more-- but countless hours to this task. And we are very appreciative of that. And we look
forward to this process continuing and coming back to us for a final action sometime in the third
or fourth quarter of this year. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And with no other speakers I too am going to try to get to at least
one of these, even though there's none in my district. But I'm going to get to the closest one. Thank
you both. We'll move on to the next update, an update on the smart card project.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Tonya is going to come up. We just wanted to give you-- you have the
smart card update in your packet. But we just want to give you some information on the American
Public Transportation Association (APTA) conference, both the rail and the actual conference
itself. We use the Smart Card. And we use mobile ticketing.
And she just wanted to update you real quickly on some successes we had there. So thought we'd
toot our horn a little bit about some recent successes. So if you want to do that real quick, Tonya,
that would be great.
TONYA ANDERSON: So this is Tonya Anderson, the Manager of Electronic Fare Operations.
We distributed approximately 2000 custom designed smart cards to our app to rail conference

attendees while they were using those smart cards to get around Denver during the conference.
And there were no issues reported with the card.
Also on the Smart Card program at Safeway. As you may know, we are now selling our my ride
cards, where our customers can pick up a brand new card and load them at Safeway. We started
that in February. And we've seen some significant increases.
So back in February or March, we had approximately 34 cards. We are now up to 324 cards picked
up at Safeway. And the revenue, or the sales, at Safeway increased, nearly double, from about
$2000 to $6,000 a month. So we've seen some successes there.
We are also for the mobile ticketing. We had some successes in the sales, as well. As of May of
2018, sales are approximately 4.5% of fare revenue. It was an increase of about 12% from April.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I would just add to that, we had estimated our mobile sales to be
about 2% to 3% of our total fare revenues. So we have already exceeded that expectation. So we're
pretty thrilled with that. The other thing she didn't mention is we did offer to the APTA participants
the use of a mobile ticket from the airport to DUS and back again, I believe.
And I know-- I happened to sit-- the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) for Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid
Transit Authority (MARTA) sat next to me. And he was raving about it before he knew who I was.
So I said, well, thank you very much.
That's our program. So I know a bunch of us got a lot of positive comments about the mobile
ticketing use, and how successful that was. So we'll be looking at those options again in the future
for future conferences and activities that we're doing.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much for the update. And sorry, yes. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: So since you mentioned APTA and the folks who came in on the rail. I wanted
to echo that. Because I worked at the registration table on Saturday and Sunday, and I heard
nothing but good things about downloading the mobile ticket app, and how easy it was, and how
efficient it was for everybody, who mentioned it to me, to use.
KEN MIHALIK: That's nice when technology works how you want it to. Director Williams, you
have a comment.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, just a quickie. Speaking of APTA, the people that I spoke to were very
impressed with how clean, and how convenient, and how safe our system was. Those were the
biggest comments. And I thought that's so interesting because General Manager Genova on a
regular basis puts that. We're safe, and we're clean, and we're secure. And so I was happy to hear,
unsolicited, to hear those very words.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for those feedbacks. Next up is going to be April's financial status
report with Mr. McLeod and Mrs. McKillop.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'm going to let Doug cover this real quick. We'll just do a quick
update for you.
DOUG MCLEOD: Thank you. Good evening, Doug McLeod. So these are the numbers through
April. And there's been a lot of discussion about the amended budget. But obviously we won't be
doing that until we show the May financials. So we're still comparing to the original adopted
budget here. I don't have it up on the screen yet.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They have it in their packets. You can go ahead and talk about it.
DOUG MCLEOD: OK. We'll just go over the top three statistics that we track each month. So
we're all green for the dollar statistics, with sales and use taxes, and fare revenue. And then we're
still having some shortfalls compared to where we expected to be at this point on ridership.
Sales and use taxes were up 6.8% over this same time last year. So we're showing some strong
collections. We did talk to City and County of Denver, they're actually higher. They're closer to
9%. So the economy seems to be really humming along here.
We did, in the adopted budget, include a forecast of a 4.7% increase for the entire year. So we're
already of that at 6.8%. So the usual categories, one note too, that we will start collecting the retail
marijuana taxes again on July 1st. So those are reflected in those numbers.
But we have been collecting some money-- about half of what we were getting before, because
some of the retailers have been remitting taxes all along. So you won't see a big pop from that. But
at least we'll see a small increase.
On the ridership. So ridership still continues to be lower than what we expected. I would ask you
to look at the year over year, where we show a minus 0.3% decrease. We have a minus 0.6% due
to the mall free metro ride ridership being down. So we're really just slightly positive, if you take
out our non-revenue services.
I would also mention that we also didn't have the R line at this time of year. So we're probably just
about flat on the ridership. Moving on to fare revenue. Fare revenue is up 3.2% over last year. And
we're actually ahead of budget by 5.3%.
What we're seeing, and why that doesn't track along with the decrease in ridership, is we're still
seeing a pretty significant shift away from bus and farebox revenue, and into our A-line revenue.
We've seen ridership increase about 13% on the University of Colorado A-line. So a good portion
of those tickets are the $9 airport tickets.
So we're seeing the increase in revenue mainly driven by that piece of the business. So good results
there on fare revenue. And that's all I had, unless you had anything to add, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I don't. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't see. Oh, I see. Director Walker, you have a question or a comment.

JEFF WALKER: I'll be quick. So I'm thinking of the scooters that popped up downtown. You
mentioned that some of taking up the mall, and the mall shuttle, and the free metro ride, ridership
might be up a little bit. I'm wondering if you'll keep an eye on it, or if you're planning to keep an
eye on how ridership was those three weeks when the scooters were everywhere.
I think the City of Denver has started to confiscate some of them. Or I think the other company is
halted on its own. But if you can measure that impact on ridership, or at least on the free services
we have downtown, if that's affected it at all. That's all.
DOUG MCLEOD: Sure. Yeah. We can take a look at the average weekly ridership and see if
there's any impact during that period.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom, you are next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. You mentioned, I think, Denver's sales tax revenue is up 9%.
What's the difference? Is it a different reporting period? Are they a month quicker in getting their
numbers than what we are?
DOUG MCLEOD: No. It's normally a fairly good comparison, in terms of when they're positive,
we're positive. We oftentimes are off by one or two percentage points. Last year we were actually
quite a bit ahead of them, I think by 2 percentage points or so, ahead of where Denver was. And
this year they flipped.
One of the main differences are they tax things a little bit differently. Since they're a home rule
city they have different exemptions. They also don't have some of the businesses like we do. We
have a larger concentration of car dealerships, where they have more restaurants. So it's not an
apples to apples comparison. But it's the largest, by far the largest, city and county within our
district, in terms of sales and use taxes to compare to.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And with that, I will entertain a motion to move into executive session.
PAUL SOLANO: So moved.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, let me finish here. There's more to it. For the purposes of discussing CRS
24-6-402, paragraph four, paragraph D, specialized details of security arrangements or
investigations, including defenses against terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and including
where disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for the
purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for, a violation of the law.
DOUG TISDALE: I'd like the second Director Solano's motion.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. Is there any discussion on this? Otherwise, we will move
to the vote.

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[HUMMING JEOPARDY THEME]
So Director Solano is the mover, and Chair Tisdale is the second. The motion to move into
executive session passes 14 to zero. And with that I will ask that our executive legal counsel ensure
that the correct audience is in the room. And we'll give it a couple of minutes to do that.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Have a nice evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: We're not coming to your meetings anymore. Jesus, dude. That was amazing.
KEN MIHALIK: I told you. These things can go fast it's up to you guys.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was absolutely amazing, I have to say.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
Holy cow.
[LAUGHTER]

