2024-01-16
Performance Committee
JACK KROLL: We are not-- now we are recording.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. The Tuesday, January 16 Performance Committee will now come to order. We
are convened as of 6:33 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us this evening. Please note that this committee and other committee meetings of
the Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. These
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial meeting minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable on
the Board's website. Visit RTD-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available on RTD's
YouTube page, excuse me.
I would now like to call for the roll of committee members. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger. She is absent. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Director Davidson. I am here as well as part of the committee. We have six
committee members present and one absent. I'd also like to note for the sake of the record we are also
joined by Director Whitmore, by Director Ruscha, by Director Bouquet, and by Director Harwick. Am I
missing any other Directors present?
Seeing none, we'll move to the first item of the agenda. The first item on the agenda this evening is the
selection of the Chair and Vice Chair of this committee. As the Board Chair, I will now facilitate the
election. And once both seats are filled, I will turn over the meeting to the new Committee Chair.
Unlike the Executive Committee election process, which uses secret ballots for the election of Board
officers, for committee leadership appointments, we will proceed with open nomination, discussion, and

vote by the full committee. We will begin with the selection of the Chair and then we will proceed to the
selection of the Vice Chair. We will allow for up to three minutes for those Board members to nominate a
candidate, for those seconding nominations, if any, and for any other members who wish to speak
regarding the candidacy of a member to speak.
I will call for a vote after that discussion and the candidate with the most votes will be appointed. If only
one Director is nominated, the committee may proceed by acclamation, and the Director will be
appointed. If no candidate receives at least four votes, then we will repeat the process as outlined above
until a candidate does receive the required four votes from the committee.
So I will first start by asking for nominations for Committee Chair. I would actually like to kick things off
with the nomination that I have and would like to put forward. I would like to nominate Director Catlin, the
Board's first Vice Chair. I believe very strongly that Director Catlin can take us through the next steps that
we have to take on with this committee.
In particular, I would point not only to her prior experience with management in organizations, I would also
point to her work on the Audit Committee, which, to me, we had quite a bit to fix, resolve, and make not
only the Audit Committee high functioning, but also get the right processes in place so that we can come
to work every day, do our jobs, and function without constantly reinventing the wheel. I think we would all
agree that is very much needed for the Performance Committee. I think that just as she did for the Audit
Committee, Director Catlin will bring that to this committee as well. So with that, I'd like to put forward my
nomination, and now we'll entertain any seconds or any other further nominations for Chair of this
committee.
All right. Well, seeing none, with only Director Catlin having been nominated as Committee Chair, I will
ask if anyone is opposed to appointing Director Catlin to this position of Committee Chair by acclamation.
Are there any no votes to the appointment of Director Catlin to Committee Chair?
Seeing none, by acclamation, I'd like to congratulate Director Catlin for being the next Chair of the
Performance Committee, and I would certainly like to thank you for your willingness to engage on this and
lend your assistance, as you did with audit. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: We will now-- yeah, thank you. I will now ask for any nominations for Vice Chair of this
committee, for Vice Chair of the Performance Committee. Yes, committee Chair Catlin? Please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to nominate-- although she's absent from this
committee, I would like to nominate Lynn Guissinger. I think for reasons of continuity, the work that she
did with you as Board Chair, Mr. Davidson, when you chaired this committee, I think it would be nice to
have that continuity.
I also believe strongly that the work that she and I did on the previous Performance Committee when we
engaged in this Executive search, and ultimately hired GM/CEO Johnson, that she and I worked really
well together. So for those reasons, I would ask for consideration of her vote. And just for the record, I did
ask her for permission to nominate her in her absence. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Catlin. Very much appreciated. We'll entertain seconds
and other nominations as well. I saw Director Buzek, your hand up. So you are now recognized, please.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just second the nomination for Lynn Guissinger to be Vice
Chair of the Performance Committee as Chair Catlin has indicated. Lynn has been intimately involved
with the Performance Committee activities in her role as Board Chair and is up to speed and knows all
that we have to do early on in this year. So I would second that nomination. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. Any other nominations or discussions? All right. Seeing no
further nominations or discussion with only Second Vice Chair Guissinger having been nominated to be
the Committee Vice Chair of Performance Committee, I will ask if anyone is opposed to appointing
Director Guissinger to the position of Committee Vice Chair by acclamation. Is there any opposition?
As they say, if all untold. So absent tonight, we have now appointed Director Guissinger as Committee
Vice Chair. Certainly, we congratulate her and wish her well on her current travels, and look forward to
the continuity of her work with this committee.
Now that my election duties are complete, I will ask the newly elected committee Chair Catlin to please
take over for the remainder of the meeting. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Board Chair. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would
like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current
and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise
your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
RTD.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Catlin, we do not have anyone here indicating an interest to provide
public comment and we did not receive any public comment via email in advance of this meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right then. Having no one requesting to speak, we will close the public comment
period at this time. Are there any other matters to discuss from committee members? I do have one.
As some of you were participating in the Finance and Planning Committee earlier this evening, there was
the discussion of the committee work plan. And we have been focusing on some other more urgent
matters right now that will come up in our-- if we choose to go into executive session. But I just wanted to
say that we will be working diligently.
I will work with Chair Guissinger and the Board Office to develop a committee work plan outlining the
efforts that we need to undertake as a Board. So that will probably not be presented at the February
meeting, but very soon thereafter. So any comments regarding that? And if you would like to have
elements put in that committee work plan, please let the Board Office know or myself. And I see that GM
CEO Johnson has her hand raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I would just ask of you and the committee that
would be involved in those discussions recognizing the primary focus of this committee at this juncture is
the performance of the General Manager and CEO, in which I hold that position. So I just wanted to
ensure that that was on the record. Thank you.
Duly noted, and absolutely that will be part of the process. And I will also, likely with your agreement,
engage our Chief People Officer, Charlene [? Paligi ?] to help us with that draft work plan. Thank you.

So if there are no other matters to discuss, the next Performance Committee meeting will be tomorrow
evening, Wednesday, January 17. That meeting, as with this meeting, will commence shortly after the
conclusion of the Operations and Safety meeting, which is scheduled to start at 5:30. And we will be
doing the same process, Mr. Kroll, just staying on the same Zoom contact.
In a moment, the committee will meet in executive session to discuss personnel matters regarding the
GM CEO. I would like to append the motion to move into executive session to state that the committee
will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session. For public transparency, this means
that once the committee moves into executive session, the main meeting will be adjourned.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following. Pursuant to 24-6-402
prin 4 prin f prin 1 Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding the 2024
performance assessment criteria for the current General Manager and CEO, and potential related
amendments to the employment agreement and pursuant to 24-6-402 prin 4 prin b Colorado Revised
Statute to receive legal advice regarding the same. Is there a motion to move into executive session?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any opposed to moving into executive session? Seeing none. For
all of those who are expected to attend, would you please move to the other Zoom room at this time and
this meeting will be adjourned. Thank you.

