Summary of the Operations/Customer Service meeting held on Thursday, February 7, 2008
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 17, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
Thursday, February 7, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Bruce Daly, Chair; Barbara Yamrick, Vice-Chair, Noel Busck, Bill
Christopher, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Wally Pulliam, Dave
Ruchman, John Tayer
Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton,
O’Neill Quinlan

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, David Genova, Lloyd
Mack, Scott Reed, Phil Washington, Teresa Sedmak, Robert
Merriman, Carolyn Conover, Larry Buter, George Hovey, John Tarbert,
Brian Matthews, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee

Others:

Steve Fischer, Jeff Leib (the Denver Post), Holman Carter (ATU 1001)

Call to Order:

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
May 2008 Service Changes – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager Customer and
Contracted Services introduced this action. Mr. Abel spoke that staff will request
moving the Operations & Customer Services Committee from the first Tuesday of the
month to the second Tuesday of the month for procedural reasons such as to allow
sufficient time to conduct public meetings between Board Meetings and Committee
Meetings.
Bill Porter, Manager Service Planning/Scheduling, gave a report on the public meetings.
Four public meetings have been held so far. Five more will be held by the end of the
week. The most contentious issue so far has been the Arvada call-n-Ride. Longmont

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 2 of 6
changes are still under discussion with the city of Longmont. The service changes for
Longmont may be delayed until the August service changes.
Bill Porter and Director Pulliam spoke regarding the Arvada call-n-Ride. Director Pulliam
said that the new boundaries have not been given a long enough time to show that they
work. Factoring in January and February cancellations (due to bad weather) ridership
numbers would have been met. City of Arvada may contribute financially. Bill Porter
said that the final Board Report will contain the final recommendations from staff.
Bruce Abel spoke about the Arvada call-n-Ride. The call-n-Ride was originally instituted
by a CMAQ grant in May of 2005. The District put in 10%, Arvada put in 10% and the
Federal Government put in 80%. If Arvada is willing to participate financially, the Staff
would back continuation of the service.
Director Pulliam presented the call-n-Ride issue at the Arvada issues breakfast and
spoke about some of the challenges constituents have had with the Arvada call-n-Ride.
Director Martinez asked about what amount Arvada would contribute. Arvada is
discussing contributing $75,000 for the call-n-Ride. Annual cost of the call-n-Ride route
is between $175,000 - $195,000.
Director Christopher asked if the Directors would know before the Board Meeting what
the financial commitment would be from the City of Arvada. Wally Pulliam said that he
told the City that a decision was needed within the next two weeks.
Director Busck spoke about the challenges of service changes. Director Busck shared
some ideas about how failing routes might be boosted.
Director Yamrick voiced her support of Director Busck’s idea.
Director Daly asked about the new transfer point for the 16 at Colfax and Broadway.
Director Daly’s concern was in regards to buses stacking up at the stop. Bill Porter said
that due to timing issues, this should not occur.
Director Christopher asked about the Route 70X and the possibility of a van pool as a
substitute. Staff is supportive of this change.
Director McMullen asked about the Route 121L and what the travel time is from Nine
Mile to Fitzsimmons. Bill Porter responded that the time should be approximately 15 –
20 minutes.
Director Martinez expressed concerns about passenger perception about the 121L and
how constituents could be educated. Bill Porter said that flyers would be put on the
Route 121 buses to educate the riders about the new service and how to distinguish

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 3 of 6
between the 121 and 121L.
Bruce Abel asked the Committee to forward the recommended service changes noting
that there are two potential changes: 1. The Arvada call-n-Ride and 2. The service in
Longmont.
Motion:
Director Ruchman made a
motion for approval before
the full Board at the February
19, 2008 Board Meeting.
Second:

Vote On
Motion:

II.

Director Pulliam seconded the
motion.

The motion passed
Unanimously.

2007 4th Quarter Reports – Bruce Abel distributed the reports to the Directors and
asked them to review the reports. These reports are available for review in the
Operations & Customer Services Meeting Minute Notebook. Mr. Abel pointed out that
the District was 1% over the projected hours for access-a-Ride. Ridership was up
more than hours went up which means that productivity has improved.
 Fixed Route – there was no discussion on this report.
 Access-a-Ride – Director Busck asked about budget increase compared from 2006
to 2007. Bruce Abel said he guessed it was approximately 8-10% (the actual
number is 10%).
Director McMullen asked about call speed and call time and complaints from
customers. Bruce Abel said that call speed and call time help monitor from a
qualitative perspective how the call center is working. Call time is not a punitive
measure. Director McMullen spoke about having a secret shopper program for
calling the access-a-Ride program to monitor some of the complaints about
treatment from the call center.
Director Martinez asked about the drop in ridership for access-a-Cab. Bruce Abel
spoke about the Board approved increase for the access-a-Cab subsidy and the hope
that this will include access-a-Cab usage. A marketing campaign is in progress to
educate access-a-Ride users about access-a-Cab.
Director Ruchman spoke about making an automated reservation service for regular
access-a-Ride users. Bruce Abel said that under the system, this is not possible but

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 4 of 6
staff will look into it.
 Alternative Services – Bruce Abel gave a brief report. The minimum ridership
standard for a call-n-Ride is three passengers per hour. Arvada, Highlands Ranch,
and Parker are not meeting the ridership standard.
 Contract Security – David Genova, Assistant General Manager Safety, Security, and
Facilities and John Tarbert, Manager of Security, presented this report. The report
is available for viewing in the Operations and Customer Service Meeting Minute
Notebook.
Fare enforcement - numbers were down however the light rail derailment must be
factored in. John Tarbert felt that numbers are lower because more people have the
fare.
Use of Force – numbers have gone down significantly. There was only one incident
where an officer had to draw a gun but it was when he was making an arrest on a
suspect who had a gun.
Overtime – We are up to full staff with the security force so there was no overtime
for the last quarter of 2007.
Director Martinez expressed concern about the citation rate and he was concerned
about the fare evasion rate. David Genova gave a clarification on what a “contact”
means. Contact is not the number of people that the fare inspectors checked, it is
the number of people that did not have a fare. Mr. Genova will clarify this for future
reports.
Director McMullen asked if the RTD fare inspectors are counted in the security
report. The response is they are not. Director McMullen asked that these figures be
included in the report.
Director Busck asked for clarification on light rail fines. It is $55 for a first offense
(after you have been previously contacted) and the fine escalates for each
occurrence.
III.

Update on Route Match Implementation – Bruce Abel gave this update. Originally
hoped to go live in January of 2008. Currently on target for a February 23, 2008 golive date.

IV.

Update on Democratic National Convention – Phil Washington, Assistant General
Manager, Administration, gave this update. The District has been working with the
Democratic National Committee regarding providing service for the Convention.
Planning meetings have been ongoing. The Committee is working out the number of

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 5 of 6
buses that can be provided during peak and take away from convention. The
Committee is also working to provide hybrid buses within the perimeter of the Pepsi
Center as well as working on the light rail plan. The Committee will come back and
update the Operations & Customer Services Committee. Currently, they are working
on 7,000 weekly passes for the delegates; working with Secret Service on clearance
for the drivers which will be a modified clearance for the drivers. The DNC will be
paying for the services. Internally, there will be meetings with the ATU leadership.
The DNC anticipates a huge paratransit contingent. As planning intensifies, updates
will be given to the Board.
Director Yamrick asked if we have submitted approximate costs to the DNC at this
time. The rate given to the DNC has been $125/hour. In the past, with political
entities, the District has received partial payment up front. Director Ruchman asked
how many people will be receiving passes. Mr. Washington said that the primary
concern is with the delegates.
Director Tayer expressed his gratitude for the update and how crucial these updates
to the board will be as the process continues.
Director McMullen expressed concern about security at downtown stations. Director
McMullen also asked about advertising opportunities.
Director McMullen asked about putting the ATU logo on our transit buses. Ron
Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager, Operations, said the District has agreed to do
that and that Holman Carter is in discussion with the National to get the logo.
V.

Fleet Plan Update – Ron Dodsworth gave this update. 71 intercity coaches will be
replaced this year. The District doesn’t have enough money to buy 71 coaches but
not all of them are needed due to the opening of the Southeast Light Rail line. The
District does need 61 coaches and this leaves a $2 million savings advantage. The
District would like to use this money to buy the four 40 foot coaches that were left
off the last procurement. This leaves $600,000 left over. The District would like to
use $600,000 to amend the fuel budget.
The motion is to buy 61 intercity coaches, 4 standard 40 foot coaches and transfer
$600,000 to the fuel budget.
Motion:
Director Martinez made a
motion for approval before
the full Board at the February
19, 2008 Board Meeting.
Second:

Director Busck seconded the
motion.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Thursday,
February 7, 2008
Page 6 of 6
Vote On
Motion:

VI.

The motion passed
Unanimously.

Other Matters – Director Yamrick expressed concern about drivers being fired while
they are still under probation. 19% turnover in 06 during training and 13% turnover
in 07 during training. Some of the turnover has to do with failure to obtain CDL
permits. Turnover is very cyclical in this business.
Director Yamrick asked about training. Director Yamrick wants to see an objective list
of training issues.
(Director Ruchman left at this time)
Director Pulliam expressed his concern about the set up of the room.
Director Martinez brought up a customer service issue regarding 10 ride ticket book
expiring. Scott Reed reviewed the process for expiring passes. Bruce Abel spoke
about how this particular customer’s circumstance is being reviewed internally.
Bruce Abel reviewed calendars and upcoming events for the Operations Committee.
This calendar can be reviewed in the Operations & Customer Service Minute Meeting
Notebook.

VII. Next Meeting Date: Bruce Abel requested that the Board consider moving the
Operations & Customer Services Committee to the second Tuesday. John Tayer
spoke to also moving the Financial Administration Committee to the second Tuesday.
This item will be discussed at the February 14, 2008 Executive Committee Meeting.
VIII. Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 7:06 p.m.

