Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, May 19, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 6:34 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Committee Chair
Director, District C

Present
Present

6:33 PM
6:34 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:32 PM
6:34 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

6:34 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

6:34 PM
6:34 PM
6:34 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:34 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:33 PM
6:31 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:36 PM
6:33 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:34 PM

Chair Sisk was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lee Cryer, Heather Deckard, John
Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob Grado, Ann Marie
Isaac-Heslop, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Deborah
Menenez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker,
Paula Perdue, Sue Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Steve Scholz, Cal
Shankster, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Diana Aqra, Karen Carr, Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Kathleen Rosewater
Cunningham, Mary Durant, Tom Grushka, Felicia Gurule, Sherman
Hamilton, Audrey Haynes, Maricruz Herrera, Eugene Howard, Haya
Ibrahim, Jaime Lewis, Matt Marino, Erin Mooney, Kent Moorman,
Elizabeth Murphy, Joel Noble, Hanni Raley, Miguel Angel Reyes,
Eugenio Rodarte, LaSheita Sayer, Kenny Shepard, Joe Thomas, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villarreal, Cheryl Wallace, Dace
West, Monte Whaley, Zoe Williams

B. Recommended Actions

• Award of Contract for On-Vehicle Advertising (Paratransit Fleet)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into a contract
with ZoZo Group, LLC of Denver for the sale and installation of exterior
advertising on ADA paratransit vehicles for the two and one-half year period
July 1, 2015 through December 31, 2017 with two one-year options for
2018 and 2019. Under the terms of the recommended action, ZoZo Group,
LLC would remit to RTD either 1) a minimum guarantee of $45,000 in 2015,
$200,000 in 2016 and $210,000 in 2017 or 2) sixty percent of net sales,
whichever is greater.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager for Marketing explained that
a Request for Proposal (RFP) was issued in 2014 soliciting
proposals for the sale and installation of exterior and interior
advertising on RTD vehicles. The RFP offered the option of

three sections: 1) bus, light rail, and commuter rail; 2) ADA
paratransit vehicles and 3) other in-vehicle advertising
opportunities. One response was received on the ADA
paratransit vehicles from ZoZo Outdoor, a subsidiary of ZoZo
Group, LLC. (ZoZo Group) He recognized LaSheita Sayer,
Founder and Chief Marketing Officer of ZoZo Group, who was
in attendance.
Director Folska asked if the ZoZo Group employed any people
with disabilities and if it was a Disadvantage Business
Enterprise (DBE) or a Small Business Enterprise (SBE). Tony
McCaulay replied that the company does not employ any
people with disabilities. He added that the ZoZo Group is a
certified SBE, women- and minority-owned business. Director
Folska said that it would be wonderful to say that the
company awarded this contract employs people with
disabilities.
Director Lasater noted that 40% commission on sales seems
high. He added that traditionally commissions are close to
15%. He wondered how ZoZo Group arrived at the 40%
revenue share. Tony McCaulay said that as part of the RFP
bidders needed to provide both a minimum guarantee and net
revenue for RTD. He pointed out that the 40/60% is the same
share as Lamar Advertising, who holds the current contract for
bus and light rail. Tony McCaulay added that the 40% is a
traditional share nationwide and that the ZoZo Group will pay
commission to ad agencies out of their 40%.
Director Deadwyler commended staff for trying to generate
additional revenue. She wondered if there was any way to
prohibit negative advertising on paratransit vehicles. She
pointed out that the paratransit customer is either disabled
and/or elderly and certain advertising could cause additional
problems. Marla Lien, General Counsel, said that RTD
prohibits profanity, illegal practices, nudity and obscenity in
advertising. Beyond that there are not many additional
limitations the agency can make. Tony McCaulay added that
advertising would only be displayed on the back and driver
side of the vehicle; the curbside and front of the vehicle will
be Access-a-Ride/RTD branded.
Director Francone restated that advertising on paratransit
vehicles will be subject to the same standards as advertising
on buses and light rail. She expressed her concerns about
passengers not identifying the vehicles as a paratransit vehicle

due to the advertising. Tony McCaulay reiterated that was the
reason these vehicles will not be fully wrapped in
advertisements, just the back and driver side.
Director Solano stated that it was a great idea to find
additional revenue sources. He wondered if paratransit riders
have been polled on the possibility of placing advertisements
on the paratransit vehicles. Director Solano said that
paratransit riders deserve the highest respect and possible
advertisements may conflict with their beliefs and/or ideas.
Tony McCaulay said that paratransit riders have not been
polled. He noted that there will be no advertisements inside
the vehicles. Director Solano suggested that it might be a
good idea to take the riders into consideration.
Director Folska noted that advertisement on paratransit
vehicles does not bother her at all. She added that it is a great
opportunity for revenue. She asked staff what the estimate
on the revenue looked like. Tony McCaulay said that the
minimum guaranteed for 2015 is $40k; $200k for 2016 and
$210K for 2017. He added that the ZoZo Group is very
enthusiastic about the opportunity. Director Folska expressed
her satisfaction with the minimum guarantee and the potential
for more revenue.
Director Archuleta wondered how long the ZoZo Group has
been in business and if they were a local or national company.
Tony McCauley replied that they were a local company with
12 years of business.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• January 2016 Recommended Fare Policy Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the recommended fare policy changes, as
outlined in Attachment A, to take effect beginning January 1, 2016.

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
reminded the Directors that the Fare Study Task Force
originated at the beginning of 2014. The study was done in
anticipation of the new lines opening in 2016 and the desire to
simplify the fare structure in an equitable manner. The Fare
Study Task Force has included all portions of the agency as
well as CH2M Hill as our consulting firm. Bruce Abel added
that extensive public outreach was done during the problem
identification phase and after an initial draft was created. This
included 16 public meetings. Other channels utilized for
feedback included voicemail and website. Staff brought a
modified proposal to the April 28, 2015 Study Session after
incorporating the received feedback.
Lacy Bell, Planning Project Manager, reviewed the Fare Study
Recommendation presentation included in the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting agenda packet for May
19, 2015. The presentation included a Summary
Recommendation, Recommendation Details, Title VI Equity
Analysis, Implementation Schedule, and Next Steps. In the
presentation, she explained that the paratransit fare would be
calculated at twice the SmartCard base fare since the
paratransit vehicles will not be outfitted with SmartCard
technology. Paratransit customers will still be able to buy the
fare booklets at a 10% discount just like it is currently
available.
Bruce Abel stressed that the Fare Study was divided into
stages. This first stage does not include the EcoPass,
CollegePass and the possible Low Income Pass. The rational
for this is that you cannot develop a pass program if there is
not a definitive base program. He also reinforced that the
conversation with Mile High Connect and the Affordable Fare
Task Force has been very productive. Both the Affordable
Fare Task Force and RTD have a desire to make transit more
affordable while recognizing that RTD is not able to subsidize
the fares. Bruce Abel said he looks forward to the continued
dialogue.

Amendment
to Postpone: Director Solano made the motion to postpone
this item for 60 days to allow for more
encompassing feedback to include low income
fares.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.
RESULT:
FAILED COMMITTEE [2 TO 11 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Paul Solano, Director, District K
SECONDER: Judy Lubow, Director, District I
AYES: Francone, Solano
NAYS: Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Kent Bagley, Claudia Folska,
Larry Hoy, Bill James, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Tom
Tobiassen, Jeff Walker
ABSTAIN:
Ernest Archuleta
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion FAILED.
Discussion on
Original
Motion:
Director Hoy congratulated the staff on a heroic effort. He
asked for confirmation that the Fare Recommendation
supports the Strategic Budget Plan presented earlier during the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting. Lacy
Bell said that was correct. Director Hoy stated that the
nuances could be talked about all day. He also expressed his
conceptual opposition to the fare zones but understands the
need.
Director Solano read into the record a petition with 1,000
signatures from Westwood Unidos, 9to5, Praxus, and other
organizations in support of affordable fares. A copy of the
petition is available at the Board Office. Director Solano said
that the bus fare raise to $2.60 is a debilitating factor. He
stated that the bus is the transit mode most used by the low
income riders. He added that this would be oppressive to the
workers.
Director Francone thanked staff for their work on the Fare
Study. She called it a labor of love. She asked if transfers
would be included in the SmartCard. Bruce Abel replied that
the Day Pass would enable riders to do as many trips as
desired until the end of business day. The SmartCard is an
incentive that staff is recommending in order to provide an

opportunity to use transfers on a one way trip. He added that
the percentage of riders who do this kind of trip is very small.
Director Francone asked what percentage of riders use
transfers. Bruce Abel replied that currently the percentage is
high as the transfer is the media available. Director Francone
wondered if with the implementation of the SmartCard the
paper transfer would be discontinued. Bruce Abel answered
that that was correct as the paper transfer has been a source
of confusion to bus operators and riders.
Director Francone asked staff to explain how they arrived at
the $17.50 paratransit airport fare. Lacy Bell replied that the
regular regional SmartCard fare is $8.75. The paratransit fare
is calculated at twice the SmartCard fare. She added that
currently the paratransit airport fare is $26, making the new
fare significantly less.
Director Folska echoed the sentiments of her colleagues in
congratulating staff on their work and good intentions. She
trusts that the effort will keep going forward as the Fare Study
moves into phase 2. She commended Director Lubow for
making sure the conversation with Mile High Connects started.
Director Folska said that the idea of the SmartCard is a good
one; however, the SmartCard is not so smart right now. She
recounted that the new fares will be in place in January and
that the Board was asked to approve the purchase of printers
as to ensure timely installation. She asked staff what
assurance the agency has that Xerox will deliver the
SmartCards on time. Bruce Abel said that it is hard to give an
assurance on a third party. He stated that RTD is working
with Xerox to expedite the tasks that need to be done. He
added that Xerox project management has changed 4 times;
however, Xerox recently has been more organized and has
better tracking mechanisms. Director Folska asked when RTD
originally engaged Xerox and how much has been spent so far
on the project. Bruce Abel said that Xerox was hired in 2010
with a budget of approximately $18 million. Committee Chair
Anderson asked to have this conversation taken offline.
Director Folska stated that she does not like the coupon books
and is not aware of any paratransit rider who likes using them.
She added that booklets are a hassle. She wondered why the
SmartCard technology could not be used in the paratransit
vehicles, offering the same service to all riders. She asked
staff to explain the paratransit fare and the booklet discount

as the presentation made it seem like the paratransit fare was
being discounted twice. Lacy Bell replied that the paratransit
fare is calculated at double the SmartCard fare. The booklets
are sold at a further 10% discount of the SmartCard price.
Director Folska was not sure that the inconvenience and
hassle of the coupons, which need to be exchanged at the end
of the year, is worth the perceived double discount. Bruce
Abel added that the paratransit coupon books have been well
received by the users; therefore, staff’s recommendation is to
continue using them. He stated that some users find them
convenient because they do not need to be purchased by the
riders themselves. He added that the long term objective is
installing the SmartCard technology in the paratransit fleet.
Director Folska referred to the Strategic Budget Plan
presentation given by the Senior Manager for Budget and
Financial Analysis, Jannette Scarpino, during the Financial
Administration and Audit committee meeting earlier in the
evening. During the presentation, Jannette Scarpino noted
that certain projects would be deferred as there is a $26K
budget shortfall. Director Folska wondered if phase 2 of the
Fare Study, where the various passes will be discussed, would
also include a discussion on parking and how that may
contribute to the overall revenue needed to fill the gap of the
anticipated $11 million revenue reduction due to the
implementation of a low income pass. Bruce Abel reminded
the Directors that the $11 million number was shared during
the April 28, 2015 Study Session as a possible revenue
reduction from a low income fare based program. He did not
want to speak to Jannette Scarpino’s $26 million and the
deferred projects as the deferred projects are usually
completed at a later date.
Director Lubow gave kudos to the Fare Task Force on their
hard and creative work. She stated that she shared the
concerns about being equitable to low fare riders. Since staff
could not give an assurance on Xerox’s delivery of SmartCards
in a timely manner, she asked if staff has thought through
what would happen if Xerox is a year late, for example. Bruce
Abel told Director Lubow that staff looks at the DayPass and
printers as essential parts of the fare structure. The
SmartCard is an incentive to move riders towards this type of
media but it is not essential to the fare structure. He recalled
that the original timeline called for a recommendation in April.
Postponing the recommendation to May has provided time to
add necessary recommendations to the fare structure. The

extra month has, however, put extra pressure on our partners,
such as Xerox, to deliver. Bruce Abel said that staff
recognized those risks and is ready to make the necessary
accommodations to be ready by the first of the year. Director
Lubow commented that as a Board member who cares about
affordability, it saddens her that the SmartCard and the Fare
Structure might not launch together since one can save a
significant amount of money utilizing the card. She hopes that
staff can put pressure on Xerox to put whatever resources are
necessary in place.
Director Lubow said that her understanding of the airport fare
cost analysis included increasing fares. She asked if staff had
a chance to look into that. Bruce Abel said that staff
requested that CH2M Hill analyze airport fares at $15. At that
rate, the increase in revenue would be $1.1 million; however,
he added that 70% of the ridership to the airport are
employees for whom the $9 regional DayPass would be
available. If the DayPass is available, chances are people will
not buy the $15 airport fare and just buy the Regional
DayPass. If non airport workers did not act in their best
economic interest and bought the $15 airport fare, we would
see an increase of $300,000 to $400,000. Lacy Bell added
that nationally a $9 fare is on the high end of the spectrum for
an airport fare. Director Lubow stated that while on the phone
with Lacy Bell she had an epiphany and realized that if people
wanted to buy two one way tickets with their SmartCard that
would be a discount compared to the DayPass.
Director Walker asked for the expected date of the SmartCard
rollout. Bruce Abel replied that it was originally November 1,
2015 for stored value with very limited application. However,
it makes no sense to implement the SmartCard at the current
fare zone structure so it will be January, 2016.
Director Walker stated that he is not crazy about the fare
zones coming back but understands why. He noted that the
riders from Jefferson County will not have the opportunity to
go as far as other riders within the fare system as the zoning
structure assumes that everyone will travel downtown.
Director Walker appreciates the push to use SmartCard as it is
more efficient to RTD, the users, and the tax payers. He
pointed out that the staff has put in an unbelievable amount of
work on the Fare Study.

Director Lasater stated that the phase 2 conversations on
passes will last about 90 days. He asked if the $11 million
shortfall is already factored into the $131 million projected
revenue of the Fare Study recommended action. Bruce Abel
noted that $131.3 million is the revenue target for this
recommended action. Any further action, including the
potential inclusion of a low income fare pass that may lead to
a revenue reduction of $11 million and the search for
offsetting the revenue reduction, is not included in the
recommended action. Bruce Abel noted that staff’s objective
is to find ways to fund the program as opposed to not meet
the revenue target. Director Lasater thanked staff for
continuing the dialogue and hopes that a solution can be
reached that will make everyone happy.
Director Menten stated that she does not hand out praise very
often; however, she thanked staff and Lacy Bell for all the
work on the Fare Study. She acknowledged that she got
frustrated towards the end due to the changes made, but the
changes were because of public feedback. She suggested
that the next time the agency goes through this process,
adding an extra month to the public feedback process would
be helpful. Director Menten mentioned a few things about the
proposal: it is fair, glad to see the paratransit fares, glad to see
that transfers were added, and impressed that 70% of the
airport ridership is employees. She added that currently we do
have a day pass at $6.40, which nobody uses. In reference to
the exchange of paratransit booklets, she noted that 2014
coupons could be exchanged up to June 30, 2015. Director
Menten expressed her satisfaction with the proposal.
Director Deadwyler expressed her gratitude to staff, especially
appreciating the concessions for the paratransit fares. She
asked if a low income plan would have to be done through
non-profits. Bruce Abel said that staff is looking at a variety
of ways. He noted that the current non-profit program could
be streamlined to improve access. He added that another
option being considered is extending the Senior, Student, and
Disabled 50% discount to those that are 150% under the
poverty line. Director Deadwyler wondered how we could
certify someone’s income. Bruce Abel said that RTD would
not engage in the certification process. This would be done
by non-profit entities. Director Deadwyler requested that the
list of non-profits participating in the current Reduced Fare
Program be made public. Lacy Bell added that the goal is to
streamline and broaden the awareness of the current reduced

fare non-profit program. Director Deadwyler reiterated her
appreciation for staff’s work, including the paratransit fares.
Director Solano wondered if any statistical analysis was done
forecasting how ridership would be affected by the fare
change. Lacy Bell replied that the proposed model calls for
89.3 million riders compared to 91 million riders with no fare
increase. She noted that other fare models had a larger
decrease in ridership. Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager for Planning, explained that the model forecasts a
2% drop in ridership. He added that it remains to be seen
how other variables influence ridership, i.e. improved services,
opening of new lines, etc. Director Solano reinforced that this
was a forecast and not certain.
Director Tobiassen echoed the praise to staff for all their hard
work. He stated that they may win a Nobel Peace Prize for
their conversations on a low fare income program. He noted
that his fear is that no matter what, for some reason, we do
not meet our revenue target. He recalled when in 2010 RTD
had to cut 8% of services and how that such action would not
have his support. He also recalled when the SmartCards first
rolled out. He pointed out that technology has changed so
much and we keep moving the target for our third party
vendors. He asked the Directors to cut the vendors a little
slack as they struggle to implement the program.
Director James thanked Lacy Bell and the staff for all the
heavy lifting they have done during this project. He
remembered how a fare increase 5 years ago seemed like a big
deal. This, however, is really a big deal. He is glad to see
RTD taking advantage of using new technology. He looks
forward to completing phase one of the process and working
with Mile High Connects and other stakeholders as the project
moves to the next phase.
Committee Chair Anderson gave kudos to the staff for the job
they have done. She said she appreciated the new airport fare
as many people in her community work at the airport and are
not very highly paid. She thinks the fares will be fairer than
they were in the past. She added that she has been in talks
with her legislators regarding low fare for the income
challenged. She says that RTD should not be responsible for
this and that the State and the Federal government have to
help the agency. Committee Chair Anderson expressed how
encouraged she was by staff’s proposal.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Committee Vice-Chair
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked the Board and staff for their work on
this difficult issue and expressed her happiness over presenting a new fare
structure at the Board meeting.

C. Updates

• Proposed August 2015 Service Changes
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, introduced
Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning and Scheduling. Jessie Carter
pointed the Directors to the Board of Directors Report included in the
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting agenda packet for
May 19, 2015. He noted that the August changes include the opening of
new stations: Boulder Junction at Depot Square and Central Park Station
Bus Plaza and Park-n-Ride, which will replace the existing Stapleton Park-nRide.
Jessie Carter informed the Directors that the May service changes went into
effect on Sunday, May 10. This included the installation of route 4 which is
averaging 16 boardings per hour, which is very good for a new route.
Director Folska asked if RTD had done any marketing for route 4. Jessie
Carter replied that the Westwood Neighborhood Association has gone door
to door handing out information. RTD has not spent any money yet but is
planning on doing a direct mail to all residences within a quarter mile of the
route. Bruce Abel recognized the great partnership with the Westwood
Neighborhood Association as they have gone above and beyond
communicating with the community. Director Folska found the partnership
with Westwood Neighborhood Association very exciting and wondered how
to apply these lessons learned to other communities.
Director Francone said that she understood the South Jeffco Call-n-Ride was
underperforming. She expressed her excitement over the service addition to
route 77 as that is the bus she utilizes. She shared the concerns of the
Evergreen residents as they are scared to death they might lose their Call-nRide. They are motivated to reach out and push out information. Director

Francone stated that Evergreen would like marketing assistance, like
information, maps, and flyers in order to promote the service. She said that
her understanding is that Evergreen has been asking for these materials for
about a year. Jessie Carter replied that Jeff Becker, Senior Manager for
Service Development, and Brian Matthews, Manager for Special Services,
have worked with community groups to increase Call-n-Ride ridership in
Evergreen. He told Director Francone that staff will do what they can to
assist Evergreen in marketing their Call-n-Ride. Director Francone wondered
if the vehicle from the South Jeffco Call-n-Ride would be put back in service.
Jessie Carter replied in the affirmative. Director Francone wondered if the
area ridership supports another Call-n-Ride vehicle or would it be best served
by a more fixed route. Jessie Carter replied that that is one of the issues
Brian Matthews is analyzing.
Director Hoy mentioned that there used to be a bus in Evergreen that was
discontinued leading to the creation of the Call-n-Ride. Jessie Carter
clarified that it was route 63X and there were 7 actual rocket scientists who
rode the bus. Director Hoy thanked the Board for voting to keep the Federal
Heights Call-n-Ride active. He said that the ridership continues to go up,
which is a testimony to community spearheading the movement.
Director Bagley noted that he worked with Director Daly back in 2011 when
the route 63X was cut and the Call-n-Ride was established. He pointed out
that it was a thorny issue to address. He mentioned that he rode the bus
during the morning commute from Mineral to Lockheed Martin and it was
empty. He is very excited that Director Francone’s District is getting
upgraded services.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone wished Director Lasater and Director Folska a happy birthday as
their birthdays are later this week.
Director Menten noted that there are customer service panels in the works. She
asked staff to send her a list of meetings. She also wondered what topics they will
be discussing. Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, said that
he would forward the list to Director Menten. He added that he believed the next
session would be on SmartCards.
Director Solano informed the Directors that ThorntonFest on Saturday, May 16,
was a lot of fun. He encouraged the Directors to attend public functions, including
the upcoming Juneteenth Festival in which Director Deadwyler is involved.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 9, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

