Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on November 13, 2007 at
7:00p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

November 14, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, November
13, 2007 at 7:00 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Chair Pro Tem Christopher, Directors Brohl, Busck, Daly,
Chacon, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, Yamrick

Member Absent:

Chair Martinez

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, David
Genova, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed
Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry
Ellebracht, Kenn Hardin, Jennifer Heisler, Caitlin Magee, Andy
Mutz, Jerry Nery, Ty Perry, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Joe Smith, Stan Szabelak, Liz Telford,
Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington

Others Present:

***
Call to Order:

Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News), Jeff Lieb (Denver Post),
Larry Warner (PB), Roger Sherman (CRL), Brian Murphy
(Bombardier), Tex Elam (SEBP), Pam Schenk (Park Meadows),
Joe Wingerter (Kiewit), Phuonglan Nguyen (FRESC), Brian
Middleton (Jacobs Carter Burgess), Mark Imhoff (Jacobs
Carter Burgess), Ira Schreiber (Colorail), John Valerio (CDOT),
Jshua Seydir (360 Media), Brad Ramirez (SEBAL), Tim Romer
(Goldman Sachs), Andrew Robbins (Bombardier), David Kaija
(Bombardier), Jane Bird (Canada Line), Kathy Mayo (Bart), Bob
Walsh (JP Morgan), Stephen Weinstein (Berenbaum,
Weinshienk and Eason)
Chair Pro Tem Christopher called the meeting to order at 7:00
p.m.

I. PPP Panel Discussion

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on November 13, 2007 at
7:00p.m. Page 2 of 4
The FasTracks team announced there were videotaping this session as a way
to capture information for sharing with others.
Cal Marsella introduced the topic of the PPP Discussion and turned it over to
Teresa Sedmak who introduced the 3 panelists: Kathy Mayo with Bart
System, Jane Bird with Canada Line and Brian Middleton with US and
International P3 experience who recently joined the FasTracks team.
Jane Bird, CEO of Canada Lines, shared pictures of the Canada line and
provided a perspective of their experience with PPP. Jane indicated this was
a design-build-partially finance-operate-maintain. The two biggest advantages
for Canada Lines in using PPP are due diligence and risk transfer.
A copy of the Canada Lines presentation is included in the Study Session
minutes notebook that is retained in the Board office.
Kathy Mayo with the Bart System in Oakland California shared information on
the Oakland Airport Connector which is a 3.2 mile automated people mover
system. She expressed the importance of education and bringing in the right
expertise with financial, legal and technical knowledge. A copy of this
presentation is located in the Study Session Minute Notebook located in the
Board office.
Brian Middleton shared both his International and US P3 experience. He
shared lessons learned on the New Jersey Hudson-Bergen DBOM experience
as well as on the New Jersey Riverline, the Manchester England Metrolink,
and Stockholm Sweden Arlanda Airport Rail Link. A copy of this presentation
is located in the Study Session Minute Notebook located in the Board office.
The Directors asked several questions of the panelists that focused around:
 Tayer: How do you build in flexibility with the PPP relationship so
that you do not get gouged? The panelists emphasized the
importance of having robust competition and affordability ceiling that
enabled self monitoring of the process. Jane Bird also encouraged
that they build in essential performance indicators with protective
agreements to minimize this risk.
 Quinlan: Were their ridership projections over-optimistic and how did
they build credibility in their model? Kathy responded that they did
have some problems with their model on an earlier project but used
worst case analysis and a conservative projection approach for this
project.
 Busck: Director Busck shared that one of the key learnings offered to
him in a previous tour of the Hudson-Bergen line was to utilize the
same company for the total DBOM process. He asked the panelists
of their perspective. Brian expressed skepticism in the ability to find
one company who can do it all. Jane shared examples of how
partners have worked together to achieve a seamless process but
concurred it is next to impossible to find one company that can do it
all.
 Yamrick: Director Yamrick referenced page 4 of the Oakland
presentation and stated that since the amount borrowed is related to
the risk, what will be the base amount to pay at the end of 45 years?
Jane indicated that she did not have this information with her but

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on November 13, 2007 at
7:00p.m. Page 3 of 4
indeed an analysis had been done. She agreed to provide a response
follow-up to Director Yamrick.
 Brohl: Related to the comment on having the right expertise in
finance, legal and technical, Director Brohl inquired as to where to
find this level of expertise. The panelists indicated that they are out
there and often will seek you. They also added the wisdom of
expertise in public involvement and property management is essential.
 Elfenbein: In some of the models shared, the panelists had indicated
the financial sharing arrangement. Is the amount of money that the
public contribute in the models negotiable? The panelists indicated
that a good financial adviser could provide a great recommendation
based on the goal and desired outcome.
 Ruchman: Discuss the process used to identify potential PPP
partners and the decision criteria for whom to give it to. What
distinguished the winning bids? The panelists indicated that the
financial advisors selected to help with this project could provide
some direction including what should go into the RFP. There is a
usual focus on cost and technical solutions but encouraged flexibility
in focusing in on what is needed while allowing the partner to offer
the solution.
 Kinton: In looking back what would they do different today since
there is a relationship between cost and control? Jane responded to
express control more in terms of preferred outcome which frees up
the bidders to offer creative solutions based on their expertise and
experience in the field.
 McMullen: How do you determine the number of years for the PPP
arrangement (i.e. 35, 45 or 20 years)? The response was to get
recommendations from the financial advisors who must take into
consideration a number of factors such as what the market will bear,
the financial curve, useful life of the fleet, etc.
 Daly: Director Daly noted that in the presentation, the technology
shard was automated electric third rail and wondered if they were
concerned about being unmanned. Jane responded that the
technology is mature and that she was very comfortable with this
model.
 Christopher: Please share a scenario where the public agency parted
company with a PPP provider and what happened. Brian indicated
that in the limited experience he has had with this, this could become
a costly item. However, this is why it is important to have good
protective agreements. Jane also indicated little experience but
referenced the London Underground as a project to study. She reemphasized the importance of due diligence and making sure the
contract protects for these types of eventualities.
 Kemp: Have they had any experience where they mixed TOD
development as an element of the PPP proposal? The general
response was no since each of these bring their own level of
complexities. Kathy indicated in some cases, they have leveraged
agency owned property to help generate revenue but not as a
component of the PPP agreement. The panelists suggested looking at
the Portland model.
The Directors indicated this was a very productive discussion which they
would like to follow-up in the early part of the year but in the interest of
time, elected to proceed to the other item on the agenda.
II. RTD Salaried Pension Plan Presentation
Marla Lien introduced the team with Brad Ramirez, actuary, and Stephen

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on November 13, 2007 at
7:00p.m. Page 4 of 4
Weinstein, legal consultant for the Pension Trust. Brad delivered the
overview of the RTD Salaried Employees Pension Plan. For a copy of this
plan please refer to the Study Session minutes notebook located in the
Board office.
Extensive discussion occurred about the differences in the defined benefit
versus the defined contribution plan that was recommended for new
employees hired after January 2008. Director Yamrick raised several
questions and provided some insight on the impact of having different class
of employees with different pension plans. Director Brohl effectively argued
it was premature to make this decision until all options can be drilled down
and understood. This is a policy decision with significant implications to our
employees and cannot be rushed.
The Board members elected to remove this item from the November 20 th
Board agenda until more detailed information on each option is available.
The Pension Trustee team will get additional information and bring to the
December Study Session.
III. Other Matters
Seeing there were no other matters, the meeting adjourned at 10:20 p.m.

