Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 1 of 7

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 11, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Thursday, October 11, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. Rooms T&D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chair Kinton, Co-Chair McMullen, Bruce Daly, Lee Kemp, Noel
Busck, Wally Pulliam, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick (via phone)

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, John Dawson, Rod Dodsworth, David Genova, Lloyd
Mack, Bill Porter, Brian Matthews, Rick Clarke, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, Dean Shaklee, Caitlin Magee, Paula Perdue

Others:

Bernie Rogoff, Jeff Leib
****
Co-Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:01 p.m.

Call to Order:
I.

Recommended Actions:
•

Approval of Purchase of New Buses
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise the option included in
Contract 13DK005 with Gillig Corporation for 30 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur
diesel low-floor 40 foot transit buses and 13 heavy duty ultra-low sulfur diesel
30 foot transit buses at a total cost not to exceed $13,762,151. Funding for
the purchase of these buses is available in the 2007 amended capital and
expense budget.
Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager, Bus Operations, introduced this
item and gave an overview of the hybrid bus study. There is a delta of
$195,000 per bus between regular buses and the hybrids. The operating and

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 2 of 7
maintenance cost of the hybrids was even with a normal bus. The large
savings was in the cost of fuel.
Director Kemp spoke about the District’s desire to go “green” and find a
technology. The District has gone through a careful process to find a
technology to support. Hybrid was the choice for that technology by both the
Board and Staff. The District now has the opportunity to move forward with
that choice.
Director McMullen said that pragmatically we need to get these buses ordered.
They are cleaner and they are greener than what we have out there. He spoke
about getting corporations to sponsor green buses.
Director Busck said the District should purchase hybrid buses and show
leadership in the green movement but to spend $195,000 extra to save
$50,000 over a 12 year period is not a good business decision. He did not
believe using the reserve fund was a good idea. Director Busck suggested
purchasing a few hybrids every year as part of the regular budget.
Director Pulliam agreed with Director Busck. He said we may have to cut
service if we don’t purchase the buses. He spoke about the dangers of
spending the reserve fund. He believes the Capital reserve fund is not designed
for this purpose.
Director Ruchman said it will be an expense to acquire hybrid buses. He
believes the capital reserve fund is for special occasions. He believes this is a
special occasion to purchase these buses. The purchase of buses would be
more than a symbolic gesture.
Director Daly asked why the difference in the cost between hybrid and regular
buses. Ron Dodsworth said it is a speculation but there is a lot of investment
in the technology. Director Daly said that if purchasing hybrids meant a
reduction in the number of buses purchased, he would not support it. Director
Daly said he could support purchasing another four hybrids.
Director Kinton was in support of the bus purchase with concrete plans to
purchase hybrids in the future.
Cal Marsella said that we will not buy fewer buses. We will still buy 43 buses.
He suggested modifying the proposal to purchase 4 hybrids out of the thirty 40
foot buses the District was purchasing and the money for the hybrids could
come out of the reserve fund.
Motion:

Director Busck made a

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 3 of 7
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
October 16, 2007 Board
Meeting. The purchase of
thirty 40 foot buses, four
would be of hybrid
technology with the funds
for the hybrids coming from
the Rapid Transit
Development Reserve.
Second:

Director Pulliam
seconded the motion.

Primary
(Friendly)
Amendment: Director Kinton made a
friendly amendment that
the District will seek
additional funding for
hybrids. Director Busck
accepted the amendment.
Secondary
(Friendly)
Amendment: Director Daly made a
friendly amendment
to purchase five hybrid
buses. Director Pulliam
objected to this
amendment.
Motion:

Director Busck made a
substitute motion for
approval before the full
Board at the October 16,
2007 Board Meeting to
purchase 30 heavy duty
ultra-low sulfur diesel lowfloor 40 foot transit buses
and 13 heavy duty ultra-

low
sulfur diesel 30 foot transit
buses with 5 of the 40 foot

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 4 of 7
buses being hybrid buses.
The funding for the hybrid
buses will come from the
Rapid Transit Development
Reserve. The District will
Continue to seek additional
funding sources for the
purchase of additional
hybrid buses.
Second:
Vote on
Motion:

Director Ruchman seconded
the motion.
The motion passed
7-1(Director Pulliam
opposed)

Directors Kemp and Busck left after the vote.
•

Approval of January Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the January 13, 2008 Service Change package
as revised and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual
savings of approximately $108,100, and, further, to authorize the General
Manager to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.
Bill Porter, Manager Service Planning/Scheduling, gave the overview. The
largest issue to the public is the closure of Pine Junction park-n-Ride.
Motion:

Director McMullen made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
October 16, 2007 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director Ruchman
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:
Director Ruchman left at 5:38 p.m.

The motion passed
unanimously.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 5 of 7
Director Daly asked that the closure of the Pine Junction park-n-Ride be
deferred until January.
Director Kinton asked what the other major issues were. Bill Porter said the
other big issue was changes to Longmont bus routes and those changes
have been deferred.
•

Approval of Extending Free Rides for the Military
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that free
rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military should be
extended from the presently approved date of December 31, 2007 to
December 31, 2008. Utilization has been minimal to date and this extension
will have minimal impact on RTD.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
October 16, 2007 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

•

The motion passed
unanimously.

Award Contract to Provide and Install Fuel & Fluid Management and Vehicle
Data Acquisition Systems
It is recommended by the Operations Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to S&A Systems,
Inc. (Fleetwatch) of Rockwall, Texas, a RTD certified SBE, the low cost, most
responsive, responsible and qualified proposer for the purchase of the Fuel &
Fluid Management and Vehicle Data Acquisition Systems (“Systems”) to be
installed in RTD bus maintenance facilities and buses. The Systems are
comprised of sensors and controllers, which automatically collect the vehicle
number and mileage, control and report the flow of fuel and consumable fluids
(engine oil, antifreeze, etc) into the buses. The Systems also collect bus
operating and diagnostic data generated by bus components such as engines
and transmissions. The collected data will be sent to the new Maximus

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 6 of 7
maintenance reporting system to generate preventive maintenance actions. The
total cost for the project is $669,500. The funding for this contract is
approved and available in the District’s 2007 Capital Budget.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
October 16, 2007 Board
Meeting.

Second:

Director McMullen
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

The motion passed
unanimously.

Update on Light Rail signage – Lloyd Mack, Assistant General Manager, Rail
Operations said that there have been some setbacks and some progress with
the light rail signs. The parking lot notifications sign will be turned on Monday,
October 15, 2007. An additional sign will be put up at the junction at the 9
Mile park-n-Ride at no cost to the contract. Staff will be meeting with the
contractor in two weeks to discuss the sign that Director McMullen requested at
the Southmoor park-n-Ride.
Lloyd Mack said that testing of the light rail signage is in process and the
stations are staffed with people to inform customers if there is a discrepancy
between the signs and the actual train arrival.
Lloyd Mack said that on October 22, 2007 an additional seven light rail vehicle
cars will go into service. Every train that goes from the Lincoln, 9 Mile, and
Mineral stations to downtown will be a three car train. Trains to Union Station
will be two car trains and the G line will remain a one car train. Cal Marsella
mentioned that Scott Reed is working on publicity to let the public know.

III.

Denver Center for Independent Living- follow up from Board meeting- request for
route deviation to serve DCIL - Bill Porter gave this update. This would cause a
3-4 minute delay and inconvenience up to 700 people a day and impact a
residential neighborhood. Customers have to walk ¼ of a mile from DCIL to the
bus stop.
Director McMullen suggested an alternative route that might move the drop off
closer to the DCIL facility. Cal Marsella asked Bill Porter to determine ridership
figures and what we might lose and gain if the route was deviated.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 11, 2007
Page 7 of 7
IV.

Status of Security Riding the Route 15 and Checkpoint Location – rotating
checkpoints. Friday night is a constant checkpoint and then it rotates
weekdays.
Bill McMullen asked about the Route 65 school trippers. Cal Marsella asked to
have some undercover officers on the school trippers. Director McMullen would
like to know the frequency and the occurrences. John Tarbert said that we
receive a complaint and the next day an officer is placed on the bus.

V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Operations/Customer
Services Committee will be November 14, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.

VII.

Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Co-chair Kinton adjourned the meeting at
6:02 p.m.

