Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
REMOTE MEETING
August 25, 2020 at 5:30 PM
720-443-6193
Meeting ID: 818 744 532#

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Review of Survey Responses

IV.

Overview of General Manager Executive Search Process

V.

Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of personnel
matters regarding General Manager/Chief Executive Officer selection and candidate
finalists Debra Johnson, Adelee Le Grand, and Tina Quigley; § 24-6-402(4)(e)(I), C.R.S.,
for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations,
developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators regarding General
Manager/Chief Executive Officer compensation and contract; and § 24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S.
to receive legal advice regarding the same.

VI.

Adjourn from Executive Session

VII.

Recommended Action
A.

Designation of General Manager

The General Manager Executive Search/Oversight & Performance Management Committee
(Committee) presents to the Board a motion to approve the attached Resolution No. 008,
to identify one of three finalist candidates as RTD’s General Manager, subject to
negotiation and execution of an employment contract.

VIII.

Other Matters

IX.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

7.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date: August 21, 2020

From:

Peggy Catlin, GMES
Director, District N

Date:

August 21, 2020

Subject:

Designation of General Manager

Committee

Chair

&

GM
Board Meeting Date: August 25, 2020

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The General Manager Executive Search/Oversight & Performance Management Committee (Committee)
presents to the Board a motion to approve the attached Resolution No. 008, to identify one of three
finalist candidates as RTD’s General Manager, subject to negotiation and execution of an employment
contract.
BACKGROUND
Following the departure of David Genova from his position as General Manager in January 2020, the
Board engaged in a robust search process and selected Paul J. Ballard to serve as the interim General
Manager until such time the Board could select a person to perform the role on an ongoing basis.
Following a nationwide search, the Committee, in consultation with the executive search firm
Krauthamer & Associates, reviewed application materials from individuals representing a wide degree of
backgrounds and experiences. In the meeting held on Wednesday, July 22, 2020, the Committee
selected seven individuals to move forward as preliminary candidates for the position, one of whom
would later withdraw from consideration.
The Committee, while convened in executive session during Committee meetings held on August 5 and
6, 2020, interviewed the six preliminary candidates in order to identify the individuals who should move
forward in the process as “finalists”, as that term is defined in CRS §24-6-402 (3.5).
On August 7, 2020, the Board announced that it had selected Debra Johnson, Adelee Le Grand, and
Tina Quigley as finalists for the General Manager position.
Following initial outreach efforts aimed at gathering feedback from RTD’s employees, constituents, and
key stakeholders regarding the candidates, the Committee held a second round of interviews for the
finalist candidates on August 19, 2020.
In order to inform the Board’s decision, additional input was received from employees, stakeholders, and
the public through an online survey that was open from the time of the second round of interviews
through August 23, 2020.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this Recommended Action and its associated resolution, the Board identifies one of the three
finalists to be named in the resolution as the agency’s General Manager. As soon as practicable
following the adoption of this action and the resolution, the Board of Directors will promptly negotiate an
employment agreement with the individual identified as the General Manager.
As soon as practicable following the appointment of the General Manager, the Board will promptly
negotiate an employment agreement with the General Manager appointee; provided, however, that such

Packet Pg. 3

7.A

employment agreement shall be finalized and fully executed on or before October 28, 2020, or at such
other time as the Board may determine in its sole discretion.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact related to the appointment of the General Manager is contemplated in the
employment agreement.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

2020-08-25 Designation of GM Resolution - Final

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
John McKay, Administrator
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

7.A.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Designation of General Manager

WHEREAS, on November 21, 2019, former RTD General Manager David Genova submitted
his notice of voluntary retirement from his employment with the Regional Transportation
District; and
WHEREAS, on January 28, 2020, the Board appointed Paul J. Ballard to serve in the interim
as the agency’s Chief Executive Officer and General Manager; and
WHEREAS, the General Manager Executive Search/Performance Management & Oversight
Committee (Committee), with support from executive search firm Krauthamer & Associates,
launched a nationwide search in May 2020 to seek candidates to serve in the position of
Chief Executive Office and General Manager on an ongoing basis; and
WHEREAS, Krauthamer & Associates received interest from almost 60 applicants from
across the country representing diverse backgrounds and experiences, both within the
transit industry and in many other sectors, and selected highly qualified individuals for the
Committee’s review and deliberation; and
WHEREAS, on July 22, 2020, the Committee selected seven individuals to move forward
as preliminary candidates for the position, one of whom would later withdraw from
consideration; and
WHEREAS, on August 7, 2020, the Board announced that it had selected Debra Johnson,
Adelee Le Grand, and Tina Quigley as finalists for the General Manager position; and
WHEREAS, following initial outreach efforts aimed at gathering feedback from RTD’s
employees, constituents, and key stakeholders regarding the candidates, the Committee
held a second round of interviews for the finalist candidates on August 19, 2020; and
WHEREAS, in order to inform the Board’s decision, additional input was received from
employees, stakeholders, and the public through an online survey that was open from the
time of the second round of interviews through August 23, 2020.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that:

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 2020-08-25 Designation of GM Resolution - Final (4307 : Designation of General Manager)

RESOLUTION NO. 008, SERIES OF 2020

7.A.a

1) The Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District formally selects Debra
Johnson as the designee for the position of Chief Executive Officer and General
Manager for the Regional Transportation District (hereafter General Manager).
2) As soon as practicable following the designation of the General Manager, the Board
will promptly negotiate an employment agreement with the General Manager
appointee; provided, however, that such employment agreement shall be finalized
and fully executed on or before October 28, 2020, or at such other time as the Board
may determine in its sole discretion.
Passed and adopted by the Board of Directors of the Regional Transportation District on the
25th day of August, 2020.

____________________________
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chair of the Board

____________________________
Vince Buzek
Secretary

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 2020-08-25 Designation of GM Resolution - Final (4307 : Designation of General Manager)

Subject to the execution of the employment agreement identified below:

