Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 12, 2010
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Barbara McManus, Board Assistant-Temporary

Date:

October 19, 2010

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on October 12, 2010 at 5:30
p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair McMullen, Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Brohl,
Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, Malpiede, Martinez, Tayer and
Tobiassen, Chair Kemp.
Directors’ Bagley, Busck, and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Jane Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David
Genova, Terry Howerter, Barbara McManus, Anthony Menendez, ,
Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, John Perry, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, John Talbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Debra Wilcox, and Ashland
Vaughn.

Others Present:

Roger Sherman, Julie Skeen, Brian Middleton, Karen Morales, Loonera
Auden, Ben Kelley- TKG, Richard Pombo- AECOM, Stephanie, Tharros
and Debra Wilcox.
****

Call to Order

I.

Director O’Boyle, Committee Vice-Chair, called the meeting to order at
5:39 p.m.

Updates
 CAC
The CAC update was supplemented in a memo dated October 11, 2010 and
copies were provided to board members at the start of the meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 12, 2010
Page 2
Debra Wilcox CAC Co-Chair spoke about the Citizens Advisory Committee
Meeting September 15, 2010 which was held at the Anschutz Campus in Aurora.
Directors McMullen, Bagley, and Tobiassen were in attendance.
Aloha Beach neighborhood attended with concerns & questions regarding:




Communication deficiencies
East – West Federal station decisions and the impact to their neighborhood
Environmental and other impacts working with a private developer

Fitzsimons Transportation Management Association was represented and would
like to see RTD communicate more freely with regards to their project and would
like to work with RTD planners. They would like some of their data collection
results to play a part in decision making.
Citizens are concerned about issues surrounding property acquisition issues and
property values.
CoPIRG was represented to discuss “Keep FasTracks on Track” a public
information campaign to find and increase awareness for transit supporters.
Property concerns on the corridor were discussed. As in the past we were
impressed with their efforts.
Director Tobiassen thanks the CAC Committee for conducting the meeting at
Anschutz and Children’s Hospital and for all the work done in conducting meeting
for public input and concerns.
Director Martinez – Expressed concern about the FasTracks focus being
segmented at local meetings and requested the CAC and all parties speak to the
entire build-out of FasTracks at all local meetings. No follow up needed.
Director O’Boyle – Gave thanks to the CAC Committee for addressing the public
at the ongoing meetings and keeping the board informed.
No location has been determined for the next work meeting to be held October
20th. Outcomes will be presented in December.


DUS Historic Station
Mike Turner spoke regarding the DUS Historic, public meeting.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 12, 2010
Page 3
The first public meeting of DUS Historic was scheduled for Thursday, October
14th, 5:30 – 7:30 p.m. 1600 Blake Street; the committee will have gleaned
information in early December for Board approval in February.



Gold Line
Ashland Vaughn, Gold Line Project Manager and Eagle P3 Manager, Liz Telford
FasTracks Environmental Manager, Project Manager, EIS Manager for Gold Line,
co-teamed on the presentation of the Gold Line Project.
The PowerPoint Presentation is included in the meeting minute’s book and posted
on the Director’s website.


Presentation color codes (These codes were not listed in the presentation)
o Double Red – Rails
o Yellow – Bridges
o Green – Walls
o Blue – N Tracks
o Magenta – Crash wall intersection of Moffett Line

Comments and questions from the Board members:
Director McMullen asked the following questions:
Who will incur the cost of repairs to the Bathtub? Ashland Vaughn responded
they were hoping to partner with Denver on project.
What is the dollar amount of the Adams County project? Liz Telford replied 40
million dollars.
Where is the location of the parking for the East and West Federal station?
Ashland Vaughn and Liz Telford responded the East is location at 60th and West
is located at 63rd.
How far is the pedestrian walk to Regis University?
approximately 10 blocks.

Liz Telford responded

Where is the Sheridan station located in Arvada or Adams County? Liz Telford
and Ashland Vaughn explained the border is rigid but the location is Arvada.
Directors Malpiede & Daly thanked Liz Telford, Ashland Vaughn and Kevin Flynn
for doing a great job hearing and answering questions and managing community
outreach. Director Daly added Thank you for a great tag team presentation.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 12, 2010
Page 4
Director Martinez asked what is the distance and timing of single to double track
in the historic district. Ashland Vaughn stated 1.42 miles at 7½ minutes
allowing a 15 minute turnaround time for timetable.
Director Christopher asked when would we find out when and if East to West
station sites will have increased cost? Ashland Vaughn answered based on the
new plans we will be negotiating according to the current budget. All updates
will come to the board.
Director Christopher asked what the status of the West TOD site in terms of the
Adams County zoning plan. Ashland answered they are awaiting updates.


Public Opinion Survey
A PowerPoint Presentation was passed out in the meeting and will be posted on
the FasTracks website. For the results of this survey, please refer to the
presentation. Presentation was put together by ZUMA.
Scott Reed gave an overview of the survey and explained the yearly baselines
they were trying to achieve. The first survey was conducted in 2007.
Scott Reed, Ben Kelley and Pauletta Tonilas delivered the presentation. The
survey was conducted last month (September) and was comprised of 450
participants distributed evenly across counties and based on voting population.
The average interview was 19 minutes. Margin of error is +/- 4.6%.
Director Brohl mentioned it was interesting the areas that would benefit the most
from a tax increase were opposed. These areas being, Adams Co and Broomfield.
Ben Kelley added this survey interview size in the Broomfield area needs to be
more extensive. Maria Garcia Berry later clarified that this was not unusual and
also happened in the previous election.
Director Daly asked if the Douglas county residents see the value of
transportation especially since they are now being asked to pay per ride for their
children school bus. Kelley remarked they see value in the 1-25 line and its
impact and look forward to further option.
Director Christopher to Pauletta Question regarding Page 21, FasTracks News Local newspapers include daily and weekly a differentiation between daily and
weekly should be made. The utilization of community newspapers should be
added to the mix. Director Christopher mentioned that daily community news
readers are usually a hard core voter base.
Director McMullen stated the presentation was good information and we should
keep doing what we are doing. We are getting a bang for our buck he likes what

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 12, 2010
Page 5
he see and we are “Minding the Store” and the public see this as having value.
Increased taxes are an uncomfortable subject at this time.
Director Tayer requested to see graduated tax levels included in the survey. The
data showed odd years and the even year were comparable. What is your
impression? We need to understand the cross tabulation and what part of the
county the vote comes from. We have always assumed on an election year we
would win the vote based on age bracket.
Director James agrees with Director Christopher in regards to newspapers. We
seem to have maintained a level course in a tight economy we seem to be
running status quo.
Director Christopher commented on the survey showing we have slipped 11%
and asked how significant this one. Maria Garcia Berry answered this is troubling
but we need to watch the increasing negatives and this number is a snapshot
that we need to drill down to and get further data.

Director O’Boyle asked do we know how unemployment fits into this survey
outcome. Did we do a survey for T-Rex? Pauletta said we did do a survey and
they would go back and make a comparison. Unemployment was not a focal
question in the survey. An additional survey for this year is not in the budget.
Director McMullen wanted to know the odds that the same people are polled
from year to year? Changes are very slim that we duplicate participants.
Counselor Lien asked if the branding and building between RTD and FasTracks
was broken out by line in communications. FasTracks is used as the overall
distinction to the current build out.



Pueblo Steel Mill Tour –
Director Daly reported on the Pueblo Steel Mill Tour set up by Brenda Tierney.
The following were attendees. Carla Perez, John O’Boyle, Angie Malpiede. The
tour was conducted with stringent safety precautions’ ear plugs, full burn proof
protective gear including eye gear.
The company is Russian owned and
managed. An overview of how different production procedures and material
management is needed to be utilized because of the impact on steel in terms of
climate. They reviewed the magnitude of the impact power outages would have
on the plant. RTD will bring the steel mill only 2% of all the work completed at
the facility.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, October 12, 2010
Page 6
II.

Other Matters
Director McMullen shared that he and Director James attended the Yale Station
Groundbreaking.

III.

Next Meeting – The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is
scheduled for November 9, 2010.

IV.

Adjourn – Committee Co-Chair O’Boyle adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee at 7:39 p.m.

