2022-04-12
Finance and Planning Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: We'll reconvene in another minute.
Give it another minute. Just make sure we're all here.
All right. Going to go ahead and get started.
The Finance and Planning Committee will come to order. We are convened as of 6:59 PM Mountain Time.
I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you're recognized to speak,
just as our last meeting.
Thank you for joining us. As Chair Buzek noted in the Special Board Meeting, under the current
circumstances these meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely in the interest of public
health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be
held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. Please visit rtd-denver.com to access the recordings
and unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and member of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you. Directors and staff
participating by phone can also raise their hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star
9. And to toggle your mute settings, press star 6.
I will call for the roll of the Finance and Planning Committee. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.

Director Cook? If Director Cook joins, we'll acknowledge her. I do expect that she'll rejoin. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am present. That's six present, one absent. Ms. McManus, if you wouldn't mind
just noting for the record when and if Director Cook is able to rejoin us.
And Ms. McManus, I'm having a hard time seeing my list here. Would you mind just noting what other
Directors have remained, just for the sake of the record, outside of the Finance and Planning Committee?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We have Director Tisdale, Director Williams. We have Sloane, Bouquet,
Rosenthal, Catlin, Lewis, and Whitmore, currently.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. McManus. And I do, for the sake of the record, see that Director Cook
has rejoined. So we have all seven committee members here. Thank you.
Next we're going to move into the public comment period. We're going to open up public comment again
this evening for this committee. Those who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed
in the published meeting agenda or for the immediately preceding months, if you would wish to speak and
have not already done so, you can raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute
you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please do bear in mind that if you participate in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to
be recorded, your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those comments to rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During the public comment period, the committee will not offer comments in response. Directors or staff
may contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers, please begin your remarks by stating your name. And each speaker will have three minutes to
speak.
Ms. McManus, do we have anybody in the queue or any written comments that were submitted?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No one in the queue and no written comments, with 19 attendees.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. And seeing none, with no participants in the
queue, we're going to go ahead and close the public comment period at this time.
We are going to move into Section C of the evening. This is our information from external entities. First we'll
be looking at the sales and use tax forecast. So I'd like to ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial
Officer, and the representatives from the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business to please present
the sales and use tax forecast. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer.

RTD's contracted with the Business Research Division of Leeds School of Business at the University of
Colorado to provide sales and use tax forecasts. Those forecasts are provided in March and September of
each year, to be used in the development of the mid-term financial plan as well as the budgets. In the Board
packages, both the full forecast report as well as tonight's presentation materials.
This evening I'd like to thank Rich Wobbekind and Brian Lewandowski for joining us from CU Leeds to
present the sales and use tax forecasts, as well as an economic update. So Rich and Brian, please go
ahead.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: All right. Well, thank you for inviting us. And as much as I think the economy is
everything, I have to say, after listening to the last section, I'm not sure I think the economy is everything.
Thanks for all your work you're doing on everything else that's troubling the world.
So this is our forecast team, myself and Brian. And you've met Robert McNown and Miles through the
sessions. Robert's coming back from taking care of his brand new grandchild on the East Coast and is
driving back. So he wishes us to acknowledge. He's sorry he can't be here tonight to be part of this
presentation, but very much appreciates the work with RTD.
If we could move ahead, Brian, we can talk about the study. As we're indicating, this has been going on for
a very long time, for RTD, a comprehensive report with data analysis on the macro economy, state and
district economies, demographics, spending, and ultimately RTD sales and uses. And so I'm going to talk
a little bit about the macro sort of situation that we see going on right now and take it up to the initial part of
the state. And then Brian's going to talk a little bit more about the sales tax environment and the actual
forecast results that are in your report.
So this is an interesting slide. It may not seem that way. But this is a slide, of course, that's getting
tremendous amount of revision pretty much every month right now. So you have to choose a forecast to
run your projections on. But what we're seeing with the uncertainty driven by the Russia-Ukraine situation,
and certainly by the inflation data that's being released, there are some revisions that continue to go on to
the forecasts of US quarterly GDP.
In particular, this quarter and some of the quarters going forward in the future are now being revised down
a little bit, based on weaker belief on consumer spending and also on business investment. I'm happy to
talk about that in more detail when we get a little further along.
So the forecasts for this year are actually-- it's OK, you can move on. But the forecasts for this year are
actually being driven down to sort of the 3% to 3.2% to 3.6% range for this year in terms of annual growth.
And when we went into this year, pretty much the consensus forecast for 2022 were over 4%. So this is a
revision down, again, based on the factors I just mentioned.
So one of the things we're seeing with employment is a significant recovery of employment. Through March,
we're only down 2 million jobs, roughly, 1.6 million jobs. And we did wind up with something we've been
talking about in these presentations before, somewhat of a checkmark recovery. So unlike GDP, which has

already rebounded to its previous level in 2021, the employment number has not gotten back to the same
level yet.
It's still, even with the sort of slowing of the national growth this year, even with that, it's anticipated a
continued 350,000 or 360,000 jobs a month. And we'll be getting back to sort of the same employment level
by the summer of this year. Again, this is the national situation. may have read in the paper or heard the
actual report from the Department of Labor, but Colorado has already gained the same level of employment
it had prior to the COVID recession.
When we look at recessions in general, this has been rather remarkable, a huge amount of stimulus. It's
amazing with how much stimulus can make a difference. But we could debate whether or not there's been
sort of too much stimulus with some of the issues we're facing right now. But all of that said, you can see
how steep this decline was and how quickly we have rebounded from that decline.
And at this point, we're only down 1% nationally from where we were going into the recession. And you can
see in the previous recession, the global financial crisis recession, 2008, that we were just hitting the bottom
at this point, minus 6.3%. So much more rapid recovery, and not the jobless recoveries we saw in the 2001
recession and the 2008 recession.
Colorado is faring pretty well. The browner and tanner states are the ones that are doing better. And this is
the year-over-year employment growth. And you can see that many of the states in the Mountain West,
Montana, Idaho, Utah, Arizona, Colorado, are doing better than the rest of the country. And even Wyoming
and New Mexico are in the middle picture, if you will.
So this part of the country is doing extremely well. And if we were to map the states that have already gotten
back to the same level of employment, you would see that there are 11 in the country. And those 11 in the
country, as highlighted here from the pre-recession peak, are the darker brown and tan ones. And again,
Idaho, Montana, Utah, Colorado, Arizona. So we just went over in this past month and we were number 11,
but there's still 40 other entities out there, including District of Columbia, that have not gotten back to prerecession employment levels.
So this has been, of course, the most intriguing thing. The Fed, as they realize that the inflation has moved
a little bit more from transitory to permanent, they have had revisions in each of their major meetings. So
you can see here what they were projecting in terms of interest rate increases in September of 2021, and
then in December of 2021, and now in the March meeting which just occurred a month ago, you can see
the higher levels of interest rates being forecast.
And of course right now, there's a lot of discussion that the financial situation in May will include a 50 basis
point increase on the short-term rates but also a significant announcement in terms of quantitative
tightening, selling off the balance sheet. In fact, what the expectation is they will announce the selling off of
the balance sheet at roughly twice the rate that they sold the balance sheet off between 2017 to 2019. So
pretty dramatic situation, again, being held with their feet to the fire a little bit by the inflation numbers that
have been coming out.

And this kind of shows the fact that the pundits-- and we, or I, contribute to these surveys, as well-- have
been pretty wrong in terms of forecasting when the peak will occur. I hate to even make the following
statement, but we're pretty certain that this was the peak in March, at this particular point. But you can see
every time we've said that before, May, July, October, December, February, all of these have been wrong
in terms of when the peak would occur.
Right now, I think you can look at a lot of the numbers that are out there and you can see some of the core
goods, in particular, areas really dropping off in terms of their contribution to inflation. All of that said, you
can also see, to the right hand, if you didn't look at or pay much attention to today's release, the US was
8.5% for March. Denver, Aurora, Lakewood, 9.1%. So we're ahead of the national number.
And I should just mention to you that the Rocky Mountain-- or sorry, the Mountain West states, that's the
area specific that includes some of those other states I mentioned, Idaho, Montana, Utah, and so on-- for
that whole area, or for this whole area, it's over 10% inflation for March sort of year-over-year. So you're
seeing these big numbers, but you also can see what's driving that. And food and beverage is driving that,
but also, in a really big way, transportation is driving that.
So I made a comment that we think this could be peaking. When you look at the core rate, the core rate
was substantially lower than the overall CPI, meaning that food and beverages and energy prices really
were significant contributors in the past month. And we know, of course, gasoline was a big piece of that.
So here's Colorado's rank among states. And we went into this year debating whether or not Colorado
would be a top 10 state this year. We didn't necessarily think it would be top 10. We were saying it would
be somewhere between 10 and 15. So far, that seems to be sort of a reasonable statement. But still, the
state is doing quite well. The one-year numbers, as you can see, on GDP, 12, on employment growth, 12.
Then you see things like population growth, which we've slipped a little bit in, but still 12th in the country.
And then importantly, personal income and per capita personal income, very, very strong growth. And in
fact, overall as a state, we ranked number eighth in per capita personal income. And the vast majority of
those states are on the two coasts that are higher. So really, for an internal state, a non-ocean facing state,
we have very, very strong per capita personal income.
Look at the bottom and you can see that we're 20th in FHA home price index growth. Of course, that
continues to remain a concern in terms of affordability and some of the issues we're facing.
So here we're going to move on to national retail and food services sales. It's kind of a precursor to talking
about retail sales in general. And I'm passing the baton to my colleague Brian.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: All right. Thank you, Rich, for that up front macroeconomic discussion.
So I'm going to start out by talking about national retail and food services sales. This chart here really
presents this long stability in retail sales nationally. Of course, this is a seasonally adjusted number, so that
the Census Bureau is smoothing out those figures. But what we'd like to point out here is the pandemic
recession certainly shows up in the numbers. There's the deep decrease in national retail sales. And then,

if there's any sort of V-shaped recovery from the pandemic recession, it was in retail. You can see how
retail sales rebounded but really rebounded on a new trajectory.
So we drew this red line on here to show this new trajectory. And the question is, is this really a new
trajectory for retail sales, or is this a snap back from the recession, illustrating pent-up demand illustrating
increased personal income, illustrating the stimulus payments that came out from the federal government,
illustrating inflation as of the last five or six months, or is this simply a shift out, which is showing you the
green line. We talk a lot about e-commerce and how that's changed how we consume as consumers, and
perhaps lowered barriers to consuming, because you can have so many goods delivered so easily to your
doorstep.
So this is really something that we're watching. But really phenomenal growth year-over-year and from the
prior peak, up 25% nationally from the prior peak, up 18% year-over-year. So the consumer seems to
continue to be out in the marketplace, despite higher inflation, and perhaps because of higher inflation, a
rush to purchase goods and services.
So zooming into Colorado then, one metric that we have for this is taking a look at state tax collections. So
this is taking a look at the state tax base, which is, of course, important to RTD, because it's the same tax
base. And like the nation, Colorado in 2020 overall for the full year did not record a decrease in taxable
sales and sales taxes, in fact, recorded a slight increase in 2020. And that trajectory, like it did for the nation,
changed in Colorado, and we've been on a much steeper trajectory of sales tax collections for all of the
reasons that I just mentioned a moment ago.
But as we look around Colorado, it's really fascinating to take a look at how jurisdictions have performed,
looking at different counties or different cities or municipalities across Colorado. And we've identified a
handful of reasons why we think this has happened.
One is certainly industry composition. What are your key industries within your community? But the other
important factors are how dependent are you on tourism, those outsiders coming in and spending their
money in your community. How dependent are you on in commuters coming into your community by day,
a place like Denver or a place like Boulder, they leave their dollars behind. They're eating out for lunch.
They're doing a little bit of shopping during the day, and then they go back home. So the daily commuter
piece is certainly an important component.
Retail mix. During the early days of the pandemic, we noted that the big box stores outperformed Main
Street retail. And they seem to continue to outperform Main Street retail, as well as development. So our
community is still doing greenfield development, places like Aurora and that also relates to population
growth. So do you see more consumers within your community year after year?
So that's a nice segue way to the state sales tax collections, or taxable sales, I should say, by county. And
what we pulled in here are counties within Colorado metropolitan statistical areas. And look at the diversity
among these counties within Colorado. So Teller County, which is part of the Colorado Springs MSA, is up
over 40% in 2021 compared to the last pre-pandemic, last normal year, of 2019. So they've recorded not

only a recovery but phenomenal growth over that last normal year. And then at the other extreme within
these metropolitan counties, look at a place like Denver, which is up 2% over that last normal year of 2019.
The red counties here are showing you mostly the Regional Transportation District, except for that little bit
of Weld County that's in the District . But look at the extremes there. From Douglas County, up about 30%,
to Denver, up about 2%. The weighted average, I believe is around 14% growth among that group of seven
counties. So we pay attention to that, because that's an important tax base for us to be watching for RTD.
And so now to your forecast. So to do your forecast, the way we've done this over the last 11 years or so
is we are trying to relate key economic demographic and fiscal variables from the national economy to the
Colorado economy to the RTD district economy. And this has proven to be fairly successful over this time
period.
One thing we started doing during the recession, with the help of RTD staff, which was really critical, is
bringing in some of the sub components of your sales tax collections. Because what we noted during the
recession is different goods and services started performing wildly different during the recession, as that
consumer behavior changed. And that actually improved the forecast for RTD. So it's a practice that we
continue.
So for the short-term forecast, we rely on a lot of historical data from the Census Bureau and the Bureau
of Economic Analysis and the Labor Department. And we rely on a forecast from Moody's Analytics. And
Moody's publishes a nice range of optimistic to pessimistic scenarios, with a baseline forecast that they
project out to be the most likely scenario going forward. And we review all of those forecasts and we choose
one that we think is the most likely scenario as we look forward.
So what we did for this particular forecast, because of the rapid change in the economy, with the UkraineRussia crisis, with rising inflation, we chose one step below the baseline forecast and chose a slightly more
pessimistic forecast than the Moody scenarios when we ran the forecast in March. And what I highlighted
here on this slide is the 2022 outlook from Moody's at that time was about 6% inflation under this S2
scenario, and GDP growth even a little bit lower than what Rich was talking about a moment ago, about
2.3% growth, and a slightly rising unemployment rate by the end of the year.
So you can see our little bit of caution when we were taking a look at the national economic situation. The
negative growth for personal income on this slide is not reflecting an expectation per se of a recession but
rather the waning federal stimulus, where we came off this huge bump in fiscal support in 2020 and 2021
and now we're seeing that weighing in 2022. So that's bringing overall personal income down. But the
positive signal here is that we see personal income from employee earnings up in 2022.
So with that as the foundation at the national level, I'm going to focus in on RTD's baseline forecast. And
what we show here is that about 90% of RTD sales and use taxes comes from the sales tax side of the
ledger. And growth last year, in 2021, really was phenomenal, up about 20%. In 2022, we see that growth
rate coming way down. We're projecting about 5.6% growth in 2022, and then 3.9% growth in 2023, bringing
us up to about $930 million in 2023.

So that's the very short-term forecast. Then we do a medium term forecast that goes out to 2028. We're
still using the Moody's scenarios out through 2028. And we try and provide a little bit of guidance as far as
what we expect on the high side or the low side of that forecast.
So there's two ways that we do this. One is by using an optimistic scenario and a more pessimistic scenario
from Moody's Analytics for the US national drivers, and we relate that then to Colorado and to RTD. And
then we also provide the upper and lower statistical bounds for our baseline forecast. And that's what we're
really presenting here is under different economic conditions, you can see how RTD's revenue performs in
the very short term.
What's interesting is as we get out to the medium term, out to 2028, these forecasts somewhat converge,
where the optimistic scenario is up about 2.3% over the baseline and the pessimistic scenario's down a
little over 1% from that baseline forecast. But our upper and lower bounds show that the level of uncertainty
as we look out to the medium term.
Notice, though, on the left axis as we get out to 2028, RTD revenue is over $1 billion. These are nominal
dollars. These are not inflation adjusted. So as we go through this period right now of higher inflation, that
drives up the base revenues for RTD, which then carry forward to future years.
The last exercise that we do is a long-term forecast. This is a forecast that goes out through 2050. And we
transition from Moody's scenarios to our own forecast for GDP and demographics and retail sales. And
here again, we provide this upper and lower bound. For this long-term forecast what I'm presenting here is
in nominal dollars, or current dollars. These are not inflation adjusted. But we also have an inflation adjusted
series within the full report.
And what we show is that over the three decades, you can see in the table that from 2021 to 2030, the
taxable sales and taxes grow about 5.3%, then 2.8%, then 1.8%. So it's a slowing trajectory, which is really
illustrating the changing demographics within the Colorado economy as we grow more slowly as a state,
as well as we age in place as a state.
So my closing comments here are just to mention a few additional notes. One is we are constantly checking
our errors. And I'm proud to say that over the 11 years that we've been doing this, our short-term forecast
error has been less than 1%. It's about 0.9%. And that's even through periods of volatility, just averaging
out that short-term forecast over 11 years.
We have tended to be on the low side of the forecast more often than we've been on the high side. So I
believe it's about 71 times that we've been high for the RTD forecast and 90 times or so that we've been
below the actuals when they come in. So we tend to be, I'd say, a little bit conservative in our model
forecasts. But it's fairly split between high and low, so there's not an overall tendency for us to be too high
or too low.
And I wanted to also note that we don't add any add factors, where we're not just changing the final numbers
based on our gut feelings about the economy. These are truly model driven estimates.

And so with that, that is the end of our presentation. And Rich and I are happy to take some questions from
you, if you have any. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much to both of you gentlemen. I very much appreciate it. Very thorough.
And particularly really appreciate the call out on the accuracy of the numbers and where you've trended.
Really appreciate that data point.
I'll now call on Directors for some discussion here. I'll start with Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks so much, Director Davidson. And thank you to the whole team who prepare this
report and the supplemental materials, which, I guess-- or, actually the report. But anyways, I read those
and I find them to be helpful and interesting.
Question for you all-- and I feel like I've asked this maybe o different groups before. But when I'm looking
at the use taxes for this year, we're showing that Colorado use taxes are at 30.71% up, but RTD's use taxes
are only 7.75%. Are there portions of the use tax that we're missing where we should be lobbying at the
state level? Or is this more a demonstration of growth in areas that are not RTD's district?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question, Director Dishell.
DOUG MACLEOD: I will ask Brian to answer that question.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: I think the answer is both. But Brian, why don't you jump in?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yeah. Thanks for that question. I think I'd have to actually dig into it to be able to
provide you a better answer.
I will note that use taxes is extremely volatile. It's much more volatile than sales taxes. And even before the
pandemic recession, it could swing 20% in any given year. So what I'd like to do is just dig into that and
compare use taxes within the District and compare it to all of the other counties except for the District to
see if some sort of systemic difference between the two.
BOBBY DISHELL: That'd be great. Yeah. Because I think especially on this group, we talk about different
ways to capture revenue. And that would be, if we're missing something, make sure we're getting it.
My other question is more for Mr. MacLeod, I think, which is, as I understand it, we modeled our mid-term
forecast based on a CPI of about 6, in September of '21. And this year, I don't think we've hit 6 once. I think
January was 6.5, March was 7.5-- or March was 9. So how do we square, with the CPI being off by
potentially a factor of about 50%, what do you do when you see that change? What am I looking at, knowing
that I'm seeing that we projected at one, to no fault of anyone on this call, the numbers are just different in
today's world. How do you adjust our mid-term forecast to account for that?

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. And we actually have a model. It's called Enterprise
Planning and Budgeting System within Oracle. And that actually allows us to adjust the inflation factors that
we use. And we can set up those inflation factors for different categories, so for wages, consumables, et
cetera. So we do adjust those.
And obviously, back in October, when the latest MTFP was approved, we didn't have the benefit of the
information that's come forth since that time regarding inflation being substantially higher. So we will adjust
with the next mid-term financial plan. And those adjustments primarily affect our expenditure side of the
house.
It's worth noting that we do like budget certainty. And so General Manager and CEO Johnson actually had
us contract for fuel prices. So as an example, we contracted for fuel prices, diesel fuel prices, in 2022,
thereby locking down the price. So we do have some budget certainty and realize some significant savings
on that front. However, regarding our forecasting going forward, we will adjust for those inflationary
pressures.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. No kidding on fuel price savings.
And my last question, I guess, is probably for the economists, which is, as I look at these numbers, and
back to comparing inflation, the percent change, the CPI change and sales tax changes, so it's awesome
that sales tax revenues are up. But are they up enough such that I'm actually making money as opposed
to my net position effectively being down?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Are you asking as an individual business or you're asking as RTD?
BOBBY DISHELL: As an agency.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Your real sales are up. Because you can take the 6% or 9% off of whatever, and
you're way above that. The state is way above that. So if you adjust it for real terms, your revenues would
be higher. So you're OK.
I think just from an economist or business economists standpoint, the bigger issue is can the individual
business pass their increases on in terms of meal prices or whatever, especially small businesses, in the
environment they're operating in. And I think that's the more difficult piece. I realize that's not your problem,
but that's the more difficult piece right now. But you're definitely up. And again, as Brian highlighted, and
it's really important to just remember, that's built into the forecast going forward. So as the base is getting
higher as you go over time, because some of it's being inflation based.
And just as a sidebar, Doug mentioned, or Mr. MacLeod mentioned, that they've already locked in fuel
contracts. I don't think 6% is crazy for this year yet. Fuel was a huge percentage of the monthly increase.
And I really do think you're going to start to see some tailing off in the second part of the year, in terms of
year-over-year increases. So I don't think 6%-- right now it looks like it's 50% off because it's 9% this month.

But I really do think you're going to be seeing months ahead that are going to be like 7% yea-over-year, or
whatever, much closer to the 6% number.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you so much.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Sure.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. And thank you for the answers there. Helpful. Director
Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. You know, I think the problem with the use tax is probably on the
automobile side. The dealers don't have any cars because of the back up in the supply chain. So they can't
sell them. And that's causing the use tax on cars to probably go down.
The other thing I think you'll note is that in the early months of high inflation, the economy does well because
people have lots of money and they're trying to spend in order to beat inflation. But then it comes back to
haunt you in the latter part of that cycle. And it's going to hurt the economy going forward. Thanks.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Can I comment on that? You just made a comment that not everybody knows.
I'm sorry to say this. But yes, when you have inflation expectations it drives consumption in the short run,
absolutely. So I 100% agree with you. And then you get the effects, secondary effects later on. And that's
what I was talking about in terms of slower GDP growth later in the year, because then you expect the
consumption to sort of slow down. So yes, thank you for those comments.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Director Broom. Excellent points. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Very quick. So Director Dishell's questions about comments caused me to scroll back
through the back of my head. Did you all update the slides? I didn't find the slide that had the inflation laid
out with the weights according to housing and transportation, et cetera. So if you have updated those, can
we get those as well? They weren't in the packet that I scrolled through just now, just in case.
And then secondly, you know, we're facing the prospect, the possibility that the base 6/10 of a cent will no
longer be de-Bruced after 2024. And that says to us that we need to pay really sharp attention to inflation
as one factor in determining whether we can keep the revenues. Do you all have any recommendations for
how we begin to do our modeling? Does that change anything in terms of how we look at things going
forward for the mid-term financial plan range?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question, Director Cook. Mr. MacLeod, would you like to kick that off,
given that that is a mid-term financial plan impact?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. And certainly, that's a challenge that we do have. I'd like to
get with Brian and Rich and his team and discuss how we can strategize modeling that. Obviously, that's a
difficult exercise and relies on significant assumptions.

I would add that in the last mid-term financial plan that was approved by the Board in October, which is the
periods of 2022 through 2027, what we did is we limited the growth, sales tax growth in the base system,
the 6/10, between 2025 and 2027 to just 1%. So we actually came down off of what CU Leeds had provided
us for our forecast, just to give a little bit more of a conservative look.
But yeah, I'd like to strategize a little bit more with the team from CU and see what options we might have
available to us.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. I'm glad you're doing that. Thanks, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. MacLeod. And thanks, Director Cook. It's a great, great point. I
know that we've just been kind of backing off a little bit, and perhaps there's a better way to model that. So
thank you for the discussion.
Director Broom, your hand is still raised. Did you have another question or comment?
BOB BROOM: No, I'm just slow.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Thank you, sir.
All righty. Any other questions or comments from Directors? All right. Well, seeing then, well, thank you
very much, gentlemen. This is very helpful and really appreciate the reports and, again, getting the numbers
on how we're doing against plan. I recognize that we're going into a little bit of uncertainty with regards to
inflation. And I think we all need to temper. It's great to see some of these increases in sales tax a little
higher than we thought. But we'll take a look at where we are in a couple of months. And thank you for
giving us some data to act on. Appreciate it.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Excellent. Thank you, everybody.
We are going to move on from the information from external entities section of our agenda, and we will
move into recommended actions. We do have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. And
that recommended action is a budget transfer for coping panels. This is for the Board of Directors to approve
a budget transfer of $6 million from the unrestricted fund balance to light rail maintenance of way for coping
panel repairs and to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter into a contract to
complete these repairs.
So first, I will entertain a motion. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I heard Director Whitmore as the mover, and I believe Director Guissinger as a second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Excellent. Thank you. And so with that, I would ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial
Officer, and Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations, to present any pertinent
information that's been prepared for the Board regarding this action.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Davidson. So this action item is brought to the Finance Committee
because it's a request to transfer funds. However, it primarily affects rail operations. So Assistant General
Manager of Rail Operations, Dave Jensen is joining me tonight to give a quick description of the project.
And I'll be sharing some pictures during his discussion, just to provide reference as to what a coping panel
actually is.
Dave, please go ahead.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, good evening. I am Dave Jensen, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations.
And if Mr. MacLeod, you can pull the pictures up, now would be the time.
My intention is to keep comments very brief. There's not much to add other than what was provided in the
Board packet. So the project itself really is to reinforce coping panels, which are decorative panels attached
to retaining walls that, as you see, I believe and hope, in front of you, along-- so these coping panels are
attached along the retaining wall adjacent to the right-of-way. Primarily we're speaking about the I-25
corridor, or the Southeast corridor on the rail line.
And essentially, what we're discussing and why we're here this evening is to outsource this work because
our light rail maintenance of way team right now is struggling with our people power problem. And we are
able to keep up with the day-to-day work and we are working on our state of good repair. But to take on a
project of this magnitude and accomplish it in a timely manner is a challenge that would be very difficult for
us.
And so that essentially concludes my comments. I'm willing to take questions. I know that there's other staff
members, and Mr. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, is available as well to
answer any questions that you may have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Jensen, Mr. MacLeod. Much appreciated. Any questions or
comments from my colleagues on the Board?
Right. Seeing none, thank you very much for the presentation, for the comments, and for bringing the
recommended action forward and for moving forward with this contracting. I'm going to go ahead and call
for a vote. We'll do this by asking, are there any no votes on this action?
Wonderful. Seeing none, with seven aye votes and zero no votes, 0 abstentions, this motion passes.

Thank you very much, gentlemen, for the presentation. We're going to go ahead and move into the
discussion items portion of our agenda. We do have two discussion items this evening. We're going to go
ahead and start with the first, which is the Colorado 119 BRT, or Bus Rapid Transit, implementation. I'll go
ahead and ask Mr. Ali, our Project Manager and Engineering Lead of Capital Programs, and Mr. Chris, our
Planning Project Manager and planning, to present this discussion item.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may. Prior to having our teammates present this, I'd like to call upon Mr.
Stopplecamp to introduce the item, if you would allow that. Thank you. Mr. Stopplecamp.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Please. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Ms. Johnson and Chair. Real quick. I know that the Board packet
has included the PowerPoint that you're about to see. So like you said, Ali and Chris will go through it and
open it up for comments. This is for information for the Board, a little bit background on the BRT project and
119, where we're at and where we're going.
So with that, let's go ahead. And Ali, why don't you go ahead and introduce you and Chris and take it away?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: So my name is Ali Imansepahi. I'm a Capital Programs Engineering Project Manager.
With me co-presenting is Chris Quinn the planning project manager. So if I can share my screen real quick.
All right. We're here to bring you up to speed on Colorado 119, the implementation of Bus Rapid Transit.
We're going to give you a background and the history of the project and the BRT elements we wish to
implement as part of this project, going to go through the funding status and the next steps. And with that,
I'm going to turn it over to Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Good evening. This is Chris Quinn, the RTD Planning Project Manager for the study.
Just a real quick little bit of background. Back in 2013, RTD, recognizing the fact that we were not going to
be able to implement the Northwest Rail corridor within the short term, we conducted the Northwest Area
Mobility Study, also known as NAMS. And the purpose of that was to try to determine if there were any
short-term, cost-effective mobility improvements we could make in the Northwest region in a much faster
time frame.
Working with the local jurisdictions, DRCOG, and CDOT, we developed what was called a final consensus
statement. And it identified the priorities for transit, transportation improvements in the Northwest area. And
one of the top priorities was establishing Bus Rapid Transit, or BRT, in the Colorado 119 corridor between
and within Boulder and Longmont. And the Board did approve the consensus statement in June of 2014.
We then followed up with what is called a Planning and Environmental Linkages study, or also known as a
PEL. And the purpose of the PEL was to take a deeper dive, kind of come up with some refinements on
both our cost estimates, potential environmental impacts, as well as design for BRT in the corridor. We
completed that effort in 2019. And again we were working very closely with CDOT, DRCOG, and the local
governments in the corridor.

The PEL established a vision plan. And that included BRT, or managed lanes, in the highway portion of the
corridor. And by managed lanes, we mean something similar to what's out on us 36, whereby the lanes
would be open to high occupancy vehicles, buses, and vehicles willing to pay tolls. The PEL vision also
included a busway in Longmont on Coffman Street, which parallels Main Street, but also included transit
improvements on 28th Street in Boulder, as well as improved transit stops in both Boulder and Longmont,
and then a bikeway along the entirety of the corridor.
I'm going to hand it back to Ali to walk through some of those improvements in a little bit more detail.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: So the map on the right identifies the project as a whole. And it's actually two projects.
The first project is what is known as the safety and mobility project that CDOT is running, and we are heavily
collaborating with them. The limits of that project is within the brown boxes. This is the southern limit of the
project at Foothills Parkway and the northern limit of the project at Hover Street just south of Longmont.
This corridor, otherwise known as the Diagonal, and the BRT implementation that we are having, though,
goes beyond the scope of CDOT's project. And by that, I mean where the orange or the red boxes are
showing the limits of the project as far as RTD is concerned, so between the cities of Boulder and Longmont.
And you'll see all the improvements.
And we're going to discuss that further. Park-n-Rides along the way in Diagonal, new platforms at Colorado
52, brand new Park-n-Ride on the northern terminus of the project, and improvements at CU campus. And
all the red dots that you see are going to be BRT grade stops in Longmont and in Boulder.
The design of this project is well underway. As I said, CDOT is implementing the Trunk Segment, and we
are collaborating with them and heavily working with them. We've been at it for the last year and a half. And
one significant finding of the design process was the outcome of the Traffic Alternative Study, the Traffic
Alternative Analysis Study, which, in fact, deemed managed lanes that were previously selected-- was the
selected alternative during the PEL process, as infeasible. And we're going to talk about what the preferred
alternative is.
Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: Yeah, so just real quickly, kind of interjecting in here. The overall the study at this point, the
design study is governed by an executive oversight committee, what we refer to as an EOC. And it includes
all of the positions that you see listed on the bullets, including our own General Manager, Debra Johnson.
And the EOC did approve going, recognizing that the managed lanes were not going to work in the corridor,
at least in the short term, they did approve instead going with queue bypass lanes as the preferred
alternative. And that was at the end of 2021.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: And with that, what are the queue bypass lanes? Queue bypass lanes are typically
installed on the right side of the highway or the roadway. But because of the geometry of Colorado 119 and
a very wide median that is present in 119, the design team decided to move the queue bypass lanes to the
left side of the freeway. This would be a future Park-n-Ride and these are going to be the BRT stops.

So the bus moves from the general purpose lane into its own lane, proceeds through the intersection, gets
what is called as a queue jump signal, which lets the bus move ahead of the general purpose traffic, so it
gives them a head start, crosses the intersection, gets to the other side where the platform and the bus
station, BRT station is, alighting and boarding happen, and then the bus proceeds into the general purpose
lane and moves forward. This design, and based on our past experience, the transit bypass, or the queue
bypass lanes, account for a significant reduction of travel time for the buses, and therefore for our
customers.
Agency responsibilities are, as you see in this slide, we at RTD, are in charge of designing and helping
CDOT construct the Park-n-Rides rides along the Diagonal, the Park-n-Ride that I mentioned previously at
the junction of Main and Colorado 66, the northern terminus in Longmont, significant improvements to the
CU East campus, a whole host of stations and BRT stops in both cities of Longmont and Boulder, and
implementation of transit signal priority, which I just spoke of in the last slide. And that's a responsibility we
share with CDOT, because we're going to be implementing that using their traffic signal system.
Because this is mainly a CDOT roadway, the roadway improvements are going to be spearheaded by
CDOT, including the construction of the queue bypass lanes, all the intersection improvements, traffic signal
improvements, and intelligent transportation system improvements, which basically is the usage of
technology to make the overall operation significantly better. Boulder County, on the other hand, is the
agency that is spearheading the implementation of the bikeway along the corridor.
Chris.
CHRIS QUINN: So just to go over real quickly the funding that is available, at least on the RTD end. The
mid-term financial plan includes $5 million this year, and then the plan allocates $28 million for the future
years. And just to be clear, RTD's focus, or the funds that RTD would be spending would be focused only
on the transit element, specifically the stations and Park-n-Rides, as well as the enhanced bus stops in
both Boulder and Longmont. But we are working with CDOT in collaboration to try to determine where we
can find funding for the queue bypass lanes.
And then, we have been in partnership working very closely with the local stakeholders and CDOT for a
variety of grants that are out there. As you're probably aware, with most federal grants, as part of the
application you are required to provide generally about at least a 20% local match.
So we have been working with our partners to share local matches for specific grants. One that has been
awarded through the DRCOG TIP is for the redesign and for the queue jumps of the Colorado 52/119
intersection. And we have also just applied for-- Boulder County has applied for, and we are sharing the
local match, on a DRCOG TIP grant for additional bypass lanes, as well as upgrades to the bikeway along
the corridor.
And then lastly, we are working collectively with pretty much all of the stakeholders in the corridor on a
federal RAISE grant. And that would be pretty much to complete all of the remaining elements in the
corridor, all of the transit, roadway, and bikeway elements. So assuming we were to receive acceptance on
all of those grants, we would have the funds to construct nearly all of the elements of the corridor.

One of the things I do want to emphasize here, though, it's been assumed that RTD's contribution to the
corridor will be capped at $33 million, the $33 million that has been identified in the mid-term financial plan.
But one of the benefits of pursuing these grants is obviously we are able to leverage the funds that we do
have, the $33 million. And it has demonstrated, of course, that we're willing to work with our local partners
to get as many improvements in the corridor as we can.
If we don't receive all of these grants, especially the RAISE grant, there will be some outstanding items that
we'll have to find funding for. But we're confident that we may do fairly well on these.
And Ali will-ALI IMANSEPAHI: So the benefits of grant funds are, as you see, shown in these two matrices. The beauty
of this project-- I call it the beauty of this project-- is no matter what happens with those grants, whether we
get one or both of them, or none of them, our commitments remain the same. By our commitments, I mean
the BRT platforms and the Park-n-Rides at 63rd, at Niwot, and BRT platforms only, no Park-n-Ride, at
Colorado 52, which amounts to $11.1 million.
We have already, in the last couple of years-- I believe it was 2020-- secured another TIP grant that helps
us fund the construction of the queue bypass lanes at Colorado 52 intersection for another $5 million, for a
total of $16 million. The previous slide, we mentioned the $33 million cap. So there is your $16 million,
which means that leaves us with $17 million to implement all the remaining stops and the Park-n-Ride-- the
stops in Boulder and Longmont, along with the Park-n-Ride in Longmont and the CU East Campus
improvements that I mentioned.
Next steps are, well, later this week, our partners, I believe it's Boulder County who is going to be submitting
the RAISE grant on behalf of all the stakeholders, including us. We're going to be coming back to you next
month to ask you to delegate the authority to GM/CEO Johnson to enter into agreements with CDOT and
other stakeholders. And in the meantime, Chris, myself, a whole host of other designers are working with
CDOT and other stakeholders and helping them, helping us, move the project forward.
With that, I will open it to any questions you may have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, gentlemen. Appreciate that. Thank you for touching on the status
of the funding with and without the grants. Really appreciate it and appreciate the update.
I'll go ahead and call on Directors for questions, comments, discussion. We'll start with Director Broom,
please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Can the project be easily phased in the event you don't get all of the
funding up front? I mean, you know if you build a bridge across the Mississippi River and you've only got
enough to go 80% of the way, it doesn't do you much good, because you can't use it at all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Who would like to take that question in terms of phasing?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Ali, why don't you go ahead and take that question?

BOBBY DISHELL: Sure. Yes, the project from the very get-go, designed in a modular format. And the one,
the last slide that I showed, regarding the commitments remaining the same as far as RTD is concerned,
we will build what we can with the money that we have. And more than likely those grants, we may not get
both grants, and that would be just to what you said, Director Broom. We will build it in bits and pieces.
CDOT also is in the same boat. There is more than likely that we don't have enough money to build the
whole thing. But it is very modular and it could be designed and built in segments.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. Who is responsible for cost overruns on this project?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: CDOT is. That is for the Diagonal portion. That's the CDOT Safety and Mobility Project.
And then that project within a project that I showed, and then when we are going to be building the stops in
Boulder and Longmont, we will be in charge of the project, including the overruns, if any. We make sure we
don't have them, but-BOBBY DISHELL: I know projects never have cost overruns, I know.
The next sort of question or comment is, it gives me a lot of pause. Because on the one hand, when we've
asked about bus stops in the past from an equity lens, when we have poles in frozen slanted ground or
overrun vegetation, a lot of roadblocks are put up. Cost roadblocks, right-of-way roadblocks, ownership
roadblocks. And here we're putting up $1.5 million for a bus stop, no problem.
And so is it safe to expect that we should see similar substantial improvements on higher use corridors like
we've seen on Colfax or in other spaces? Or is this really more of a one-off, certain communities are going
to get state-of-the-art, really nice bus stops and others are going to have holes in the ground?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I could take the question.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, Ms. Johnson, please. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. So thank you, Director Dishell, for the question.
And I would be remiss to state that I think we're comparing apples and fish in reference to how you frame
this collectively. We have collaborated, as it's been identified as a potential corridor for Bus Rapid Transit.
As we work in earnest with our partners along the Colfax corridor in the City and County of Denver and
working with the city of Aurora, there has been basic elements that have been prescribed relative to that
project, as well.
Quite naturally, as we go through the process, we are looking at a lens of equity as we look at the project
holistically. So looking at one project in one geographic area where we're looking at a different funding

source relative to a RAISE grant versus the funding source we're using for Colfax, there's different eligibility
requirements going back to previous discussions we had in the preceding special Board meeting.
So I just wanted to qualify that, because we're looking at a project holistically. And to be funded from a
federal vantage point, we have to ensure that we are being equitable as we look at Title VI and things of
the like. So I wanted to frame that in reference to your question.
As we look holistically at the District, as you may be aware, our transit service equity work group is working
in tandem holistically as we look at the District, trying to level the playing field. Because a lot of these
elements are contingent upon working cohesively with partners, as we don't own the right of way. And so
as we do this with some of the elements that have been in existence prior to the Americans with Disabilities
Act, we have to identify funding. And we are working in earnest to do that holistically.
So let me know if I didn't answer your question Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. It's helpful. But for me, it's evaluating which communities and grants got prioritized
and which aren't. And it's not-- I mean, there is 20, 30, 40 years of people before this current group who
made those choices and have those stops in the way that they are.
I guess that-- so what I'm hearing is that it's, in short, it's no, we shouldn't expect to see this as the standard
bus stop for more used routes. Because if we're talking about BRT, I mean, is a queue jump, BRT, is that
what we're defining as BRT?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Here in this region, this would be more or less classified as Bus Rapid Transit Light. I
believe, just for everybody's edification, when we talk about Bus Rapid Transit in the true form as prescribed
from the Federal Transit Administration, typically we are looking at fixed guideways and things of the like. I
made that mistake when I first entered this geographic region. Because oftentimes, we refer to BRT with
over-the-road coach.
So qualifying the parameters of project as prescribed, it would be analogous to what has been discussed
previously, looking at what we qualify as the BRT corridor, using the Flatiron Flyer as an example. So in an
effort to manage all expectations, I would qualify this as BRT Light.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. And just for my-- does BRT drive the type of [AUDIO OUT] $1.5 million bus stops?
Is that what drives the nicer bus stop is that it's BRT?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I believe there are some elements when you look at BRT across the board. I'll give an
example. Just recently, in the City and County of San Francisco, there's true BRT that just opened that had
been in the works for about 15 years. So as relates to bus stops per se, it's contingent upon what the design
of the program is and the project in and of itself and what's been decided upon as it relates to having
customer amenities.
And I see Mr. Stopplecamp. Did you want to add anything to that discussion, sir?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. And I think Mr. Sirois has got probably the same thing. But the bus stops,
the $1.5 million, I think, is a little bit high for a bus stop. We've got platforms, intersections, Park-n-Rides.
So we're doing the improvement on the Park-n-Rides so it's not just a bus stop.
And then as far as running through Longmont and Boulder, most of those are replacing existing canopies
and odds and ends. They will not be super high dollar shelters. One of the reasons why, we've got plenty
of them out there at stops, and we don't have that much money to go into it.
So earlier on, somebody has asked whether or not there will be overruns. We are designing and building
to budget. And so the project team knows they've got the $33 million. And if we have to cut back on a
shelter or two and if our stakeholders, partners do not step up, we will be one or two shelters short. But we
are building to that $33 million and we're designing our shelters and stops to meet that budget.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Sirois, would you like to add? And I apologize, I didn't see your hand.
BILL SIROIS: Yeah, that's OK. Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Communities
I just wanted to add, just to the bigger picture on BRT, we did a regional BRT feasibility study a few years
ago. Several jurisdictions are proactive on that, Boulder County being one of them. Denver is moving it
forward with Colfax, but they're also moving forward with Federal. So we're working with them about grant
opportunities for that. There's state highway 7 up north. So there are a variety of different projects that are
moving forward. 119 and Colfax, I say, are the two furthest along.
So you will be seeing more projects moving forward in the future. So you can bet that you'll see more
projects coming being updated as we look at partnering with others for grants.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And I also see the hand up of Mr. Ali.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Sure. I just wanted to bring to your attention that the reason that those bus stops, the
$1.5 million BRT platform cost at 63rd and Niwot is because, unlike what we did at, for example, 15L at
Colfax, which was my other project, there is nothing in the middle of 119. So we have to build it literally from
ground up, all the drainage work, all the structural, all the geotechnical work. You're starting from scratch.
There is nothing to build out there. That is why, that is the main reason that the capital cost, the initial capital
cost seems to be significantly higher.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you all so much for the comprehensive response, all for raising the floor
on our bus stops-ALI IMANSEPAHI: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: --making everyone's lives better through connections.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Ali, I'm curious, have you done a modeling to determine what time
savings could be realized if all of the queue bypass installations were completed? Is there an estimate of
what that travel time savings would be for transit?
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes. Through the intersections, by as much as 50% faster than what we have out there
today, which is basically the Bolt route. On top of that, our findings from the Colfax project, the 15L project,
shows two minutes per intersection. And now mind you, that's in the middle of an urban area, which is very
different than out here. So the numbers look really good.
But Peggy, to your point-- Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's OK.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: I've known Director Catlin for a long, long time. So anyway, we are actually-- we have
an effort underway to do exactly what she says. So we're going to be tracking these numbers based on our
findings from the other BRT implementations, being US 36 and what is happening on Colfax, which wasn't
a BRT implementation. But we have transit signal priority and some queue jump lanes to use and see how
we can feed the model for 119 and really determine those savings, time savings.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, I just think that this is a really big selling point to increase ridership, to really
promote what that travel time savings would be.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And that was why I was asking the question. Thank you. And Ali, you can still call me
Peggy after 35 years.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: We go way, way back. Thank you. Appreciate it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. First of all, I think this-- I really appreciate all the work that all
the team has done on this project. I think it's come down a lot in scope. The overall project, I think it seems
very appropriate. And I think the RTD staff has really done a great job of moving it forward.
I would just add a couple things. I think CDOT, and all of us are pretty optimistic, CDOT in particular seems
very optimistic about the RAISE grant, which would basically bring in-- I guess the RAISE and the TIP
grants would bring in the rest of the money needed. And the reason is that the safety concerns on this route
are eye popping.
And I don't have the statistics in front of me. I don't know if either of you do. They were some that CDOT
provided at a meeting last week. But the number of crashes, the number of injuries and deaths were very
concerning. And they're very optimistic that that will be persuasive in terms of the grant applications.

And the other thing is, this highway is getting really busy, really jammed. And so I'm very excited. I
appreciated the numbers that Director Catlin just raised and that you had there, the 50% savings. My hope
is that we'll get more people on the bus. RTD was one of the first to commit with this $33 million. And as Ali
says, the beauty is, that's the commitment. It's not going up. CDOT, Boulder County, others are moving
forward. But it's been a collaborative effort on all of these grants and I really appreciate it. Thanks.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Seeing no other hands, I'll just echo some of the sentiments here of just thank
you for the presentation, for walking us through this again, especially the clarity around what happens if we
don't get some of these grants. I know we're all very optimistic about it, but I know I've had the benefit of
learning from you all that the RAISE grants are fairly competitive and the requirements have shifted and
changed. And there have been some prior passes at this.
So recognizing that a variety of things could happen, it's encouraging that we have the funds allocated, we
have a clear path forward. And certainly, from what I understand and I've learned from you all, the queue
jumps and it sounds like a great path forward. So thank you for the update and for collaborating with all of
our regional partners and delivering strong community value. Thanks.
ALI IMANSEPAHI: Appreciate it. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Excellent. Well, seeing no other comments or questions on that discussion item, we will
move to our second discussion item of the evening, which is the General Election Day system-wide farefree transit. For this, we'll hand the floor to General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to present
information on this.
And just as a reminder, this had come in as an inquiry-- and I see Director Bouquet has joined us this
evening, so thank you very much for being here-- regarding what might be possible and what the impacts
might be regarding a free fare on General Election Day. So with that, Ms. Johnson, if you wouldn't mind
taking the floor.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Chairman. And just by way of orientation and a gentle
reminder, at last month's Board meeting, on Tuesday, March 22, during Other Matters, as you indicated,
Director Bouquet did raise the question of RTD's ability to provide fare- free transit days for general
elections, and recognizing I said that I'd be committed to coming back to the Board to provide some
information pertaining to that.
And so just real quickly, as this is already included in your Board packet, wanted to just share the data that
we were able to leverage demonstrated that approximately 30% of non-voters claimed that the lack of
transportation to the polls is a critical factor in them deciding not to exercise their constitutional rights. And
among persons of color under the age of 30 that responded to the survey that facilitated the data that we
used, 38% of that population cited a lack of transportation as a reason for not voting.

So additionally, Colorado's all-mail ballot voting significantly increases voter turnout. But providing fare-free
transit during general elections would further reduce barriers to polling places, particularly among
traditionally disadvantaged voter groups. Recognizing that we as an agency, through our strategic plan, are
committed to community value, looking at the cost and the financial impact status, and recognizing the
earlier meeting that we had, total cost for this expenditure to provide that fare-free transit on general
elections, which would basically be a biennial occurrence, would roughly be $360,000.
So with that, I will yield the floor back to you, Mr. Chairman, should there be additional questions and
comments relative to the subject before you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, for bringing us some data points there.
And thank you, Director Dishell-- or, I'm sorry, Director Bouquet for bringing this concept to the Board. I see
that you have your hand raised. And thank you for joining us. I'll go ahead and hand the floor to you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I think I more would want to just start off with a thank you
to Ms. Johnson for putting in the effort and her team into looking and researching this. Mine is more just
general comments.
So San Diego Metro Transit System, Dallas Area Rapid Transit, Utah Transit Authority, Charlotte Area
Transit, Kansas City Area Transportation Authority, New Orleans Regional Transit Authority, Sacramento
Regional Transit, Topeka Metro, and Wichita Transit are just a couple transit agencies that offered farefree rides on November 3 of 2020, which is the last general election cycle. I believe it's 20% of the top 50
transit organizations in the country offered fare-free transit in November 3 of 2020.
For me, this is kind of a no-brainer. As the CEO and GM has mentioned, it is just getting rid of any barriers
for folks. And as mentioned to that survey, where 30% are saying that that was a major barrier for them
ultimately not, deciding not to vote, that was eye opening. And I think we all are aware of that. And if we
are, as a Board, ultimately able to pass this into a resolution to offer fare-free transit on general election
days, I think it's going to create a new world of voting accessibility here in Colorado. I know we are pretty
accessible as it is.
But I think it's also going to be creating new possibilities for our community to try a ride. And that's a huge
thing that I keep hearing of, how can we get our community actually hop on. And I think this would be an
excellent way to go forward. And I'll just end my comments, because it's going to a late night. I do encourage
my fellow Board members on the Financial committee to consider taking the next steps into making this
discussion item into an action item and ultimately a policy of RTD. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Bouquet, for the comments, certainly more than a couple
that you cited. I appreciate the reference on that. And I would just ask, I know there have been some emails
and concepts about some of the other fare-free days that may or may not exist. I just wanted to make sure
we could have our discussion and questions aimed around the general election free fare here, so we can
give some direction to staff as to whether we would like to proceed with a recommended action and move
to next steps, for which Ms. Johnson, I'll look to your guidance as to how you would like to proceed and
what type of feedback you'd like.

So with that, I'll go ahead and continue the discussion here. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. And thanks to Director Bouquet and also Director Lewis for raising this back in
2020.
I think it's an amazing starting point. And I would love to see us start here and move to expand it to a week
leading up to it. My question is, the week leading up to elections, recognizing that in Colorado not only do
we have mail-in ballots, we have early voting and our polls are open relatively long periods of time, I guess
my question is, do our buses go to the polls? And if they don't, how does that impact, if we wanted to run a
special board to make sure you got to the polls, or I don't know if special board is the right term. But my
concern is, I want to make sure that A, yes, we do this, but B, that our buses actually go within a reasonable
distance of the polling places where we're giving people free access to.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Ms. Johnson, I see your hand is raised.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and thank you very much, Director Dishell. And
also, Director Bouquet, Thank you for naming those transit agencies. And I'd be remiss to say you didn't
name my former transit agencies, which are some of the first, which is in Los Angeles County, with LA
Metro and Long Beach Transit basically being in the forefront of all of this.
But to your point, Director Dishell, the intent here is to provide transit service on the day of election. I know
in some areas that basically polls are open early, and so that would be something that would constitute a
larger financial commitment going forward. As you talked about potentially designating routes to get to
various polling places, collectively from my experience, and we haven't delved into this, polling places are
generally at public places. And there are some polling places-- I don't know if this is here in Colorado, I'm
speaking from previous experience-- where there could be some where people use their residences as
polling places and things of the like.
So quite naturally the intent here is to decrease the barriers. We wouldn't absolve the issue of all barriers
to polling. And I believe to your point, it would be a great starting point, recognizing the transit agencies that
Director Bouquet referenced, it's very in line with other transit agencies across the country in the
commitment, as we could showcase our community values.
So I wanted to offer those comments. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Dishell, any further questions on that? Great. See his
thumbs up. Wonderful.
Yeah, thank you. Great point. And again, another opportunity to watch some of the data, looking at how
this progresses as a starting point, if we were to move in this direction.
Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I didn't realize I was up next. You know, The. Thing that gives me pause is we've got in
Colorado so many options for voting, and the vast majority of it gets done before Election Day. And that's

what we want. Do we know, I mean, how many have not voted by the time you get down to Election Day?
Is it 5% of the total ballots that get returned? And so are we matching the benefit of a single day to the
need. And is there a way through-- I don't know, if somebody can show their ballot, they can ride any day
in the election return period or something like that.
And then the second thought is, can we talk to the Secretary of State and get her thoughts and maybe
some data about this sort of thing? How many people vote by mail? How many people drop off at the drop
boxes? I think there are hundreds in each county. And what her thoughts are about how we, the agency,
can facilitate returns. Is it best done by a single day? Is it best done by enabling people to present something
so that they can ride during the entire period?
I just want to be more effective, I guess, in considering this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. Ms. Johnson, is there anything you'd like to comment on? I
heard in there, there's good questions in terms of, if I heard correctly, what data we may or may not have
regarding who hasn't voted and what the day of is, as well as would we run this by the Secretary of State
to look for perhaps effective means? Ms. Johnson, is that anything that you'd like to comment on?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. We could reach out and do that. The intent here
was to bring forward information relative to the financial obligations. And hence, that's why we're coming to
this committee. I appreciate the comments of Director Cook.
Just for everybody's edification, we have been working for some time, as we wanted to ensure that there
were drop-off boxes on some RTD property and had reached out on a different occasion with the Secretary
of State on that element. So we do have contacts established as we look at coordinating. And so I can't
make that commitment to say we'll get that information. But one thing, if that's the direction of this
committee, as we pursue, we can do our due diligence and see what we are able to obtain going forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So perhaps if we move forward with moving towards a recommended action, if that's
where we go, and now we do have information about what the cost would be, so thank you for preparing
that, maybe that recommended action discussion brings with it some additional data points.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Very well. That could happen, if we result in going in that direction. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you very much. Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't have much else to say. I was going to make the same suggestion, is that let's
reach out to the Secretary of State's office and make sure. I know people try to get ballots back in early,
and Colorado is very voter friendly. I like this idea. But I think, let's make sure we're solving the problem in
the best way possible. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And sorry to everyone that I had to drop off and attend to
something. So I am back. And I apologize, I missed the first part of the discussion.

So as I read the memo and as I understand this issue, I guess my concern is similar to Director Cook's,
that we're really not addressing something that really would be needed, in a sense. My understanding of
the statistic is that over 95% of the people vote by mail, including, as General Manager pointed out, that-and I love this-- that we have drop boxes at many of our light rail stations and such.
So I guess I don't see why this might lure people to vote in person. I'm, as I mentioned last time we
discussed this, I'm one of the very, very, very, very few who actually vote in person. And some people who
do vote in person vote early. So I'd like to share that with the committee, all the fellow Directors, rather, and
the committee.
And then I would also like to share that my preference is that we have a group of days that we can choose
from. There are a number of days that I think would also provide the sense of community appreciations and
value, things like Veterans Day, Cinco de Mayo, Juneteenth, Labor Day, Memorial Day, July 4th, that I think
that we should consider. And so if we're going to consider just Election Day, I think we're shortchanging
ourselves. We need to consider other options.
And then also, maybe if we do consider one day for this year, maybe we should also just go ahead and
decide for next year as well, so we don't have to address this again. So those are two of the things that I'd
like to bring up Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Yeah. But I'd love to, if we could, stay focused on the
general election to get some direction to staff as to whether to proceed with that, knowing what those costs
might be and whether we would move forward. And then I think we could look at whether there are other
days that we would examine.
So with that being said, yeah, thank you for the comments on that. I'll save my comments for the end, just
regarding the day itself.
Did anyone from staff, Ms. Johnson or anybody else, want to comment on Director Rosenthal's input
regarding the general election day and the number of folks who vote via mail?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Not at this juncture. I would say what I think would be helpful if we pursue this in a
greater degree, a reference was made to the state of Colorado, recognizing I hail from the state of California,
those same discussions had spawned during the course of time in which we effectuated this as well. And I
think for all intents and purposes, it is the element of the community value piece, recognizing, to the point
that Director Rosenthal stated, that some people still like to go to the polls.
This is not going to be a comprehensive solution relative to alleviating all barriers, but it is a step in the right
direction, recognizing how many transit agencies across the country already have embraced a program
such as this and have been doing so for years.
I think we could glean from that, as we really look to see what it is, and especially when we talk about the
constitutional right, and then more specifically, the underrepresented populations that often have not been
able to cast their votes. In reference to everything that's going on in America collectively about limiting voter

rights, I framed that in the sense of our commitment to equity, diversity, inclusion, and belonging. And so
that would be my comment there to add to the discussion. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Could I-- point of privilege, would you mind if I spoke after Director Tisdale and Director
Broom and let them have their first bite at the apple?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem, sir. I will call on Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, and thank you for allowing an interloper not on the
committee to address the topic.
I thought Director Rosenthal made some excellent points and I appreciated the opportunity to hear those. I
was particularly impressed by an observation made by Director Cook. I believe that this actually provides a
great opportunity for us to make a statement. And that's something that I think we should welcome in these
days of continuing criticism of RTD. As I have said before, RTD, like the prophet, is not without honor except
in its own land. And that's something that gives us pause from time to time.
But let's, as Director Cook was stating, let's be strategic on this and not simply reactionary. Let's be
intentional. And so therefore, let us get some more data so that we see what this actually means and then
take action based upon that. And that would be my comment, and I thank you for the opportunity to make
it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, sir. Much appreciated. I see Director-- Director Bouquet, I'll save
you. Director Dishell, I see your hand next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, thank you. And I appreciate, Director Tisdale and Director Rosenthal, your
comments. I think one of the traps we fall into as policy makers, and historically our country's fallen into as
policymakers, is we study things to death. We want everything that comes out to be perfect. Well, if we're
going to consider this, we need to consider all these other things too.
And I am just as guilty, which is why I've tried to start tonight to switch to, this is a great start. There is a lot
of value in experimentation and iteration, following up and retooling things and going back out to market.
One of the biggest complaints about government is the inefficiency.
So for me, if you phrase it the other way, which is, RTD voted no, or said no, to providing free transit on
Election Day. To me, this is a no-brainer of, let's start, let's take the first step. And if we are genuinely
passionate about all these other things, which I think we really are, let's study it and let's pay careful
attention. And let's study a pilot that's actually applicable in our market and not necessarily a study about
someone else's, which we use some analytical tool and aggressive analysis to figure out how well it may
or may not work here.
And so I really do appreciate-- talking earlier about spare the fare-- it's an experiment. And with voting, I
think that one probably isn't-- well, great American democracy is an experiment. But that aside, I think with

voting, that one probably might not be experiment. But the way in which we do it and ways to evolve, I think
that's, more than providing the free day, that's where we deliver our value is in our follow up and our analysis
and our retooling. For now, let's get to market. Let's get out there and get people the ability to vote.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell.
Seeing no other hands up, I know, Director Bouquet, you wanted to go at the end there. I will save my
comments for the end, being the Chair. But I do have a question. Director Bouquet, do you mind if I bring
that question forward? Thank you.
So Ms. Johnson, given some of this discussion around this, one question I have, given your prior experience
with these days, do you see opportunities, have you experienced the opportunities at your prior agency
with collaborating with other community partners in terms of leveraging this, whether it's as simple as comarketing what it is that we're doing and celebrating it and it being a marketing effort, whether that's
anything greater or more than that from a commitment standpoint. Have you seen those type of
collaborations with other community partners? Do you see those? Is that something that you would consider
exploring if the agency were to move forward with a program like this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Davidson, or Chair Davidson, for the question. I think
it's hard for me to say, as we talk about partnerships, because when I look at Los Angeles County, there's
28 transit agencies, and we all collectively were part of it, and there was a broad brush campaign. And you
think about the Los Angeles region and how large it is and it was something that was made known and
leveraging different publications and social media and things of the like. It was a commitment made by the
region as a whole going forward.
So when we talk about partnerships, not necessarily certain about what partnerships we would be
leveraging here in this region, but I think collectively as relates to marketing it, working with different, I don't
know the appropriate terminology with the reference here, but the person in each jurisdiction that's
responsible for their county, the Board of Elections or what have you, doing it well enough in advance so
it's publicized that, hey, on Election Day, there's free transit rides and there's things along that avenue that
could be leveraged to ensure the word gets out.
So that would be my response. Because it's basically not apples to apples with this region, with us being
sort of the only intermodal transit agency here in the region.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for commenting on that. I appreciate it. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Thank you. And thank you for letting me wait a little bit. First off, apologies,
forgot LA Metro. My bad, Ms. Johnson.
Also, maybe it's teaching middle schoolers for eight hours that makes me a little less articulate, but thank
you, Director Dishell and CEO/GM Johnson. You guys put it beautifully.

When I envisioned this and when I approached CEO/GM Johnson a little bit ago about this, I viewed it more
as a growth opportunity as us as an agency, as a policy to kind of explore going forward. We have a lot of
voting accessibility in the state of Colorado. I know that. I wish all the states had as much accessibility as
us. The thing, though, is can we as an agency, can we as a Board, enact a free day for Election Day? And
is there any way-- you know, and even if it was for me, even if it was one individual using our system for
free to get to the polls, that I see as a win.
Because we don't know what are going to be those domino effects that ultimately come from-- I look at my
district, a lot of choice riders where they see, oh, RTD is offering free rides on Election Day. Maybe I'm
going to go out and vote. We're not sure. And you know, those are some of those intangibles that we have
to have a discussion. And as Director Dishell put it, it is experimenting. It is going with that risk and seeing.
And in my opinion, you know, I don't think this is the biggest risk, if we're trying to allow more people to
have accessibility when it comes down to voting. And I think it is something that we can establish, as
Director Rosenthal said, exploring other free days in the future. But if we keep our scope and study to the
general election and we try this out as a Board of Directors and we figure out, are we having our societal
impact, and, in my opinion, I think this is just going to have positive societal impacts. Well, mostly positive
societal impacts.
And so that's where I would end. It's not necessarily a policy to solve an issue but more of a policy of
exploration. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Bouquet. Seeing no other hands, I'll just make the
comment that I think that, first of all, thank you, Ms. Johnson and all those involved in staff for bringing
forward the cost estimates. I think that helps make what we're dealing with clear.
Certainly, I'm struck by, in our strategic plan, the push for both customer excellence and for community
value. And I know that many of us have felt that from a community value standpoint, there's more that we
can be doing to increase the stature and celebrate some of the things that we're doing for the community.
So I think when I look at the cost of this and when I look at where we are in our financial plan right now, I
personally think this is a good bet to make in terms of saying, hey, we want to deliver some more community
value, we think this could have an impact. We have some amount of data to suggest that some folks have
cited lack of transit options as a reason to not vote. I think we all, certainly as Americans, celebrate our right
to vote, and access to vote is an important part of that.
So to me, this seems like a really great bet to place. But I think we've had a lot of good discussions tonight.
Some of the themes that I've heard have been perhaps some more data, perhaps some things to support
what it is that we're doing. Duly noted that we could probably study this endlessly. But the other way to look
at this is also to say what did happen, if we were to do something like this and to test it and experiment with
it, we could measure how that responded. And perhaps, Director Rosenthal, that measurement, that
understanding could lend itself and open the door to examining some of those future days.

So before we have any further discussion on what other days there might be, I want to just turn it over to
Ms. Johnson briefly and just see if you have what you're looking for. I wouldn't want to speak for the
committee and say that it sounds like we're moving in this direction. But what I'm hearing is generally
positive, with the caveat that we may want some more data going in and some data coming out.
So Ms. Johnson, is there anything further you'd like to hear from this committee in terms of next steps?
Would you like some further guidance? Would you like us to go around and provide any of that guidance
as to what the next steps might be?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I would like further guidance, because I'm
uncertain as to whether or not we're going to bring this back and in what format will we bring it back.
Recognizing the comments that I was able to garner from this discussion, it seemed as if there is an appetite
to go forward on one en to see what we can yield, and that would be in the form of bringing a staff
recommendation. But recognizing some of the elements relative to obtaining data, I'm not certain what
that's going to do for us as we go forward. So further guidance would be greatly appreciated so I can
manage everyone's expectations. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Thank you very much. As a matter of practice, I don't love to do this because we're
not voting on a recommended action. So I want to be very clear that this isn't a vote. But I'm wondering if
the Directors on this committee might just, if I can call on you in order, just give a sense of whether you
would favor or be interested in seeing a staff recommended action come forward on this item and whether
or not you would want additional, what type of information, if any would like with that.
So I'm just going to go ahead and run around and just ask just generally the favor and the direction here.
Again, this is not a vote. But Director Broom, would you mind commenting first?
BOB BROOM: I guess I'd like to know what the Secretary of State thinks about a program like this. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I actually agree with Director Broom. But I think, to Director Bouquet's comment, I think
philosophically I believe that eliminating any barriers that we can for people to vote is a good idea.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, basically echoing those two. I do think it would be helpful to ask her, how can we
make it easier for folks, given the system that we have? So I think you've got three people. That means it
will come forward regardless. But let's check in with her, get some ideas, if she has them about how we
can remove those barriers better, perhaps, or not. Maybe she thinks this will be a great program. So thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. Echoing the sentiments raised, I also want to elevate the role of county clerks
in administering and setting up these elections. Because while it is administered through the Secretary of
State, it's the county clerks who are going to have that, I believe, from what I understand, that's really, that's

who we want to hear from. I mean, yes, Secretary of State and the county clerks for the eight, eight counties
here who are going to be administering elections? Those will, I think, also will provide really key data both
on the pre- and post kind of things.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you very much for that. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree with all of the comments. You know, certainly, I'm all in favor of removing any
barriers. And I also believe that this would be a good step in community value. I think that part of my thought
in reaching out to the Secretary of State's office-- and I agree, the county clerks, it's just a matter of how
many we want to reach to, but at least some of them-- but is that we're building support, in addition to, two
things, we know if we're aiming the right target, and secondly, they're sending a lot of information out that
can help with that kind of support. But I like the idea. I like where we're going.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, I hate to be redundant so I will try to be brief. I think reaching out to the clerks
and SoS would be prudent to make sure we are fashioning a helpful program. I do appreciate the spirit in
offering this program. Echo Director Bouquet's thoughts. The $376,000 pill is a little tough to swallow. But
if we have a little bit of input maybe from some of our election officials, that's something I can certainly
entertain and then look at other events, as Director Rosenthal said, perhaps after this is decided.
I certainly would think this would be worthy of taking to the full Board. So thank you for the discussion and
the thoughts tonight.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Director Whitmore. So given where we are, just in looking at, again,
generally favorable, some looking for discussion with Secretary of State, some with county clerks, I think
that we probably need to put a little bit of a finer point on where we want to go with this.
To Director Whitmore's comment there, this maybe something we want to bring to the full Board. I personally
would like to just reflect on the input that we have here and help frame the direction forward. But before we
wrap up this discussion, Ms. Johnson, is that helpful, that further information? I'm sure given the discussion
here, there's still a need for additional clarity. Is that fair?
DEBRA JOHNSON: It is fair. And thank you, Director Dishell. I was trying to think of county clerk.
One thing I would say, from our experience in working with placing the drop-off boxes, we yielded much
more success coordinating with the county clerks, when you recognize that the Secretary of State oversees
the entire state. We don't provide service to the entire state. So as it relates to the path forward, I want to
be clear that I understand is it to reach out to the county clerks and then come back and report that to you?
Or are we looking to bring back a recommended action item?
Because-- and I say this, recognizing that the general election is coming up and we're in April-- my
experience in the success of a program that you need to establish it as soon as possible, so then that
communication and coordination and understanding, when you're sending out ballots well in advance, that

we're offering complimentary transit service. So in an effort to manage the expectations, I am still confused
about a timeline. If, in fact, we bring it back to another discussion session, be that in June we've lost that
window of opportunity.
So I'm not advocating either way. What I'm trying to do, as your employee, is to ensure that I'm providing
you with information, as requested. But there still needs to be some clarity as to what it is that we're doing.
Because I can bring this discussion item, but if I'm doubling back, we have missed the window of
opportunity, at least for the general election that's forthcoming in November, which is just in a few months.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So thank you for that comment. So along those lines, and certainly good to know on the
timing, so Director Broom, Director Catlin, Director Cook, to perhaps a lesser extent but still Director Dishell,
with the clerks, and Director Guissinger, Whitmore, all folks who have suggested we may want to gather a
little bit more information.
For what it's worth, I think one thing we could do here, we're able to move this year. We've had difficulties
with service due to our people power problem, which we're working on to address. I think we have the
finances to be able to move forward with something like this. Something that we could do, in recognition
that this would be joining a cohort of many other transit agencies where there's some precedent, we could
move forward and ask staff to bring forward a recommended action, and then work in tandem and reach
out to the county clerks, as well as the Secretary of State, to make them aware of what we're doing, ask
them to help us with the program, ask them to give us some more information, ask them to help us measure
the impact.
And also, I think, Director Cook, you brought up a very good point about how else, what else could we do,
what are the opportunities to improve this, perhaps not for this year, recognizing the time, but for future
years, similar to along the lines of Director Dishell's comment earlier in the evening about wanting to be
involved earlier in framing up what we know as a transit agency.
So one suggestion I might put out there for the group is how people would feel about moving forward with
something this year, given the timing and then engaging those stakeholders, basically saying, look, we're
confidently moving forward with this, help us measure it, help us identify future opportunities, and perhaps
feed some information that could inform the recommended action.
I'm just going to open the floor again. Apologies that we're going a little bit long here. But Ms. Johnson,
thanks for the clarity that we do need some extra guidance here. Perhaps some folks can comment. Ms.
Johnson, I'll start with you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And I would just say, in my experience, this is the
same circumstance, it's like public transportation is as the bus turns. Different actors, but basically the same
storyline and you can catch up.
So with that being said, my initial foray in this arena was the same thing. We did it for one election period
and then looked at it and brought back a commitment as related to the general elections going forward. So
you just sparked that recollection on my part that I just wanted to offer up. Thank you.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And I'll open the floor to those on the committee just to
comment on whether that plan sounds good. Director Bouquet, I see that your hand is up and would be
more than happy to give you the floor.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Would you like to hear from voting committee members first, or-ERIK DAVIDSON: You go for it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Perfect. Yeah, I was just going to say, I was just going to say, we have to be
careful. You know, I do appreciate the idea of looking and searching for more information. But like when I
was hearing it, if I was in CEO/GM Johnson's, I would be a little confused too, because I would be thinking,
oh, well, do you want us to go to the county clerks and say, are you all for this, or do you want us to-- what
would make it easiest for you guys, as county clerks, as us a transit agency? And when I heard the latter,
I'm like, that just sounds like a whole 'nother recommended action. That seems like a whole 'nother path
we could go down.
So my preference-- you know, I'm a little biased in this-- but my preference would be to go forward with this
as a recommended action, just saying, based on what has been laid out, us as a Board of Directors would
want to make a fare-free day, communicate that with the county clerks, not prior, but us acting as our own
autonomous organization, our own autonomous Board to go forward and say, this is our recommended
action.
If it passes or if it gets to the full Board, communicate that with our county clerks and then kind of establish,
as we've talked about building those partnerships, what can we do going forward to make it as easy as
possible for this election cycle, but then election cycles into the future.
So that would be my preference is let's not get, let's not muddy things up too much but rather go forward
where our scope of study is right now and then start building those partnerships, after recommended action.
So that would be my preference.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Bouquet. I see some committee members with hands up. Director
Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: My push would be recommended action with commitment for follow-up for a-recommended action as a pilot, commitment for follow-up for a permanent plan, or a permanent-- I know
people don't like the word permanent-- a longer term plan would be my push and my ask, especially given
we don't meet in August, I believe, under our new structure. So we've got to go.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Very good. Thank you. I've kind of got people on a spectrum here on my paper of
favorable and then who would want to speak to whom in the beginning. So I'm going to poll you a favorable
for now. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Well, one obvious question we should answer is, what are we going to have to cut from our
next run board to cover the cost of this?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, do you have a comment on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So this, I think it's a circular discussion, recognizing what we've been talking about,
this fare-free aspect of the ozone. As I stated before that we had money that we did a swap, of money
swap, quite naturally when we got monies initially where we committed to implementing recommendations
from the state auditor and thing of the like. Mr. MacLeod is on the line.
Quite naturally, before bringing this to you, I ensured that we had an understanding if we could cover the
cost of this. We're talking 1 day versus 30. So with that, Mr. MacLeod, if you could address this, I'd greatly
appreciate it. Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Yes, agreed. We do have the money. $336,000
is a significant amount of money. However, in the whole scheme of things, yes, it would be a fund swap
that we could use available funding that's freed up from the fund swap of receiving federal COVID money.
So we do have the funds available.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Does that answer your question, Director Broom? Did you have
further questions, comments?
BOB BROOM: No, not at this time. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: So if I could ask General Manager Johnson. The program description that Director
Dishell just verbalized quite eloquently, all night long, we've been doing a good job, and I appreciate that.
Is that in parallel with what you had suggested in what you had done in the past. I guess I'm just trying to
see if that, his description is meeting your semi-comfort level.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Whitmore. If I may, what I heard was collectively we
would bring for your consideration, if this was effectuated or if this was agreed upon, I'm sorry, and an
action, a staff recommendation would come forward that would consist of staff saying that we will look at
this for the general election in 2022, evaluate the data that we're able to accumulate regarding putting
forward an impact to the community, bringing that back, and then making a more long-term, air quote, longterm decision.
Because there's a couple things that we could do. As we looked at boardings, utilizing different mechanisms
with boardings perhaps, and then there could be other strategies that we could look at going forward to
determine I need to work with our operations staff to designate how we may do that just holistically, trying
to figure out how to capture folks going primarily to the polls. But I'm rambling at this point. I apologize. I'm
tired. I'm going on 14 hours.
So as we talk about what it is that we need to do, basically it's a pilot program, for one, just for general
election of 2022. That's what I understand, Director Dishell. Did I capture that? Yes. Thank you very kindly.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I'm in agreement with Director Dishell's strategy
session there. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm fine with this coming forward as a recommended action. I still think-- I mean, I'd
be happy to make a phone call to the Secretary of State or the county clerk. I still think that doing it just to
know, not to make a huge deal out of it but just to sort of say, we're doing this along with you and everybody
else, seems to me to make sense. But I like the idea and I'd say it's fine, we can move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Director Broom, I think your hand is up. Any further questions, comments?
BOB BROOM: Not on this. But I do want to speak under Other Matters.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. We will definitely do that.
So just looking at that, I recognize that this is still a little bit murky, but this is looking generally favorable. I
would ask that-- Director Guissinger, sorry, I see your hand is back up. Oh, OK. Sorry.
I would say that from what we heard here, with the exception of perhaps a phone call to the Secretary of
State, which Director Guissinger, if you wouldn't mind reaching out to Ms. Johnson with anything, any
pertinent information, it sounds like the idea of a pilot program would be generally favorable.
So my request would be if, Ms. Johnson, you could come forward with a staff recommended action to this
committee regarding a pilot, what we would consider a pilot for this year. So look at the-- we have the
financial impacts, but to look at how we might proceed with doing that, what additional data we can bring
forward. Ms. Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Just a point of clarity. We, as staff, can reach out to
the counties, if that's the desire. I'm kind of confused, again. If First Chair Guissinger is going to reach out
to the Secretary of State, how is that aligning in reference to staff's recommendation? I just want to be clear
who's on first regarding the aspects that need to be done to provide a level of comfort.
And, you know, I would assume if we're bringing forward a recommended action, we need to talk in such a
way where we can document. And that's not a slight to First Chair Guissinger, because we work together
on various things, but I just want to be clear what the expectation is of who's doing what, because it's getting
a little more muddy for me. And perhaps I'm just not comprehending because I'm fatigued.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I would see this as being staff led, that the action itself, given that you have the prior
experience on the pilot program, I think what I would ask for other Directors would be if there is additional
input, to provide that input to staff through Ms. Johnson. But Director Guissinger, do you have a comment
on that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. You know, I always coordinate any time I make any phone calls. I work with
you, I think. And my only point was that by reaching out before we make a decision and make an

announcement, I'd feel like we're building the community value. But I'll leave it up to you. I'm fine with
moving forward with the recommended action.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And First Chair Guissinger I agree. I support that as well. I was trying to ascertain who
was doing what. So I don't disagree whatsoever that it would be helpful to have an understanding
beforehand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. So I have seen, I think just in looking at, tracking the feedback here, good
response, positive response for a staff-led recommended action to come forward with a pilot program
focused on this election cycle and looking at reaching out to county clerks, as well as Secretary of State, to
garner and drive that community value. So we'll take a look at that. Perhaps we'll have some discussion
and debate at that point regarding whether we're going to be moving forward.
With that, I don't see any other hands up. Is there any further discussion or any further points from Ms.
Johnson regarding further clarity?
All right. Thank you very much. Lengthier discussion than I anticipated, but I appreciate all of the input from
everybody.
We're going to go ahead and move into Other Matters. I know, Director Broom, you had your hand raised
for Other Matters. Please go ahead, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. It's been quite a while since we've had a legal update on outstanding
litigation. And another question I have, do we still have a Board committee overseeing this area?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson, if you wouldn't mind commenting on this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will yield the floor to General Counsel Snyder. I do recall, she did reference this a
couple of meetings ago as well. So General Counsel Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. There's not any updates right now on the major pending litigation. That's
obviously the one outstanding with our concessionaire, DTP. We're still waiting on the Denver District Court
to issue an order. And we do not have a continuing ongoing ad hoc litigation committee. That dissolved at
the end of last year. But I will certainly keep the Board apprised. If there's any updates, those will come
through.
BOB BROOM: OK, that suffices for me. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Thank you, General Counsel Snyder. Director Dishell.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, last month we began a discussion on refinancing bonds for COPS, the trade-offs
there. And I just want to make sure, I know we had sort of a tight fuse and want to make sure that the staff
has what it needs from this group in order to move forward. Or does this need to go to the full Board for
discussion? I don't want to lose the-- not that we're lose-- but I want to make sure we keep a tight watch on
that, given its importance, and $120 million or $100-some odd million in present dollars is a lot of money,
really important decision.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. So we did receive follow-up regarding the case law, as well
as comments from bond counsel. That did go to the Board upon our request from the last committee
discussion, clarifying the position on the decision.
Ms. Johnson or General Counsel Snyder, would you like to comment on that at all? And also, I'll just broadly
open the floor, if Mr. MacLeod, you want to comment at all about the information that you have available in
terms of what you will bring forward to this committee next. So I'll just open the floor generally to the three
of you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Davidson-- or Chair Davidson I'm sorry. Mr. MacLeod
and I just discussed this afternoon the path forward, recognizing the information that you did receive from
General Counsel, as well as bond counsel. Recognizing the timeline, Mr. MacLeod was going to prepare a
recommended action item that would come forward to this body, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. MacLeod, it was
in June.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you very kindly. So we do have pertinent information relative to receiving
that guidance and we will bring that forward. And quite naturally, it would come to this committee and then
collectively to the entire Board for its consideration.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Appreciate the comments. And for those of you that haven't had
a chance to take a look at the follow-up, I certainly encourage you to do so. There is a statement in there
from bond counsel that, based upon the standard and the review of the relevant cases, that bond counsel
does not believe they can issue a validity opinion for bonds pursuant to the 2004 FasTracks election if those
bonds are issued after November 2, 2024, which would be that 20-year mark. So encourage Board
members to take a look at the feedback that we did receive in writing and submit any questions that you
have to staff.
So thank you, Director Dishell, for raising the item. Anything else in Other Matters? Great.
Thank you, everybody. Appreciate it. The next meeting date of this committee will be Tuesday, May 10,
2022, Finance and Planning Committee. We will go ahead and adjourn, seeing no further discussion. And
this meeting will be adjourned at 9:09 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you very much, all. Bye-bye.

