1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, August 12, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District L
Director, District H
Director, District N

Absent
Present
Absent

5:43 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present

5:43 PM
5:42 PM
5:42 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:42 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Absent
Present

5:42 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:42 PM
5:42 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:43 PM
5:44 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

5:43 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:43 PM

Directors Anderson, Daly, and Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Carolyn Conover, Martell Dyles, Bob Grado, John Elias,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Robin McIntosh JR, Doug MacLeod,
Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard
Rost, Bill Sirois, John Tarbert Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Michael
Washington, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Pedro Ramos, Joe Triplett, Zach
Wallace, Monte Whaley, Darcy Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) Program Update
Martell Dyles, Manager for the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) program, and
Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager for Civil Rights, presented the WIN Program
Update starting on page 20 of the Financial Administration & Audit/Civil
Rights/Operations & Customer Service Committee Meetings packet for
August 12, 2014. The purpose of the presentation was to give an update
on the WIN program since its inception in 2011, its current standing as a
national model, and plans for the future.
Martell Dyles said that there have been 391 participants through the WIN
program since 2011. Nineteen (19) of those participants have been
promoted to other positions. The total number of participants served
through the WIN program is 791. He explained that “served” participants
include those who receive training, career counseling, and other services
through the WIN program and find employment in other organization. Eighty
percent (80%) of the participants reside in the target zip codes. Martell
Dyles mentioned that 68 employers have partnered with the WIN program.
The WIN program has created 13 customized training activities for employer
partners.
Kenn Hardin emphasized that no participant falls through the program.
Supportive services such as career coaches, further skills training, and new
position placements are available to all participants. He said the WIN
program emphasizes the mindset of building a career in order for the
participants to succeed.

Director Tobiassen said that the feedback on the WIN program is very
positive. He asked what the plans for the WIN program are for 2016 and
beyond since RTD is halfway through most of its construction projects.
Martell Dyles replied that the program is starting to train interested
participants in the maintenance trade: facilities maintenance, state of good
repair, and light rail repair. The WIN program provides training and
certifications towards these new skillsets. A “pre-test” is provided by the
WIN program for the participants before testing for RTD, CDOT, or any other
partnering entity.
Director Folska thanked staff for the presentation. She asked how many
participants are from other countries besides the United States. She also
asked if these participants move here for the program and if they go back to
their home country after the training. Martell Dyles responded that about
3% are not Americans. Most of these participants are from Russia and
Ethiopia. They have moved to the States and hear about the program from
a work force system. Participants stay after completing the training.
Director Folska said that the national recognition the WIN program receives
reflects its strong, solid vision. She suggested staff connected with the
National Chamber of Commerce as a possibility to train participants for other
organizations and industries.
Director Bagley thanked Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede and the staff for
their passion and work on the WIN program. He recalled when the program
started 3 years ago that there were questions on how to measure the
program’s effectiveness. He said staff has been able to provide measurable
results. He shared the question asked by Director Tobiassen and thanked
staff for the answers.
Director Walker shared that the WIN program was mentioned during a
Succession Planning presentation at the APTA Transit Board Members &
Board Support Seminar in July, 2014. He said he explained the program to
the participants. He noted this experience as an example of the program’s
national recognition.
Director Solano mentioned he attended the Labor Council for Latin American
Advancement (LCLAA) National Convention in Houston, TX the previous
week. The conference focused on social issues and the future of our
children. He thanked staff for the WIN program as it is doing the greatest
good for the greatest amount of people.
Director Lubow said she was most impressed with the program’s genuine
concern for the welfare of the participants. She asked for the timeframe of
the grant project period referred to during the presentation. Martell Dyles
said the figures are through June 30, 2014.

Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede thanked staff for their vision and
implementing the model. She also thanked Director Deadwyler for her
leadership and passion for the community. Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede
said she was most proud of the livable wage for the participants. She
recalled that when the program started, some of the then new participants
were working two minimum wage jobs in order to make ends meet. She
thanked the partnering organizations for their support. She acknowledged
that it takes a strong commitment to the community to remain in such close
contact with the participants.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 21, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned to the Operations & Customer Service
Committee at 6:08 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

