January 7, 2020
Special Board Meeting
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[AUDIO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: And I would respectfully request everyone please to silence your cell phones.
I would also note for the sake of the record and for the benefit of the public that this meeting is
being audio and video recorded. And so Ms. McManus, would you now please call the role of the
Board?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present. No absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. Ladies and gentlemen, at RTD safety is
our core value. And so we begin this meeting and all of our meetings with a short safety briefing.
If we have a medical emergency that will require-- excuse me-- calling 911, I will ask our General
Counsel to make that telephone call for us. Any medically trained individuals in the room are
respectfully requested to assist in that regard.
If needed, there is and automatic emergency defibrillator device, an AED device, outside this room
on the wall to the right. And anyone can make use of that, as may be required. Now, in the event
that it's necessary for us to evacuate this building for any emergency situation, we ask you please
calmly exit out the door through which you entered. Go up the stairs. Go around the security desk
and out that front door. And there will be safety and security staff to assist and to direct you to a
safe meet up area.
If there is anyone who needs special assistance in the course of this, please be assured that special
assistance will be provided to you in order to take care of your safety. Now, on a related note, RTD
takes every reasonable precaution to ensure the security and the safety of our passengers, our

vehicles, and our facilities. That said, the agency relies on both staff and the public to assist by
being aware and being alert as to any suspicious or dangerous activity that occurs on buses, or
trains, or around stations, stops, and platforms.
As such, we encourage all of our RTD employees and every member of the public please to
download the Transit Watch app. The Transit Watch app will give you the opportunity to
communicate directly with RTD transit security personnel on a real time basis in the event that
there is any emergency situation. Now, that Transit Watch app is available to you on your Google
Play, the Android Store, and the Apple App Store. Remember, if you see something, say
something. And if you have downloaded the Transit Watch app, you'll never ride alone. Thank
you.
We turn now to the purpose behind this meeting. As stated in the Board Bylaws at the first regular,
or special, meeting of the year, the Board will elect members to the offices of Chair, First Vice
Chair, Second Vice Chair, Secretary, and Treasurer. Now, you Directors have all received a copy
of the RTD Board Office procedures for the Officer elections. And that's our rules of engagement
that we will follow for the nomination and election of Officers to be conducted in accordance with
the Board's Bylaws and with Robert's Rules of Order.
The Board's designated parliamentary authority, as some of know of course, is Robert's Rules of
Order. We'll begin with the position of Chair. And then we will work our way through the process
for all of the Executive Committee Offices. Those Board members who nominate candidates, and
those seconding nominations, and any other speakers, including the candidates nominated, will
have up to three minutes to speak or to ask questions regarding the candidates for each position.
For each office, I will ask for nominations. When there are no additional nominations and no
additional speakers in the queue, the nomination phase will close and a call will be made for a vote
by secret ballot. The Directors will cast their ballots for one nominee. Or they may designate
someone who was not nominated. I don't know why they would do that. But you have the power
to do that. All of the names of all of the Directors will be on that ballot that you are submitted for
each of the offices.
Two Board members who are not running for the office in question, along with our General
Counsel, we'll be asked to count the votes and to provide the tally to me for announcement. Now,
if no candidate for any given office receives at least eight votes, we operate under the rule of eight
for virtually everything here at the RTD, we will repeat the process of voting. If we proceed into
additional rounds of voting, Board members who wish to speak further on behalf of a candidate,
by providing new or additional information or other questions, may do so at that time. This will be
done in a round robin fashion again. Each speaker will be limited to three minutes.
Are there any objections or questions regarding the procedure that was presented to you in that
five page memorandum from our General Counsel and the Board Office Executive Manager last
week? Seeing none, we will move forward with the process as defined. And at this point, we will
proceed to nominations for Chair of the Board. Please feel free to use your computer to signify
your desire to be heard. I recognize Director Walker. And you will have three minutes, Director
Walker.

JEFF WALKER: OK, thank you. I will nominate Peggy Catlin for Chair of the Board. I think she's
shown herself to be a dedicated Board member. She's been willing to serve and be involved in
several endeavors, such as the ad hoc committee and other times when she's been called upon to-when she's been called upon to serve either as Acting Chair, when the Chair hasn't been available,
or for other duties as required. And that is it. So with that, I am nominating Peggy Catlin for Chair.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. We have Director Catlin nominated
for Chair. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. In support of my nomination of Second Vice Chair
Rivera-Malpiede for the position of Chair, I'd like to say the following. I've known Angie RiveraMalpiede for quite some time, long before my involvement with RTD. And I know her to be
experienced, seasoned, inclusive, and thoughtful. In terms of her experience, she's a passionate
advocate for transit and has been so for years. She was on the RTD Board of Directors for five
years prior to this current term and so now has served six years on the RTD Board of Directors.
She serves as the Executive Director of Northeast Transportation Connections, a TMO that
advocates for multi-modal and transit alternatives to driving that help reduce congestion and
improve air quality. Director Rivera-Malpiede is seasoned. She has current and prior experience
on the Executive Committee. She has management experience over a professional staff. She has
lobbying experience at the state and federal level. She's a nationally recognized expert in transit
and transportation matters and a single mom who raised two children and put them through college.
And if that's not the definition of seasoned, I don't know what is.
Director Rivera-Malpiede is inclusive. As a Latina who is heavily involved in her community, the
Second Vice Chair understands the needs and issues facing diverse communities. In her current
role as Second Vice Chair, Director Rivera-Malpiede frequently reaches out to other Directors for
input and has demonstrated her abilities as a strong leader and consensus builder. Director RiveraMalpiede participated in RTD's Pass Program Working Group that's ensuring that all transit riders
from workforce riders to the disabled community were heard and considered in the final fare
recommendation. And she's also a strong advocate of RTD's LiVE Program.
Director Rivera-Malpiede is thoughtful. She understands and acknowledges the challenges that
face RTD. And she's a creative problem solver that seeks input from all sources to craft solutions.
She understands the relationship and the dynamic between the Board, the staff, our stakeholders,
and riders. Finally, we're in a challenging, but exciting time for RTD. And Director RiveraMalpiede is uniquely qualified to move this agency forward as Chair of the Board. So ends my
nomination.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We have a nomination for Director Catlin and a
nomination for Director Rivera-Malpiede to serve as Chair. It would be appropriate to take seconds
on those nominations. Is there a second to Director Catlin's nomination? There's a second to
Director Catlin's nomination. Is there a second to Director Rivera-Malpiede's?
KATE WILLIAMS: I would like to second Director Rivera-Malpiede's.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Now, there is an opportunity for any other Director to
speak on this matter at this time. Should you choose, please indicate by clicking on your screen.
In addition, if either of the nominees wishes to speak, they may also indicate and may speak. So
we'll pause for a moment for anyone who wishes to speak. Seeing Director Catlin, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Director Buzek said it very well, that this agency
faces a lot of challenges. And it is an exciting time for transit. And I would like to thank Jeff
Walker for nominating me and also Director Mihalik for seconding it.
I'd just like to point out that this agency for some of our own doing and circumstances beyond our
control has lost some respect in the community. And we need to earn that back. We need to
demonstrate respectful behavior among ourselves with one another to set the tone. We need to
show respect to our staff. We need to show respect with our operators, with our stakeholders at
every level, in an open and transparent fashion.
We need to show respect to our taxpayers who pay for our salaries and for our agency. And we
first and foremost need to show respect to our riders. We need to make sure that that is a priority
going forward in the next year. If we can do these things, only then will we be able to earn back
the trust and respect that our district deserves. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Director Rivera-Malpiede, you are
recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would like to congratulate First Vice
Chair Catlin for those words of wisdom. Because they hold true. I think as a member of the
community and as the region, it has become very clear to every single one of us who can hear my
voice that we need to work together in unison, regardless of where we come from, who we
represent, and how we're moving forward in our daily lives.
Transportation is not just a way to get from point A to point B. It clearly is the catalyst to allow
people to live their lives, to exceed and to achieve their goals. I have always said that. As a single
mom, as a transit rider, I've been on buses where people are crying, because they've not been able
to get to work on time. I also know what it's like to lay in bed and worry about whether I can afford
to pay for something for my children. So I feel like the ability to have empathy and understand
where people are coming from from literally every sector of our community is very, very powerful.
I would like to do a call to action to anybody who hears my voice from our state Legislature, our
Governor, all the way to the rider on the Route 32, which is mine, that we work together in unison.
We listen to each other. And we work on making sure that we can move this agency forward. RTD
is the best agency in the country. We've just had a hiccup. And we're going to get through this
together. We have the best staff in the country. And I am just honored to have been selected to be
a candidate for this position of which I hold the highest honor for. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Menten, you are recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. One of the factors that I'll be using in tonight's voting process
is who I believe will go above and beyond the duty to provide transparency in this agency,
specifically in finances. Over years, I've asked for a more robust check register published on our
website. In the past, I brought forward a presentation of entities who could do that for us to the
tune of under $50,000.
In light of our budget challenges, this is exactly why we need transparency with a line item detail,
including descriptions of our check register and a simple compromise to get past the hurdles in the
past, which were, it is too expensive at $50,000 or less, is to put up a simple comma separated
value file of our check register. If the candidates would be so inclined, I would be interested to
know tonight whether you would be willing to sign onto a January motion to put this to the January
14th Finance and Administration Audit Committee.
DOUG TISDALE: And is that-NATALIE MENTEN: And I'm sorry. The CSV would be published on our website by July 1, 2020
and include the last three years of our check register of public records. There are some line items
that need to be a little bit concealed because of HIPAA. The majority are public records. And that
question will hold true for each and every candidate round that we go through. So I will not put
you through the long description there. But this is of great interest to me to get this passed onto the
January 14th Finance Committee meeting. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. And the Chair will advise the candidates they
may respond to any questions that are raised. Of course, they are not obligated to respond to any
questions that are raised. But the opportunity is presented should you choose to take it. So if you
wish to, if you'd please indicate your desire to speak, we'll do that. Otherwise, we will move on.
Director Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Menten, I really have delved into
the checking online and have looked at it. And it looks pretty open to me. I've also talked to
municipalities who have them online as well. I would be willing to sign on for more transparency.
I think that's been a really huge, clear message from the community is that they want this agency
to be open, transparent, and allow people to really partner with them. So yes, I would. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Rivera-Malpiede. Director Catlin, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Menten. I too share the desire to be more transparent with
our finances. I would like to understand the ability of staff to get that done by July 1st. And given
that it would be OK, I would certainly support this resolution. I know that if we don't make efforts
toward this and that there are legislators who are poised to take matters into their own hands and
to force the issue this year. So I think that it would be very good for us to get out in front.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Director Broom, you are recognized on
the issue of nominations for Chair.

BOB BROOM: Yeah, I would just like to point out that neither candidate can guarantee tonight
that that item will be on the agenda for consideration by the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom, for your, as always, cogent and
accurate observations. All right, are there any others who wish to speak further at this time? All
right, with two candidates having been nominated for the office of Chair, I would ask the following
two Board members who were not nominated please to sit with our General Counsel, Rolf
Asphaug, to tally the votes after staff has distributed paper ballots and after the members have had
a chance to vote for their choice for Chair of the Board. And the two Directors that I have selected
will be Director Walker and Director Buzek to sit with General Counsel after the votes have been
returned to General Counsel.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: The Board Office staff has now collected all of the ballots. General Counsel
and Directors Walker and Buzek will now with General Counsel confirm the tally.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: The Chair expresses its great thanks to Director Catlin and its congratulations
to Director Rivera-Malpiede who will serve as our new Chair for 2020.
[APPLAUSE]
We now turn to the next office on our list for Executive Committee members. And that is the office
of First Vice Chair. And we will follow the exact same process. So if there are any nominations
for the office of First Vice Chair, we ask you please now to indicate on your screen, so that we
may call upon you for nominations.
Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was going to talk without the picture. I would like to nominate Director
Catlin for the position of First Vice Chair. I think that she is qualified to do any position here at
RTD. I think that we are very fortunate to have her and her years of experience. And as she's not
going to be Chair, I would very much like to see her support the Chair and continue to do the great
work that she has done. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Director Rivera-Malpiede, Madam
Chair Elect, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It would be my distinct honor to second
the nomination for First Vice Chair Catlin to be First Vice Chair of the Executive Committee. I
would, just like to say it's been an honor and a pleasure to work with her over the last year and to
watch her leadership in action. I think that she brings an extraordinary experience to this Board
that will really help us move to the next level of interaction with our key stakeholders and our

community in making sure that we are being innovative, respectful, and inclusive as we move
forward. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair Elect. Are there any other nominations
for the office of First Vice Chair? Hearing none, the Chair will declare the nominations closed.
And we may proceed by acclamation without necessity of a paper ballot for the position. So would
all those in favor of Director Catlin serving as the First Vice Chair for another year please indicate
by saying aye.
BOARD: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
Congratulations to our First Vice Chair.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: We proceed now to the position of Second Vice Chair. And the process will be
the same. So the floor is now open for nominations for the position of Second Vice Chair. Director
Rivera-Malpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chair. It is my honor to nominate Director
Shelley Cook for Second Vice Chair. Director Cook was voted into the RTD Board of Directors
in November of 2018 to serve the Arvada, Adams County, Jefferson County area for the
community. But the thing about Shelley Cook that is so extraordinary to me is that she has also
been an Executive Director in the non-profit sector and actually oversaw an A line shuttle for over
13 years to transport people to and from the airport before the G Line opened.
She also served as a member of the City Council for three terms and was actually one of the key
stakeholders who really had the innovation and the vision and the commitment to get the G Line
open. And I would just like to share a little story with you with my three-year-old granddaughter.
We ride the G Line every week. And we call it Shelley's train. So we really have a great time. But
the one thing about Director Cook is her commitment to community. And once the A line-- excuse
me-- shuttle stopped running, because the G Line opened, she turned it into a Veggie Van to serve
food deserts in her community, which is extraordinary.
She consistently shows her commitment to the people that she serves and that she represents. She's
an avid walker. And she literally walks door to door. She has an amazing newsletter. She's
committed to transportation, and to transparency, and to communication. It's my honor to nominate
her.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I think we're very fortunate in this Board to have a
slate of very, very capable candidates for each of these positions. And the person I'm about to
nominate has shown tremendous growth in the past year and seeks to learn all the time and is a

tireless advocate for her community and just does amazing outreach. So I would like to nominate
Shontel Lewis.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Are there any other speakers either as a second
or for other nominations or to ask questions of any of the candidates? Director Walker, you are
recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I'll second the nomination for Shontel Lewis. I have found her to be
a very thoughtful, inquisitive, persistent, and staunch advocate for persons, all persons, throughout
the region who don't have the advantages that many of us have been blessed with. I think she'll
make a strong contribution to the Executive Committee. We don't talk often. Sometimes when we
do talk, we disagree. But we disagree in a very, very constructive way, which is very beneficial to
not just the agency, but to her personal associates-- what word am I looking for-- beneficial just to
the tenor of the meetings that we have here. So I would gladly second that nomination of Miss
Lewis. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. Any others who wish to speak either
as a second or to ask questions of the candidates at this time for the office of Second Vice Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: I think I need a second.
DOUG TISDALE: Technically, you do not. But I will ask is there a-- we can just ask for a voice.
Is there a second to the nomination of Director Cook? Director Lubow is noted as the second. For
the sake of the record, I'm sorry. Because I didn't want to be misunderstood. General Counsel did
take the opportunity would remind me that we don't need a second. But I know that sometimes
there is such an outpouring, people want to make a second. And so the Chair wishes to make that
available to all, so that they should feel that their voice can be heard. Having said that, are there
any other Directors who wish to speak, either in the nature of a second or to ask questions, or to
make any additional nominations?
I see no Directors indicating an intent now. Therefore, we have two candidates for the office of
Second Vice Chair. We will ask again for the same procedure, I will ask the following two Board
members who were not nominated to please sit with General Counsel Asphaug to tally the votes
after staff has distributed the paper ballots and after all members have had a chance to vote. And
for this, I will ask our Chair Elect Rivera-Malpiede. And I will ask our First Vice Chair Catlin to
please join General Counsel for the tally once that is appropriate. Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: The record will reflect that all of the Directors have voted. And that the two
designated Directors and the General Counsel will now proceed with the tally and then present the
same to the Chair for purposes of announcement.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

DOUG TISDALE: The Chair extends its exceptional thanks to Director Lewis for being a nominee
and congratulates Director Cook on her election as Second Vice Chair.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: We turn then to the office of Treasurer. And the same process will be followed
as noted above. And so the floor is now open for nominations for the office of Treasurer. Director
Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I would like to nominate Director Lynn Guissinger
for the position of Treasurer. Director Guissinger has been representing our Government Liaison
Committee. And she has a reputation par excellence in her home district. She has years of
experience in this field. I think she's a level head and a good voice for the things that she's done.
And I'd like to see her serve on our Executive Committee. And I hope you all feel the same. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Other nominations for the office of
Treasurer at this time?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll second the nomination.
DOUG TISDALE: The second is duly noted. Are there any other nominations or any other
speakers on behalf of Director Guissinger for the position of Treasurer? Hearing none, the Board
will close the nominations and will ask for a motion by acclamation for the election of Director
Lynn Guissinger as Treasurer. Is there a motion? There's a motion. Is there a second? There's a
second. Any discussion? None. All those in favor, indicate by saying aye.
BOARD: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. And
Director Guissinger is elected as our Treasurer.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Nominations are now open for the office of Secretary. And this is the fifth and
final office for the Executive Committee. And we would now like to have nominations for the
office of Secretary. Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. It's my honor to nominate Vince Buzek as Secretary for this
Board. I would just note that we've recently seen him in action in working with members of the
staff, the Board members, community stakeholders, and legislators on the Fair Program pilot. And,
you know, that was pretty delicate work. And I thought he was just especially effective in keeping
everybody in the loop, working out compromises as needed, and working collegially with both our
staff through the concerns and with the legislators. So I just wanted to start off with that.

He is, as we all know, somebody who kind of calls it like he sees it. And I think that forthrightness
is something we all have come to appreciate. But he does things with a sense of humor. And if
you're thinking about Board process with a 15 member Board, some really difficult issues,
including some that we'll be facing in the coming year, that sense of humor is what makes
compromise possible very often.
And so it's good to have, of course. We all really appreciate that. But I wanted to point out how
important that is in going forward. He is somebody who has a background in transportation, both
from a local government standpoint through his involvement in NATA, in economic development
groups in his area, and on Planning Commission. And that kind of grounding, that nuts and bolts
understanding, institutional understanding, history, really helps with the judgment and decision
making on his part. And then he's also an attorney. He's got, in that respect, knowledge that we've
seen is beneficial. He's been involved in several Boards, for example, Gaming Commission and
Planning Commission, including chairing those bodies.
And so his understanding of Board process is really helpful. We've seen several times where he
said, for example, I think we're getting off point here. So he's been really helpful in terms of Board
process. And he's also indicated he's his own business person. He's flexible. He can come down
here. And of course, the five of us who are Executive Committee members will be available to do
things, like sign checks and so forth. So I appreciate that flexibility on his part.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Cook. Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I'm very honored to nominate Director Walker for this
position. He's held it for the past year. And he's demonstrated capability and availability beyond
that which many of us would be able to provide. He's a man of integrity. And he's very, very
watchful of the public's dollars when it comes to expense reports and other matters.
So I just wanted to say that I would like to nominate Director Jeff Walker. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Are there other Directors who wish to make
nominations or to speak in the form of a second, or to ask questions? Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd like to second the nomination of Director Buzek. I think he's smart as a
whip and is committed to this position and will make himself available as needed to come down
and sign checks. I also just would say I thank Director Walker for his work in this position for this
year. He also does a good job. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there other directors who wish to speak? The Chair
will recognize himself for purposes of seconding the nomination of Director Walker. I do want to
say just briefly that Director Walker has gone above and beyond at all times in terms of being
available to sign checks. And that's the principal role that the Secretary serves, along with signing
various Bond obligation and other legal documents.

I think Director Buzek is a fantastic Director who has certainly proved himself in his first year of
service. But I believe that it would be most fitting for Director Walker to conclude his valuable
years of service as the Secretary in proceeding forward in an office that he has served well. The
Chair has concluded speaking. Are there other candidates or Directors who would wish to speak,
either in the nature of a second, or on behalf of themselves, or to ask questions? Director Buzek,
you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And just in response to Director Menten, we had a
conversation on the phone for quite awhile. And you asked me three questions. And I think I
answered in the affirmative to all three. And my answer would be the same tonight. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Buzek. Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. So thank you for the nominations. Thank you for the competition.
And I have to say that it's heartening. It is heartening to see so many people with so many contested
positions. Because it shows that we want to serve in this agency, just like I want to serve in this
agency. So some of the stuff I've done and why I'd like to be here is that I'm dedicated to this
region and this agency and this industry. I've had a bus pass pretty much since I've moved here,
except for a couple of months when I worked in Littleton. And it would have taken way too long
to get there by bus or train.
But the one thing that I have talked about with some people is my availability. I happen to work
two blocks from here. So it's extremely easy for me to get here when those hot checks come in at
the last minute, or a Grant, or Bond needs to be signed at the last minute. It doesn't take me half
an hour. I don't have to find a parking spot. I'm usually here within-- I can be here usually within
half an hour. That's the main thing. Other than that, the Executive Committee doesn't have any
special powers or any other authority other than signing checks and expense reports that is not
available to any other Board member. It's just the logistics of this position. And I happen to work
down here.
But like I said before, I am extremely dedicated to this agency, this region, this industry. And here's
a book. I'm not getting any money for this. But I helped edit this book. So it's really weird to see
my name in that. And once again, it just goes to show my dedication to this profession that I've
chosen. But once again, I'm honored, I'm humbled to have been nominated, to even be considered
for it, and to still be on this Board after these eight years and going into my ninth and last year
now. So thank you all. I appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Walker. Any other Directors who would wish
to speak either in the nature of a seconding speech or to ask questions? Seeing none, the Chair will
declare the nominations closed. We will proceed once again by secret ballot. We have two
candidates who have been nominated for the office of Secretary, Director Buzek and Director
Walker. And I would ask the following two Board members who were not nominated to please sit
with General Counsel Asphaug for purposes of tally after everyone has had an opportunity to vote.
And that would be Director Cook and Director Catlin.

DOUG TISDALE: The Chair will note that all votes have been cast and that Directors Cook and
Catlin are seated with General Counsel for purposes of the tally.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: The Chair extends its genuine and sincere thanks to Director Walker and
congratulates Director Buzek on his election as the Secretary.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: So ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the record, your slate has been elected.
We have the Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede. We have the First Chair Peggy Catlin. We have the
Second Vice Chair Shelley Cook. We have the Treasurer Lynn Guissinger. And we have the
Secretary Vince Buzek. Let us all give one further congratulations to the new Executive
Committee.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Madam First Vice Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just wanted to take a moment to thank you for your
service this last year as Chair of this Board. And I just wanted to express my gratitude for a job
well done and your dedication. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I would just like to thank Director Catlin and Director
Walker for nominating me for Second Vice Chair. I really appreciate it. I think it's important that
we have diverging experiences and differences. I mean, I really appreciate that you all continue to
respect me, even though we don't always agree. And so I thank you for that. And welcome to the
new Executive Committee.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: I had a little electronic exclamation point to your comments. That was good.
Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: I said this privately just a minute ago. But it's worth saying out loud. These
past few weeks, it's been evident we might have both Peggy Catlin and Angie Rivera-Malpiede
vying for that Chairmanship. It did not ever impede their work together or toward the major issues
we were working on. I just thought that spoke volumes of both of them. So I wanted to
acknowledge that and say thank you very much for that.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Whitmore, you are recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to recognize a few individuals, our
outgoing Chair, our outgoing Secretary. Gentlemen, appreciate immensely your leadership over
the last year that I have been a Board member. You've been shining examples of dedication,
enthusiasm, compassion. Your thoughtfulness on issues have been very helpful to me in my
education as a Board member. Watching you operate with constituents at Board meetings at APTA
with your very active participation at that great organization was quite inspiring.
So I appreciate your service as you leave the Exec Committee and look forward to having maybe
some of you guys flanked over here to keep me in line during the next 12 months or so. And thank
you to our Chair Elect and First Chair Elect. I echo Shelley's-- excuse me-- Director Cook's
comments. The professionalism you both exhibited is noted and important. And I recognize that.
And I hope that our constituents recognize that as well. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Chair Tisdale, you leave some large shoes to fill on above and beyond the
duty in the outreach that you have done. In all the Chair's that I've seen sit in that position, I believe
you must be the most outgoing and out there. And I want to thank you for the extra effort that you
put into that, just being all over the place. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just wanted to thank you for your service in the last
couple of years as Chair. It's been admirable and a pleasure to work with you. And you're always
incredibly respectful and polite. And that goes a long way. Thank you very much. I also wanted to
thank our Secretary, Jeff Walker, for your really stellar service, and commitment, and dedication.
Thank you so much. That's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Walker, you are recognized,
sir.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll echo some of the other comments and thank you for your service
and definitely your counsel and the hours and hours that you've put up with me on the phone asking
questions, or putting me in my place, or pointing me in the right direction, or something like that.
It's been a pleasure working with you and everybody else on the Executive Committee.
And like I said, I don't think the disagreements are bad. I think they help-- excuse me-- I think they
help build better decisions. Or at least, if I don't think it's a better decision, at least I got a different
viewpoint, which is a benefit in itself. So thank you to those who nominated me. Thank you and
congratulations to the new members. Excuse me. I'll be looking forward to help serve however I
can. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Chair Elect, Director Rivera-Malpiede, you are
recognized.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would be remiss if I did not sit next to
you and say gracias para todo. You have been a true delight. You have taught me an amazing
amount that you do not even know. I've watched you speak at numerous events. I've seen that just
your charisma has touched the souls of many. And and it taught me to smile more. And I just want
to say thank you for that.
I think that you are a true gentleman and that you really have just made RTD shine. So I want to
say that. I also want to say thank you to Director Walker. You know, I was on the Board with
Director Walker in 2010. And I have had the privilege of watching him be such a gracious
gentleman and a gentle soul. And I think that your representation of the community has always
been the foremost thing that has taught me how to be a better Board person. And I just want to
thank you for that.
I want to congratulate all of the Board members who are new to the Executive Committee. But I
also want to thank my fellow colleague Board members for putting their trust into me to lead this
incredible agency. I promise to work hard. I promise to have my door open. I promise to learn.
And most of all, I promise to let you know when I don't know something. And I think that's really
important.
We were all elected individually to represent our communities. And you are the experts. And you
are the touchstones. And it's going to take all of us together to unite, to move this agency forward.
And I know we're going to do it.
And last, I really want to thank you, Mr. Genova, for your leadership, your compassion, and just
your spirit. I think that this agency, it's an honor to be part of it. I stand on the shoulders of
thousands. And if I can just say as an indigenous woman, my ancestors are behind me pushing me
forward and saying, go forward. And I know that I'm doing it with everyone within the sound of
my voice. And I just want to say thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Muchas gracias. Are there other Directors who wish to speak at this time before
we turn to the agenda? And the Chair will have a few comments in closing at the end before we
go into Executive Session. But if there are no other Directors who wish to speak at this time, let's
turn to the action items.
We have two action items before us this evening. These are procedural items of business that the
Board routinely discusses at the first meeting of each year. Excuse me. The first item that we have
is the Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement. It is recommended that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement. The agreement
was contained in the materials.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goal, core goal number three,
strong financial management. May I have a motion to approve?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams. Is there a second?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second from Director Rivera-Malpiede. Is there discussion on the
motion to approve the Bank Account Signature Authorization agreement, which is done in order
to have the new Executive Committee members sign on to the bank agreement? Hearing none, if
we would proceed to a vote. Director Williams was the movant. And Director Rivera-Malpiede
was-- I'm sorry. Director Lewis, I'm sorry. Please, you are recognized, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK. Thank you so much. I think a year ago I was sitting in this seat. And
I said the same thing that I'm probably going to say now, that I'm really disappointed that we're
still banking with Wells Fargo. Because we know that they are predators. But here we are. That is
all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just a question. Are we going to be doing this again in a couple
of weeks when we pick a new Acting General Manager?
DOUG TISDALE: The Board Chair believes and will look to General Counsel for affirmation that
the Signature Authorization agreement-- perhaps our Chief Financial Officer might be a better
source for information here-- but the Bank Authorization Statement as signed by all the Directors
needs to be updated now. All that would be changed at that time would be the General Manager's
signature when an interim General Manager is appointed. But I look to our Assistant General
Manager for Finance, our Chief Financial Officer, Ms. Heather McKillop, to please respond. Ms.
McKillop, you are recognized.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Chair. This is Heather McKillop. Well, once you appoint an
interim, we will ask you to resign it once that decision is made. But because we have lots of things
we have to process between now and that time frame, we needed to get the new Officers on. So
we had plenty of signature authority to move forward. And then if you make that decision in a
special session or something else, we'll bring it forward at that time, whatever's convenient.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Broom, are your questions answered?
BOB BROOM: Yes, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Are there any other questions or
comments relative to the recommended action item to approve the Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement? Seeing none, we will call for the vote. Director Williams is the movant.
Director Rivera-Malpiede is the second. If you would please vote, then the rest of us may vote. By
a vote of 14 in favor and one abstention-- the abstention being Director Lewis-- the motion is
passed unanimously.
We then turn to the second item on our Special Board Meeting agenda. And that's the selection of
the location for the posting of Board notices. The RTD Board of Directors designates the entry
way of the RTD Administrative office at 1660 Blake Street as its official location for posting of

notices of all public meetings in 2020, as required by Colorado Revised Statute section 24-6402(2)(c). In addition to the maximum extent feasible, notices of public meetings will be posted
on RTD's website. May I please have a motion to approve?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Broom. And I have a second from Director
Catlin. And now, is there any discussion on the motion relative to notice? Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I had the opportunity to speak with our General Counsel.
And I move to strike the words, to the maximum extent feasible.
NATALIE MENTEN: Second. Second.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm happy to say more about that. But I think this is an opportunity for us to
be more transparent in our communication, to catch up with the times, for us to post things online,
so people have access to that as quickly as possible. I mean, I think this is an opportunity to do
that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thanks. There is a motion by Director Lewis and a second by Director Menten
to amend the recommended action item simply by the deletion of the phrase, to the maximum
extent feasible, which means that it would read, in addition notices of public meetings will be
posted on RTD's website. Discussion is appropriate on the motion to amend. Director Menten, do
you wish to speak to the motion to amend?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Whereas traditionally, I fully support this first of all. And as
traditionally our resolutions and so forth also to seek to align that with our strategic goals. This
would be under communications and transparent operations, which is our number one voted item
in the 2019 Retreat for 2020. So it's a great way to kick it off. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you, Chair. I'll support the motion. Rolf Asphaug, General
Counsel, was kind enough to provide detail on a bill that passed in the session this year, in 2019,
that just took effect. And the original version of the bill, as I understand it, would have required it
of us and other municipal bodies, and so forth. But it was during committees, I think, modified to
provide for a carrot approach that said if you posted on the internet that you would then have to do
the physical posting. And many entities, I think, choose to do both. That sounds like what we can
do here. It was clear from the discussion around that bill that the intention of the legislature is for
us to transition to this. And they want us to be doing it online. And it makes sense for us to do it.
We're mainly doing it anyway. So just deleting that little clause makes sense to me.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Mihalik, you are recognized.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I would support the language as proposed.
However, I would also offer an additional, instead of just limiting it to RTD's website, or explicitly
RTD's website, I don't like social media, but I know a lot of people use it, to include those platforms
as well maybe as a secondary source.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, so the question is raised, could in fact there be additional posting on
social media websites in addition to the RTD-denver.com website? Do I hear that as a motion? Or
do I-KEN MIHALIK: Well, it was maybe a suggestion to the original mover.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, perhaps I'd like to hear from General Counsel just to weigh in on this.
Because as Director Cook has pointed out, there is some legislative change. And perhaps it would
be beneficial to understand how this all fits in before voting on an amended amendment.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I would have
reservations about including that kind of language in the formal motion. Because we are not in
control of social media websites. They're private entities. And I think that we have our website. So
we can post that. And it certainly could be the sense of the Board and recommendations to staff to
try to do things. I think we could take that and perhaps do some piloting on that and look at that.
But I'd be very concerned about, including it as a motion at this time, just for legal reasons.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. And the Chair would share General Counsel's concern that putting it on
the website and then giving the opportunity to staff to find other ways to promote it and to our
Communications Department. And General Manager of Communications, Pauletta Tonilas might
have ways of addressing that. But I think, without further thought, I personally would be concerned
about proceeding in trying to come up with language tonight that addresses that, as opposed to
leaving it in the sound discretion of staff.
But let me ask at this point, Director Walker, well, first of all, Director Mihalik, were you
concluding your comments? Or do you have more?
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I'm thankful for that input. And that's why I was kind of getting at just as
a secondary source, or a secondary destination, for that information, not necessarily the primary,
but a option for it. So thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Mihalik. Director Walker, are you speaking to
the motion to amend now? Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Excuse me. I'm wondering if there are situations where we won't be
able, or RTD can't, post to the website, for instance, if the servers are down. Because we don't
have-- I don't know where these servers are. There are probably several all over the country that
have our data on them. But sometimes servers do go down. And I'm wondering if there's any
ramification, negative consequence, to us having this language if we, in fact, cannot post on the
website. Or is that not--

DOUG TISDALE: That sounds like a question that is directed to General Counsel. And I think,
again, because General Counsel did have a conversation with one or more Board members
concerning this topic, if you can share a response, General Counsel, if you're prepared at this time
to the question as raised by Director Walker.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. Thank you Director Walker, Chair. Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel
again. The statute does reference certain things that need to be done if you are relying solely on
posting online. And there might be situations like that. So I think it's good to have the safety valve
that regardless of if there is a situation where you simply cannot post online, you still will have
posting achieved through the official place of business.
JEFF WALKER: Right. But this says we will-ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: post online. And if we can't post online
ROLF ASPHAUG: Well, if you can't do it, there's still the
JEFF WALKER: then what?
ROLF ASPHAUG: If you cannot do it, then you have an impossibility of performance type
situation. But you still have the posting in person. And then the Board can look and see what it
wants to do. It's pretty exceptional situations. But a lot of places now have gone to posting online
as the means of doing it.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yeah. And my concern is just the phrase, will, or the word, will, and
striking the phrase to the maximum extent feasible, which considers that there might be a
circumstance where it's not possible, or feasible, to post it on the website. That's all. I'm in favor
of the notion. Definitely more transparency the better. But there might be a situation where some
crafty somebody wants to sue us, because we didn't hold up our end of the bargain, because it says
we will. And we couldn't. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Walker. We appreciate your comments. And I do
appreciate very much General Counsel weighing in and reminding us that we have two means of
posting that are being approved here, posting physically at the front door of this building, and then
secondly, also posting online. If there is a problem with servers, god willing, there wouldn't be.
But in any event, if there is and someone were to choose to try to take action against RTD, we do
have a perfectly valid defense of impossibility of performance under the circumstances and the
remedy of having already posted.
So I think it is perhaps fair for the Board to keep in mind that we have those two avenues. And we
can have Ms. Tonilas proceed forward with other avenues to supplement with social media posting
without having to require that. Director Williams, you are recognized.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. One more time, you said most of what I was going
to say and probably better. I was going to point out that we might also ran out of paper, and so not
be able to. We can't deal with all of the impossibilities in life. I think that what the intent of this
motion and the amendment to it is to be as transparent as possible, to be as current as possible.
Because it is possible to put these things on our website. And I'm sure that our completely capable
AGM of Communications will carry that to as many other media options as is possible. So that's
all I wanted to say. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. It appears that we've exhausted discussion on the motion
to amend. The motion to amend would be to delete the phrase, to the maximum extent feasible
comma. So that the sentence at the end of the recommended action would read, in addition, notices
of public meetings will be posted on RTD's website. And we need an electronic vote on this. Am
I correct, Executive Manager? Or can we do a voice vote on the motion to amend?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm ready to push the vote.
DOUG TISDALE: Then we'll push the vote with Director Lewis being the movant and Director
Menten being the second. And this is the amendment. And this is the amendment that we're voting
on. And so if Director Lewis and Menten would vote. And then the rest of us will vote. And by a
vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, the amendment is adopted. We return to the main motion.
The main motion is the recommended action as now amended. Is there further discussion? Or are
we ready to vote on the main motion relative to the posting of notices? Seeing no further directors
in line, Director Broom was the movant. Director Catlin was the second. And we are prepared to
vote on the main motion as amended. Director Broom is the mover. Director Catlin as the second.
And the rest of us are voting. And let me point for the sake of the record as pointed out by our
current Treasurer and new Second Vice Chair, the motion says on the screen, Bank Account
Signature Authorization Agreement. That is not what we are voting on. We are not voting on the
Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement.
May I ask, was anyone confused by that? Or do you all understand we're voting on the posting of
notice? Does everyone understand that? Show of hands if you understand it. Unanimously
reflected on this record, each Director understood that that vote that they just cast was for the
posting of notices, which based upon the amendment, will occur in two ways, number one, as to
the front of this building, near the front in physical form, and number two, on the web. Are there
any other questions concerning that matter now that we've absolutely clarified the record?
All right, then we will turn to updates. First, I will ask, are there any updates that any Board
member would wish to present to the Board at this time? Any updates from any Board member?
Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to mention that I will be attending the
Transportation Research Board Annual meeting next week and will be unable to attend the
Committee meeting on Tuesday. But I will be calling in. The agenda for TRB is very extensive.
And I believe that we have some staff members who are also attending. But there are a number of- my particular committee is congestion pricing soon to be merged with the Transportation

Demand Management Committee. But there are many, many opportunities to attend sessions that
are transit related.
And if any of you have thoughts about participation or attendance at some of those sessions, I'm
happy to expand my role there and act just for your interests. Yeah. So it's trb.org. And like I said,
the agenda is a book this thick. But there are a number of really good sessions I think that we could
benefit from. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Catlin. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was able to attend the Commuting Solutions Legislative
Review Session meeting forum yesterday morning at 7 AM in Broomfield, along with Directors
Cook and Guissinger. Good discussion. Good discussion from our Legislators. The Governor was
there as well. And our General Manager, Dave Genova, participated in a panel discussion and
represented RTD's interests very well in that discussion. It was lively and interesting. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Any other Directors who would like to bring
updates forward? If not, I will ask the staff if the staff, or any member of the staff, has any updates
that they would like to bring forward to the Board at this time?
DAVE GENOVA: None at this time, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. The Chair will note for the sake
of the record and of the public that the process for selection of an Interim General Manager has
continued with vigor over the holidays. Five preliminary candidates out of a nationwide pool of
over 40 candidates have been selected by the Board for initial interviews, which interviews will
commence this Thursday. Now, from that group, the Board acting as a selection committee of the
whole will identify a group of finalists. The names of the finalists will be made public at that time.
It is neither customary nor required that applicant names be disclosed until they are identified as
finalists. And we should note that the annual Stock Show parade will take place this Thursday,
January 9th, which just happens to be the same day as the Board's initial interviews with
preliminary candidates for the Interim General Manager position. There will be stuff all over the
street.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: We hope to keep a good closure at the front door. The parade will begin at
Union Station at noon. And downtown traffic will be impacted from mid-morning through midafternoon. Most Board members will have already arrived in the building before the parade
commences. But please do allow extra time for your commute that day. And then before I go to
Director Williams, I am going to point out that I understand that Director Shelley Cook will be
hosting a table at the Arvada Chamber of Commerce Annual Dinner, which will be held at the
Arvada Center for the Arts and Humanities, 6401 Wadsworth. Fabulous facility. And I say that
not just because I performed in one of their first productions.

But that will be on Friday, January the 24th. The theme for this year's event is the roaring 20s.
Please speak with the Board Office, or obviously with Director Cook, if you're interested in
attending, as there are several seats available at this magnificent venue for this great event.
Director cook, let me recognize you if you have anything to add to that information.
SHELLEY COOK: No, I appreciate you doing that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. On our Two Week Calendar, I'd like to make a correction on
Thursday, January 9th, packet page 11. It shows from 6 to 9 PM the Denver Interneighborhood
Cooperation. Director Walker alone is there. Director Rivera-Malpiede and I were also on the
agenda. We are waiting to see if in fact we are able to get there since we anticipate being here. So
I'm assuming if Director Walker is able to get there that the rest of us will be able to get there as
well. So I think that we need to point that out. Because we were all supposed to speak together. So
I just wanted to update that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. We appreciate that. Director Walker, you are
recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm going to address that. I'm not planning on attending many of the
meetings on Thursday, because I have other commitments during the day. I'll stop him when I can.
But I was planning on attending the evening meeting solo. I've talked to the organizer of the event.
And I'm still on. If the other two can join, that's great. If not, that's great also. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for that clarification, Director. We appreciate that. Good
opportunity to share this information. Now, we turn to other matters. Is there any new business
from any Director? Seeing none, then before asking for a motion-- oh, Director Guissinger, you
are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm hesitant to bring this up. Because I don't know if it's a big thing to
discuss. But I don't believe we have designated a time to pick our finalists. And it made sense that
it might be next Tuesday that we might put together a Special Board Meeting. But I hear Director
Catlin saying that she's going to be out of town.
So I guess I think we need to think about whether it's something for the Executive Committee to
discuss tomorrow. Director Caitlin, I don't know if we can-- I don't think we can call you in on a
Special Board Meeting. Or can we for next week?
PEGGY CATLIN: [INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for your comments, Director. And the Chair has some thoughts that
the Chair will share. But let me first turn to Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Actually, I'm pointing out Barbara McManus had her hand up.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, and so thank you very much. Ms. McManus, our Executive Manager, you
are recognized.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So tomorrow at noon, we have the first Executive Committee meeting
with the new Executive Committee. And the Board Office has put together a timing proposal for
consideration. So thank you Director Guissinger. We are ahead of the curve on that. Hopefully,
we can get an agreement on a schedule and move it forward.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. And the Chair wishes to point out that the Board
on December the 3rd rendered itself a selection committee of the whole. So the Executive
Committee pursuant to that resolution, which remains unamended, will not be setting timelines
independent of this Board, but rather in collaboration with this Board. And that information will
come forward. And if a special meeting needs to be conducted, that will occur.
But I will also note for those who are interested, recall the Executive Committee meeting
tomorrow. That's Wednesday, January 8 will be at noon, noon tomorrow, Wednesday, in the Board
Conference Room on the third floor. And of course, people are always welcome to dial in for that.
Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, speaking to the proposal that'll be put before the Executive Committee
tomorrow, is that part of the package with details in there now that we're past the 24 hour notice
that we could review later this evening in advance of that meeting?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. I'm not quite following your question. Can you try rephrasing it
please?
NATALIE MENTEN: Sure. Is the timeline inside of that agenda packet?
DOUG TISDALE: And the Executive Committee members, current Executive Committee
members, many of which will be on the new Executive Committee, have received that. But I
believe it was also sent to all Directors. But let me ask Ms. McManus if she can address that
specifically. Number one, was that timeline included in the information for the Executive
Committee packet?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It was not. We spoke with legal at a meeting at 4:45 today just to review
with them that we were compliant with some of the guidelines we were looking for. The Board
Office right now is working on everything in the moment. And it was not in the packet.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And we all understand the incredible energy and effort
that the Board Office has put in in this very complex and complicated process that we have been
following since December the 3rd. And the Board Office has done incredible work in keeping up
with all of it. So we appreciate that.
So Director Menten, that answers your question. Do you have anything further?

NATALIE MENTEN: I do have a further question. So the Executive Committee has been provided
with a timeline?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: No?
DOUG TISDALE: The Executive Committee will be provided with a draft timeline for
consideration and review tomorrow at the Executive Committee meeting, which timeline the Board
Office was able to conclude with General Counsel sometime late this afternoon. So the new
Executive Committee that you have just elected will look at that in the first instance. But recall,
the December 3rd motion controls. And this Board serves as a selection committee of the whole.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, I will, because process is something we encourage to be discussed
in the open meetings, I will restate what I myself said at our last meeting. And it was during the
executive session. But because it was about process, I feel completely comfortable bringing it up
now that I think we should be posting the names of those five finalists as open records, complete
finalists, not our preliminary candidates. It makes my job more difficult to vet these candidates
when I'm not allowed to speak their name.
The vetting that our staff will do only occurs after we have done interviews. I think we should at
this time, for the public's benefit, because I believe there would be no harm in it, publish the five
names of those candidates for the public. And yes, so Director Williams is bringing the question
forward. Did we ask them? Where did we end up? And this is part of process. So I feel completely
comfortable cleaning this up, this discussion, now. So Mr. Chair, can the General Counsel weigh
in on that?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, Director, before I call on General Counsel, can we have a little further
amplification as to the word, that. Can General Counsel weigh in on that? What specifically would
you like to hear from General Counsel? And the Chair would be happy to recognize General
Counsel to respond.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so did we ask the five candidates if we're OK publishing their names?
DOUG TISDALE: General Counsel?
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is General Counsel Rolf Asphaug. I'm not aware of what we have asked
any of the five candidates. In executive session, I provided legal advice with regard to the
implications of naming someone a finalist and what the Board may wish to do in that regard. And
I don't wish to elaborate on that in public session. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And for the sake of the record, the issue as to process has been raised. The
Board made a determination that at such time as the preliminary candidates are interviewed, the
Board would then proceed with the designation of finalists. Now, if the Board wished to change
that, that's fine. But the Chair will rule it out of order to bring it up on the fly tonight. Because the
Board members haven't been advised of something like this. And there was a fair amount of energy

and effort that went into the December 3rd motion. And to amend it on the fly, the Chair will rule
out of order. The Board can take whatever action it wishes on the Chair's ruling. But the Chair
would rule it out of order.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I think I've got it on the record pretty well that Director Menten
believes that all five names of the candidates should be public record at this moment in time, which
is January 7th, prior to the interview of these five "preliminary candidates." Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think there is little to no ambiguity, or misunderstanding, as to that
position.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. On a different matter, what is the timing for releasing the dates,
where the meetings are going to be set up in individual districts to discuss the service cuts that are
being contemplated by the District?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the question. And for that, I believe that our Assistant General
Manager for Communications would be the most appropriate person to respond. Ms. Tonilas, you
are recognized.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much. This is Pauletta Tonilas. We are in the process of
working with the Service Planning Group to schedule those meetings. And the last report I got
earlier today is it looks as if they will begin the latter part of January and go into the second or
third week of February. We have to post them and the notice of those meetings with a couple
weeks notice.
And so that's why they likely will begin towards the end of January or early February. And we'll
get that list to you all as soon as it's established.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Back to the idea of the Thursday meeting, does it make sense to add an item
if we don't have it? And truthfully, I haven't looked at that agenda in detail. We're doing the
interviews. But does it make sense to add an item for discussion as a whole about A, the process
and B, the finalists? Or if we want to designate finalists at that point? So we'd have to do it tonight,
I think. Because that meeting happens first thing on Thursday morning, correct?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we do have an executive session established for that meeting, for
the candidate interviews. There of course, can be discussion before or after in an open session.
Preferably, I guess, before to discuss anything that we might talk about tomorrow to bring forward
to the full Board.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, and if we-- I'm just trying to anticipate in following up on what Lynn
Guissinger, Director Guissinger, had said. Would we be able, if after interviewing people and
ascertaining their willingness to have their name released, be able to name finalists at that meeting?
I mean, I want to just preface that by saying I understand some people can't be there. So we need
to be really careful about how we do that. But would that be a possibility?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we don't have a Board action attached to that agenda right now.
We would have to post that by 8:00 tomorrow morning.
SHELLEY COOK: Right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: if we decided to move that forward. And we could do that if the
Executive Committee wanted to stay tonight and look at what that recommended action looks like.
We were going to be discussing it tomorrow in Executive Committee.
SHELLEY COOK: So it's a thought. I'd be willing to stay for a few minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Cook. Thank you, Director Cook. Director Lewis, did
you, OK, Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just wondering if we could just notice it, just add it to the notice without
having recommended action that we will discuss finalists. And again, I know that there may be not
everybody there. And so it may not make sense to do. But just in the sense of if we want to discuss
it and kind of keep it moving forward. And perhaps some that aren't there all day can still come.
Can we just notice it to include that the executive session would include possible discussion of
finalists?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it's personnel matters. That's what the executive session is listed as.
So maybe I missed part of the question when I was speaking to John. He's going to go up and get
that information for me now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: If it's broad enough that we could discuss finalists, that's fine. That was the
question.
Could we take action to name the finalists?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we could take action to name the finalists, yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: If we republish tomorrow morning prior to 8:00 with the recommended
action that I wrote to be approved tomorrow, yes, we could do that in an open meeting at some
time to be determined tomorrow, Thursday evening. But that part would need to be public. And so
we would need to look at that logistically. Not that it can't be done. It can be done. But we would
need to figure it out.
DOUG TISDALE: And the Chair would note that the discussion as to selection of the finalists
would not be done in an open meeting. Only the discussion of the process would be done in open

meeting. Once the interviews are concluded on Thursday, should the Board wish to, it may in the
course of its executive session upon proper notice have discussion relative to the choice of finalists.
That was not expressed by Board members previously. Board staff has proceeded based upon, to
the letter of the December 3rd motion relative to this process. So that's what's occurring on
Thursday.
If the Board wishes to change it now, the new Executive Committee certainly can convene tonight
and come up with a recommended action item to give to the Board Office, asking the Board Office
to stay late and to make sure that before 8:00 tomorrow morning that new recommended action
item is on the agenda for the meeting on Thursday. At which point in time, the Board could take
action at the end of Thursday in terms of designating a finalist, which of course, the Board would
be doing without benefit of the background checks and things such as that.
Yes, Ms. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to add that it would be a generic Board report. Because we
wouldn't be able to list the names. So just be aware that we would have to make an amendment to
that recommended action at that meeting and adding those finalists names to it and be republished
the following day.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. Director Guissinger, are your questions
answered? Or do you have other questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, I'm fine.
DOUG TISDALE: You're good? All right, Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I am interested in this discussion around releasing the
names. I do think it's an opportunity for us to be more transparent in this process. And so we can
continue to think about what that process looks like. I actually rang in to say as we are thinking
about the service reductions and the meetings that were happening with our different constituents,
it's important for me to have at least three weeks to be able to notify my constituents of any
meetings that would be taking place.
And so I'd request on the record formally that I have that amount of time before one meeting is
scheduled within my district to be able to notify my constituents of that, to ensure we have
engagement and participation. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And I think I heard Ms. Tonilas identify that there would
be at least two weeks notice prior to such meetings. And if I can get either a head nod or if Miss
Tonilas needs to respond.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, so we have to put out the notice two weeks. But that doesn't mean
we can't get you the information sooner than that. As soon as we get the established list and we
confirm all the locations and such, we'll get that list to you all as soon as possible. And I don't see

any issue with having three weeks notice for us to share through our public realm, but also all of
you be able to share beyond that as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I really appreciate you being receptive to that. It is
best practices. And so I appreciate the two weeks. But the three weeks is better for participation
and engagement. So I really appreciate that.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Anything further? Thank you. Director
Folska, you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. With regard to this executive meeting that we
could possibly have on Thursday after our interviews with our preliminary candidates, if the Board
posts that 24 hours in advance if that's at 5:00, 5:30, 6:00 PM Thursday night, I don't see why the
Board staff has to be in here before 8:00 AM to post it, you know? There's plenty, 24 hours between
8:00 AM and noon, or even after the Executive Committee meeting at noon tomorrow. Can you
respond to that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So the meeting that we have posted already that we would amend starts
at 8:00 AM on Thursday morning and continues the entire day.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I see. So can you then end that meeting at the end of the preliminary
interviews and then make a new meeting for discussion of those preliminary? That gives you more
time.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We could entertain that. But yeah, we could entertain that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, so you're just making another meeting. We were going to have the
meeting anyway. But now you get another executive meeting that you don't have to post before
8:00 AM tomorrow morning. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, that wasn't an issue really. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And I believe that in any event, the Executive Committee has taken upon itself
the commitment, as I hear it, that they will all convene following this meeting and stay as long as
they need to in order to resolve this issue and then address it tomorrow during the Executive
Committee meeting, so that there is public awareness as to what the Executive Committee has
concluded tonight.
And so if the Executive Committee can proceed in that matter, then I think we're all set. Director
Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I was just commenting on something that Chair
Tisdale raised. And I'm not sure I fully understood it. But the idea that we could possibly have a
meeting to discuss a finalist, but we would not have had vetting by HR before. And to me, that

sounds risky. And so I'm wondering if that is in effect, just not a good thing to do. It sounds like a
good thing to do when you realize that that's not there. There's a due diligence issue. So can I get
some feedback on that?
DOUG TISDALE: Due diligence is a very nice phrase, Director Lubow. Thank you. So the Chair's
understanding is that the proposal is that the Selection Committee as a whole would meet Thursday
evening following interviews with five people. And without benefit of HR having run the
background check on the individuals, contacted references, verified information, that this
Committee would then select finalists and present them to the public as a public matter. That's
what I understand the proposal to be. So I hear some people saying they don't want background
checks. They don't care about background checks.
So others may weigh in. But that's what the Chair is hearing in terms of a meeting on Thursday
evening to select finalists.
JUDY LUBOW: May I ask if it's possible to have background checks before? Does it take a lot of
time?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: It does?
DOUG TISDALE: I have no idea what HR is capable of doing at this point in time. Because
they've not been asked to be here and respond to that question. This is something that's just been
sprung up now. So I can't answer that. If anybody has an answer
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I can.
DOUG TISDALE: then I'd be happy to hear it. So we look to our Assistant General Manager for
Finance, our Chief Financial Officer, Heather McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the issue with doing that in advance, which can be done and we've
done it before, but we get that permission from the applicants beforehand, especially checking
references. Because at this point, their names are not public. And so once you start checking
references, somehow that becomes public information. So that's one issue. So we would need to
check and make sure that we had gotten their permission to do that.
And then the background checks, again, will take several days to do. And that's a matter of whether
we do a background check in advance. Typically, we do not do a background check until we've
made a job offer. And at that point, we do the background and the drug testing. So to me, the
background check and the drug testing typically come after you've made an offer. Because they
are expensive. And so we tend to not do that until a final offer has been made. And then their offer
is contingent upon them passing those.
The reference checks we could do in advance. But I would just need to check and make sure that
the candidates were aware that we would be doing that in advance.

JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you very much for that information. I mean, it seems to me that we
could have the option to discuss finalists. And that discussion could include well, are we
comfortable with doing that without having the background checks? OK, all right, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And the Board may well be. I don't wish to prejudge that. I mean, the Board
may well be. Director Guissinger, did you wish to speak? Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I have a question for our General Counsel. There had been some
discussion earlier regarding Directors that couldn't participate in all of the interviews, ultimately
weighing in on final decisions, and unless they cure that by listening to audiotapes of the interviews
and things like that. And I wonder if that same kind of rule would apply for making the finalist cut
as well. Because in essence, you're eliminating a candidate, or candidates, if you do that.
DOUG TISDALE: General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Director, at that time, you've got a special committee of the whole. But it's an
executive session to decide on who's the finalist. So previously, the question was about listening
in on the interviews. And the answer was yes, that was fine, if they couldn't be present, if they
could listen in later on. As far as voting on, if there needs to be voting to determine the "finalists",
and keep in mind, we're talking about a provision in the open meetings laws as to whose names
and whose applications are released to the public.
But typically, when we have Executive Committee meetings, or executive sessions, we don't have
participation by telephone. So I think that attendance of an executive session needs to be in person
in order to actually have a vote. That being said, if you can't attend, it's certainly possible to, you
know what the question is going to be. So you can make your voice known, but perhaps not vote,
if it comes down to that. That's the best answer I can give. I'm sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, my understanding what's being asked is that we have a Board action
Thursday, a public Board action after the meeting, where we'll select finalists, potential finalists,
right? So my concern would be that if there were Directors that didn't have the opportunity to
participate in all of the interviews or listen at least to all of them, they haven't had that time to cure
that by listening to audios, my concern is they wouldn't be able to participate in that public process
of winnowing down potentially, the candidate list. And I would hate to exclude Directors for that
reason. That's all I have. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Before I go back to Director Menten, I think Director
Williams has not been heard on this subject. And then I'll go to Director Menten. Director
Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. So I have two points. The first one being my
understanding was that we had agreed that anybody who did not participate in all of the interviews
was not able to participate in any of them. No. Unless they listen to them online. So OK. I just
wanted to make sure that we did have that down. And the second one I have is, is it in our charter?
Or where does it say that you cannot participate in an executive meeting? Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: And so we turn to our General Counsel for the general legal discussion that we
actually have had a little bit before, that if you're on the phone, we can't be sure you're alone.
General Counsel.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, this is General Counsel Rolf Asphaug. The RTD Board of Directors
customs relating to Board Meetings Memorandum, which was approved to be added as a Board
Operating Procedure states participation of Directors by phone in executive sessions 5A, Directors
may not participate by phone in executive sessions. That's simply what it states.
KATE WILLIAMS: And is there a year or a date or anything on that?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, that was passed February 12, 2019.
DOUG TISDALE: I think February, yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Lincoln's birthday last year.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just, and I have some vague memory about us talking about this. But it
seems to me that executive session is where we debate matters of great weight to us as a Board
and that we are not shooting ourselves in the foot by excluding. Because you have no way to know
that I'm alone here right now. I could have my phone on and be broadcasting to my friend, Kyle
Clark, as we speak. There's no way to know that. Any more than there is any way to now an
executive session that I am alone, because I have called in by phone. Is that correct?
DOUG TISDALE: General Counsel, please feel free to respond to that one.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Director. Rolf Asphaug again. Since this is a
rule, or a procedure, rather than a bylaw matter, it is something that the Board can move to suspend
the rule by a 2/3 vote.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I guess that was kind of where I was going. Because I feel like
we have done as a Board phenomenal work in a short amount of time and spent no money and
really functioned the way we are supposed to function throughout this whole process. And I am
loathe to see us impeded by that fact. And so yeah, thanks. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Forgive me, but Director Williams, I knew when you got those new red
glasses and those new green glasses something was up. If anybody knows, those can be spy glasses.
So anyway, that was a joke. But I do want to bring up that with Director Buzek, I don't recall any
discussion about if you missed any of the interviews, let's say you didn't attend any of them, that
you could not vote. That was
DOUG TISDALE: Never said.

NATALIE MENTEN: not my recollection at all. It was that either attend one interview or all of
them, or attend none. But that never in any way affected your right to vote.
VINCE BUZEK: I have a distinctly opposite recollection.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Director, if I may.
VINCE BUZEK: Sorry. I apologize.
DOUG TISDALE: That's all right. We'll come back to you. I promise. But yes, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so here's something that we definitely need to clear up, as we're
only in round one. And this is like the kid's game that we're in right now for the interview stuff,
you know? So I want to bring that up. And then I believe also, I just want to refer back to the
February 2019 normal customs. I think we should perhaps readdress some things in there. As an
example, this is a little bit off topic. But one of the items is during a committee meeting, somebody
can call in and vote by phone. Our tradition is to normally take the vote of the person on the phone
first. That's a completely opposite of the way it should be.
Everyone here in the room, which can see one another, should vote first. We should not call the
vote. And then the person on the phone should. Because it's supposed to be that you are not
influencing
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, if I may, I'm going to ask you try to
NATALIE MENTEN: Close it.
DOUG TISDALE: stay on topic.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. But this has come up recently with our customs and practices. So I
think perhaps we should revisit it. So I would enjoy having a discussion right now, here, about
very important topic, whether we said we were going to stop somebody from voting if they
somehow missed, let's say, 45 minutes of an interview. I don't recall that.
DOUG TISDALE: The Chair's recollection is no. That person may vote. That person may vote.
That person may vote. We have said that if you're going to attend the interviews, you should attend
all of them. But there is not a disqualification from a Director to vote relative to the selection of,
And let me just for the sake of the audience point out we're talking about the appointment of the
Interim General Manager. Imagine what it will be like when we start talking about the permanent.
I'm sorry, Director Menten, did you have more?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm good.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Since I started this, I'm going to take a crack at ending it. And Director
Lubow convinced me. I think the background checks do take a while, and maybe at the end. But
references are important. And so I'm going to suggest that we go back to the idea. I was just asking,
is there a plan? And the Board Office has a timeline in mind. I'm going to suggest that we go back
to the Executive Committee looking at that tomorrow and then bringing it back to the Board.
Again, everything's decided as a group of the whole. But if we look at that tomorrow and have a
plan to discuss with the Board in executive session on Thursday, we can hopefully make some
decisions in the next few days after that and set the timeline.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And just for the sake of the record, we're not going back
to anything. Because there's no action being proposed or recommended right now. We're having a
discussion under other matters, because the Directors wanted to talk about that. So there is no
pending action or motion. Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Just to clarify, in following that, which I agree with, we would as sort of
directed now by our Board be able to bring that up on Tuesday. That's an item that tomorrow, the
Executive Committee, pursuant to direction that we're getting right now from this Board as a
whole, will be able to take up and include on our agenda on Tuesday night. OK, that sounds good.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Director Walker, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. My recollection is also that a person who does not attend all of the
interviews can't vote on the whatever they are at the end of those interviews. Because those persons
don't receive equal, they wouldn't be receiving equal treatment from the interview. I'm sorry. It
might be the interviewees. But at any rate, so I wasn't planning on attending the discussion.
Because I can't attend all of the interviews because of previous commitments. But I believe that
the video will be posted tomorrow.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We'll have the
DOUG TISDALE: Let's turn to our Executive Manager on this. And the Chair may have
misspoken. But I thought we were pretty clear on that. But the Chair obviously is the first one to
admit error. Ms. McManus, can you answer the question of Director Walker directly?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Roger Vessley spoke to this. And basically he said that the best
practice is that a decision can't be made, unless you hear equally each of the candidates and they're
evaluated on a level playing field, if you will. We would have the opportunity to, someone who
couldn't attend, if they chose, to go back and listen to the interviews. They in fact, would be able
to bring forward a vote. But to speak to Director Buzek's question, right now, what I've heard is
that Director Williams and Director Rivera-Malpiede, that had plans on Thursday night, are able
to stay now.
And so we have 13 Directors that will be here for the whole day. And so therefore, I'm not seeing
the issue of moving forward if the Board chooses to move forward with an action item. But that is
contrary to now what Director Guissinger is offering. So I think some continued conversation

needs to happen for us to decide as a Board, for you to decide as a Board, which way you do want
to go on this.
DOUG TISDALE: And if the Chair may simply footnote first the information from HR was that
best practice was to have everyone hear everything. But there is no prohibition on your right to
vote. People can and do vote out of ignorance every day. You can and may vote out of full
information, should you choose. You can and may vote on partial information, should you choose.
So we were told as to best practice. And that's the advisement. But there is no prohibition on your
being able to vote. Just as there is no requirement that reference checks and background checks be
done before you make an offer. As Ms. McKillop has advised us, it is routine to have the complete
background check after an offer is made. And the offer is subject to that background check.
I think that perhaps I mean, we can go on as long as the Board chooses. I think that perhaps the
discussion will be advanced by the Executive Committee meeting tomorrow and discussing
process and reporting on Thursday morning as to a recommendation for process. So that the Board
may consider in open meeting, prior to the executive session commencing with the first
preliminary candidate interview, may consider process and address that at that time. Because the
Executive Committee is not empowered to set process.
The Selection Committee of the whole is empowered to set process. Are there further questions on
that? Further comments? Are there other matters? All right, then the Board will take a few
moments of patience, hopefully, with the Chair. I want to begin by thanking the Executive
Committee with which I have served this past year, all of the members of the Board, our incredible
staff, and that's everyone, all of the Assistant General Managers and everyone else up and down
the line to the most self-important and the least self-important of all, and to our Executive Manager,
Barbara McManus, whom I have personally nominated for sainthood, and our General Manager,
Mr. Dave Genova, whom I have also nominated for sainthood.
Two years ago tonight, in the immortal words of Miss Piggy referring to Kermit the Frog, I
assumed the awesome responsibility of command. The Board elected me as Chairman. I quickly
learned I didn't actually command anything. The Board Chair is most definitely not a commander.
The Chair is the chief communicator, the chief collaborator, the chief cooperator. That's the role I
assumed.
I quickly learned that communicating with Directors was much more about listening than about
talking. And listening means more than just hearing. I also learned that with our talented and
dedicated staff, I had to exercise that same skill, listening, appreciating, supporting. The only
talking I should do was to share what the Board had said, what our consensus had been, not what
my opinion was.
And I had to exercise the same engaged listening process with our constituents, our riders, our
partners, our stakeholders, our regulators, our fellow electives, our voters, and our public. When I
was re-elected Chair in January of 2019, I continued my commitment to be your facilitator, your
collective voice. And as I've said in every single email that I've ever sen to any one of you, to be
your obedient servant.

But two years in a row is enough. Spending 25 or 30 hours a week in that office on the third floor
and then countless hours outside this building takes a toll. It's time for a change. We didn't need a
third consecutive term. I'm confident that our new leadership will continue to be committed to
communication, collaboration, and cooperation. And I'll be here to offer assistance and support.
I hope my assistance will be welcomed. And then with all of us respectfully working together, we
will not only solve and resolve the issues facing us. We'll also make RTD an even greater agency
for good and for achievement in our region, providing ever improving safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost effective transportation services throughout the region. I thank you
all.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you very much. Seeing no other discussion at this time, it is
now appropriate to entertain a motion to move into executive session for the purpose of discussing
security training, including specialized details of security arrangements pursuant to Colorado
Revised Statute Section 24-6-402(4)(d), and including specialized details of security arrangements
or investigations, including defenses against terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and Including
where disclosure of the matter is discussed might reveal information that could be used for the
purpose of committing or avoiding prosecution for a violation of the law. May I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Buzek. I have a second from Director Folska. Is
there discussion on the motion? Hearing none, all those in favor indicate my saying aye.
BOARD: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. Ladies and
gentlemen, be advised, and for the sake of this record, I'd tell you that immediately upon the
conclusion of the executive session, we will adjourn from this Special Board Meeting. And we
will not address any additional Board business. You won't be missing anything. Without objection,
we stand in recess for five minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: Then the Chair declares this meeting adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

