Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, January 5, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 6:01 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:02 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Absent
Present

6:02 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Chair
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:55 PM
6:02 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:03 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

6:02 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

5:57 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O

Present
Present
Present

6:02 PM
5:56 PM
6:02 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:02 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:03 PM
6:01 PM

Directors Anderson and Bagley left after the Special Board Meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Mace Pemberton, Scott
Reed, Bill Sirois, Stan Szabelak, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Susan
Wood

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Sherman Hamilton, Angie Malpiede,
Sheryl Machado, Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn, Megan Wagner

B. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates noted that the Metro Mayors Caucus
Retreat will be on January 9, 2016. He said that there are several
transportation and transit matters to be discussed. He added that Move
Colorado and the Colorado Contract Association conducted a poll regarding
solutions for transportation funding; however, the poll did not address transit
specifically.
Roger Sherman thanked the Directors who participated in the Citizens
Advisory Committee roundtable on December 9. The committee has 5
retiring members who expressed their appreciation for the RTD Board of
Directors support.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandenberry from Brandeberry~McKenna noted that the State
Legislative Session starts on January 13th. The discussion will be dominated
by the State budget. She pointed out that Colorado is economically strong
yet there will be a tug of war due to the budgeting process. She expects
transportation to be part of the conversation.
She highlighted the legislation that the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) will introduce regarding bus on shoulder operations.
Jenifer Brandeberry mentioned that the bill has bipartisan support in both
chambers and will be fast tracked through the process. She noted that
there will be a more robust update during the February Government
Relations Committee meeting.

Committee Chair Folska thanked Brandeberry~McKenna for their great
work.
Director Archuleta asked about the $93 million in funding for the Southeast
Rail Extension. Dave Genova, Interim General Manager and CEO, explained
that this will be part of the Federal Update.
Director Francone asked for details regarding the January 28th Legislative
Forum at Denver Union Station. Megan Wagner from
Brandeberry~McKenna noted that the event is on the Legislature social
calendar from 5:00 p.m. to 7:00 p.m. Director Francone asked for a copy of
the invitation in order to follow up with her representatives. Committee
Chair Folska asked Megan Wagner to send the invitation to the all the
Directors so they each could follow up with their representatives.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino from Squire Patton Boggs reported that before the winter break
Congress passed a $1.1 trillion omnibus spending bill to fund the agencies
and programs of the Federal government through September 30, 2016. The
omnibus bill funds surface transportation programs at the increased spending
levels outlined in the FAST Act, the 5 year authorization bill enacted in early
December. This bill was passed alongside a $680 billion package of
permanent and short-term extensions of tax breaks. He noted that this
meant $150 million for the Eagle P3 Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA)
and $92 million for the Southeast Rail Extension FFGA.
Mike Dino said that with the passing of the multi-year authorization bill and
the full-year appropriations bill the attention will then move to the US
Department of Transportation (US DOT) implementations of the FAST Act.
This includes converting the Surface Transportation Program to a block grant
to give it more flexibility.
Mike Dino shared that there was a small victory in the language for Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT). He said that Small Starts BRTs could run 5 days a
week instead of 7. The other changes that RTD was hoping for did not
come through. He pointed out that his team would keep working on their
end to push for the language change.
He mentioned that RTD submitted a budget request for $167 million for
Fiscal Year 2017 since the Eagle P3 project was not fully funded.
Director Lubow wondered how RTD could continue to work with committee
members on the BRT definition if the authorization is for 5 years. Mike Dino
replied that there are annual reauthorizations and RTD could take advantage
of this process to see updates. He added that this would be part of the

strategic discussion with the Board for the March, 2016 APTA Legislative
Conference.
Committee Chair Folska thanked Squire Patton Boggs for their contributions
to the District. She noted that it was a pleasure working with them as Chair
of the Government Relations Committee.

C. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

D. Next Meeting Date - February 2, 2016
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 6:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

