Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
June 23, 2016 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tobiassen called the Executive Committee to order at 12:03 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tobiassen, 1st Vice Chair Hoy, 2nd ViceChair Deadwyler via phone and Director
Francone, who arrived late.

Committee members absent:

Director Solano

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Erin Klaas,
Barbara McManus

June Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Tobiassen reviewed the agenda and noted there were a number of questions related
to the approval of the ConvergeOne Phone Switch Contract. He asked if that had been
addressed by staff. General Manager Genova stated a memo was sent out to the Board
addressing those questions.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve
moving the June 28 agenda to the full Board.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with all committee members
present voting yes.

Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent
A.

Extension of Aconex Contract to 2020

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a three-year contract in the amount of $695,400,
with three one-year options at $167,000 each in the total amount not too exceed
$1,196,400 to Aconex for Construction and Operational Management Software as
a Service. Funding for this contract was included in the 2015 Annual Program
Evaluation, and will be appropriated in future year budgets.


Recommended Action
B.

Approval of ConvergeOne Phone Switch Contract

It is recommended by the Financial, Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter
into contract negotiations with ConvergeOne for purchase of Avaya hardware,
licenses, installation, and maintenance of RTD’s phone system. The estimated
cost of the Avaya Phone Switch Upgrade of $865,000 includes installation
costs of $355,750 which was approved in the 2016 Capital Budget and five (5)
years of warranty, maintenance and support of $509,250 which will be
included in future operations and maintenance budgets.
C.

Approval of 2016 Amended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 to amend and
appropriate funds for the proposed 2016 Amended Budget, to increase the
appropriation by $0.051 million to $1,500.674 million as detailed below in the
overview of the 2016 Amended Budget, and to decrease the appropriation of
Capital Carryforward (previously approved capital funds) by $243.961 million to
$843.221 million.
The 2016 Amended Budget appropriation includes the amounts in the Amended
Budget column below (in thousands), which is a summary of relevant data from
Exhibit I.

The 2016 Amended Budget also includes operating revenue and non-operating revenue
which are estimated, not appropriated, below (in thousands), which is a summary of
relevant data from Exhibit I.

III.

Other Matters
Director Hoy expressed that RTD needs to address the University of Colorado A Line. He
stated it is all anyone wants to talk about. He believes the Agency’s reputation is riding
on the performance of this line. He said he does not know if the answer right now is more
Public Relations or just getting the train to run as it should but something needs to be
done.
General Manager Genova indicated staff has met with several of the different Boards of
the concessionaire team. There is a Board for Denver Transit Partners (DTP), which is the
umbrella of the concessionaire, as well as Denver Transit Systems (DTS) and Denver
Transit Operators (DTO). He said on Monday at the request of DTO he met with their
Board during the APTA Rail Conference and had a very candid conversation about all of
RTD’s concerns. He shared that he also had a call with the DTP Board this morning and
told them the same concerns. He said he told them these issues were unacceptable and

DTP needs to come up with a plan, not give more excuses. He said the DTP Board will be
coming to Denver the week of July 5 with an action plan to address the remaining issues.
Director Deadwyler said she hoped DTP would be able to roll out their proposed action
plan immediately.
General Manager Genova shred that despite the issues, ridership on the University of
Colorado A Line continues to be steady with the weekday average for week 8 at over
16,900; however, he reiterated that the current performance is unacceptable.
General Manager Genova noted one of the areas of concerns is the condition of the atgrade crossings and the fact that these have yet to be certified by the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA) or the Public Utilities Commission (PUC). He explained there is one
outstanding issue, which is the issue of constant warning time and gate downtime.
Currently the gates are staying down much longer on some of the crossings than the
original design time.
Chair Tobiassen asked about the cause of the gates being down longer than designed.
Director Deadwyler pointed out this was an issue she brought up during testing but she
thought it would be rectified by opening. General Manager Genova said it was related to
the wireless technology being used at the crossings. He noted the times had improved,
but they still need to get better.
Director Deadwyler asked what DTP planned to do for those riders that missed their flights
due to issues. General Manager Genova explained that DTP did not plan to get into the
practice of reimbursing customers directly but there was discussion about providing RTD
with some form of compensation to distribute as RTD saw fit. He stressed that this was
not a commitment but a conversation.
Chair Tobiassen has heard from several customers that the airlines were willing to work
with them to make changes for missed flights, such as Southwest. Director Deadwyler
asked what happens when that is not the case. Chair Tobiassen asked staff to look into
the various airlines policies as he suspects they are working with passengers as best as
they can. Director Deadwyler asked General Manager Genova to have this information
prior to having further conversations with DTP about this matter.
Director Hoy believes RTD needs to do a better job related to Public Relations for the
University of Colorado A Line. He noted he often hears the media talk about safety issues
but it is really the opposite. The delays and issues are often being caused by an
overabundance of concern for safety. He also noted the on-time performance statistics
really show a different story than what is being reported. General Manager Genova said

staff is constantly communicating with the media but cannot control what they decide to
report.
Director Hoy inquired as to who paid for bus bridges when they were necessary along the
University of Colorado A Line due to service outages. General Manager Genova stated
DTP was responsible for those costs.
Director Hoy pointed out there were really no at-grade crossings along the B Line. Also,
when the B Line opens there will be no complexities from G Line operations initially. He
said from his point of view operations should be pretty straight forward. He stated if there
are a lot of issues when that line opens there will be reason to question DTP’s ability to
operate the trains. General Manager Genova shared there are two private at-grade
crossings and one gated crossing within the Burlington Northern service yard, but no
public at-grade crossings. General Manager Genova pointed out that there is a section of
single track along the B Line which is something DTP has had issues with along the
University of Colorado A Line; however, he agreed that operating the B Line is simpler with
compared with the University of Colorado A Line.
Director Hoy stated it was disappointing to think that people are avoiding the University of
Colorado A Line due to the on-time performance. He noted ridership numbers are high but
thinks this could be RTD’s best performing line if the perception was that it was reliable.
Chair Tobiassen requested to speak with someone from staff who really understood the
technical details of the University of Colorado A Line operations. Director Francone
agreed. She shared that she recently attended a meeting of 60 engineering type
individuals who were asking her a lot of technical questions. She sees it as part of her job
to take the heat but she would like to be able to provide them with an educated answer.
Director Hoy stated a second component that needed to be addressed around the
University of Colorado A Line is wayfinding. He said from personal experience it is very
difficult to get oriented at the airport and find the train. He indicated it is also difficult to
figure out where to go at Denver Union Station.
General Manager Genova shared that staff has been working with DIA to improve the
signage. An email was forwarded to Kim Day, DIA CEO, that was received by the City of
Denver and outlined a myriad of concerns. He has asked her to assign a specific person
on the DIA staff to work with the commuter rail team. He said he just returned from the
APTA Rail Conference and took pictures along the way of where improvements could be
made. He stated at Denver Union Station new directory maps that show the whole
environment have been added from light rail to the historic building. Additionally, the light
rail tracks that used to be track one and two have been renamed to eleven and twelve to

eliminate confusion. He noted a lot of the signage at DUS simply says “Light Rail” or
“Commuter Rail” which does not necessarily mean anything to our patrons so line
designations have been added as well.
Chair Tobiassen shared that the process for hiring the Executive Director of the Board of
Directors position continues to move forward. The job description has been finalized and
he plans to get it submitted to Human Resources in the next few days so the next phase
can begin.
Director Francone asked if any additional Directors submitted the General Manger
Appraisal Survey. Barbara McManus indicated she did not have official numbers but had
heard from a number of Directors that they had finished it.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 12:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

