Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, August 11, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 6:22 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
6:19 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

6:20 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

6:22 PM
6:19 PM
6:16 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

6:21 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:21 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

6:22 PM
6:25 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:18 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:20 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:20 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

6:16 PM
6:17 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:18 PM

Director Lasater left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Jeff Cluphf, Carolyn Conover, Heather
Copp, Jeff Dunning, Martell Dyles, John Elias, Terry Emmons, Steve
Gieske, David Genova, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop,
Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod,
Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Deborah Méndez-Wilson, Doug
Monroe, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Michael Nabhan, Ed
Neuberg, Kevin Parker, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Stephen Reilly,
Jillian Rhodes, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Bill Sirois, Cherie
Sprague, Henry Stopplecamp, Monika Treipl-Hamke, Bill Van Meter,
Bill Weidenaar

Others Present:

Alessandra Desiderio, John Desmond, Corey Ganier, Mayra Gonzáles,
Ken McConnellogue, David Nietfeld, Todd Parker, Pedro Ramos, Scott
Ramming, Ricardo Rocha, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West

B. Recommended Actions

• Award Contract for the Supply of 36 Mall Shuttle Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his
designee, to execute a contract with BYD Motors, Inc. for the supply of 36
– 45’ mall shuttle buses and associated spare components in an amount not
to exceed $27,100,000.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the August 18, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations,
introduced Steve Gieske, General Superintendent of
Maintenance, and Lou Ha, Senior Equipment Engineer. He
reminded the Board that the current mall shuttles are between
14 and 15 years old, exceeding their useful life of 12 years.
There are 26 shuttles required for peak service. RTD has a
fleet of 38 shuttles, of which one has been permanently
retired due to frame fatigue and another half dozen that have
been identified with potential structural issues. Bruce Abel
noted that the cost of maintaining these vehicles is very high,
in-part due to the fact that the original manufacturer is no
longer in business. He gives the maintenance team credit for

their ability to manufacture parts and their ingenuity in
ordering them from places like eBay and Amazon.
Bruce Abel explained that the mall shuttle buses are very
unique in design because of their unique operating
environment. Such features include:
 45’ length due to the capacity needed to move people
along the mall
 Three extra wide passenger doors to expedite the high
volume of passenger boarding
 Right-hand drive for safety in a high pedestrian area
 Manual ramps for quick boarding and de-boarding of
mobility devices
Bruce Abel noted that the vehicles will have two ride heights.
One is a lower ride height for operation along the mall and the
other ride height is higher for operation along city streets to
and from the garage. He stated that this is not a feature
where just one corner of the bus will lower but the entire
chassis will change heights.
Bruce Abel highlighted that the mall shuttle really allows RTD
to intercept buses that come in from the North and South. He
recognized that the Board has heard a lot of conversation
about last mile solutions. He stated that the mall shuttle is the
ultimate last mile solution. Ridership on the mall shuttle is
approximately 45,000 riders per average weekday with an
average trip length of one-half mile. He compared this with
the average distance someone is willing to walk as part of
their trip, which is one-quarter and one-third of a mile.
Bruce Abel commented that there has been a lot of discussion
about the future of the mall shuttle along the 16th Street Mall
and concern over moving forward with procurement of the
mall shuttles. He shared that RTD has had numerous
conversations with the City of Denver (City) and everyone
recognizes the role that the mall shuttle plays in the
transportation environment. He stated if the mall shuttles are
removed from the 16th Street Mall that function will still need
to be fulfilled somewhere in Downtown, which would most
likely be along 15th and 17th Streets. Bruce Abel noted this
would have its own challenges which would need to be
addressed with the City. He said that RTD has received
confirmation from the City that we should move forward with
our procurement. Bruce Abel said that RTD staff continues to
have conversations with City as part of the visioning process
for the 16th Street Mall.

Bruce Abel reiterated that these vehicles would be able to
operate along the 16th Street Mall or 15th and 17th Streets due
to their dual ride height. He pointed out that the new mall
shuttles are also fully electric. He said some of the Board
members might remember the challenges faced in previous
attempts to procure new shuttles. He believes this was
actually very fortuitous for RTD. This delay allowed the
technology to advance so we can procure an entirely electric
bus. He said this supplier, BYD Motors (BYD), has been in
business for a number of years. It is a Chinese company that
is a very large supplier of vehicles overseas. Bruce Abel
believes that RTD will be receiving a superior product that is
very well suited to our operating environment as opposed to
one that we can make do with.
Director James agrees that the opportunity to wait to procure
the shuttles, even if it was forced upon us, was fortuitous
despite being a struggle. Director James asked for
confirmation that the shuttle is fully operational at both ride
heights. He also wondered when BYD could begin delivering
the vehicles. Steve Gieske stated that was correct; the
capacity of the shuttles did not change depending on the ride
height. He said that staff anticipated delivery of the pilot
vehicle in April with services vehicles being delivered by the
end of May.
Director Folska thinks it is incredibly exciting that the entire
mall shuttle fleet will be 100% electric. She believes it will be
helpful to evaluate how this will help in Colorado’s efforts to
reach our lower emissions requirement by somewhere around
2020 or 2030.
Director Francone inquired if her understanding that RTD
would have the largest number of BYD buses in-service was
correct. Bruce Abel stated in the United States that would be
correct. BYD entered the US market approximately 2-3 years
ago.
Director Francone asked for further explanation of the financial
impact to RTD. She wonders what new monies are being
requested by staff that was not already budgeted. Bruce Abel
explained that RTD’s contribution was previously budgeted.
The FASTER grant became available after approval of the
Amended Budget that will be added on top of what RTD
budgeted.

Director Lubow shared that former Boulder County
Commissioner Will Toor sent a letter to the Board indicating
that there is additional grant money that, theoretically, could
be used for electric buses. She wondered if this was
something staff had considered pursuing. Bill Van Meter,
Assistant General Manager of Planning, said he appreciates
the information that was provided by Will Toor. Since he
received the information he has begun to research the
opportunity and there might be some capacity for RTD to
pursue additional grant funds for the procurement. The grant
is an alternative fuels program funded by the Congestion
Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement Program. He noted in
the past there were issues related to Buy American and other
FTA compliance issues but he wants to reexamine the grant
based on Mr. Toor’s suggestions. Director Lubow commented
that the Board’s approval this evening would not be impacted
by staff pursuing the grant as the Board was just approving
the contract with BYD. Bill Van Meter stated that was
correct.
Director Walker wondered how the weight of the new shuttles
compares to the shuttles we are operating today. He also
asked how long the shuttles can operate on the 16th Street
Mall between charges. Bruce Abel stated that the weight of
the shuttles was approximately equal; however, the new
shuttles have duallies on the rear which will distribute the
weight more equally to hopefully have less impact on the
travel path. He shared that several weeks ago staff was able
to test one of the BYD vehicles. He stated that it ran an 8hour duty cycle on both Saturday and Sunday without needing
to be recharged in between. Bruce Abel stated that staff has
also been evaluating BYD buses operating for Antelope Valley
Transit Authority. Staff feels very comfortably that the
vehicles can complete our duty cycle without the battery
needing to be charged. Steve Gieske commented that the
batteries could be recharged through inductive wave
recharging during service if needed. This is an expensive
charging method but staff does not believe it will be
necessary.
Director Walker shares that he knows people with the City of
Denver. It is his feeling that they want to keep our shuttle
whether the buses operate on or off the Mall. He thinks the
City will work with RTD to make sure our operations are

sustainable as well as functional. Bruce Abel said that staff
would continue to be engaged in conversations with the City.
Director Deadwyler asked if staff had ever considered an
electric wheelchair ramp so the drivers do not have to get in
and out of the vehicles. Steve Gieske explained that there
have been electric ramps on previous mall shuttles but the
operators do not like them; they prefer to get out as it is
quicker to operate a manual ramp. Bruce Abel noted that it
also allows for the driver to interact with the customer to find
out their destination.
Director Archuleta wondered the voltage of the batteries and if
the batteries were paired. He also wondered how long the
batteries would run before they needed to be recharged and
how long it took to recharge a battery. Lou Ha said that the
batteries were around 544 volts. Steve Gieske explained that
the batteries were paired but it was really more like a
capacitor than a standard battery. He stated that staff was
projecting the shuttles would travel 100 miles before the
batteries needed to be recharged, which is far beyond our
need. Batteries can be charged in approximately 3 to 5 hours.
Director Tobiassen commended the staff for their work on this
project. He is very impressed with the 12 year battery
warranty since that tends to be one of the weaknesses of the
technology. He stated that the fact that we were able to
switch from a carbon based fuel to electric buses is very
significant in the environmental movement. He suggested
that, even if it is not worthy of a press release, it needs a lot
of attention from the public.
Director Solano shared that he read an article in a magazine
about Long Beach Transit’s Chief Engineer being concerned
that the BYD buses were too heavy and would damage their
streets. He noted that we are already having this issue with
the granite pavers along the 16th Street Mall. He expressed
concern that these new buses might be heavier. Bruce Abel
restated that the BYD vehicles are the same weight as our
current mall shuttles. He pointed out that Long Beach just
purchased their vehicles and are operating with a much
heavier battery pack due to need.
Director Bagley pointed out that the batteries for the shuttles
needed to be charged; he wanted to be clear that there is still
some environmental impact.

Director Menten expressed concern that the shuttles would be
nearly silent since they are cleaner and quieter. She wondered
if there was any consideration for artificial noises since the
shuttles would be operating in an area with such high
pedestrian activity. Bruce Abel stated that staff has very real
safety concerns. He said that something will be done so
people know the bus is coming. That is something staff is
working on with BYD and the Downtown Denver community.
Director Hoy inquired if we already had the capability of
charging the buses overnight or if we would need
infrastructure improvements. Bruce Abel explained that there
would need to be infrastructure modifications but this had
been included in the budget for the project. It was also one of
the considerations when evaluating between the electric
shuttles and compressed natural gas (CNG) vehicles as
modifying a facility for CNG would be more expensive.
Committee Chair Anderson shared that she was recently
Downtown on a Sunday when the mall shuttles were
operating on 15th and 17th Streets. She stated that she is
convinced some major changes would need to happen for her
to consider this as a permanent solution. Committee Chair
Anderson expressed her enthusiasm over the new buses,
particularly when she has seen mirrors fall off and the drivers
have to stick them back on.
Director Folska wondered if there would be any issues with
the batteries operating in sub-zero temperatures. Steve Gieske
explained that there is a battery management system that will
help cool the batteries in summer and heat them in winter. He
said they have been running vehicles with similar batteries in
the Midwest and there have been no issues.
Director Solano expressed concern that we were defeating the
purpose of having electric buses by using a diesel engine to
heat and cool the batteries as he read about other agencies
doing. Steve Gieske explained that those were auxiliary
heaters which were very different from the battery
management systems that would be on our shuttles. Director
Solano stated that was different from what he heard but
would take the conversation offline.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 2]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• Sponsorship Naming Rights Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the General Manager or his designee be authorized to enter into an
agreement with the University of Colorado (CU) for the sponsorship naming
rights on the A Line and an exterior advertising position on the Flatiron Flyer
line for a five-year period, with a mutually agreed upon right to extend this
agreement for an additional five years. Under the terms of the agreement,
RTD would receive $905,000.00 in the first agreement year with a 5%
escalation factor for each contract year through year five, with the right to
mutually extend this agreement for an additional five years, also with a 5%
escalation factor each year. Over the initial five-year period of the contract,
RTD would receive a gross amount of $5,000,696.00. It is further
recommended that the revenue from this contract be placed in the Board
Reserve Account, which gives the Board flexibility in determining its specific
usage.
Motion:

Chair Sisk made the motion to move this item to
the full Board at the August 18, 2015 Board
Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications,
stated that he was very pleased with how this sponsorship
developed. He recognized Todd Parker from William Morris
Endeavor/IMG (WME/IMG) and Ken McConnellogue from the
University of Colorado (CU). He said that Mr. McConnellogue
had been instrumental throughout the negotiation process.
Scott Reed believes this is a very good partnership. He can
think of few organizations that he would rather partner with.
Director Menten asked for the estimated cost to RTD for the
sponsorship. Scott Reed said that staff does not have a
definitive amount; however, RTD will receive $450K up-front
from CU in 2015 which will be used to cover our costs for
materials, wrapping of vehicles, etc. Adrian Mabry, Marketing
Project and Contract Manager, explained that this is a unique

opportunity because much of the signage required to fulfill the
sponsorship agreement has not yet been created. This will
save money as there are no additional costs for the signage
branded with CU’s logo.
Director Menten noted that WME/IMG will receive an annual
commission for this agreement. She wonders if they do any
legwork after the deal has been signed or if they receive a
commission without doing much. Scott Reed stated that
WME/IMG has done the legwork in identifying sponsors and
negotiating with the sponsor; WME/IMG is fulfilling their
responsibility under the contract approved by the Board three
years ago.
Chair Sisk thanked Ken McConnellogue and everyone at CU
that worked with RTD on this agreement. He also thanked
WME/IMG for their continued work. He thinks that all parties
did a great job putting this together. Chair Sisk believes this is
a great partnership to start the naming rights. He suggested
that perhaps the Boulder Junction even on Thursday afternoon
might be a great opportunity to show our partnership on the
Flatiron Flyer.
Marla Lien, General Counsel, pointed out to the Board that this
will be the first time RTD has dealt with another governmental
entity in a five year advertising contract; typically we enter
into agreements with governmental entities for things like
maintenance, construction, etc. Since CU is a governmental
entity the contract will be subject to appropriations by their
Board annually. She explained that there is a risk that the
funds will not be appropriated one year, in which case RTD
would need to find another sponsor and remove CU’s
advertising. She said that she does not think this is a major
concern but wanted the Board to be aware as we have not
done something like this before.
Director Archuleta wondered if there was any conflict between
this sponsorship and our advertising contract with Lamar.
Marla Lien explained that this was for naming rights of a line
as opposed to the advertising panels sold by Lamar. Adrian
Mabry said that staff was working with Lamar so we can
continue our positive relationship with them. Scott Reed
pointed out that advertising on commuter rail vehicles is not
part of Lamar’s agreement with RTD as it is new service.
Marla Lien stated that this is more of a lost opportunity for
Lamar as opposed to a breach of contract.

Director Lasater shared that his corporate attorneys say you
cannot count your chickens until the ink is dry and the money
is in the bank. He does not think either of those things will
have taken place by the Boulder Junction event so perhaps it
is premature to be announcing our partnership with CU.
Director Hoy asked for clarification about the wording
indicating there was a mutually agreed upon right to extend
this agreement for an additional five years. He wondered if he
was interpreting this correctly that if either party did not agree
to extend the partnership as is it would either end or be
renegotiated. He wanted to insure that the Board’s actions
today would not commit to those additional five years. Scott
Reed stated that was correct. Staff just wanted the Board to
be aware that an additional five year option exists.
Director Deadwyler wondered how often the wrapping on the
trains would be changed and who would be responsible for the
cost. Scott Reed stated that there were no provisions for
updating wraps in the agreement. He said if a train was
damaged due to something like an accident it would be RTD’s
responsibility to replace the wrap; however, if CU just wanted
to change the messaging that would be something that would
need to be negotiated.
Director Deadwyler commented that there have been many
controversial ads on our buses and light rail vehicles lately,
many of which are very offensive to certain groups. She
wondered how CU would feel about having one of these
controversial ads on their wrapped vehicle. Scott Reed
explained that RTD’s advertising policy would actually be
discussed next. Staff is proposing changes to the policy to
address these concerns.
Director Folska stated that she will be abstaining from the vote
due to her personal business interests.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 0]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, James,
Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Claudia Folska
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• RTD On-vehicle Advertising Policy Update
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors adopt the attached advertising policy.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the August 18, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Scott Reed explained that for many years RTD has had an
advertising policy that accepts commercial and noncommercial forms of advertising. Under that policy it creates
a limited public forum that provides RTD limited control over
what can and cannot be advertised. He said that because it
had become an issue related to political free speech we had
the types of ads previously referenced by Director Deadwyler.
Scott Reed stated that many transit agencies have adopted a
more limited advertising policy that focuses on commercial,
government and public service announcements that allows for
a much more restrictive range of advertisements. Staff
believes this is the appropriate time to take action to prevent
these types of negative advertisements.
Director Folska thanked staff for addressing this as she thinks
it is long overdue. She believes that Board members, staff and
the constituents deserve to live in a community in which
everyone is respected.
Chair Sisk thanked staff for looking at the policy. He
recognized that RTD did not want to be drawn into a lawsuit
but this now provides a basis for saying no to certain ads that
may be offensive. He believes it was absolutely critical for the
Board to take action. He noted that there may be a temporary
reduction in advertising income but that is something he
supports. He thinks this is a very commendable
recommendation coming forward from staff.
Director James remembers having difficulty fielding questions
in the past from constituents about certain advertising. He
believes eliminating this category of advertising is a very fair
way to address the problem. He thanked our legal counsel for
their good counseling.

Director Hoy wondered what other transit agencies have
enacted similar policies and if any of those policies had been
challenged in court. Marla Lien said that staff had looked at
San Diego, New York, Boston, Seattle and Chicago. She
explained that only larger agencies are addressing this as the
smaller agencies have not been targeted with the more virulent
advertisements. She stated that this policy was modeled after
Chicago’s policy. She commented that several agencies’ new
policies were challenged in lower courts but the policy has
been upheld. Scott Reed pointed out that several of those
agencies had also been sued before changing their policy and
lost every time.
Director Walker expressed his support. He noted that there
might have been potential advertisers who shied away from
advertising with us due to these controversial ads so it is
possible we might see advertising revenue increase instead of
decrease.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for their work. She
highlighted that the policy specifically calls out not accepting
advertisements for tobacco products. She would like to call
out marijuana projects as well. Marla Lien explained that there
was language stating that we would not advertise anything
that is illegal under state or federal law, which includes
marijuana.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Gary Lasater
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Fare Study Pass Programs
Bruce Abel and Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning,
reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is available in the
August 11, 2015 Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda
Packet. Bruce Abel explained that at this time staff was making the
recommendation that pricing for the FlexPass and CollegePass remain the
same while increasing the contracts of the NeighborhoodPass and EcoPass
by 14.4% and 18.3% respectively. He said that staff is also making

recommendations to simplify the non-profit program in several ways, most
significant of which are to provide a consistent 50% discount for all fare
media and increase access to the non-profit program.
Bill Van Meter stated that staff will continue to work with the Affordable
Fares Task Force to establish a more comprehensive low-income fare and
pass program. Bruce Abel introduced Dace West of Mile High Connects
who is the sponsor of the Affordable Fares Task Force. He thanked her and
the other Task Force members for working with RTD cooperatively as we try
to address this difficult task.
Bruce Abel said that staff hopes to get a head nod from the Board to take
these preliminary recommendations out to the public and stakeholders for
comment. The goal is to present final recommendations for Board action in
September so the new policies can go into effect January 1, 2016.
Committee Chair Anderson recognized that it was a lot of information to
take in and that Directors probably had many questions. In the interest of
time she asked the Board to email staff their comments and questions.
Interim General Manager Genova suggested that this item be briefed again at
the August Study Session once staff had the opportunity to prepare answers
to the Board’s questions.
In an informal vote the Board did not give the staff direction to move
forward with public meetings as many did not feel comfortable moving
forward until their questions were answered. Bruce Abel stated that staff
would not solicit public input at this time and would wait from feedback at
the Study Session.

• Proposed East & I-225 Corridors Service Plan
Bruce Abel introduced Jeff Dunning, Senior Service Planner and Scheduler
for the East Team, and Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling, who reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the August 11, 2015 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet. It reviewed:
 Existing bus routes in each corridor
 Productivity of each bus route
 Service frequency during weekday peak hours, midday hours and
Saturday, and Sunday/Holiday
 Existing span of service in each corridor
 Proposed service levels for the A-Line and R-Line
 Routes with notable changes or elimination
 New bus routes
Jessie Carter shared that staff was in the process of having stakeholder
meetings, which have been going very well. The goal is to wrap-up the

public process at the end of September with the hopes of coming to the
Board in November for approval.
Director Bagley recognized that the Directors with the most interest in the ALine and R-Line service plans are those who’s Districts the lines will cross.
He thinks it is important for staff to meet with those Directors; however, he
thinks this presentation is getting too deep in the weeds as none of these
lines touch his area. He feels the presentation is over his head as he is not
familiar with the service in these areas. Bruce Abel stated that the one-onone meetings were in process. Staff just wanted the Board to see the
overall plan because they will be asked to vote on it in November.
Director Tobiassen said these lines do touch his area and he is very familiar
with the current service. He is thrilled with the improvements to the service
that staff is proposing. He looks forward to hearing the comments from the
public.
Director Solano expressed that this is also above his head but he thinks it is
information the Directors need to try to understand. He appreciates staff’s
efforts in educating the Directors. Director Solano stated that the Board
needs to think regionally.
Director Deadwyler expressed her excitement at the changes as well. She
hopes that staff will work to get the word out about the public meetings and
service plan those people who are really riders. She is concerned that many
of the people that provide input are not truly riders and that we miss the real
opportunity to hear from those that are directly impacted by the changes.
Director Folska shared that many of her constituents are concerned that
their Airport bus will be going away. She said she also receives many
comments about the poor to no signage at the airport directing travelers to
the appropriate RTD bus. She hopes this is something that can be
addressed if we are keeping airport buses. Jeff Dunning explained that as
part of the East Rail Line Train Terminal there will be a new bus loading area
with designated gates and improved signage for SkyRide buses. Jessie
Carter stated the Route AT, which is probably the route used by most of her
constituents, was not one of the routes that would be eliminated. Director
Folska hopes there will be audible messages in the new Train Terminal as
well.

• Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Corridor Service Plan
Bruce Abel introduced Doug Monroe, Senior Service Planner and Scheduler
for the West Team, and Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling, who reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the August 11, 2015 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet. It reviewed:

 Existing bus routes in each corridor
 Productivity of each bus route
 Service frequency during weekday peak hours, midday hours and
Saturday, and Sunday/Holiday
 Existing span of service in each corridor
 Proposed service levels for the A-Line and R-Line
 Routes with notable changes or elimination
 New bus routes
Jessie Carter shared that staff was in the process of having stakeholder
meetings, which have been going very well. He said there is some concern
from Arvada about the cancellation of the 72X which they will continue to
discuss. The goal is to wrap-up the public process at the end of October
with the hopes of coming to the Board in December for approval.
Director Lubow expressed concern about the 60 minute service frequency
during off peak hours for the B-Line. She stated that is not very appealing.
Bruce Abel noted that at many of the stations there would be overlap with
the Gold Line, providing increased frequency. Doug Monroe stated that the
only station that would have 30 and 60 minute frequencies on opening day
would be Westminster Station.
Director Hoy commented that there are really two lines opening in
Westminster in 2016 since both the US 36 Bus Rapid Transit and B-Line
would be opening. He wonders how staff coordinates and integrates these
two services. Bruce Abel stated that Nadine Lee, US 36 BRT Project
Manager, and Doug Monroe had been working together with their teams.
Director Hoy stated that in reference to working with stakeholders, he hoped
staff had met with someone from Westminster about the Westminster
Station. Doug Monroe said that he has not met with anyone yet but was
planning to do so as part of the public process.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for looking at the service in South
Arvada, which is a lower income, higher density area. She appreciates the
effort to provide service for that area as they have not had many options in
the past.

 Marketing Update (Video)
Interim General Manager Genova stated that originally staff had hoped to
show a new promotional RTD video telling the RTD story; however, due to
the late hour he said he would forward the video to the Directors instead.

D. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen thanked the crews working on the I-225 pedestrian bridge over
the weekend. He said that the weather was very severe and caused quite a delay
but was appreciative of everyone that still got it done.
Director James expressed his disappointment and concern to see how many
Directors did not give staff the go ahead to begin the Fare Study Pass Program
discussions with the stakeholders. He is concerned about the level of trust the
Board has in staff. He said he also thinks it is futile to delay these conversations as
the information is already out there. He believes what the Board has done now is
inhibit conversation and will actually make the process slower. He stated that if a
Director voted no he invites them to think about the trust they have for staff and
stakeholders.
Director Francone said that staff asked for her opinion about beginning the
stakeholder process and she gave them her opinion. She does not intend to impede
the process; however, she is not comfortable with it moving forward when she still
has many questions. She stated it does not have to do with if she trusts the staff
or not. She has a constituency to answer to as well and does not feel comfortable
with something moving forward that she does not have all the answers about.
Director Francone thanked staff and Kiewit and everyone else involved with the I225 pedestrian bridge. She shared that it was a thing of beauty going into place
and it is a thing of beauty now that it is in place.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 8, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:56 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

