1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Cuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
February 14, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
The meeting was called to order by Chair Anderson at 12:10 p.m.
Executive Committee Members Present: Chair Anderson, 1st Vice-Chair Bagley, 2nd ViceChair Hoy, Secretary Daly, Treasurer Walker
Other Board Members Present: Director Solano
Staff Present: General Manager Washington and Paula Perdue

II.

February Board Meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Washington introduced the February Board agenda. He indicated that the
past practice would be that he goes only over the items if there are any questions since
they have already passed committee. He pointed out under recommended action that they
are negotiating with the consultant for the Northwest Area Mobility Study and hope to
complete that process this week. Director Daly noted that he had shared with the full
Board that Senate Bill 13-027 had passed the Senate Transportation Committee and will
go before the Senate for a vote.

Motion:

A motion was made by Director Hoy to move the
agenda forward to the February 19 Board meeting for
approval.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

The motion passed.



Unanimous Consent
Approval of Additional Risk Allocation Matrix Items to Fund North Metro to 72nd
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors direct staff to move forward with implementation of the following
additional Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM) items and to use the financing capacity
generated by these items to accelerate construction of the North Metro Rail Line
(NMRL) from Denver Union Station (DUS) to 72nd Avenue.
Specifically, it is recommended that staff move forward with the following
activities:


Refinancing three RTD debt issues at lower than current rates to reduce
payments, improve cash flow, and provide additional capacity under TABOR;



Issuing debt to bridge the Full Funding Grant Agreement (FFGA) for the Eagle
project at a lower interest rate than previously assumed, saving interest costs
and preserving additional capacity under Colorado’s Taxpayer Bill of Rights
(TABOR);



Issuing sales tax revenue bonds in 3rd Quarter, 2013 to finance remaining
portion of the DUS to 72nd Avenue segment;



Initiating procurement for construction (Request for Proposals) of the NMRL to
72nd Avenue in the next ten months.

Approval of the opportunities listed above will allow RTD to take advantage of the
low interest rates that financial markets are currently offering to accelerate the
completion of the NMRL to 72nd Avenue. This action will not impact the availability
of funding from previously-approved RAM items.
Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept the modifications to the 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement
as well as accept these modifications for 2014.
April 2013 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve the April 2013 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost increase of
approximately $53,200 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.

Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Taxable Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Taxable Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A.
Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A.
Amendment to MV Public Transportation ADA Contract ADA 17-DH-007 for award
of the Belmar, Green Mountain and Golden Call-n-Rides.
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute a
contract amendment with MV Public Transportation for the provision of the
“Belmar”, “Green Mountain” and “Golden” Call-n-Ride contracted demand response
transit services under the existing MV Public Transportation ADA contract. This
contract amendment is for a nine (9) month period from April 2013 through
December 2013. The cost for the Belmar Call-n-Ride service will not exceed
$183,420, Green Mountain Call-n-Ride will not exceed $293,172 and Golden Calln-Ride will not exceed $234,214. The total not to exceed amount will be
$710,806. These amounts include estimates for fuel costs that are treated as
“pass through” expenses.



Recommended Action
Contract Award to HNTB Corporation for Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a thirteen-month
professional services contract award to HNTB Corporation to serve as the
consultant for the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) for an amount not to
exceed $2,022,091. It is further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the transfer of $2.5 million from the Transit Development Reserve to
fund the consultant contract, staff time and specialized on-call modeling support
for the NAMS. These funds will be replenished in the 2013 Amended Budget
with proceeds of the sale of the air rights at Civic Center Station.

Aconex Contract Extension
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to exercise the four option
years on the contract with Aconex, in the total amount of $480,000, for
Construction Management Software as a Service, extending the end date of the
contract to April 2017. Funding for this contract in 2013 is included in the 2013
Adopted Budget, and future year funding will be appropriated on an annual basis.
Senate Bill 13-027 Board Action
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of
Directors support Senate Bill 13-027, concerning the provision of parking facilities
by third parties at or near Regional Transportation District mass transit stations, and
allow RTD’s lobbyists and staff to work with legislators to make any amendments
consistent with the Board of Directors’ intent. In addition, RTD would enter into an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City of Boulder (Boulder) that would
require Boulder’s concurrence before any existing RTD owned park-n-Ride could be
sold or leased for private operation under the amended legislation.
DBE Committee Name Change
It is recommended by the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Committee that the
Board of Directors change the name of the Disadvantage Business Enterprise (DBE)
Committee to the Civil Rights Committee which is more inclusive and
comprehensive in scope and responsibilities.

III.

Trip Reports
The committee discussed a suggestion made by Director Bagley for the Board to
provide a one-page abbreviated report on trips or conferences that they attend.
The purpose of these reports is to communicate the value of these conferences and
share information that may be beneficial to the full Board.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion that the Board
members provide a brief, one-page report on trips or
conferences that they attend which can be shared with
the full Board. The Executive committee will look to
create a simple outline for this report.
The motion was seconded by Director Daly.
The Motion PASSED unanimously.

IV.

Other Matters












Director Daly shared that he and Chair Anderson had attended the Jefferson
County Transportation Advisory Group (JEFFTAG) meeting. He reported that
Steve Ruddy with DRCOG had announced his retirement. He also reported that
this group (C-470 Coalition) is looking at the Western beltway and the
possibility of expanding it on the west side including adding an extra toll lane.
He wondered if RTD should have representation. Director Bagley informed him
that he is the representative for the C-470 coalition and indicated that Director
Daly could be the alternate.
Director Anderson added that the Jefferson County Parkway Public Highway
Authority Board (JPPHA) is also looking at part of the beltway around
Broomfield to C-470 and that CDOT is looking at the possibility of making this
one. All of this is under discussion.
Director Anderson read a request from Bill James related to doing the pledge of
allegiance only at Board meetings to engender the respect of the pledge.
Director Walker was asked to share his perspective. Director Walker stated that
the pledge of allegiance is important but there are other ways that we also
show respect to our country. He feels that once a month at the regular Board
meeting is sufficient and efficient. Director Solano was asked his opinion about
this as well and indicated he was OK with doing the pledge of allegiance at the
Board meetings. After some back and forth discussion about the motion and
where in the order of the meeting it should be, it was determined that this is at
the Chair of the Board’s discretion to make that call. No motion was required.
Teambuilding—Director Bagley indicated we need to discuss next steps and
what the next teambuilding might look like. Chair Anderson indicated we will
plan a relook at this after our return from the Legislative meeting in Washington
D.C.
Director Bagley spoke about the opportunity that a few Directors had last year
to attend a BRT conference in Vegas. He indicated that it might be beneficial to
do a field trip of other BRT properties especially for the people participating in
the NAMS. Several of the Committee members indicated this might be valuable
at some time and Director Daly shared from a BRT tour they had taken in Long
Beach CA. General Manager Washington pointed out that the challenge is
finding a property with BRT comparable to RTD. He also indicated that one of
the responsibilities of the consultant will be to lay out what the BRT look like so
it may be more prudent to wait until after this occurs to take any tour of BRT
properties.
Director Bagley thanked Director Walker for chairing of the Finance
Administration and Audit committee and for taking charge of the meeting. He
remarked on how Director Walker effectively used the tool of taking unrelated















items offline (parking lot) and this should be a tool that other Chairs use in the
facilitating of their meetings in order to stay on task.
Director Bagley recommended the Board considers an annual consolidated report
of meeting attendance. The committee discussed the difficulty of hearing
especially if a member calls into a meeting. Paula Perdue explained this has
been an ongoing issue that has a lot to do with the room itself, overhead
acoustics, power, wiring, etc. but that the Board office is looking for some
short-term solutions. One such solution they are exploring would cost in excess
of $40K and must become an approved capital project item.
The Committee discussed the need for a unified Board and better understanding
the mission of the Board.
Several comments were noted about the strategic planning advance and its
purpose to focus on the top strategic initiatives for this agency. Chair Anderson
shared that a conference call would be held with the facilitator to identify the
framework and purpose of the advance.
Director Daly complimented Director Solano for chairing of the Operations and
Customer Services Committee.
Director Walker asked if there is a way to provide a technical overview for the
new Directors (i.e. building a model of what goes into some of the decisions on
service planning, routes, etc. and share the “science” used to arrive at some of
the recommendations.) to better educate them on transit. He also asked how
can we better clarify the roles of Board and staff. He asked the Committee to
consider doing away with the communications reimbursement for internet in
light of the fact that the IPADs can offer alternatives.
General Manager Washington shared that Secretary of Transportation (Ray
LaHood) will be in Colorado on Monday at a conference.
General Manager Washington shared that they are working on the coordination
of calendars for the Legislative trip to Washington D.C. He strongly encouraged
Board members to take advantage of the many sessions offered in this
conference.
General Manager Washington commented that the Collective Bargaining efforts
are making progress.
General Manager Washington shared that he is being encouraged to put his
name in the hat for the Chair of APTA. The way the process works, if he
pursues and is chosen, he would serve first as vice-chair for the year 20132014 and become chair in 2014-2015. However, this discussion is very
preliminary but he does not want to make a decision without the support of the
Executive committee or the Board. Some of the committee members expressed
some concern over if this would distract from the RTD responsibilities. General
Manager Washington acknowledged this could be demanding but he felt he is
up for the job. He would not compromise the RTD agency but sees this as

providing high visibility for the RTD agency as well as the APTA transportation
industry itself. This could be a win-win and a chance to elevate RTD to another
level. Director Walker added that we have a very deep bench in the leadership
of RTD and this would reflect well on RTD as an agency of innovative ideas.
This would also provide additional networking opportunities with businesses,
industry leaders and others in transit.
Chair Anderson and Director Bagley provided their full support. Chair Anderson
reflected on the positive accolades for this agency-Number 1 transit agency,
national and international visibility, doing the only transit P3 in the country; all
of these collectively will benefit RTD and having the GM in this role will help
RTD to retain being the greatest transit agency in the country. All of the
Committee members supported the General Manager if this comes to be. Chair
Anderson will socialize this opportunity with the rest of the Board. General
Manager Washington will communicate to the APTA Leadership that he has the
support of the Executive Committee.
V.

Adjourn
The committee adjourned at 1:45 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

