2025-10-14
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good evening. I'd like to call the Tuesday, October 14 Finance and Planning
Committee to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM, and I would respectfully ask everyone attending
this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Realtime Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd denver.com and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated for anyone who would like to access a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A
live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Committee Vice Chair Karen Benker.
KAREN BENKER: OK. It worked.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hey. All right. Are you here?
KAREN BENKER: I am here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I am here, but I may have to leave early.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Patrick O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am committee Chair Michael Guzman. I am also here. We had with us
Director Nicholson. Is that correct? I do not see him.
JACK KROLL: Not yet, no.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Sorry. We are not joined with any other Directors at this time. Staff, please help
me if you see somebody come on that I am not seeing.
All right. I would like to open to public comment-- sorry-- I would like to open public comment to anyone
who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for
the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please
either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your telephone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.
I do not see any hands raised Mr. Kroll, are there hands raised?
JACK KROLL: There is one hand raised and that is from a Chandler Sanchez.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in,
you'll press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process,
you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted
in writing. Comments can be submitted to the Board at the following email address, rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names, and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. Our first speaker is Chandler?
CHANDLER SANCHEZ: Yeah, thank you. Can you hear me all right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. Please proceed.
CHANDLER SANCHEZ: Thank you. Thank you to the committee for the opportunity today to give public
comment. My name is Chandler Sanchez, and I'm here on behalf of the Southwest Energy Efficiency
Project to express our opposition to RTD's proposal to backstep on fleet electrification and the plan to
borrow half a million dollars for diesel buses over the next five years. We believe that the move would
represent a step backwards at meeting the agency's stated goals in their Facilities and Fleet Transition
Plan, as well as delaying RTD's contribution to Colorado's largest transit agency meeting the state's 2035
greenhouse gas reduction targets.
I want to acknowledge here that there are very real fiscal constraints at play. New tariffs, upfront price
disparities, and limited procurement options should influence long-term planning decisions. However, it's
really unclear to us right now that the agency has fully tapped potential federal and state funding sources,
which can ease the burden of electrification. So FTA programs, like grants for buses and bus facilities
programs and low to no emission bus grants, offer millions of dollars in both funding for new electric
buses, as well as facility upgrades that RTD has stated are a major barrier to actually electrifying their
fleet.

Additionally, the state's Clean Transit Enterprise and Multimodal Options Fund disperses tens of millions
of dollars every single year, which have been used by other smaller transit agencies to fund electric bus
replacements as well as infrastructure like charging, stuff like that, when their diesel buses age out. Case
studies, as well, from other transit agencies transitioning to electric fleets, have shown to generate longterm savings from cheaper maintenance and operation costs, as well as fuel savings over diesel and
renewable diesel fleets.
The Chicago Transit Authority, for example, estimates that they save more than $25,000 annually in fuel
costs alone for every gas bus that they replace with an electric model. That's in addition to the
downstream environmental and health benefits of electrification, which RTD estimates to be around $69
million in benefits over the next decade, just according to your own facilities transition blueprint. We
believe that the path to electrification is still possible with forward thinking and strategic decisions, and we
urge you to rethink taking in half a billion dollars of more debt to invest in outdated and polluting
technology.
Again, my name is Chandler. I'm with the Southwest Energy Efficiency Project and thank the committee
for their time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chandler Sanchez. Are there any other hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there are no further hands raised at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Mr. Kroll, Executive Board Office Manager, I am aware of one email from
Heather Stauffer, the Intergovernmental Affairs Officer. She was transmitting a letter on behalf of the city
of Boulder regarding the FISA reserves. Were there any other emailed communications received for
today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. In addition to the aforementioned letter from Mayor Aaron Brockett regarding the
FISA reserves from the city of Boulder, there were also letters submitted by a coalition of nonprofit
organizations and advocacy organizations, including SWEEP, whom we just heard from regarding the
electrification of RTD's bus fleet. The City and County of Broomfield, represented by Mayor Guyleen
Castriotta, also submitted a letter related to FISA and the purchasing of additional buses. And then there
was a letter received from [? Akai ?] [INAUDIBLE] regarding the use of the phrase clean diesel in the
purchasing of additional buses.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time.
Tonight, we do have information from an external entity. There is one external entity report on the agenda
for the sales and use tax forecast. I am going to ask Kelly Mackey, our Chief Financial Officer, to
introduce this item and our guests from the CU Leeds School of Business.
Before you take over, I would just like to ask Directors, remember to remain muted. Any questions that
you may have, it's helpful to reference the slide number or page number in the packet so we can all refer
to the same information. And we will have a chance to ask questions at the end of the presentation.
Ms. Mackey, the floor is yours.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. The Business Research Division of the
University of Colorado Boulder Leeds School of Business provides semi-annual sales and use tax

forecast model reports in March and September and presents them to the Finance and Planning
Committee in April and October each year. The sales and use tax forecast from the medium forecast
scenario is included in the 2026 proposed budget for discussion later in this evening's agenda.
I would like to thank Mr. Robert McNown, Richard Wobbekind, and Brian Lewandowski for their continued
excellent work providing these forecasts. And gentlemen, I will turn it to you.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Great. Thank you, Kelly. Hopefully you can see my screen OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Great. And also just want to say thank you to RTD Board members for the
opportunity to talk with you tonight. I'm Brian Lewandowski. I'm the Executive Director of the Business
Research Division at the Leeds School of Business, University of Colorado Boulder. And I also want to
thank the RTD Finance staff for their incredible partnership over the past 14 years that we've been
partnering on this with RTD.
I'm joined by two of my colleagues, Richard Wobbekind and Robert McNown, both PhD economists, who
add an incredible wealth of knowledge and modeling expertise to this project, as well as two of our team
members who are not with us tonight, Adam Illig and Miles Light.
Very quickly, I just want to share that the Leeds School of Business is the eighth oldest business school
in the country, founded in 1906, and our research center is not far behind. We were founded in 1916, and
we were really founded with the principle and as a model for providing economic education to Colorado
communities.
So tonight, Rich will provide a brief overview of the macroeconomic conditions that provide a backdrop to
the sales and use tax forecast. And then Robert will close by providing an explanation of the forecast
itself.
Before I turn it over to Rich, I hope you've had an opportunity to take a look at the report that we have
provided. This is a 50-plus page report, and this is actually a scaled down version from when we initially
started doing this exercise with you 14 years ago. And while it may seem excessive sometimes to be
taking a look at a 50-page report, we think it really demonstrates the depth of thought that we put into the
macroeconomic environment, the economic scenarios that we take a look at when considering your
revenue path for the forecast itself.
So I look forward to any questions you have at the end. But I'm going to go ahead and turn it over to Rich
to kick us off with the macroeconomic conditions.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Well, thank you so much, Brian. And as Brian was suggesting just a moment
ago, we run different scenarios. And you can see this illustrated almost immediately in terms of the
national macro GDP forecast you see in front of you. You can see the baseline forecast in the dashed
black line, the more optimistic forecast in the green line, and then the pessimistic forecast, which may not
be easy to see, but is a recessionary scenario in the red line. So we're giving options as we run these,
and you'll hear a lot more about that from my colleague, Professor McNown, here in just a little bit.
Key highlight here is that we are forecasting positive growth. Most forecasts, and ours included, are
upwards in the 1.6% to 1.8% range for this year, and a continued slow growth for next year. So that's the
national macro driver. And of course, a key element of that has been consumption, and needs to be,

considering that consumption is 70% of GDP. And of course, that critically relates to revenue forecasting,
because a chunk of consumption is the taxable goods that you are raising RTD revenues off of.
So if we look at the employment situation, this, of course, has gotten a lot of air time recently, and not
inappropriately so. After the recovery, 2020 was a disastrous year in terms of employment, with the
COVID situation. And we've seen a rapid recovery from that. But as it has worn on, the annual averages
for additional jobs per month have fallen, to be expected, I would say, not unexpectedly. This year, we've
seen numbers that are extremely low compared to what we've seen in the last few years. And the most
recent month, 22,000.
I don't need to tell you that we don't have the September number yet because of the government
shutdown. And that was a highly anticipated number in terms of policy. So that's a little bit of an area of
concern.
I would like to make one sort of sidebar comment from our slides here for just a moment. Interpreting
these job growth numbers is all the more difficult in an environment where you have limited immigration
into the country. Or said differently, how can we have such a low unemployment rate in the economy and
not be creating very many jobs.
Well, a number of the jobs we would be creating would be getting filled by people coming into the country
from outside the country, and we are running at a pace that probably we will have two million less
immigrants in the country for the year, when we total up the year. So that alone would be 165,000 people
per month who could be coming into the labor force. They wouldn't all be coming into the labor force. But
you would see why you would need dramatically larger numbers of jobs if you had that immigration.
So moving ahead, that kind of drives us to a Colorado forecast that is substantially slower job growth in
this year and, spoiler alert, not for this presentation, but we're going to be forecasting a low growth in
employment for 2026 as well. And again, in the context of what we've seen over the last decade, other
than 2020, we had really significantly higher job growth numbers. So this is a substantially lower job
growth number for this year.
You can see over on the far left hand side of the slide, half a percent job growth for Colorado. And also, I
would highlight, on the right hand side, year over year, our labor force is at zero growth for the year, at
this point. So this is also somewhat unusual for Colorado. We've usually had larger labor force growth. So
picture is much slower labor force growth and much smaller employment growth, or lower employment
growth.
So what does all of that mean? Again, you can see the labor force on the left hand, in blue here. And you
can see that it has flattened out. We're not seeing this additional labor force. And then on the right hand
side, this relies on a report that people call JOLTS, which stands for the Job Opening and Labor Turnover
Survey.
And we keep track of that report because it gives us the supply and demand of labor, the job openings
that are out there in terms of demand, and then the unemployed people in the economy in terms of
supply. Yes, they may not match up in terms of skill sets and other things. Understand that. And we could
talk more about that if anybody is interested.
But I would highlight that just a couple of years ago, or a year and a half ago, you can see that the red
line was dramatically higher than the black line. We had way more job openings than we had unemployed

people. 2.3, 2.4 job openings for every unemployed person. And the most recent reports that have come
out were down to 0.8 to 1, meaning we have less than 1 open job for every unemployed person. So this is
a dramatic shift in terms of the tightness of the labor force in Colorado.
Now, getting more in line with what's most key for RTD and for your revenue forecasts and so on. On the
left hand side, we're showing here the national retail sales numbers. And one thing you can see is we
kind of move in a similar pattern to the national numbers. But one thing I would highlight is that you can
see back in '21 and '22, we were above the tan line, which is Colorado was above the black line, the
national numbers. More recently, the tan line has been fairly consistently below the national retail sales
numbers.
So through August, you see the national number is 5% year over year. And in Colorado, we have the
numbers through July and they're are 2.7%. So we're definitely running at a slower pace, if you will, than
the national economy.
On the right-- oh, sorry, Brian. On the right, you can see which categories-- this is just informational for
you at the national level, what's hot and what's not. And you can see some of the things down the bottom
building materials and garden equipment, department stores. So you can see the distribution of what
things are doing a little bit better and what things are doing a little bit worse in terms of the distribution of
retail sales.
So here's Colorado July over July. And what you have at the bottom are all the counties in the state. And
the state was 1.7% July over July. And this is, by the way, in nominal terms, not in real terms. So roughly
mirroring our inflation rate, a little bit less than our inflation rate. And highlighted in the red bars there are
the district counties. So you can see, while overall the state's at 1.7%, you do have a few counties that
are above the average for the state. But you also have, RTD has a number of counties that are below that
1.7% average.
One thing just to think about for the future. The next two slides relate to just putting something out there in
the back of your minds as you're doing this into the future. This is the taxable expenditures by cohort, and
so the percent of these different age brackets in terms of how much they spend of their incomes on
taxable expenditures. And this is based off of national data but using Colorado taxable goods
components. So we're adjusting it, if you will, for Colorado.
And what you see is essentially as people are getting older and we're aging and moving into the over 65
bracket and so on, you spend a lot fewer of your dollars on taxable sales, types of things that are in
taxable sales than you do when you're for example, under age 25. So under age 25, you're spending a lot
larger percentage of your income on taxable sales.
Just keep that in mind for a moment as we flip to the next slide, which shows the actual total taxable
expenditures for these different categories. So what you see is even though the under 25 people spend a
very large percentage on taxable sales, their income levels are such that they're hovering right there with
the over 65 age group, contributing the least in terms of taxable expenditures. And your prime working
age population, up above, 45 to 54, 35 to 44, and so on, are very important in terms of your taxable
expenditures. So depending on the aging of the population, paying a lot of attention to this as we go
forward in terms of relying on sales tax revenues from an increasingly aging population.
So just some numbers, and those of you who have been around a little bit longer have seen this table in
every presentation we do. We're very fond of in real time, how is the state doing? And from 2008 to 2023,

this was an easy slide to talk about because the state was going gangbusters and was a top 5, top 10 in
almost every single category.
More recently, in the last 21 months now, 2024 and 2025, we've fallen back and we're more like in the
middle of the pack in terms of the country, in terms of things like GDP growth, employment growth. We're
definitely not where we were before. So we're adjusting to a different kind of environment.
We had a tremendous run. Maybe we went into the lull a little earlier than the rest of the country has. But
there are still some things that are fairly bright on this, and I would just like to point them out. The labor
force participation rate, we still have the sixth highest labor force participation rate in the country. We
have the ninth highest per capita personal income in the country. So we have some pretty big numbers.
Our average annual pay, seventh highest in the country.
So we do have some things that you would say economically look good. And maybe importantly,
depending on how you feel about such things, but the third and fourth line up from the bottom, our home
price appreciation, which was running 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 every year-- we were in the highest home price
appreciation-- more recently, the one quarter number is at 47 out of 50. And the home price index oneyear change, we have fallen to the last slot in the country.
So we've gone from number 1 to number 50 in a relatively short period of time. And I guess we're hopeful
that that doesn't create any disruptions in the housing market but does make housing affordability a little
bit more accessible, if you will, with much lower home price appreciation.
No forecast at any time is void of risks. Right now, I don't need to tell you what you're seeing in print and
broadcast media, but there are obviously risks. And we are focusing on the ones in red as the most
critical. And the question is, how does Colorado fare in these particular things beyond just the actual risks
to the economy?
I would highlight that risks can be upside risks or downside risks. And so something like the tax cuts is
going to stimulate demand. And so we could see, and probably will see, some positive benefits from that
in terms of its impact on GDP. AI could be going in either direction. We don't know.
The federal government restructuring we have a fair amount of concern about in Colorado, just in terms of
having the federal labs and the related pieces to that. And then you can have your own statements or
thoughts on immigration policy and tariffs. But these are all things we have to pay a lot of attention to
when we're forecasting the economy.
One piece of, I would say, good news in the economic picture is that inflation has gotten much more
under control in Colorado. For 11 of the past 15 years, Colorado has had a higher inflation rate than the
nation. One year we tied. But last year, and now this year, we're running an inflation rate in Colorado
that's lower than the nation. So we think this is good just in terms of Colorado having a reputation of
becoming less affordable and more pricey and all of those kinds of things.
And you can see a major contributor to that is the third line down. It's the cost of housing, and that
includes rental housing. And that is 44% of the Consumer Price Index. So the fact that we've had
dampened inflation in the housing piece is very relevant in terms of our overall positioning here.
So just one quick comment. We don't have any crystal balls on interest rates. They seem to be leveling
off. And, we've just been attending a lot of sessions that relate to macroeconomics and interest rates. And
I don't think there's any clear path that we know of right now that the Fed-- they have not committed to

any additional rate cuts for this year. We don't know, at this point, where that's going, but they certainly
seem to have expressed more concern about the downside risks of the employment numbers that came
out. The most recent ones that came out over a month ago also showed revisions downward of prior
months, and that has now raised the unemployment, or the employment picture as, put a little bit more
weight on the employment picture.
Their difficulty, of course, is they're also seeing a rising inflation environment, not dramatically rising but
rising. And they don't want to give up the fight on that front either. They want to make sure they keep
getting inflation under control. So right now they're in between a rock and a hard place when it comes to
monetary policy. Neither of the options is ideal, just based on weakness in employment growth and the
continuing strength, if you will, of the inflation rate. While under 3%, it's very close to 3%.
So I'm handing off at this point to my colleague, Robert McNown, and he's going to talk to you about the
RTD forecast.
ROBERT MCNOWN: All right. Thanks, Rich. Rich has given a nice short course in macroeconomics here
and particularly how it relates to our main objective here, the revenue forecasting for RTD.
Of course, as members of the Finance Committee, you're well aware that RTD has been in kind of a weak
revenue growth situation for the past couple of years. And unfortunately, I have to admit that our forecast
for 2025, the rest of this year, and 2026 would be pretty much more of the same. But beyond that, things
look a little more favorable. And my task here is to give a little more information of what lies behind those
projections.
So first of all, in this slide, you can see that-- this is an overview of the current macroeconomic indicators,
including these two crucial short-term years in the forecast, 2025 and 2026. And just to point to a few
really important factors as far as what drives expenditures, and therefore revenues, is the employment
data. And you can see that we have especially weak employment growth in 2026, 0.3%, basically hardly
any growth at all.
And a good part of that is what Rich mentioned, the lack of immigration. We've gone from about two
million net immigrants per year in the last couple of years of the Biden administration now down close to
0.
The other key indicator here is real output growth, or real GDP growth, less than 2% in both of these two
years. And, that's certainly not a recession, but it's nothing to write home about either. So then in the next
slide, you can see how that translates into a similar picture for Colorado.
And one of the slides that Rich talked about compared Colorado's performance across some of these
metrics with the nation as a whole. And here you can see that similar to the national forecast, this
employment growth variable, which is a key driver of expenditures and revenues for RTD, is below 4%-I'm sorry, below 1% in both the current year and next year as well. And that really is what accounts for the
very mild growth forecast that we're making for RTD revenues.
Again, I think we can attribute a lot of that weak performance here in Colorado, and to the nation, to the
reduction in immigration, but also some of the uncertainty that rises from federal policies back and forth
on the tariffs, and now, of course, the government shutdown, and particularly budgetary problems that are
facing the state and municipalities, which are probably going to force them to cut back on expenditures,
too, and that will feed through the households and their ability to spend also.

So let's look at what this all means for revenues. And you can see graphically here for 2025 and 2026, the
picture is really pretty flat. The actual numbers are just a little bit above 1% forecast in sales and use tax
revenues for the current year and also for 2026. But you can also see from the graph that there is quite
an acceleration in the future, starting with 2027 and beyond, up through our medium forecast horizon
through 2030.
And what's behind that? Well, again, it's all being driven by what we expect in the macro economy, both
at the national and the state level. And so in particular, from 2027 through 2030, there is a mild pickup in
some of the US indicators, such as GDP growth above 2% in 2027, employment growth between 0.5%
and 1% of the national level in those years.
So that's certainly better than what we're seeing right now. And I think by 2027 and beyond, some of the
chaotic disturbances in the economy are going to smooth out and we'll have a picture of greater stability,
which will generate more investment and expenditures by firms and households. So let's go on to the next
slide too.
And here you can see the numbers for the total revenue growth rising above 5% per year in the three
years from 2028 through 2030. So that is considerably better than what RTD has seen in the last couple
of years and is expected for the current and the next year. So I think our model is telling us we can be
somewhat hopeful and optimistic about the potential for higher revenues later in this decade. It's just
we're going to have another tough year or so here before that takes place. And next slide.
We always want to emphasize that there's uncertainty in our forecasts. And in particular, that's what this
graph is all about, tracing out through 2030 our medium range horizon. And the blue line, the baseline
forecast, is mostly what I've been talking about. But we also have to keep our eye on some of the
alternatives. The pessimistic scenario represented by the red line, you can see it does dip down into
2026. So it's a recession scenario, a mild recession at that. And it pulls out and begins to move along the
same trajectory as the baseline, never quite reaching back up to that level but still not a terribly grim
situation.
And then even more modest forecasts coming from the dashed tan line at the bottom, the low forecast.
And that's a statistically based forecast where we would expect the economy to perform as poorly as
indicated by that forecast, with only a probability of 17%. So that's certainly a low-ish probability event, but
it could happen.
So I've lost my slides here, Brian.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I wonder if he got disconnected. I lost the slides too.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. OK. Yeah. Well, let me just talk about what is in the last substantive slide
really. This is the long-term forecast. So we're charged with producing a forecast going out 30 years. And
this forecast is largely driven by demographics.
Yeah, OK. Let's go to one more slide.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I got kicked off.
ROBERT MCNOWN: That's OK. Yeah, there we are. So we're going out now to 2055, summarizing the
forecast in terms of 10-year groupings here. And so you can see-- let's shoot right to the RTD taxable
sales, which is essentially sales tax revenues in the right column there. And because of population aging

and a slowing of the rate of growth of the total population, we expect that the next to last decade, going
from 2036 to 2045, will be the weakest in terms of RTD revenue growth at 2.1% average per year.
And then, surprisingly, I think for many people, our final decade, from 2046 to 2055, shows a considerably
higher average rate of growth over that 10-year period. And the reason is that the population aging, the
shifting age shares of the population, is not a straight line going into the future. We often hear talk about
how we're just getting older and older and older, but there are subtle changes taking place over this very
long period so that actually the demographic factor is not as grim for that final period and the forecasts
there are a little more favorable. And of course, there's high uncertainty, as you can see from the high and
low forecasts surrounding the baseline.
And the last slide. Yeah, I just want to summarize that we try to rely on the model-based forecasts. But at
the same time, we use some judgment in deciding which scenario we want to present as what we think is
the most likely outcome for the future economy. Once that's in place, we generate the forecast just using
the model so the different variables are forecast in a way that is consistent with one another.
We don't have a particular point of view here other than what's guided by economic theory and the
statistical analysis, but we have no particular political or financial stake in the numbers that we produce.
Of course, we want to provide forecasts that are the most accurate as possible to RTD and to your
committee in particular.
So that ends our presentation and we'd be happy to take any questions or comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much for your presentation. 50 pages can seem like a whole lot to
read, but it's really worth the reading. And I thank you for presenting it.
Committee members, this is your opportunity to ask questions and have discussions, so I will call on you
when your hands are raised. Vice Chair Benker, please go ahead.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you for the information. I find this economic data fascinating. And it does seem
like the next couple of months, the next year is going to be very difficult to try to forecast. Tariffs seem to
be going up and down constantly.
The main question that I was curious about goes to your, on page 19 and 20 of your presentation. And it's
specifically about your forecast for the Colorado economic indicators. So you are telling us then that you
believe, your forecast shows that the Colorado CPI is going to be about 3.2% for next year. And in
addition, I think retail sales are going to increase 4%.
So then on the next page, page 20, it shows that you're projecting our sales and use taxes to go up 1.2%
next year. So I guess my question is, I don't know whether or not you've seen our five-year economic
forecasts that the Board has been looking at now for the past couple of weeks, but they're projecting a
negative number, not a positive number. Any comments or thoughts on that? Would you go with your
baseline forecast or would you go with your pessimistic forecast?
ROBERT MCNOWN: I'll begin to answer what is really a very sophisticated questions. So you point out
that the rate of inflation that we're projecting for 2026 is eating up more than any of the growth in retail
sales. And then of course, that means that in real terms, the projections of RTD sales tax revenues are
actually a decline.

Now, I don't think in the report that you were quoting, people don't usually talk about a decline in real
terms, inflation-adjusted terms, but that really would be the situation facing RTD. If our projection of the
CPI is accurate and reflective of the cost of doing business for RTD, then, of course, a 1.2% growth in
sales and use tax revenues for RTD is not going to cover the higher cost of doing business, and that's a
pretty grim situation. Let's see.
KAREN BENKER: My biggest concern, the budget that we just received is in-- it's not adjusted for real
numbers. It's going to have inflation contained in it. So I guess I'm just wondering, it would seem-because I've looked at, I've been checking the economic forecasts of the state, both leg council and
OSPB. I've looked at the sales tax forecast for the City and County of Denver, and they all seem to be
actually right into the same number that you're giving us, about a 1.2% increase in sales taxes for 2026.
And so I understand that. I do understand it.
I guess the question then as to why we're putting into our budget a much lower number is probably more
then for our CFO to answer. But I appreciate that you're giving us the information that you're expecting
sales taxes to be up 1.2%. So thank you. This is helpful.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey, your hand is raised. Please go ahead.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. That is a very good question, Director Benker, and I'm happy to
answer it.
So the reason why the materials that we sent out show a decline in 2026 is because it's versus the 2025
budget. So the 2025 budgeted sales and use tax revenue was actually provided to us a year ago by the
CU Business Leeds team. And so as compared to 2025 actuals, we are showing an increase, because
year-to-date, we have missed the 2025 budget revenue for sales and use tax forecast considerably. So
we're using the exact numbers, $877 million, from the team here, and we're showing an increase versus
year-to-date actuals and projections for 2025 actual.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. Sorry.
KAREN BENKER: OK. I just need-MICHAEL GUZMAN: I know, but if it's going to be about this particular matter, let's stay on topic. And if
it's about the budget, we can come back to that later.
KAREN BENKER: No, it's about this particular matter, because the negative number that you just quoted
was the budget number. But I'm also looking at your 2025 projected number, which is different. So it's still
negative from your projected number.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead, Ms. Mackey
KELLY MACKEY: So the projected number includes budget for the second half of the year and actual for
the first half of the year. But what the CU team here is showing is 2025 actual projected for the full year.
So the second half of the year was actually according to their forecast a year ago, which was done and
approved by the Board in November of 2024. That's why we are showing growth versus their current
projection, and $877 million is exactly tied with their forecast.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter, please proceed.

CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you. And thank you very much for the presentation. Two questions
from me. The first is hoping that you can talk, double click into the federal government restructuring and
just what that really means. Would be curious to hear more about that.
And two, and I guess I could consider myself fairly young so I've not been through that many different
administrations. I would think with all that's going on, AI, the tariffs, the level of uncertainty about medium
to long-term forecasts has to be-- I guess I'm just looking to hear, is this about as hard to predict a time as
ever before that you've seen?
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Well, I'll let my colleagues weigh in, but I would say yes. And because a couple
of these uncertainties. We haven't had tariffs like this since the 1930s, as an example. And we're trying to
think of other productivity surges that compare to this AI situation. So you're trying to look back in other
places in history where you had something, rapid chip adoption or something that could mirror this, but
we still don't know. I mean, we're listening to experts on this topic and reading all this stuff all the time.
And we still don't know what the ultimate effect of AI is going to be, job enhancement or job reductions or
those types of things. So I would say, A, it is a very unusual environment.
B, I can't remember-- and I've been around a while, as you probably can tell-- I can't remember a
downsizing of government at this magnitude, and certainly not in this manner, in my lifetime. And so what
we meant by that-- well, we refer to about that is, we're losing jobs at the federal labs and the state. We
know that. A lot of those tend to be higher paying jobs. We have the change of Space Command moving
to Alabama. We have a heavy aerospace industry in this state. We are heavily invested in climate science
in the state, weather satellites and all of those kinds of things.
It's an uncertain environment. Who knows how much of that money that's coming out of federal budgets is
going to continue to do that. But mostly what I'm talking about, I'm talking about just what the knowns are.
And the knowns are, we're losing jobs nationally and in Colorado in terms of government employment.
We can debate, rightly or wrongly. I don't want to get into anything political about the debate, but factually
we have to try to base our judgment on what we're seeing.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Does that satisfy all your question?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Satisfied. Yeah, thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director O'Keefe, your hand is up.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am trying to figure out how I formulate this question, not
because I'm making one up. But I appreciate the presentation. My perspective is, the one thing that I
know for a fact is reality will not be this number. It's a forecast. It's a model. It isn't going to be this
number.
And so I think as a Board and an agency, we need to think about if we fast forward to 2026, would we
rather have missed on the upside of our estimates or on the downside? If we miss on the downside, we
are going to be making really, really serious reductions in service. If we miss on the upside, we have an
opportunity cost. We may have made some decisions we didn't have to do. But almost every level of
government except for one has to balance its budget. And the federal government doesn't. When they
miss, they just print more money and it becomes our problem.

So the question I guess I was going to ask is, we know that health care costs are going up next year. As a
small business owner, I know we're forecasting a 5% to 10% increase, at least, in benefit cost. That is not
subject to taxation. So when we add something to that part of people's economic circumstance, their
household economic circumstance, if they have to pay more for health care, they're almost certainly going
to clip off the top part, which is discretionary income that is usually sales taxable.
So what do you guys see happening with the potential forecast on-- or the forecast, not potential-forecast and health care costs that are hitting almost every household in the state? And it could be
catastrophic, depending on what the federal government does with assistance. So just that huge sum of
money that we're all, that we kind of have to spend first, what do you guys see that doing to the economic
modeling?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah, it's another difficult question. The model doesn't and incorporate what I might
call as important microeconomic changes, such as what you're describing, these health care costs. First,
partly because the model is based on historical data, and it's hard to anticipate when there's a shock like
that exactly what the impact will be.
The best thing that we can do, and what we recommend to any of our clients using our forecast, is that
they could consider that we present an array of forecasts and we present a optimistic, a pessimistic, and
our baseline forecast. And, as your initial comments suggested, there are some costs to erring on one
side or the other. And we would urge your committee and budget planning to consider the possibility of
working with an alternative scenario, or even a blend of a baseline and alternative scenario, just to be a
little more cautious and avoid the most costly errors for you.
So although we can't really incorporate a real specific policy change such as that, or we can't incorporate
that there's going to be 100% tariffs on Chinese goods one day and only 20% the next day, we just can't
deal with that, except trying to incorporate a general degree of uncertainty through the different scenarios.
I hope that's helpful.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: It is. I was thinking about it. I talked about it microeconomics. But I'm thinking of, just
say the District's boundaries spend $2 billion a year in health care. I don't know if that's right or wrong, but
it's probably not way off. If health care costs go up 10%, that would have the impact of taking $200 million
out of discretionary income, or at least marginal income, that would be directed towards a non-tax base.
And so that's another thing that concerns me more than a lot of the other factors is, that's a known. We
know that's coming. They're sending out notices to employers right now. And I think that's something we
have to factor into our going forward, that we may be losing a huge chunk of money that will be spent
elsewhere in the economy. I appreciate that. Thank you.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: The national-- if I may just step in for a second-- the national macro forecasts
are very much aligned on whether it's health care costs or other things, they're anticipating lower
discretionary spend very much in line with what you just said. And that is part of why the numbers are
weak next year, because consumers have been carrying the economy in a very real sense. We keep
saying the economy is slowing down but consumers keep going. Forecasting a relatively weaker, for
example, holiday sales season this year than last year. Most people are. Most forecasters are.
And a large part of it is that. People don't have-- they're paying more, even with modest home price
appreciations and rent appreciations, they're still paying a lot for that. They're paying more for health care.
And those things have to get paid off first.

So yeah, it is going to be a constrained environment. And I think, as the model is suggesting, we're
thinking we get through that by the year after, but not next year, not '26.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Sure.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, thank you for your patience. Your hand was up next, and then
I'll circle back.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. Thank you, Chair Guzman.
Gentlemen, I appreciate the presentation. Other than just a broad based secular decline, a recession,
what do you see as the most likely sources for error in the presentation? I'll give you an example. Let's
say that car buying were to slow down dramatically because people started using autonomous vehicles or
Uber or whatever. And so sales tax of vehicles, which is a big component of sales and use tax, were to go
down. What are the main things in your forecast where if you were wrong about an assumption, it would
meaningfully drive the forecast to go in a different direction?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, maybe we'll have three different answers here. But my own personal answer
is I think our inflation forecast is too low. I think eventually tariffs are going to start to have more of an
impact. And I think that's going to be coupled with slow growth in employment, as, well, that's clear in the
forecast.
So it's somewhat labeled as stagflation. The economy is going to be moving very slowly but the price
level is going to be going up, certainly well above the 2% goal that the Fed has set.
I don't know if Rich and Brian want to-RICHARD WOBBEKIND: No, I'm on the same with you, Robert. And I go a step further, and that's, if this
happens, then the Fed is much more reluctant to lower rates, which could be one of the things that could
help the economy. And so you just have a more stagflation environment, and you don't have the growth in
the labor force nationally or in the state because of the compounded immigration pieces. So I would vote
for it's a higher stagflation problem than we've built in.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: And actually, that is exactly what I wanted to talk about is the stagflation possibility.
Because I don't know how many folks on this call do their own grocery shopping, but however, the sticker
shock that you get when you go into the grocery store these days, or you're going out to dinner with
friends, there is no doubt that the cost of everything is going up. And so while the actual retail sales may
go down, because people are trying to save money, what they're buying is much higher.
In fact, I heard something on NPR the other day where they said they wanted to, they were buying
lumber. They weren't buying it from Canada, but the Canadian tariff was like 35%. But a US company
raised their prices 35% because they could.
So any other guesses on perhaps some inflation rates for next year? It seems like what you have is fairly
modest. I'm also wondering whether or not the Feds are capturing the status since it's pleased the

administration when bad news comes out. And I do wonder whether or not some of the numbers are
being adjusted, shall we say.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: So Rich may have mentioned this, but we're at a conference in Philadelphia this
week and we just heard from Jerome Powell today. So there's been a lot talk, a lot of Fed talk, certainly a
lot of inflation talk. And we have sessions where we hear from retail sales forecasters and whatnot. And
remember, we did this forecast for you back in September. But I was sort of pleasantly surprised to hear
some of the retail sales forecasts for the holiday season and into 2026.
So the forecasts that we heard for holiday retail sales are up about 4% year-over-year. And that was sort
of consistent from a couple of different groups. So that provided me a little bit of comfort, looking back at
what we have for retail sales in your forecast. And also a little bit of comfort is the thought about inflation
now is that tariffs could add 7/10 of a percentage point to inflation in the near term. So the talk is, at least
from this group, has moved away a little bit from more rapid inflation to elevated inflation, which I think is
also consistent with what we put in your forecast.
But I still agree with Rich and Robert that there is a risk of higher inflation. There is a risk of companies
being opportunistic with pricing, as you just suggested. And that risk of stagflation, where we have muted
growth and elevated inflation is a real downside risk for us.
KAREN BENKER: Mhm.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin, Director Guissinger, Director Larsen, do you have anything you want
to ask? I'm calling you out because you're on the committee. I'm getting head shakes. All right. I'm just
making sure.
Gentlemen, thank you so much. You know that I am a perpetual pessimist when it comes to this report.
But I love reading it and I love being challenged in the way that I think for three years, you will have heard
me say the same thing. I am far more pessimistic than what's being offered here. When the nation does
great, Colorado does great and even better. And when the nation does poorly, we really get raked across
the mountains in Colorado.
So thank you for the suggestion of looking at that baseline and some of the alternatives. I would say I'm
quite in line with what Director O'Keefe brought forward. That's kind of where my head went when I read
through this, just doing table budgeting in my own home. And I dd do the grocery shopping for myself and
my grandparents and make sure that I take care of that on the bus and using public transportation. So I
know how important it is.
Thank you, gentlemen. I really appreciate your dedication and all of your help for all of these years
coming to RTD with this information. And I know it's not great to have to come and give us some sobering
news, but it's better to look at it and take an honest assessment of what's going on so that we can make
the right choices going forward.
RICHARD WOBBEKIND: Thank you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thanks. Appreciate the insights and insightful questions. It's been a good session.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. CFO Mackey, was there anything else that we needed to add here? OK.
With nobody else in the queue for questions, I'm going to move on to recommended action. And
gentlemen, enjoy your conference and thank you so much for your participation.
We have two recommended actions on the agenda this evening. The first action is for the 2026 fiscal
policy. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the 2026 fiscal policy. Do I have a motion?
MATT LARSEN: Motion.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Larsen. Is there a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Catlin. I would like to ask Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer,
and Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget, to present this item to the committee.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to present. The 2026 fiscal policy was
presented as a discussion item at the September 9, 2025 Finance and Planning Committee. The fiscal
policy establishes the financial control framework and governance of the agency's financial resources for
that year. The 2026 budget and the five-year financial forecast should align to the 2026 fiscal policy, as
budgetary appropriations are developed in alignment with the fiscal policy.
The fiscal policy can be changed at any time. The red line version shows the changes from the prior fiscal
policy for 2025 that was approved by the Board on April 29, versus what we're asking to be approved for
2026. We have included only minor grammatical and punctuation changes for 2026. Last month, we
discussed potentially changing will to may in the line that "RTD will limit expenditure and expense fiscal
carryforwards to the lesser of the life of the project or three years," and we have kept that as it was, at
will, to follow the prior year's policy.
There are no other suggested changes to the fiscal policy at this time. And thank you, Mr. Chair. I will turn
it back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, are there any questions from committee members first, or
commentary? I see none. Director Nicholson, your hand is raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
CFO Mackey, there are some mechanics in the budget-- and I promise, Chair Guzman, this is about the
fiscal policy, I'll get there in just a second. I didn't want you to catch me-- that would borrow short-term
debt in order to facilitate balancing the budget. And there would be, obviously, risks to our credit rating
from doing so. Talk me through the difference between doing something like that and doing something
like reducing our reserve rate, I think it's, I forget exactly the term, ratio down to, say, 1.1 or 1.0 as a way
to allow us to just spend more money by contrast, and how that would affect our credit rating.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yeah, that's a good question. So there's actually no short term debt issuance included
in the 2020 proposed budget. There's $20 million of debt issuance for longer term for vehicles, right.
That's not short term. We will discuss later on defeasance, which is not debt issuance whatsoever. It's

more the opposite. It's actually prepaying existing debt that we already have. So there is no short-term
debt issuance in the proposed budget.
But in terms of the 1.2 net coverage ratio, the reason why that's in the fiscal policy is because there are
other things that RTD needs to pay for other than operating expense, such as debt service. We have to
pay for depreciation expense and capital expenditures. So that's why.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That is extremely helpful. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Your hand is still up. Thank you.
All right. Seeing no other hands raised, let's proceed to a vote on this matter. Are there any no votes? I
have no votes. That will pass. And we have everybody present unanimously from the committee. Thank
you.
All right. The next item, and the final action for today, is going to be the 2026 investment policy. This is for
the Board of Directors to approve the 2026 investment policy. Is there a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Thank you, Director O'Keefe.
I would like to ask Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer, and Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt
and Investments, to present this item to the committee.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The 2026 investment policy was presented as a discussion item
at the September 9, 2025 Finance and Planning Committee. This policy can be changed at any time.
There have been no substantial statutory changes or investment industry changes that would impact this
policy over the past year.
In addition to minor grammatical and punctuation changes, we have proposed a few other changes that
we did last time. First, we recommend indicating that the annual listing of investments held and
investment returns be within the Q4 investment report, rather than the annual comprehensive financial
report, or the ACFR, as staff sees this level of detail as being too much to include in the ACFR. It has not
historically been included in the ACFR.
Next, we are updating the structure of our Treasury debt and investment teams and proposed adding the
titles Director of Treasury and Manager of Debt and Investments to the list of roles authorized to transact
investments on behalf of RTD. We received offer acceptance for the Director of Treasury role just
yesterday, and that will be announced starting tomorrow. Third, the prudent investor standard did not
previously reference a citation, so we've updated that and to reflect the appropriate citation.
Lastly, we have added clarity to the language that RTD is authorized to buy collateralized prime
commercial paper rather than commercial paper more broadly. Collateralized prime commercial paper is
essentially a short-term loan that a company takes by selling IOUs to investors. Prime means the issuing
company is high quality and financially strong, and because it's collateralized, the IOUs are backed by

assets, like receivables or other securities, that provide an extra layer of safety for investors if something
goes wrong.
In closing, safety, liquidity and yield in that order is what we're going for as an agency. And these
proposed changes have been reviewed by legal counsel.
Mr. Chair, I will turn it back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. At this time, I would ask Directors who have questions or wish
to speak, raise your hand. I love it when you all do your homework. Thank you so much.
All right. I don't see any comments or questions, so let's go to a vote. Are there any no votes on this
matter?
Thank you. I see none. That will be zero no, seven yes, no abstentions. That passes unanimously out of
the committee. Thank you so much.
All right. We are going to move on to discussion items. There are four included on tonight's agenda. Our
goal will be to navigate through them thoroughly and efficiently. As I've done over the last few months, to
aid us in our work, I estimated the time needed for both presentation and discussion on each of our
discussion items. They are printed on the agenda.
I will do my best to keep us to those times. However, our conversation for these matters may warrant
more or less time on each item as we go through them. The practice does align with our operating
guidelines and so far has been effective in helping us complete our work diligently, but if any committee
member or Director has feedback on this approach, please reach out to me after our meeting.
The first item is for the 2026 debt service defeasance. And I would ask Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial
Officer, and Brenden Morgan, our Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, to present this item. CFO
Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Hopefully, you can see my screen. I would like to thank Brenden
Morgan for his work putting together a good proposal for debt defeasance, or prepayment, that staff
recommends as part of the 2026 proposed budget. And staff is bringing this to you today as a discussion
item.
Expenditures have outpaced revenue for the past couple of years, which is expected to continue into
2026, given the current service levels and projected sales tax receipts. When spend exceeds revenue, it
puts pressure on RTD's ability to pay its existing debt obligations as well as draws down reserves.
A couple of ways to measure RTD's ability to repay its existing debt are through its debt service coverage
and net revenue coverage ratios. Net revenue coverage is revenue less operating expense to arrive at
what remains to cover debt service. The ratio target is 1.2, as there are other expenditures, such as
depreciation and capital expenditures, to cover.
These coverage indicators do not meet RTD fiscal policy requirements in 2025, and are not expected to
meet those requirements in 2026 either, at current service levels, unless RTD takes additional, more
impactful expense reduction actions such as service reduction, which staff does not recommend, as it is
RTD's core business. Difficult conversations have been underway for several months regarding tightening
operating expenses, potential service modification, and use of financial reserves.

Another temporary option is to reduce the 2026 scheduled debt service payments to create one-time
temporary cash flow debt service and net revenue coverage relief for 2026. Staff examined various
financing options, one of which was deferring and extending the repayment of certain debt service
obligations through refinancing those obligations, commonly referred to as a scoop and toss, to reduce
debt service payments during 2026, and to improve available cash flow. After thorough examination, staff
and external advisors determined that the costs of executing this option in a manner that is helpful for
2026, which would include the repayment of such borrowing over subsequent five-year period, would
likely exceed $5 million.
A more efficient option that has equally beneficial impact on debt service and net revenue coverage in
2026, without the additional increased interest cost, is a defeasance, or prepayment, of certain
preexisting debt service obligations that are due and payable in 2026. A defeasance is a financial
technique in which an issuer irrevocably sets aside cash in an escrow account held by a financial
institution, typically the related bond trustee, to cover future principal and interest payments on an existing
obligation as a form of prepayment. Bondholders are paid all due principal and interest on the scheduled
payment dates from funds deposited in the escrow account, and bondholders can only look to the escrow
for payment.
This process discharges the issuer's payment obligation for the defeased obligations, $57 million, in this
case, allowing those $57 million in debt obligations to be removed from the issuer's balance sheet for
financial reporting purposes, even though the original debt remains outstanding until the escrow fully
repays the obligation on its payment date. This is a technique that RTD has used in the recent past when
refunding or refinancing debt. With cash held in escrow, RTD can invest in US government securities or
hold it in cash, with the investment earnings accruing to the benefit of RTD. Simply put, RTD keeps the
earnings and adds to its revenue.
In 2026, RTD is scheduled to make certificates of participation payments of $35 million related to Series
2020, 2023, and 2025, as well as FasTracks bond payments of $22 million related to Series 2022 AB.
Diffusing $57 million of the 2026 principal and interest payments will enable relief in the net revenue
calculation of approximately $69 million in 2026, as provision for payment will be made prior to year end
2025.
This payment will allow RTD to spend $69 million more in 2026 operating expense to maintain its current
staffing and service levels. This action further reduces the 2025 net revenue coverage, which was
budgeted at approximately 0.6 instead of 1.2. We will discuss the need for a 2026 operating expense
budget of $923 million in the next discussion item in the agenda on the 2026 proposed budget.
This discussion item is to explain what a defeasance or prepayment is so that you have an understanding
when we review the 2026 proposed budget, which is the next item on the agenda. The initial estimated
cost of this defeasance, including legal counsel, trust fees, and related professional services, is less than
$75,000.
Defeasance is a good option for RTD to leverage in order to maintain current service levels in 2026. And
what I am looking for from the Finance and Planning Committee this evening is to have an understanding
of a debt defeasance as a prepayment for context in the next discussion item on the agenda, the 2026
proposed budget.
I would also like the committee to understand the defeasance would be executed in December, before the
end of the fiscal year and following the December 2 Board meeting. The defeasance is required to take

place prior to December 31 to realize the beneficial impact on debt service and net revenue coverage in
2026. Once again, upon conferring with external counsel and advisors, we, as the subject matter experts
in this area, believe this is the most prudent action to maintain RTD's core business at its current service
levels.
And Mr. Chair, that concludes my comments. I will turn it back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. Directors, this is your opportunity to ask questions. Are there
any?
Director Nicholson, your hand is-- oh, sorry, hold on. They all went up at the same time. Forgive me. Vice
Chair Benker, you were first.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you very much. I can't help but think we're doing acrobatics. It's almost like
going to a Cirque Du Soleil performance. I'm not quite sure why we have to do this. I don't understand
why we're prepaying debt simply to get the debt operating ratio to 1.2 when I'm looking at the five-year
financial forecast, at least the one that I have now, and this year we're at 0.9. So if we're OK at 0.9 for this
year, why would that not carry forward to the next year?
This is extremely complicated. And I'm not quite sure. Kelly, your explanation was clear. But if you could
explain why we have to do this in simple terms, I'd appreciate that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yeah. So it's our fiscal responsibility to follow the Board-adopted fiscal policy as well as
present a balanced budget, and this is our way to do that. Without doing this, we will not provide to you a
balanced budget.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the presentation, MS. Mackey. I really appreciate it. I apologize, I do
need to log off. This is my last meeting, and I really appreciate all of you, staff and fellow Directors. So
this is it for now. Bye.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Bye Thank you, Director Catlin. We're going to miss you. Director Guissinger. Oh,
sorry. CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and good evening. Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO.
Further to Kelly Mackey's point, our Chief Financial Officer, relative to the fiscal policy, this is in alignment
with the fiscal policy that was just adopted. So I just wanted to clarify that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Guissinger, I apologize. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much. I'm having a hard time understanding. I'm looking at packet
page 146. We're taking-- well, there are two pages. You showed one that was, I think page 123, that
showed we're taking $69 million out of the unrestricted fund. Is that right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey, you're muted.

KELLY MACKEY: The reduction in-- the potential reduction in the unrestricted fund is due to operating
expense being above the level we have in the five-year financial forecast. We weren't actually able to get
to what was in the five-year financial forecast because of our current service levels. So it's because of
operating expense, not defeasance. If we were to defease half or defease nothing, there would be
absolutely no change to that number, if that makes sense. It's because operating expense is higher based
on current revenue that we're projecting for 2026.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'm new to this concept and having a little trouble with it as well. So we're
defeasing $57 million in 2026 debt by using $69 million current money. Is that-- That doesn't sound right,
so I probably have that wrong, but can you explain that to me?
KELLY MACKEY: Chair Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead, please. Sorry.
KELLY MACKEY: All right. So we are defeasing $57 million to allow for $69 million additional operating
expense. And I'll go into this in more detail during the next presentations on the 2026 budget to explain in
more detail. So I will definitely go there.
But because we have a net revenue coverage fiscal policy of 1.2, it's not a one-for-one ratio. Defeasing
$57 million doesn't give us $57 million more to spend. It gives us $69 million because of that ratio, if you
do the math. So by defeasing, we can actually spend more on operating expense to meet our fiscal policy
requirements without having to reduce service levels.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So how much are we putting in escrow and where is that coming from?
KELLY MACKEY: Actually, I will turn this question over to Brenden Morgan, if you'd like to contribute,
Brenden, since you're on.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Absolutely. Mr. Chair?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please, go ahead.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you. Good evening. I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and
Investments.
So the defeasance-- if I may. I'll step back, Director Guissinger, and then directly address your question,
your last question there. I know this is a complex issue. I think the way I think about this is if we just back
up and think about a couple of facts. One are that RTD is scheduled to pay some debt service next year,
some principal and interest payments that are regularly scheduled and due and payable in 2026. So we're
looking at those. There's a large number, $250 million or so, in payments due next year.
We're saying, OK, if we take a portion of that and if we prepay it this year, in 2025, we already know that
our net revenue coverage ratio is below what we always target, the 1.2 times in the fiscal policy. We
already know this year , it's not going to happen. So we're focused on next year making that happen. So
we prepay. We pull that payment forward. We pay it this year. That way, it's not on our financial
statements next year. All right.

So that $55 million that Kelly mentioned, that gets paid this year. That just comes out of our unrestricted
funds, the cash that we have available in 2025. We pay it this year. That liability goes away for RTD this
year, in 2025. And then next year's payments that are due and payable will decrease by that amount.
So when we look at the net revenue coverage ratio for 2026, which is total revenues less operating
expense and that number divided by debt service, and that's where the 1.2 times ratio comes in. So we
spend this $55 million that we're planning to spend anyway next year. We just spend it this year instead,
so it doesn't show up in the debt service numbers next year. Essentially multiply that by the 1.2 times,
because of the way that the net revenue calculation works. And that frees up money that we can spend
on operating expense in 2026 by 1.2 times the amount that we defease this year. And that's the $67
million that Kelly mentioned.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The $69 million?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Sorry, $69 million. Right. Right. So it's a way for RTD to continue to maintain
service levels without doing any refinancing. Or, as Kelly mentioned, we looked at a technique that
governments often do, where they will take some debt that's coming due, these payments that are due,
and instead of paying them, they'll refinance them and throw them out into the future by 5 or 10 years and
say, well, we'll kick that can down the road and pay that in the future.
In the meantime, you're accruing interest on the $55 million, which adds up quickly. It's a lot of money, so
we're not doing that. This is a similar has a similar effect on the 1.2 times coverage for 2026, but it does
not involve all of the costs associated with borrowing that same money for another 5 or 10 years.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. Packet page 146 looks at three scenarios. If you're planning to go
through that in the budget, I can wait and do it then. Is that best, Ms. Mackey?
KELLY MACKEY: I would recommend that, if that's OK. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's fine. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Nicholson, again, thank you for your patience. Please go
ahead,
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Chair Guzman, I am nothing if not patient for you. This is a new concept to me. I
think I understand it, but I'm going to ask about it in some very simple terms to make sure I do.
The first one is simply, it seems like we're getting something for nothing here. And so my question is
basically, what is the cost of doing this? And if it's a good thing that is helping us spend more money, why
aren't we doing it every year? What's the downside? And then I have follow-ups.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: No. Since Mr. Morgan is here, I will allow him to answer and give him the floor.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. Mr. Morgan.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you. That is a great question, Director Nicholson. In very simple terms, I
would tell you that defeasance is a bit like a big chocolate cake. It's fantastic when you have a small
piece, but if you eat the whole cake, you'll get a stomach ache later.

The debt still gets paid, regardless. These are payments that are due and scheduled to be paid in 2026,
so we plan to pay them. We do not plan to default on those payments at all. So we're simply paying them
a little bit early. And the only reason this is really helpful in this scenario is because the 2025 net revenue
coverage is already scheduled to be below the 1.2 times, per our budget this year.
So we can't fix that. We're not going to try to fix that for 2025. But we are looking forward to 2026. We
want to maintain service levels that we have today. We're trying to free up some cash. This is not really a
cash flow issue. This is a net revenue coverage issue. We just have to try to make this ratio meet the
requirements of the fiscal policy. So that's what this is really doing.
So as Kelly mentioned, there's various things we could do, and we don't want to make a recommendation
to cut service at all. And this is one way to maintain an additional $69 million worth of service for 2026. So
it's a nice small piece of that cake this year that we can eat. And it will work simply because the way the
ratio is in 2025, below 1.2 times, and where we want it to be in 2026 and compliant with the fiscal policy,
above or at 1.2 times.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So to this sort of gets back to the question that I asked during the previous
item, which is it seems like we're doing this just, not for any external reason, but just to comply with our
own previously picked ratio. It almost feels like, the analogy that I'm getting in my head is if I have a large,
let's say, chocolate cake that I was planning on eating after New Year's, and I'm worried about how much
weight I'm going to gain in 2026, I can instead eat it before New Year's, where I've already gained a lot of
weight, so I'm not really paying attention to that, and then I'll have a better diet in 2026 by comparison.
The other option is just to not care how much I'm going to eat in 2026.
So my question is basically, why aren't we just changing our net revenue to 1.1 for 2026? Or is that
functionally doing the exact same thing?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yeah. So I mean, that's an option, but you'd be changing the fiscal policy, which could
set a precedent. We actually do need funds available to be able to pay for things like depreciation
expense and capital expenditures. So I personally would not recommend changing the net revenue
coverage ratio. I think it is a best practice, especially for RTD right now.
And again, I'll go into a bit more detail on some of these mechanics and the whys in the 2026 proposed
budget discussion item next on the agenda. But this is a good financial technique. Our investors like this
because they do get the money in escrow early.
And I see Mr. Morgan has his hand raised, if you want to mention anything else, Mr. Morgan.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead, Mr. Morgan.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you very much. Yes, Kelly, I think you were leading to what I was going to
mention, which is simply that the bond rating agencies, Standard and Poor's, Moody's, Fitch, they all look
at net revenue coverage. They all look at it in their own proprietary way. They all calculate it slightly
different from each other. But they all very much do that calculation on their own and they use that as part
of their methodology when they're creating credit ratings for issuers of debt.

So this is one of the things, when this particular part of the policy, the 1.2 times net revenue coverage
was added to the fiscal policy a decade or so ago, and I brought that news to the rating agencies and
shared that with them, they were all very receptive. They were all very happy to hear that. And they all
called it out in their reports that they wrote at that point in time. And they even mention it today, still to this
point, that RTD maintains a net revenue coverage policy of 1.2 times or better. So it is beneficial from that
perspective.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I follow up very quickly?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. And then Vice Chair Benker has her hand raised.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So it sounds-- so then my understanding of this is basically, we're doing all of this
to look good to the financial markets at the end of the day. Like, the point of all of these mechanics, as
opposed to just spending the money, is because this is the way that the bond rating agencies basically
prefer us to manage our money so as to handle it properly, essentially, and that this is mostly just about
the bond markets. Essentially.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: I would say not exactly. Yes, it does make us look good and it is good for our investors.
But mostly, it's in order to follow the fiscal policy and present to the Board and the committee a balanced
budget that follows the fiscal policy, which is our responsibility to do that for you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would also remind the Directors that we just went through a major state audit last
year in which our fiscal health was reviewed. And one of the metrics that they used to determine whether
RTD was doing a poor job, a good job, an excellent job, was this ratio and how we plan our fiscal budget
for every year. And that 1.2 net ratio is the equivalent of 120% net ratio for other companies, which is an
excellent place to be. We just term it as a 1.2.
So it's not just some random number we're throwing out there. It's to ensure that we have the right
amount of dollars available to cover our debt and to operate. And so we've had this ongoing conversation
all year long about increasing boardings, increasing service, ensuring that we are on time and we are
running to the maximum ability of the people that work at RTD to serve the public, but we have to be
financially stable to do that.
And so that 1.2 is a conservative number, which is following our fiscal policy guidelines and well
established for making sure that we have good credit and bond ratings. It all goes together and flows into
what comes out on the other end, a budget. If we don't put the right numbers in, we won't get the right
numbers out. So just as a help to that conversation, there is a reason that number exists in our fiscal
policy and what we're expected to do. And we have not met that number for two years now in reality. So
we've got to get back to it.
Vice Chair Benker, your hand is up. Go ahead.
KAREN BENKER: Yes. And that does go back to, we have not met our own self-imposed operating to
debt ratio, and I'm assuming our credit rating hasn't changed? Last I heard, it was still AAA. Is that
correct, Brenden?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please, Mr. Morgan.

BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes, that is correct. We have not had a rating downgrade as a result of not
meeting this over the past two years.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you. That's helpful.
The other thing that I'd like to at least add to this discussion is we may not be adopting the proposed
budget that we have in our packet right now as is. There may be changes, especially when it comes to
revenue because as we've just discussed, we have a very conservative sales tax piece in the budget for
2026. There's no state grants listed in there, even though there's a very high probability that we will be
awarded some state money. We have some other conservative revenue numbers in there.
So quite frankly, I hesitate to again go jumping through these hoops to satisfy a self-imposed 1.2
operating to debt ratio. And in addition, I'd like to say that $69 million that we would be spending to do this
would take away that kind of leverage and opportunity, shall we say, to spend the $69 million in another
way. Maybe it's to purchase buses. Maybe it's to purchase some other of our capital needs.
So I will listen to the rest of the budget presentation but I have some serious doubts about this
defeasance proposal. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair and Director Benker. Very much appreciate your comments.
If you look at package page 249, we will get here later in the evening, but it's 249. It actually shows where
we are year to date versus the budget. And the 2025 budget was established with the same level of
conservatism. We used the median forecast from CU Leeds And we are missing that conservative
revenue forecast in the budget for 2025 by $137 million.
A lot of that is due to timing with Colfax BRT, but we're missing the sales and use tax forecast from last
year by $13 million year to date so far. And, personally, I don't see that changing a whole lot for the
balance of the year. So that gap may just increase. I appreciate what you're saying, but at the same time,
I don't think I would recommend taking a more aggressive approach than is in the fiscal policy for
revenue.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick question on that. The $137 million was because just the pass through,
except for $13 million, that was the Colfax pass through. Is that what you were saying?
KELLY MACKEY: Yes. Yes. Primarily due to the pass through, correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. I see no other hands raised. So the primary thing that we wanted to do
right here was to ensure that everybody had an understanding of what the defeasance is before we go
into the discussion about the budget. Is everybody comfortable with the mechanics of this particular piece
of financial work?

Directors, I'm asking you specifically. And some of you are off camera, so I need a thumbs up or
something. Thank you. Thank you. Even if you don't like it, I just want to make sure we understand it
before we go to the next part, because it'll come in key.
It is 7:13. I anticipate the next item is going to take up the majority of the next hour. So in order to make
sure we are taking care of our people who are taking care of us, I would ask to take at least a 10-minute
break for the transcriptionists to have time before we go into the discussion for the proposed budget. Is
that OK with everybody? All right.
So it is 7:13. Let's return by 7:24 PM to begin again. Please don't forget that we are still live streaming, so
go ahead and mute yourselves. You can turn off your camera. I will give you a one-minute warning.
Thank you.
It is 7:25. We are going to continue with the Finance and Planning Committee meeting, and we are going
to enter into the third item for discussion-- or sorry, the second item for discussion tonight, which is the
2026 proposed budget. I anticipate committee members will have a number of questions and comments
about this particular discussion topic. Please make note of the slide number or the packet page to refer
back to during the discussion time.
I am going to request that staff complete your presentation fully, and then committee members will have
the opportunity to ask questions and discuss the matter at hand afterward. Directors, please anticipate for
now two questions and a brief comment. We will pass the baton and going around so that everybody has
a fair chance at asking questions. I will begin with the committee members. That would mean that I will
start with Vice Chair Benker and proceed to Director Guissinger, so you know you'll be up first.
Given the hour, let's try to use an economy of words and remain focused on the material in front of us.
Also, we are in a formal session, so title and surname is the preferred manner of addressing staff during
our committee meetings. After the committee members have had an opportunity to opine and ask their
questions, I will then call on any non-committee members to add to the conversation.
So at this time, I would like to ask General Manager and CEO, Debra A. Johnson, as well as Kelly
Mackey, our Chief Financial Officer, and Mr. Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager of Budget, to present this
item to the committee.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Guzman, and good evening once again.
The 2026 proposed budget document before you has been in development for several months and is the
culmination of the work of numerous individuals. In recognition of their contribution, I express my sincere
gratitude to CFO Mackey, as well as to a Senior Manager of Budget, Todd Nichols, Senior Manager of
Debt and Investment, Brenden Morgan, and Senior Manager of Finance, Heidi Wagner.
Moreover, I want to acknowledge the members of their respective teams for leaning in and supporting this
critical undertaking amidst challenging and unpredictable times. And I think you've heard that from our
representatives from the Leeds School of Business at CU. And further to the point, my sincere and
genuine thanks to the leadership team who served as thought partners with me on some of these difficult
decisions.
It's important to recognize that three guiding principles served as a framework during the development of
this draft budget document. It was minimizing impacts to transit service delivery. As you heard Ms.
Mackey say earlier, that is this agency's core business, which is delivering transit services to this metro

region. Moreover, you've heard me say numerous times as we deliver service, we're people in the people
business. So quite naturally, it's retaining the people who comprise the agency and then making these
decisions in support of RTD's strategic plan.
As it currently stands, the proposed budget meets all of these criteria. However, the 2026 projected
expenditure requirements exceed forecasted revenue as we've been talking about. Further, by law, RTD
must adopt a balanced budget each year in which the total revenue received is greater than the sum of
the agency's operating expenses. To solve the gap between projected expenses and anticipated
revenues for the coming year, many tough decisions have been made in developing a fiscally-responsible
draft proposal.
Over several months, the Finance department and agency leaders have carefully reviewed departmental
budgets and identified numerous potential cost-saving measures that have since been incorporated into
the proposed budget. Many new funding requests from staff have been deferred, pending projects have
been postponed, and existing projects and expenses have been reconsidered to ensure that they are
absolutely essential at this time. While significant progress has been made, a gap remains and staff has
considered several different strategies to increase available funds while preserving current staffing and
service levels, including the issuance of new debt, the use of reserve accounts, and the defeasance of
existing debt that CFO Mackey has just described.
With that introduction, Mr. Chair, I will turn the virtual floor over to CFO Mackey to present her remarks on
the proposed budget. Thank you very kindly.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. CFO Mackey-KELLY MACKEY: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: --take us away.
KELLY MACKEY: In this discussion, I will share background and assumptions that have been used in the
2026 proposed budget, and then we'll go through some of the financial information, and finally talk about
next steps for the Board and the Finance and Planning Committee.
Regarding the background, this meeting is a discussion item on the 2026 proposed or draft budget. It
allows for a comment period. We're required by state statutes, as a government agency, to post this
proposed budget online for public comment by October 15. It has been posted online and made available
in the Board Office at this point. We've also posted a notice that it's available within two daily newspaper
publications, the Denver Post and the Boulder Daily Camera, to notify community members that the
budget is available for public inspection And we as an agency are looking for feedback not only from the
Finance and Planning Committee and the Board of RTD, but also public feedback regarding the proposed
2026 budget.
Staff will hold a study session on Wednesday, October 22 to review the budget in more detail and answer
questions. Approval of the proposed budget will be sought by staff at the November 11 Finance and
Planning Committee, and then final approval would be requested from the full Board at the subsequent
Board meeting on December 2.
Budget development is collaborative with every department involved. This is a multi-month and nearly
year round effort. Staff holds regular department budget meetings and reviews, progress on actual
expenditures versus budget and collaborates on issues and opportunities.

The Finance and Planning Committee discussed and reviewed the five-year financial forecast on July 15
and then September 9 for 2026 through 2030. The forecast is used as guidance to ensure that we're not
just looking at one fiscal year for the budget appropriation but we're actually looking several years out,
carrying the revenue and expenditure forecast into future years to understand requirements that may
impact 2026, as well as the maximum operating expense staff should aim for to create a balanced
budget.
The budget book is aligned with the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan, having four strategic priorities of
community value, customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success, as well as strategic
initiatives of customer and community connections, enhancing public trust, building a better RTD and
service excellence.
The budget book is aligned to the Board feedback and includes the Office of the State Auditor
recommendations in terms of presentations and provides transparency. The budget book starts with
agency information, fiscal and budgetary policies, and an executive summary, a summary by fiscal year
and highlights of key initiatives. We have included cash flows comparatively and by department with
summary budget views by department, and we will overview appendix detail in the budget study session,
including additional Transit Asset Management Plan information and more financial schedules.
Next, let's reflect on typical budget assumptions. Some of the basic assumptions that staff has included in
the 2026 proposed budget are conservatism in the revenue assumptions, according to the fiscal policy.
Staff has used the medium forecast that was just presented by the University of Colorado Leeds School
of Business, meaning staff is not using the optimistic or pessimistic views. The medium is typically
considered the most accurate forecast.
The 2026 proposed budget does not include future potential grants that are not yet awarded, according to
the fiscal policy, and staff has the opportunity to re-forecast during the year if and when there is a
significant change in a revenue source. The 2026 proposed budget incorporates the Transit Asset
Management Plan without expansion, and the budget book includes the 2026 capital expenditures.
Staff aims to align the proposed budget with being able to achieve performance metrics, especially from a
financial perspective, maintaining fiscal sustainability, maintaining our credit ratings, and also being able
to provide information to the public to show just how we're performing on a trended basis for those
financial metrics. Again, it meets the fiscal policy requirements.
As I mentioned, the proposed budget excludes uncertain revenue according to the fiscal policy. It aims to
balance expenditures to revenue as best as possible while maintaining our current service levels and
staff. It incorporates maturing Transit Asset Management Plan information. As expenditures continue to
exceed revenue, the proposed budget includes debt defeasance, as well as an appropriation to issue only
$20 million in certificates of participation to fund cutaway vehicles that are used for paratransit or
FlexRide services.
Financing is incorporated due to insufficient reserves projected over the next five years at current service
levels. Vehicles and buses are typically the easiest and least expensive to finance. Financing vehicles is
a very common practice, and relative to other capital spending, they have relatively shorter, useful lives
so they are paid off more quickly.
Moving into financial information, the chart on the left shows the revenue trend going back to 2019, which
was at $1.1 billion. Notice that the revenue projection for 2026 is also $1.1 billion. That equates to just 1%

compound annual growth since 2019. In 2020 through 2022, RTD benefited from COVID relief grants and
the 2024 figures included East Colfax BRT revenue that carried forward into 2025. Staff works through
carry forwards in Q4 each year, and expects that the 2026 budget will include carry forward amounts for
the East Colfax BRT pass through to the City and County of Denver that we will discuss in more detail at
the budget study session and will be included in the final budget, similar to last year.
Looking at revenue without the impact of East Colfax BRT pass through, revenue is actually projected to
grow 6% in 2026 compared to the 2025 budget. The pie chart on the right shows that 77% of the 2026
proposed budget revenue is projected to come from sales and use tax, with $170 million in grants and
contributions, $61 million in fares, $23 million in investment income, and $9 million in other income.
It's important to understand the bottom line of the budget, what is left over after expenses. In an effort to
reflect this apples to apples, we have the five-year financial forecast completed last year and this year.
This presents revenue less expenditures. And you can see that the five-year financial forecast included
$72 million in net uses, which included a target maximum of $840 million of operating expense in order to
achieve this.
After working through the budget over the past few months cross-functionally, in order to keep current
service levels and staff levels, the net use in the proposed budget is actually $199 million negative before
carryforwards. You can see that RTD was able to generate net source of $102 million in 2023. 2024
declined to a net use of $286 million. The 2025 budget incorporated $472 million net use with
carryforwards, as compared to last year's financial forecast of $84 million net use.
On the right side of the slide, you can see that a net source, as in 2023, typically results in increased
reserves and reduced future debt needs. Alternatively, it's important to understand that when spend
exceeds revenue, the net use of funds reduces reserves and increases future debt needs, as has been
the case for the past couple of years.
Because expenditures are expected to continue exceeding revenue at current service levels, this would
put RTD out of compliance with its fiscal policy. In order to provide temporary one-time relief for 2026, to
give the agency more time to get expenditures more closely in line with revenue, staff and advisors have
recommended the defeasance of $57 million. Given that reduction in debt obligation is not one -for-one
with operating expense, but is measured on a 1.2 time standard, this allows the agency to spend an
additional $69 million in operating expense, which is the amount staff expects to be needed in order to
maintain current staff and service levels.
Here, you can see how the defeasance provides operating expense relief by prepaying interest and
principal payments in December of 2025. Note that not because of the defeasance but because of current
service levels and the need to spend closer to $923 million in operating expense to maintain service,
current operating levels will result in an additional $69 million reduction in unrestricted reserves beyond
what was included in the five-year financial forecast.
I will also call out here that according to the fiscal policy, the 2026 proposed budget includes
appropriation of regularly scheduled other certificates of participation and bond payments for 2026. Lastly,
and very importantly, I will call out that the 2026 proposed budget includes no reduction in the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account, as was discussed in both the September and the July Finance and Planning
Committee meetings and the materials. Again, the FISA is listed at its current balance of $192 million,
and there is no reduction to the FISA incorporated into the 2026 proposed budget.

Next, I will share how the proposed budget is broken out by expenditure categories, but I will overview, for
your reference here, what is in those categories so that you understand on the next slide what is in them.
Salary and benefits includes wages, overtime, benefits, salaried and union pension plan contributions,
defined contribution plan contributions, uniforms, tools, and compensated absences. Purchased
transportation includes third-party transportation, contracted services, including commuter rail, excluding
the N Line, fixed route bus service, and complimentary paratransit service.
The services category includes supplemental premium service, software support, infrastructure as a
service, software subscription licenses, professional services, maintenance contracts, snow removal,
security contractors, and more. Materials and supplies includes revenue vehicle repair parts, low-value
equipment, fuel, and consumables. Other expenses includes Director travel, conferences, and meals,
employee travel, training, employee recognition, contingency, and some other items.
This view shows how these expenditures are broken out in the 2026 proposed budget, with $404 million,
or 44% in salary and benefits, and $261 million, or 28% in purchase transportation. Typically, 3/4 of any
operating budget in a transit agency is geared toward labor, and the combination of these two categories
is $665 million.
In addition, you can see materials and supplies at $65 million, services at $143 million, utilities at 20,
leases and rentals at $4 million, other expenses at 10, and insurance expense at 18%-- I'm sorry, $18
million, or 2%.
When looking at the proposed budget expenditures, you can clearly see that the vast majority of expense
lies in RTD operations, at $657 million. This includes bus operations, rail operations, paratransit, and
service development. Next, the Deputy CEO Office includes $85 million of expense, which includes the
Capital Programs division, Civil Rights, Contracting and Procurement, Planning and Safety, and
Environmental Compliance.
Next, the Transit Police Department is set at $55 million as compared to a budget of $57 million in 2025,
and we are running favorable to that budget year to date. Then you can see how the other departments
are laid out. There is a non-department bucket, and we have called out in the box, in case you're
interested, what is included there, such as building leases, electronic fare collection, vacancy savings and
more.
Here is a list of capital expenditures in the 2026 proposed budget that are $2 million or higher. The first on
the list is track for the Southwest corridor curves, which we expect will likely be in beginning stages of this
effort in 2026. Track for the Central Corridor is at $49 million. The traction power substation for the
Central Corridor is at $22 million.
The one item we do recommend financing with certificates of participation is cutaway vehicles for $20
million. That will be used for FlexRide and paratransit services. Financing vehicles has been commonly
done by RTD in the past, and it is one of the easier and less expensive areas to finance with shorter loan
durations. The total capital expenditures in the 2026 proposed budget are $226 million.
To achieve the 2026 proposed budget for operating expense, RTD has incorporated a number of cost
savings opportunities. Various service contract savings are estimated at $17 million. The closed salaried
employees pension plan contribution is budgeted at $6.5 million in 2026, as compared to $15 million in
the prior year, as it is adequately funded. Vacancies are targeted at $7 million in savings and overtime

modifications may result in $5 million in savings. The 2025 non-represented merit increase as a lump sum
will result in $4 million in savings.
In addition to no movement within salary bands related to 2024 through 2025 merit, the 2026 proposed
budget does not include merit for the 2025 through 2026 performance period. The proposed budget also
does not include an allotment for market adjustment or cost of living adjustment. This is very difficult news
for RTD staff. However, RTD leadership is committed to transparency and fiduciary responsibility.
The 2026 proposed budget includes $1.1 billion of revenue. The 2025 budget included $280 million in
East Colfax BRT revenue, and carryforwards from the 2025 budget are in review based on how the
current year is expected to close out. Fares are expected to grow 8% versus the 2025 budget, to $61
million, and sales and use tax of $877 million is expected to decline 3% as compared to the 2025 budget.
But to the presentation earlier, if we were to redo 2025 for what they are currently projecting, it would be a
growth.
You can see here that in all expense areas except insurance, the agency is proposing significant
reductions in spend in the 2026 budget, and I would like to commend the leadership team for their part in
these very difficult conversations. Overall operating expense is proposed at $923 million to maintain
current staff and service levels, which is $70 million more than the targeted maximum in the five-year
financial forecast, in order to achieve the fiscal policy and balanced targets. The proposed prepayment of
2026 debt, or the defeasance, is incorporated to give RTD temporary one-time relief and more time in
order to achieve expense that is more in balance with revenue.
As you can see at the bottom, the net use of funds is at $199 million before carryforwards from the 2025
budget, which we will discuss in more detail at the budget study session. The estimated net revenue
coverage ratio is set at 1.2, an improvement from the prior year's 0.6.
The leadership team and I thought it prudent to facilitate the committee's discussion this evening by
displaying a few scenarios that may help you think through potential approaches for the 2026 budget. As I
mentioned, the 2026 proposed budget incorporates no reduction to the FasTracks Internal Savings
Account. And we have the proposed budget reflected here in scenario two.
In scenario three, you can simply see that whether or not we prepay some of RTD's 2026 debt obligations
has no impact on expenditures exceeding revenue and the likely result of needing to issue more debt in
future years. The defeasance simply allows the agency to stay within the fiscal policy for 2026 and use
good financial strategy.
The leadership team and I thought we would do you a disservice by not also pointing out that if the Board
were to choose to utilize FISA funds as part of the 2026 proposed budget to fund 2026 requirements for
the track system, not only would RTD not need to defease debt, but we also would not negatively impact
the unrestricted reserve, which is currently at a negative balance, and it would likely reduce the need in
future years, not in 2026, to issue additional debt, given that expenditures exceed revenue.
Clearly, there are pros and cons to all approaches, but we are laying out options for your awareness and
discussion. In terms of next steps, the draft budget has been posted for public inspection and we will
make final adjustments to present to you for recommended action in the November 11 Finance and
Planning Committee. Then, the 2026 proposed budget is scheduled to be brought to the Board on
December 2 so that the budget will be effective January 1.

Thank you, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to present this evening. And that concludes my comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much, Director Benker, you're up.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you. I have many questions. I just don't know where to start. And I know
our Chair is probably going to cut me off at some point.
First of all, I just wanted to point out, the Board was not involved with any of this budget. And I would
hope-- I know I'm working with Director Chandler to change our bylaws, which will have to be approved by
the full Board to require more Board involvement with pulling together the budget. So I think perhaps next
year will be a bit different. At least I hope.
However, at our June retreat, I think it was very clear that the majority of the Board, if not almost the
entire Board, wanted to focus on increased ridership. So my first question is, I didn't see anywhere in this
budget. I went through it. I'm going to go through it another two or three times, make sure I understand it.
What percent increase in service are you programming into the '26 budget?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Basically, we're maintaining service levels for the
reasons that were outlined in reference to my introductory remarks. In the fuller, in depth presentation that
Ms. Mackey put forward relative to where we are, considering that there is currently a budget shortfall and
we want to retain the people power that we currently have, we are doing that at the same levels of which
we have currently with the most recent service change that was effectuated the last Sunday in August.
KAREN BENKER: OK, so there's zero increase of new service for next year. That's problematic.
If I can ask another question. You make assumptions on federal grants and you put that into the budget,
correct? Into the five-year economic forecast. Because I see you've got grants here for $170 million. So
you make assumptions for federal grants but not for state.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. In terms of the 2026 proposed budget, we follow the fiscal policy in terms of
what we are allowed to incorporate, which is grants that we have been awarded and we have confidence
in getting, not in unawarded grants. But Todd Nikkel, Mr. Todd Nikkel is also on the line, if he would like to
add any comments there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I see the CEO's hand is raised as well. So if you don't mind, I'll go to her. And then if
Mr. Nikkels has something to add, we can proceed to him. Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair.
So in reference to grants, pursuant to what Ms. Mackey said relative to the fiscal policy, we don't make
assumptions about monies that we don't have. These are grants that have been multi-- that have been
already awarded, that are multi-year as we go forward relative to where we are. One such example is that
of which we've used for the downtown rail reconstruction in which we've had community-- they're called
community funds, but they were earmarks that we were able to receive from our congressional delegation
that we have basically gotten for the past three years that we are leveraging toward rail reconstruction.

So that's an example of monies that have already been awarded that have been drawn down, that we are
using for specific projects, not ones that we anticipate. For those that may not be aware, currently in the
process of the federal government relooking at the CIG program, which is the capital investment grant
program. And then more to the point, we do have one September 30 of 2026, the current Surface
Transportation bill with the IIJA, right-- I'm just sharing it for everybody's edification, Vice Chair. And so
basically, as we go forward, that's why we're not keeping those top of mind.
We have been working with the American Public Transportation Association and other entities, as well as
the bus coalition, that are looking at different elements of 53 39, which is one of the bus facility projects.
You heard Mr. Sanchez reference in his comments that there aren't the monies there that were previously
hints. As we go forward, we have yet to know what we don't know.
So with that, I'll yield the floor. Thank you.
KAREN BENKER: OK. My understanding is the Clean Transit Enterprise Fund Board is going to be
meeting at the end of the month. Do we have a grant application in with them?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much.
We had conversations earlier today as it relates to our path forward regarding the bus facilities. It's my
understanding that there could be about $20 million. It's statewide, as we go forward. So there is the
potential, as we move forward, but not for procurement of facilities, but more or less studying of which
would lend itself to where we are currently. But that wouldn't have been encapsulated in the budget
either, because, to the point that we have raised earlier in reference to the fiscal policy.
KAREN BENKER: OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Sorry. Let's move on to another Director and then we'll come back.
Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And boy, a lot of work has gone into this. Good job. I
appreciate it.
The bus issue, the $539 million. It's really a debt issue, and that's the reason I voted no on the FYFF
when it came to committee before. And I still am very concerned. I guess it's a minimum requirement
that's 12 years or 500,000 miles. My understanding is we have a number of spare buses. And I guess I'm
wondering what our options are.
And I don't know if this is a question for our CEO. Maybe so. But I hear of agencies that run the buses
longer. I guess it's maybe looking at the mean distance between failures. Has that gone up? Are there
ways that we can avoid incurring this sort of debt, and both in terms of incurring $539 million more in debt
and in terms of getting beyond some of the financial and supply chain issues that were posted this week
by the agency regarding electrification and moving forward on our facilities and fleet plan.
I would sure like to see if there are options for not incurring $539 million in debt in the next five years, or
the $20 million next year, if we can postpone some of that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. One clarification I want to make, because we were talking about the CTE and
the Notice of Funding Availability, we did submit a grant for $9 million relative to where we are. So I just
wanted to clarify that going forward. That was just two weeks ago.
More to the point that you raised, Director Guissinger, relative to useful life benchmarks and things of the
like, FTA has put out guidance relative to 12 years or 500,000 miles. Recognizing the NTD, being the
National Transit Database, useful life benchmark checklist, when you think about 12 years or 500,000
miles, for the most part, we keep our vehicles for 14 years. Because before we retire a vehicle, we have
to start the procurement process. And the process that we utilize relative to specifications, putting out a
procurement, for all intents and purposes, when you put forward your first article bus, which is, I would
say, like your sample bus that you're inspecting, and that article bus basically is the one you use and you
approve it and you go forward. So customarily, it may take 14 years. Hence, we've adjusted for that as
we've moved forward.
An important point that I want to share with everybody is that when we talk about our spare ratio and
deviation that was made, as most transit agencies did during the midst of the pandemic, there are certain
aspects to the deviation in relationship to our spare ratio that was made relative to us getting down to
where our spare ratio should be 20% by 2027. And so recognizing that, some of the tradeoffs were that
we wouldn't be procuring additional buses, leveraging federal dollars.
We currently have a procurement on the street for 47 FTA-approved vehicles. And the reason why I say
approved vehicles, because we have to adhere to Buy and Build America. We've talked before that we
have two original equipment manufacturers as it relates to buses. There's been a lot of conversation that
has ensued, which has been falsely characterized relative to RTD's unwillingness to adopt alternative
alternatively fueled vehicles. For all intents and purposes, I did say to this body in a public setting that,
yes, we were committed to procuring diesel hybrid buses as it relates to our 60-foot articulated vehicles.
New Flyer Industries, that was the manufacturer of the only 60-foot articulated diesel hybrid bus. The
Excelsior basically is no longer being manufactured, due to the fact that the powertrain wasn't available
from their supplier. So I'm providing that context to let you all know there's so many different extenuating
factors relative to where we are and it's critically important, and anybody can go research this, when you
go to FTA, they utilize an acronym called TVM. And we're not talking about ticket vending machines.
We're talking about transit vehicle manufacturers that have been approved by FTA that are on their
website that have gone through testing.
So wanted to share all that information relative, are there other alternatives. I would say yes, there they
are and we're committed to it. But this is all in a forecast where we are with the here and now and what's
currently available on the market. And so there could be different opportunities. And while I don't want to
get into partisan politics, we know before there was a myriad of different money made available for
alternatively fueled vehicles. A lot of those grants have been recently canceled by USDOT and the modal
administrations. And I think that's critically important for everyone to know as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. I understand that. And I guess I have a little more on that. Following up on
Director Baker's questions about the grants. We've applied for $9 million with CTE. Is that what you said?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think we've also applied for the Senate Bill 230 oil and gas funds. Is that
right?

DEBRA JOHNSON: I'd have to-- staff these to send me a lifeline. I think we may be in process, so I don't
want to misspeak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, it would be helpful for me, and I think others, to see what we've applied
for and how much we might expect. I thought that maybe in the 230 legislation that later, they were sort of
setting aside some money for 2026 for us. So it would just be helpful to see how much more we're not
budgeting in. And I understand what you're saying, that we're doing that because that fits the fiscal policy.
We can talk more about this. I guess we'll talk about the [? FIFE ?] in the meeting. But just a final
comment is that I think if there are other alternatives to incurring $539 million worth of debt, if we can
postpone that again, both in terms of not incurring as much debt and in terms of answering the issue of
starting our electrification process, I would urge us to look at those options. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I did get a lifeline, and that's the same grant that we were referencing relative to CTE
being Senate Bill 230. And more to the point, we do currently have a study underway relative to the
facility to determine what might be most feasible relative to modifying an existing facility or procuring a
new one as we go forward.
Just as many of you may know, and those that were out with us at the commuter rail maintenance facility
on Friday morning, what you heard was that that CRMF facility was basically designed and built specific
to the vehicles that we have. And on that side of the house, those were electric multiple units. And so
when we think about our current facilities, they were purposely designed to accommodate diesel buses.
Hence, that's why we're starting with the facility before procuring buses, because we have to have a
design purposed facility for that reason going forward in reference to the different propulsion systems and
the technology. Wouldn't necessarily need pits. You may have to have harnesses and all other aspects to
ensure that we were being very safe in reference to adhering to our safety management systems and
things of the like.
So thank you very much, Director Guissinger. I do understand the perspective from which you're coming,
and we can surely provide communication relative to what grants we've applied for. So just wanted to
close out with that. So thank you, Mr. Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: I didn't have my hand raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's OK. I'm going in order. I'm calling the committee members, give everybody a
chance.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: OK. Yeah, my question was around-- I was surprised, looking at some of
the corporate functions that there was represented and non-represented functions. And I was just kind of
curious, is that union? What is--

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly.
So when you see reference to non-represented, that means that those are individuals that aren't
represented by a labor unit. And so 2/3 of our workforce are represented by a labor unit. We have two,
being Amalgamated Transit Union Local 1001. And then we do have Fraternal Order of Police. So any of
those employees that don't have membership within those two labor units that I referenced, that would be
non-represented personnel.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I was just wondering when we are going to find out about the grants for the-- or,
not the grants, the money from the state, those two sources of money from the bills. When will we find out
whether we get that money and how much?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So as it relates to Senate Bill 230 and that $9 million for this first year, we basically
had to put forward a plan describing how we would leverage that. So for all intents and purposes, we
submitted paperwork, air quotes, going forward. And it is highly probable that we will receive that money,
recognizing that there's going to be different parameters set up for the outlying years going forward. And
we have been working in tandem and having, I would say, regular meeting cadence with the executive
director of CTE.
MATT LARSEN: So just to clarify, so we have $9 million budgeted for that this year. Is that right?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So we haven't included it in the budget-MATT LARSEN: For '26?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. For '26, because there was a total, I'm going back to my notes, when we met,
when I had a meeting back in May relative to where we sat, there was going to be $9 million made
available for RTD.
MATT LARSEN: OK. And so is there any chance that we will get more money in 2026 from the state?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Purely speculative on my part, I would say probably not. As we move forward, and
I'm feverishly looking through my notes right here so I can better address your question, so just give me a
quick second.
OK. So yes, I did have a meeting on May 30, as it related to SB-230, the monies from oil and gas. And
basically the projection was that there would be $38 million available, and RTD would receive 25% of
that, which is about $9 million. Going forward, there were projections that were a little higher, maybe $40
million. But that's the information that I have readily available at this time. And that's purely speculative
relative to conversations that ensued with the executive director of CTE, the Clean Transit Enterprise.
MATT LARSEN: OK. Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. So I'm going to try to keep focused on the budget and not
the fiver-year financial forecast, but they are interrelated. So forgive me a little bit.
I am not in favor of being optimistic on our state funding. We have gotten too cute by half in the state on
picking a fee and paying for this and picking this and paying for that, and that avoids going to the ballot for
TABOR. But what it does is tie your financial viability to one stream of funding. And I am very concerned
about the projections for the severance tax revenue.
This state is not a pro oil and gas state. That's fine. I think that's OK. But that will have a negative impact
on that revenue at some point. And it might be 2026. So I think we need to be very cautious about that
projection. Even when we have grants in hand, the state is in a financial catastrophe that it has not come
to reckoning with yet. The Medicaid cuts will hit in '27. We know there's a $1 billion shortfall again next
year. And so I think as a funding partner, I don't feel great about it.
The other thing that I would ask, and I know our Directors are very good about this, but the FISA account- and I'm saying this because I have letters from elected officials that seem to confuse that as the
Northwest Rail account. There are four unfinished lines that need to be covered by FISA. And so my
problem with the use of FISA funds for operations is that it's not covering services for other corridors.
If we are going to be honest about what FISA is for, we need to be fair in the allocation of that money
across all the corridors. And I think it's incumbent on us to remind our locally elected officials that that
FISA account has a lot of calls on it. And so my problem isn't that we're using FISA for Northwest, or for
bus service in the Northwest corridor. It's that we are only using it for bus service in the Northwest
corridor. And so I think that's something that we need to keep an eye on going forward. I'm kind of
ambivalent about whether or not we use it or not. I think we have a tough financial year, and if it reduces
our ability, or reduces the need for additional cuts, then I think it's probably a good use for it.
The other thing that we have coming in '26 that is not a done deal yet, but the state believes that we're
going to be building a joint service rail project that will start next year, which also is not identified in the
budget. And so as we're interjecting caution into an unsteady budget picture, I think we need to also
recognize that we don't even know all the things that we're going to be asked to pay for in the next year,
assuming that the governor's team can get a viable price back on the joint service.
So that's my take on FISA. It's not that it's being used, that it's only being used for one account. We have
lots of needs in other corridors, and I think we're being a little bit too-- we're focusing a little bit too much
on one.
Also, on the bus purchases, this is where it blends into five-year financial forecast. We have a Buy
America problem that we need to resolve at the federal level. I don't see this as a backtracking. I think we
have a supply issue that we are not going to be able to buy the buses, under the current requirements by
the federal government, to fulfill our promise to electrify.
And so I think we need to focus on a rule change there if we want to have the flexibility to do that. There
won't be manufacturers up and running anytime soon in the US, if ever, to produce those vehicles. And so
I think we've got a challenge in front of us on that front. And we also, this is probably on us, we don't have

the charging facilities to support that yet either, also impacted by Buy America and tariff requirements
down the road.
So I don't love everything in this budget, but I understand how it's being constructed. I think the study
session will be great to get some Board feedback. I am with Director, Vice Chair Benker in this context,
that I would like to see more Board activity in the budget preparation, rather than when it's a built house of
cards, you take one card out and it all falls down. Well, that's a tough circumstance for us as a Board to
be in, where if you touch it, you break it. I'd rather be involved with the build it so we're not breaking
something that's already constructed. So I think that's a fair point.
But I cannot emphasize enough how important it is for all of us as Board members who understand it to
appropriately frame the FISA account, what it's for, which is all corridors, FasTracks build out, not one.
And so I'd actually like us to talk about that when we get to the study session, GM/CEO Johnson, the
dedication of this treasure of an account that we have to one specific corridor versus building ridership in
all the corridors.
No question. Statement.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much, Chair Guzman. I have a question. I have a couple of
questions, but I'll start with a simple one for Ms. Mackey. But obviously, GM/CEO Johnson is welcome to
take it if she would prefer.
My read of the budget contains a very simple, is that it contains a very simple truth. We are not taking in
enough money at the moment to pay for our operations. And the mechanics that we're talking about
undergoing, in terms of defeasance and moving taking out short-term debt in option number two, are a
way of pushing that issue off for a year.
So my question, first off, is, Ms. Mackey, is do you expect in 2027, 2028, 2029 or 2030 that this problem
will go away? Or will we be faced with the exact same problem and we will have just made it worse in
2027 by not dealing with it now.
KELLY MACKEY: That is an excellent question. And I think your first comments were very close, but I
would say that the revenue is not enough to cover not only operations but also state of good repair. And if
you look at the long range financial plan, which I believe is on next on the agenda for me to present later
on in the packet, it will show that this issue gets worse over the years, so I don't anticipate it to go away. I
do expect it will get worse over the years unless we find new significant revenue sources. And yes, we
are pushing this issue off one year.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Can I follow up?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: What is the value of doing that as opposed to just making the cuts this year, in
2026?
KELLY MACKEY: Ms. Johnson, if I may, unless you would like to.

DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to add a little context and I'll yield the floor to you, Ms. Mackey. Thank
you very kindly. And Secretary Nicholson, thank you for your question.
There's a couple of things. When I came into this organization, we were in the height of the pandemic,
and there were a multitude of expectations relative to where we sat. Quite naturally, morale was at a low,
just by virtue of being sequestered and people not being able to engage and some various roles within
the organization were doing hybrid work and things of the like.
More to the point, we basically were trying to rally around a One RTD mindset. As you all have seen, by
virtue of our employee satisfaction survey, it has been work that has been underway for the past four
years relative to our most critical resource, which are human beings. And in light of where we are and
with the expectations, and Director Benker broached this, about service and what are we doing, we have
just begun to crawl out of a hole. And making service modifications at this time would just put us back to
square one.
And while I am not a Pollyanna, I believe there's a myriad of other different factors that could come full
circle in reference to where we are currently in reference to sales and use forecasts and things of the like,
which would give us a better opportunity as we are to move forward. Because if we go back to where we
were four years ago, I believe we would have a harder opportunity in reference to having a resurgence of
employees relative to ensuring that they have been adequately tested. There is a myriad of different
things that have happened at the administration level from a federal vantage point that we are contending
with as it relates to non-domiciled residents getting driver's license and things of the like. All of these are
critical factors relative to where we are.
And so that has been one of the decisions at the forefront, considering that our core business is service
delivery and trying to preserve that as we go forward. Hence, that is why one of the aspects of what we
do from a transit agency perspective is deliver transit services that we have looked at other reductions as
opposed to our core business in keeping our service levels where they are in our proposed budget for
2026.
So thank you very kindly. Ms. Mackey, I'll yield the floor to you.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. That was excellent. I have no additional comments.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson, one more, then I'm going to rotate.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. If we decided, as a result of the study session, that we did not want to borrow
$69 million and we did not want to spend $69 million of FISA money and just asked you to cut the budget,
what would that look like? Because that option was not in the packet. And obviously, I don't think we want
to do that. But I'm curious, where do you find the money in that case? Is it putting off maintenance? Is it
laying people off? Is it the vehicles-I mean, I'll finish the question this way. If we wanted to just not buy the cutaway vehicles, for example,
what impact would that have on the agency if we just didn't purchase them?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm going to go with CEO Johnson first. And then if there's follow-up, Ms. Mackey,
please feel free to continue that conversation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Guzman.

Secretary Nicholson, I think it's quite important that I state this, recognizing that our core business is to
deliver service, and you can see in the pie chart, or pie graph, that illustrates that 3/4 of our budget is
geared toward our core business, which involves people. You could not have a reduction in force without
reducing people, because basically they go hand in hand from those that are operating, maintaining
vehicles and those that are more or less dispatching and supervising.
And so as we look at that holistically, that would be where we would have the impact, due to the fact that
it's all about operating expenses, as you heard Ms. Mackey talk about before, because it's all about the
color of money. Sure, there's capital monies. We have had conversation ad nauseam as it relates to this.
If we were to take away monies from capital, it still doesn't negate what we can't do on the operating side,
just by virtue of where we are with our fiscal policy. So Ms. Mackey, I'll yield the floor to you.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. That was excellent. At the risk of sounding like a broken record, I just want
to make sure I'm crystal clear. So what you described, Director Nicholson, is the budget. So there is no
borrowing in the budget of $69 million. There is no use of the FISA in the proposed budget. We are
proposing only going into debt by $20 million for cutaway vehicles with no change to the FISA.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I apologize, Mr. Chair. I didn't get an answer to the last part of the question about
what would happen to the agency's operations if we didn't buy the cutaway vehicles.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Basically, as it relates to the cutaway vehicles, they are approaching their useful
life. Have had conversations with representatives of communities with disabilities recognizing, the
cutaways are retrofitted vehicles. There are no purpose-built paratransit vehicles in the United States.
And so oftentimes, the chassis, over time, it may not be a smooth ride that could aid to the customer
experience, or not aid, detract from the customer experience. So basically, we wouldn't be able to put out
the level of service that is warranted because we wouldn't have vehicles to do that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director-- I'm sorry, Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: OK. Thank you very much. A couple of comments. One is for Director Larsen. You are
correct that there are two new revenue sources, not just oil and gas, but also on rental car fees. There's
quite a bit of money available, but we have to ask for it. And as far as I know-- correct me if I'm wrong and
I hope I'm wrong- I don't think we've asked for it yet, except for the $9 million for increased service.
And then to Director O'Keefe, I totally agree with you. FISA is for the four projects. And I've never said,
although I think a lot of people have assumed, that the entire $190 million should go to the Northwest
Rail. The thing is, I do want to point out that the Northwest Rail line is the only rail line that has nothing
there. The other three projects are pieces that are missing that do need to be built, there's no doubt. And
again, there are revenue sources out there, but we have to go after them. We have to be hungry. We
have to do it.
As for a couple more questions, and then I think what I will do in the next couple of days is I'll write out
some of my questions and some of the changes or missing pieces I see in the budget book, and hopefully
they can be added to the budget book. But one of the questions I just want to make sure is with regard to
our union employees, they will be receiving some increase next year. Is that correct? It's our non-union,
our non-represented, that will not receive any additional pay.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. Thank you very kindly. Vice Chair Benker, you are correct. We do
have a collective bargaining agreement of which this Board voted on, and we will adhere to that CBA as
we move forward. And no, there are no merit increases for anybody.
And let me state here, that would go for me too, because I am going to stand in solidarity with the people
that I lead. And so just wanted to ensure that everybody was clear on that. Thank you.
KAREN BENKER: OK. So there's no COLA, no longevity, no performance, no bonus. There's zero for
employee compensation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct. And I do want to state that we do have two union contracts, FOP
Lodge 72 and ATU 10-001, which both have current collective bargaining agreements to which we need
to adhere.
KAREN BENKER: OK. One more question. And then for the rest of my comments and questions, I'll just
write them down and send them to you.
The capital projects that are listed, there are 35 and they come to $220-some million. Something that we
always did at state, of course, is we prioritized them. And so I would like to suggest that out of the 35
projects, we go ahead and perhaps rank them on a scale of 1 to 5, or rank them 1 through 35, or which
ones are must, we must do next year. Which ones can be deferred for a year?
Because quite frankly, if I had a choice, I would much rather give our employees a small increase in
salary than purchase some of the items that are listed in the budget, which also, by the way, could use
some description. Because as I read through them today, there's a lot of things in there that I'm not quite
sure what it refers to.
So I'd like some consideration that we can prioritize capital, since there's a huge chunk of our budget this
coming year that's going to capital, whereas in the TAM, if you go to the '26 TAM, there was only, I think,
$48 million set aside this year. Coming year, it's 200-plus. So thank you. That's it for tonight.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Vice Chair Benker. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [INAUDIBLE]. Hold on. CFO Mackey, your hand went up. Go ahead.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. And I can add some color to that. So we go through a very complex ranking
process earlier in the year. That's where people from across RTD and various departments weigh in on
the prioritization and the ranking. So that is done. We said no to all capital requests that were expansions.
And we are focused on state of good repair and safety for our riders and ensuring that we are keeping the
system that we have in a state of good repair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. My apologies, Director Guissinger. Please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem. Thank you. And I agree with Director O'Keefe as well, that the money
in the FISA is for the four unfinished corridors. Although I will note that the legislature decided that-- and
it's now in state statute that we have to prioritize the Northwest corridor and the North corridor. For
whatever we decide that means, I guess.

But I appreciate the fact that no money was taken out of FISA. I think that it's important that this Board
decide whether or we're going to move forward with joint service. We're working with all of the other
agencies. Our CEO is Chair of the joint service executive operating committee. And I think before we
spend any money or even plan to spend money in FISA that we need to address the questions directly
and not change the potential field.
But I also agree that the money's there for finishing FasTracks. And as it says in our fiscal, states that
FISA will be used to provide funding to complete and operate additional FasTracks projects. So hopefully,
that's what we will be doing. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director. Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I just wanted to ask, kind of in relationship to Director Benker's question. I mean,
are there monies potentially available from the federal or state governments that we are not pursuing, for
example, not applying to competitive grants that seem like we might be able to get?
And then I also wanted to ask another question after that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very kindly. And Director Benker is correct. There is the rental car
fees. At this juncture, and I believe I'm correct in this, I haven't been apprised, but working on the
guidelines relative to that grant program, and that should be forthcoming shortly. So hence, we don't know
the parameters of the grant program. Hence, there hasn't been an opportunity to apply. However, we've
applied for the grant through the Clean Transit Enterprise with 230.
As it relates to the other grants, we have put forward a grant application as it relates to Vision Zero to
have a study. There were monies that were available for that. We put forward an application, I would say,
in the early part of the summer and awaiting notification. There's another application, grant application,
that we put through relative to FEMA as it relates to emergency operations. So there are myriad of
different grants, opportunities of which we've applied.
With that being said, some have been stalled, quite naturally. There is a shutdown currently at the federal
level and things of the like. So recognizing that some of these grants have been pulled back, that has not
halted our ability to go forward, but we want to ensure that we have an established capital need with an
entirely fleshed out program, because that's critically important as you apply for a grant at the federal
level, because there's a lot of requirements, and notably, there are some requirements, recognizing that
you can't be involved with diversity, equity, and inclusion and a myriad of other things that come into play
as well.
So we are being intentional and purposeful and judicious as we move forward, because if we do take on
that obligation, and there could be matching dollars as well, we want to ensure that we're being good
fiduciaries and being good partners with the federal government and adhering to the parameters of said
grants.
MATT LARSEN: Thank you. And I also just wanted to ask, if we did decide to cut service, is there not a
way we could do it just through attrition? It seems like for a long time, at least, we've sort of been short of
operators for the light rail and the bus. Could we just not hire any more, and then some of them would
leave over time? And then we could just rearrange service to accommodate that, basically, rather than
having to do any kind of actual layoffs or anything like that?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly. So there's a couple of different elements as it relates to
our collective bargaining agreement. And just by virtue, if there were a reduction in force, we'd have to
meet and confer. And there's a process to which we have to adhere as outlined in the CBA.
And then more to the point, there's seniority and things of the. But we have to look at it through the lens of
looking at our holistic operation. And it would be most judicious to look at low performing routes as we go
forward that aren't meeting different eligibility criteria, but recognizing that we put that forward in a
framework, we're still working on that service monitoring report as we move forward, recognizing that we
are doing a comprehensive operational analysis that would ground us as we go forward.
And so you have to keep in mind, when you talk about via attrition, that people are bidding on various
routes as it relates to their seniority. So it's not as simple as just somebody attrits and then we won't hire
back. As we've looked at our overarching position count relative to where we sit, there's still the notion of
the extra board that we need to have as well.
And I would share that we have had lengthy conversations relative to where we are, and there's some
work that we need to do. And Ms. Mackey touched upon this as we look at planned overtime, unplanned
overtime, and looking at efficiencies through productivity that we plan to have a laser focus on as we
move forward relative to where we are, so that should yield some cost savings as we look at 2026
through that lens of how we're doing various aspects of our service planning.
MATT LARSEN: Can I follow up one more question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please.
MATT LARSEN: So I mean, we can't just attrit, is it because of the collective bargaining agreement
wouldn't allow us to rearrange the service with letting the attrition affect the least lowest performing routes
because of this bidding process, or is that bidding process something that, is that a management sort of
construction, or is that a construction out of that we have to follow because of the collective bargaining
agreement?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair. So the bidding process as it relates to work shifts, that's qualified.
It's a mandatory subject of bargaining as it relates to the CBA. And I'm not saying that we couldn't have
attrition take place, but we need to look at the routes. Because basically, we're going to start with our
schedule, deem how many vehicles we have, and then go to people. So we need to look at our network
holistically and make that determination, considering that we do have a network and there's connectivity.
So what's the residual impact, if one were to cut a route that feeds into another critical bus route or a rail
line and what might that mean? So we have to look at it through a holistic view. Did that answer your
question? OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to-- not being argumentative but I think it's
important to clarify the clarification. There's actually two FasTracks lines that have not received any
funding at all, Southwest corridor extension and the L Line extension. The B Line did receive some
funding, and Flatiron Flyer service was part of the FasTracks. I would love airport bus service to the
Southwest part of my district. There is zero, none.

And so this is the frustrating part when I get these letters, they're not honest. The Flatiron Flyer service
was part of FasTracks, and part of the B Line was constructed. And the N Line was constructed. The
Southwest corridor was built in a different century. The extension, which was the part of the FasTracks
which is our tax money, has not been touched and probably never will be touched.
And I know the state legislature prioritized it. I'd be really disappointed in the governor's ability to lobby the
state legislature if he had not been able to prioritize that line over the other ones. But it's not
argumentative, but I think it's really important that the purity on this argument rests with the L Line and the
C,D Line, not the B Line and the N Line. There has been money spent on that. It's just not the promised
money that was spent, or the promised service, but some money has been spent.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director O'Keefe. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I appreciate it.
One of the things that I noticed in the book with regard to operations was that there's about a 3 point
something percent reduction in salaries for bus operations. But there's a meaningful-- and I forget the
exact number, a couple percent-- increase in purchased transportation. And that seems backward to me
personally. I'm under the belief that we should be trying to grow our internal operations and reduce the
amount of external operations.
And so I'm wondering if you can speak to both where that increase is coming from in purchased
transportation under bus operations. And then second, if we wanted to reduce our spending, obviously, a
lot of that is contracted. Are there contracts that we could either not renew that are budgeted to be
renewed or other opportunities to reduce our dependence on third-party purchased transportation?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you. Well, Ms. Mackey, do you want to go first?
KELLY MACKEY: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was just going to say, thank you very much, Secretary Nicholson. Thank you, Chair
Guzman.
Relative to the reduction as it relates to bus operations and things of the like, we're talking about some of
the overtime that I just spoke about earlier. It's holistic. And as we look at purchased transportation
relative to the contracts that we have established, factoring in the tenets of said contract and the amount
of payments and other aspects of that going forward, that's projected.
And so what we're trying to do, to the point that I raised earlier, is looking at efficiencies, because as we
look at where we are, you can currently see that we're still hiring bus operators. It's sort of like this
ongoing process just by virtue of attrition, i.e. relative to those that are in training and things of the like.
But that's broad brush.
I will yield the floor to Ms. Mackey, because to the point that you said relative to purchased transportation,
let's be clear that the contractors own the facilities. RTD would not be able, within a year's time, to absorb
contracted services relative to our current rubber tire fleet operation that is not directly operated by the
Regional Transportation District. Additional planning needs to go forward relative to how that would ensue
through a transitional type phase and would take years as we go forward.

I don't want you to think that I'm saying that it could never happen, but the point of the matter is, when
we're talking about a budget for 2026 and looking at 2027, that is unlikely to occur.
Ms. Mackey, I'll yield to you.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you. Yes, I will point out, on RTD's website, we post the monthly financial results
and we include it in the Board briefing documents. And so if you look at bus operations through the end of
July, it is favorable, or under budget, by 6.9%, or $18 million. And what you see in the budget book is a
comparison to the 2025 budget. So those are two very different things.
So even though the budget is showing it's going down for salaries for bus operations, I believe if you
compared it to actual projections, it's probably going up significantly, just because we are favorable year
to date significantly. And then in terms of purchased transportation, I will actually give Mr. Nikkel an
opportunity, if you want to add anything related to purchased transportation or any of these other
comments, you're welcome to.
TODD NIKKEL: Thank you. Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget.
And I think the way CFO Mackey explained it is perfect and fine, and I have nothing else to add.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: One more quick follow up.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I guess this is a question to either GM/CEO or Johnson or Ms. Mackey. Would you
be willing to provide the Board with a list of the contracts and the amounts and the termination dates for
those contracts that are baked into those purchased transportation numbers, just so we can see all of the
things that we are paying for in this budget? That would be-- I would really appreciate that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, they're public documents. I don't have a problem with that. I need to confer with
our contracting team so we can get those to you all in a format that'll be easily digestible in the time
frame. I'm just saying, I'm committing to it but I can't tell you you'll have them tomorrow morning at 8:00
AM. So if you could extend me some grace, I'm certain we can have them to you before the study
session.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: You beat-- yeah, that's exactly, that was exactly my question, so I appreciate it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. I've held my tongue for long enough. It's my turn.
[CHUCKLES]
Thank you so much for the hard work. I want to reiterate to the Directors the three premises that we
started with that, if I heard them correctly, our CEO strategized with staff on this, which was to minimize
the impact to delivery of transit services. Our people, who we need to try and keep employed and keep
paying, even though, sadly, if they are not represented, will not be receiving a pay increase this year, and

align this budget with the strategic plan, to the best of our ability, in a year where we can foresee difficult
times ahead and a need to tighten the belt.
I think the conversation was very well warranted. A couple of things from where I sit IN District C. This
morning, the RTC at Director DRCOG voted to have the Board take action on $771,000 in federal funding
to have a conversation with community about the extension of the L Line along the Welton corridor as
part of the FasTracks promises.
I also think that there is a need to have a discussion, frank and honest, and I understand we don't want to
move goalposts while we're dealing with the JSEOC, or any of the other matters that are going on. And
the legislature, I find it disagreeable, but they have kind of bound our hands and knees to be able to only
look at two particular parts of the FasTracks corridors with prioritization, but that doesn't mean that's the
only option, the way that I read the legislation.
If you go back to the 2004 FasTracks ballot initiative, it was supposed to include rail rapid transit,
enhanced bus and rail connections with convenient time transfers, including park-and-rides and parking
spaces, an enhanced bus network, which was supposed to include connects between suburb bus travel,
and new bus routes that were supposed to come out of that 0.04% sales tax. It also was supposed to
include payments for enhancing transit facilities. Some of that has been done, not all of it. We know that.
But I do believe that Director O'Keefe was spot on in his commentary about what FISA exists for and what
the FasTracks vote was that preceded the FISA. And so not the time for that whole conversation to be
within this year's budget, but I think we need to have a hearty and serious conversation and level set.
I, too, get a lot of communication in email and in phone calls and in text messages from some very angry
people who seem to think, for whatever reason, that the FISA exists for only the use of one corridor. And I
think that being honest and vulnerable about where we're at and what we're doing is always going to be
the better way to go, because we need to proceed forward with the truth, and especially at a time when
we see the reduction of sales and use tax.
And I will forever be a pessimist when it comes to forecasting. Even if we use the median line on that
sales and use tax forecast that we receive from CU Leeds every year, I have said it, and so far, I have
been correct, we have not achieved what has been forecasted. And we see that result year after year that
I have served on this Board. And so I would suggest that we take the advice of looking at some sort of
alternate scenario than just what was used for this budget, and consider the fact that we may have lower
sales tax and use revenues in 2026.
Beyond that, I do want to give huge kudos to our staff who have found monies that were not utilized and
were able to cut major dollars from their departments in producing this document. I think that shows great
determination to keep the agency running and not fire people and lay them off. It's a terrible thought to
even consider that. And knowing that our CEO will stand in solidarity with employees and do what is right,
I would fully hate to vote on any budget that would not be able to reward the hard work that has been
done. I do not want to go backwards. I would like to go forward. And as Chair of the committee, I'm
hoping that we can figure out a consensus and get this done this year.
With respect to state funding, if it ain't real, I'm not going to imagine it. I'm sorry. I want my money in my
hand. That's how I deposit it in the bank. And when I make a withdrawal, they give me cash. It's not a
promissory note. And so for all of the lovely speech and talking that I have heard over the last few years

from different legislators, we've provided you money, we've provided you money, we've provided you
money, nothing has come to fruition yet.
And while we are still waiting to get an answer, I see no logic or reason to include that in a budget when
we do not have numbers. When we have those numbers, we can adjust this budget. We are at liberty to
do so any time we want. But until we have those numbers, I don't know that planning on having that is a
great idea. I certainly don't plan my budget that way, by assuming I'm going to have a certain income or
I'm just going to get a gift from somebody to be able to do that. I include that after the fact, once it's in the
bank and I can utilize those funds to do something with.
Maybe that's showing a bit of my more conservative nature when it comes to financing, but I want to be a
realist here and pragmatic about how I approach this. That said, I don't have anything else to add. I do
need to spend a little bit more time reading through this. We've had a lot to go over and the RTC
information kept me busy, and I've been working on other matters for the other committee as well.
So thank you for the hearty conversation. I want to remind everybody that there is an upcoming study
session, and while the FYFF was referenced several times, it was recommitted to our committee, I did not
include it on tonight's agenda, because I think it doesn't make any sense to go back and make a
recommendation on something we have not taken the time to discuss thoroughly, as was the expectation
of the Board when it was recommitted.
And so at the study session that is upcoming, we will be discussing that matter. And Vice Chair Benker
and I have had a conversation with staff ahead of this meeting that we will take appropriate action if we
determine that there is a path forward with the FYFF going forward the next five years, after we have
consensus by the Board.
So with that, there's no vote on this matter. I'm going to close this out. Directors, it's a great time to write
questions. I am certain that CEO Johnson and CFO Mackey and the team will respond to any inquiries
and respond to the whole Board so that we are all on the same playing field, have that information ready
for the study session, if there is not time for a memo to be sent out ahead of that, so that we can all
proceed forward. Thank you.
All right. The third item is for the Long Range Financial Plan. So once again, I would like to ask Kelly
Mackey, Chief Financial Officer, and Todd Nikkel, our Senior Manager for Budget, to present this item to
the committee.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I would like to thank Senior Manager of Budget, Todd
Nikkel, and Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services, Brian Welch, for their work in creating the
Long Range Financial Plan that we're presenting this evening as a discussion item. I will share my
screen. Hopefully, you can see that. Great.
The Long Range Financial Plan serves as an extension of the five-year financial forecast through the 30year time horizon, which is currently 2055. This plan is submitted to the Denver Regional Council of
Governments, also known as DRCOG, the federally designated metropolitan planning organization for the
Denver region pursuant to the Federal Transit Act, Part 23, Section 5301. DRCOG will incorporate RTD's
plan, along with the plans of other member governments and partners in the regional transportation plan
that is updated every four years as required by 23 Code of Federal Regulations, Section 5-- sorry
450.324 in order for projects to receive federal funding.

The Regional Transportation Plan guides the long range vision and investment framework for the region's
multimodal transportation system. DRCOG relies on financial forecasts developed by RTD to determine
the amount of funding available for use in RTD's transit network. RTD's lenders also utilize the plan to
ensure that RTD has the financial capacity to repay its debt. The Long Range Financial Plan focuses on
ensuring that RTD can fund the ongoing operation and maintenance of the base system and the
FasTracks corridors, while repaying its debt obligations.
In the forecast, while revenue is expected to increase, it does not keep up with the rising cost of operating
the system, investing in state of good repair, and funding capital projects for the existing infrastructure.
Debt service does decline over time, but those savings are more than offset by increased operating and
reinvestment needs. This widening gap between revenue and requirements underscores why long-term
planning and funding solutions are critical.
Before I delve into key elements of the forecast, I will share that in the next month's action item, staff will
slightly adjust the fare increase assumptions so that base fare increases from $2.75 to $3 in 2031 and
$0.25 more every three years after. Key elements of the 2026 through 2055 forecast include the
September 2025 sales and use tax forecast from the Leeds School of Business at University of Colorado
Boulder. Future formula grants are forecasted based on historic appropriations and escalated at the
consumer price index, or CPI. Operating costs are based on the final year of the five-year financial
forecast, escalated at 3% CPI, with vehicle hour and mile adjustments for increased transit utilization. The
Bureau of Labor Statistics indicates that the CPI for Denver, Aurora, and Lakewood dropped below 3% in
early 2024.
Replacement of the revenue fleet and other assets is based on the current asset inventory and
replacement schedules without expansions to capital assets. Replacement of maintenance facilities, as
projected to be required, are included. The forecast model only includes issuance of $539 million
additional certificates of participation in the 2026 through 2030 time frame to fund a portion of capital
replacement requirements, which includes some hybrid and electric buses, but mostly diesel, due to the
market's current availability. The supporting fleet fact sheets also provide a higher cost option for a larger
proportion of hybrid vehicles.
No issuance of debt beyond the 2030 frame is included in the Long Range Financial Plan. The forecast
assumes that any incremental costs, either capital or operations, for DRCOG Regional Transportation
Plan, Bus Rapid Transit corridors above those funding levels currently provided by RTD would be paid for
and financed by stakeholder project sponsors.
The forecast model includes that the Denver Transit Operators concession agreement for the A, B, and G
Lines remains in place through 2044, with RTD assuming operations thereafter. It includes the entire light
rail network conversion to level boarding, as well as that a new bus operating facility will be built or
acquired, that the existing automatic block signal system for light rail is converted to a cab signal safety
overlay, and that the agency does not assume ownership of private contractor bus operations facilities.
The forecast assumes a balance of three months of operating expenses, and the operating reserves and
reserves fully utilized, with the exception of keeping $145 million in the FasTracks Internal Savings
Account. This Long Range Financial Plan does not incorporate proposed defeasance or prepayment of a
portion of the 2026 debt obligations. Note that the implementation of the Facilities and Fleet Transition
Plan would add approximately $1.4 billion to the capital costs above what is listed in the Long Range
Financial Plan schedules.

Due to complexities and unknowns in the fleet replacement schedules, the Facilities and Fleet Transition
Plan is not able to be incorporated into the Long Range Financial Plan by year at this time. We included
the $1.4 billion incremental cost estimate in the Board report for reference, however. The prior Long
Range Financial Outlook for 2022 through 2050 that was shared at the Colorado General Assembly Town
Hall on December 9 of last year showed revenue nearing $3 billion by 2050, which is similar to this
update, and findings that future expenditures are expected to outpace revenue with an increasing degree
as decades progress.
In the prior version, expenditures similarly exceeded revenue, but it reflected smoother spending trends.
The update we are presenting this evening is intended to reflect more accurate expenditures based on
what we know today, which creates less smoothness in the expenditure bar chart trends. The Long
Range Financial Plan does not provide RTD with the means to maintain its current system in a state of
good repair through 2055 without significant incremental revenue from new funding sources. Between
2026 and 2055, RTD would not have the capacity for service expansion or new projects beyond those
needed to maintain a state of good repair.
And Mr. Chair, that concludes my comments and I will turn it back to you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, CFO Mackey. Directors, are there any conversation on this one?
Director Nicholson, your hand is raised. Go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you very much. I've been waiting all night for this item.
CFO Mackey, so first off, you mentioned in your presentation that there was an alternate schedule or
something, I forget the word, of fleet replacement that would include more hybrid buses. I didn't see that
in the packet for this item. Is that included somewhere else, that details the different options for the cost of
going with more hybrids or fewer-- I just, that didn't seem like it was in the packet.
KELLY MACKEY: It is not in the packet. I'm sorry. May I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
KELLY MACKEY: OK. It is not in the packet. It's in the fact sheets. So those are detailed schedules that
departments put together.
I will call out that generally speaking, as a rule of thumb, electric costs about twice as much as diesel and
you need about 1.5 times as many as them, and you also need proper facilities to house them. But we
can share in more detail, and we do plan to share in a bit more detail next week in the study session.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so just for clarity, can we get copies of those fact sheets?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. I went to the wrong button. Yes, that's our intent. Ms. Mackey and I
talked about that. We're working diligently to have those for the study session, to give explanation relative
to what we're seeing in 2026, as we move forward, and in explanations relative to any outlying years. Of
course, we can't put that together going out to 2050.
And so basically, to the point that Ms. Mackey raised, it goes back to my earlier comments, Secretary
Nicholson, relative to what's currently available. As we indicated before, we don't have options relative to

60-footers for the here and now. So as we look at forecasting, we're dealing with what's available. There
are available buses that are 40-footers that are FTA-approved and things of the. There's a myriad of
different other factors that have to be taken into consideration when you think about alternative fuel
vehicles and their propulsion systems.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. So I probably swallowed harder when I looked at that slide that is in this item
about where our finances are going in the next 10, 15, 20 years, thinking to myself, if I run for re-election,
I'll be on the Board in the middle of the 2030s, when we will be short $3 billion over a five-year period,
which equates to about $400 million a year.
That led me to a fairly simple and straightforward question. What planning has the agency done so far in
terms of pursuing a ballot measure to raise additional revenue? If we recognize that this avalanche is
coming-- I'm going to pull from the Bruce Willis movie with the asteroid coming to Earth, Armageddon-we recognize the asteroid is coming. What planning are we doing to actually create that revenue source
and go to the voters and mitigate this oncoming disaster? How far has that conversation gotten?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly for the question. And I think it's a collective conversation,
recognizing when we went through the ballot initiative, just preparing for it a year and a half ago, it's a
conversation with the Board because that's of a policy nature, as we talk about preparing, because we as
staff, basically we're paid by the taxpayer. So there's a balancing act as we go forward, but happy to
engage with the Board as it relates to where we all sit and what we envision doing.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Very quick follow-up?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Has any polling been commissioned by the Board on the public's appetite for a
ballot measure, that increased sales tax revenue, to fund RTD's transit operations, or to fund RTD in any
way, really?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Before anybody answers that legal question, General Counsel, are you on? Thank
you.
Under the RTD Act, are we even allowed to consider right now more than the 1% that we are collecting?
Because I thought that was the max allowed under the legislation for the RTD.
MELANIE SNYDER: So my understanding-- and correct me if I'm wrong, Director Nicholson-- my
understanding of Director Nicholson's question is he's inquiring about what options the agency might have
moving forward, going to the voters to seek voter authorization for an increase in our sales and use tax.
And that is what would be required under the law.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. But we're not limited to just the 1%, under the RTD Act? Because I thought that
was the max allowed for us to ask.
MELANIE SNYDER: We are currently limited. We are currently limited under the Act to a 1% total sales
and use tax collection. We do have the ability to seek voter authorization under the RTD Act.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: For additional.
MELANIE SNYDER: For additional, correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Thank you. Sorry. It was in addition to your question, Director Nicholson, I
just want to make sure I understood. Go ahead.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So, yeah, my question then is, has RTD, at any point, really, I guess, in your
tenure, GM/CEO Johnson, done any kind of public opinion surveys, polling on the public's willingness to
pay additional sales tax to fund RTD?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. So considering I've been here at the height of the pandemic, the only polling that
we did was relative to de-Brucing.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sounds like more work for next year.
All right. Are there any other questions or comments from Directors? I don't see any. Thank you.
CFO Mackey, did you get what you needed out of that conversation for information? Thank you.
All right. Our fourth and final item for tonight is the July year-to-date financial update. Once again, I would
invite Kelly Mackey, Chief Financial Officer, to present this item to the committee.
KELLY MACKEY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And allow me to share my screen. Great.
Each month, a financial status report is included in the Board briefings. This report displays a dashboard
with sales and use taxes, ridership, and fare revenue results, as well as the unaudited financial
statements. And following the conclusion of this fiscal year ending in December, an annual
comprehensive financial report is produced, audited by independent auditors, and is presented to the
Audit Committee and the full Board as a recommended action.
Today, we're discussing with the Finance and Planning Committee RTD's financial results and position
year to date through July 31, 2025. This discussion is not only to provide an update, but also as an
additional context for the 2026 proposed budget and the Long Range Financial Plan discussion items
earlier in the Finance and Planning Committee's agenda. In this presentation, we will also overview
historical trends, fund balances, and challenges.
First, we will review actual results versus budget and then versus prior year. The figures here are in
thousands of dollars, and this view shows the variances of actuals to budget and year-over-year in gray.
Overall, revenue year to date is $631 million versus the budget of $768 million, which is $137 million
unfavorable, due primarily to federal grants, where we're expecting to draw them down later in the year,
as we discussed in the July Finance and Planning Committee meeting on the Q1 financial results. Staff
generally spreads the budget for grant funding across several months, and the actual timing depends on
when the application is approved and when RTD can start drawing money down with funds released.

Next, fares of $34 million are $519,000 favorable year-to-date to budget, and are $1 million lower than
prior year. Sales and use tax of $493 million was $13 million unfavorable to budget, and gre2 $6 million,
or 1%, from prior year, which is consistent with sales and use tax growth trend over the past several
years. This puts pressure on the agency in future years because costs typically rise at a higher rate with
inflation. Keep in mind that the 2025 budget was approved by the Board in November of 2024.
Other revenue, which includes advertising revenue and investment income, came in at $46 million, or $20
million favorable to budget. $17 million of the favorable variance is from investment income. Other income
gre2 $612,000 from prior year.
Director Benker had requested in September that we break out state grant revenue. State grant revenue
was $2 million year-to-date for Zero Fare for Youth, and that funding soon ends on January 31, 2026.
After review with our auditors, RubinBrown, they did recommend that RTD not break out the state grant
revenue in its financial statements due to immateriality and inconsistency with other transit agencies.
However, we are able to provide that amount separately.
Operating expense year-to-date was $543 million, versus a$788 million budget. More than $100 million of
this favorability is due to timing of the East Colfax BRT expenses. Keep in mind that the project is a pass
through to the City and County of Denver. Cost was budgeted conservatively in 2025 due to the project's
complexity and grant timing, and funds will carry forward into 2026. Other favorability and operating
expenses related to slower and more conservative spending.
Operating expense increased by $51 million from prior year. We have seen 50% increase in service
expense and a 40% increase in insurance expense. The only other major line that increased more than
20% was miscellaneous.
Depreciation of $191 million was close to plan and just higher than prior year. Interest expense on debt of
$74 million is $10 million favorable to budget and $2 million better than prior year, due to refinancing that
took place after the 2025 budget was adopted. In total, expense of $809 million exceeded year-to-date
revenue of $631 million, for a decrease in net position f $178 million, which directly impacts reserves. This
was $137 million favorable to the 2025 budget of $314 million decrease in net position.
Moving on to financial position, these are the results of money in and money out and ending balances as
of July 31 of 2025 versus July 31 of 2024. The critical component is what's available to RTD potentially to
spend after subtracting all liabilities and other obligations. Cash investments and accounts receivable of
$1.2 billion have declined $99 million, or 8%, from prior year year to date. RTD has less than $1 billion in
cash as of July 2025. Cash and investments are down $116 million, or 11%, from prior year, and
accounts receivable are up $17 million, or 8%.
FasTracks fund balances of $526 million declined $32 million, or 6%, due to restricted fund decline to
$279 million from $323 million. Base system fund balances of $576 million declined $96 million, or 14%,
from prior year. The total of these subcategories is $2.3 billion, which declined $227 million, or 9%, from
prior year, and is directly related to the decrease in net position on the prior slide.
To summarize what I've discussed so far regarding financial results, revenue is behind expectations due
to the timing of grants. RTD has a positive expenditure variance offsetting the revenue shortfall, and RTD
has a strong, though declining, financial position because expenditure continues to exceed revenue. And
bottom line, year-to-date financial performance is favorable to budget.

Next, I will overview historical trends. These charts are included in the monthly financial statements that
you have seen. The far left year here is 2019. The top line, the red line, is the trend in cash, investments,
and accounts receivable. The yellow line is base system and the blue line is FasTracks balances.
You can see that the financial position of RTD strengthened significantly through 2023 and then began to
decline in 2024 and in the 2025 budget and actuals. The flip side, if you look at the right side of the slide,
is what do we owe on the balance sheet? Since 2019, this chart starts to show a nice trend over the past
six years in the big obligations that RTD has. In the blue section, the total debt profile, everything in the
principal amount of debt owed to our investors that was borrowed in 2019, is $3.9 billion, and we're left
with a current outstanding principal balance of $3.3 billion at the end of July 2025.
Part of that reduction is actual debt service that has been paid, and a lot of it is also due to the debt
refinancings that have occurred in more recent years when RTD had the opportunity. Staff refinanced
debt for interest savings and took out some of the principal balance at the same time, reducing the risk to
RTD.
The pension obligation is $154 million, down from $304 million in 2019. You may recall in 2022, with the
collective bargaining agreement, the Amalgamated Transit Union and RTD worked together to address
the large pension obligation. The pension plan was closed to new employees, for represented employees,
going forward in 2023. There was also a large payment of $160 million, a lump sum put into that plan that
reduced the risk profile to RTD.
And moving into fund balances. We have this broken down by types of fund balances. The fund balances
are RTD's assets minus liabilities. The fund balances are also known in the private sector as owners
equity. It's essentially the savings that are left over if RTD were to pay off all of its obligations. We have a
column for base system, a column for FasTracks, and a gray column for the total, followed by where
these were in the prior year and the year-over-year variances from July 31, 2025.
Restricted fund balances are restricted by contracts and agreements, such as debt agreements. That's
money that has to be set aside to service debt. For example, we have a restricted TABOR reserve that's
required of all governmental agencies in Colorado to maintain a 3% TABOR reserve. And those funds
showed here are $115 million, and they are essentially untouchable for covenants.
Next are funds that fall under the Board auspices, which are the remaining funds after removing restricted
reserves. Through fiscal policy that the Board has approved and through discussion, there are essentially
four different fund balances. The word fund and reserves are really interchangeable. The operating
reserves have been established as three months of operating expense, excluding depreciation, and it's
$301 million.
Next is the capital replacement fund established through the budgeting process. While we have a good
cash position, we identify $261 million to set aside for capital replacement. That has to do with state of
good repair, the Transit Asset Management Plan, and having that funding available so we don't have, to
this year at least, borrow money and pay additional interest. Our five-year financial forecast shows this
capital replacement fund will not be sufficient for the 2026 through 2030 time frame.
We currently have $192 million in the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, known as the FISA, and the
2026 proposed budget includes no change to that balance. And finally, we show the unrestricted fund
balance, which is a credit balance of $93 million, primarily due to the delay in 2025 grants revenue. This
balance was a positive $58 million at the end of 2024.

Keep in mind that restricted funds are contractual or statutory requirements, such as for TABOR, and the
other items are under Board auspices. The Board has the authority to spend and only the Board can
appropriate those funds.
So in wrapping up, there is not much diversification in revenue, as sales and use taxes typically about
70% of revenue and growth in sales and use tax collection has slowed. For 2026, the proposed budget
has this at 77% of revenue. As you saw in the earlier presentation, spending requirements to maintain
state of good repair in the existing system are forecasted to exceed revenue to an increasing extent in the
future.
The primary challenge is that spend continues to exceed revenue, which naturally results in a decline of
RTD's financial position, though that decline year-to-date is better than budget. RTD's financial
statements may look like the agency has a lot of money, but essentially it is spoken for and RTD needs
that money to maintain what it has.
Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation for the year-to-date financial update.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, do you have any questions or comments? I do not see any.
Thank you, CFO Mackey. I appreciate that. We have money but it is spoken for. Good to know.
All right. I was going to say thank you, under Other Matters, to Director Catlin, who has already left the
meeting. Tonight was her last committee meeting with us, as she has left the Board. So we wish her well
and thank her for her service and wisdom.
Are there any other matters? Director Nicholson, your hand went up.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, it did. Thank you.
I had a question for GM/CEO Johnson and Ms. Mackey about the study session. I was wondering what
the format is going to be for that. When the Denver City Council did their budget week, they basically
went through the budget department by department and had each department present on what was in
their department budget. And I was wondering if you can speak a little bit to how are we going to use that
time effectively to try to understand all the different moving parts. Are we going to focus on specific
pieces, or are you going to give us an overview? And can you break that down in a way that will make
sure we can give relevant input and have a useful deliberation?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: Yes. I was not planning to utilize the time to have each department present on their
budget, because you're able to read that in the budget book, and I think it's pretty self-explanatory. And I
don't think your concerns are related necessarily to the department level budgets, but I can speak to them
at a high level, because you did mention bus operations earlier.
But I think the time would be better spent on things like capital requirements in 2026 and in future years,
what those are, what the debt schedules look like, what the $20 million in proposed debt, taking out for
the cutaway vehicles in 2026, what that looks like in more detail, and probably, for the five-year financial
forecast portion, sharing with you, for example, quantities of vehicles which are diesel, which are
proposed at hybrid, which are electric, and, in the fact sheets, what it's proposing in terms of what the
cost would be if we had a higher proportion hybrid, things like that that you all have asked about.

I have a number of questions from prior meetings with the Finance and Planning Committee about things
that you would like to see in more detail. So I have notes to build out materials to help answer those
questions. So I do plan to use the time for that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [INAUDIBLE]
CHRIS NICHOLSON: May I?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yep.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Will department staff be present for the meeting, so that if we do have questions,
and I expect just from other conversations I've had, that there may be particular Directors who do, will
they be there to speak to those budgets, or who's going to be present in order to be able to answer those
sorts of questions?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Secretary Nicholson. Just by means of
process, all leadership team members are generally in attendance at a study session, recognize the
importance of the budget. And when you look at the core departments relative to service delivery, we will
be there collectively.
And recognizing your question, comparing us to the City and County of Denver, considering budgets
there and departmental aspect is that some municipality, to what Ms. Mackey said, we are going to lean
in. We have been conferring, of course, with the Chair and Vice Chair of the committee and recognizing
where we are with the five-year financial forecast, that will be an element as well. But amplifying what Ms.
Mackey said, presenting you all with information and giving you the opportunity to delve in a little deeper
as we do our best to address questions that you may have relative to what it is and what we're doing, and
more so understanding the parameters from which we're working within, as well, I believe, is paramount
to the discussion. Thanks.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: CFO Mackey.
KELLY MACKEY: I will also add that our Senior Manager of Finance, Heidi Wagner, has kindly offered to
join the study session, and her Finance organization are the ones who have been working with the
individual departments to help develop the budget. And so she's also going to be available to speak to the
department budgets in more detail and answer questions.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome. Thank you. Appreciate it.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right. Thank you.
With no other hands raised, then I just need to do this last piece. The next meeting date of this committee
will be November 11 for Finance and Planning. It is a Tuesday. It is also Veterans Day. At that meeting,
we are scheduled to take action on the following four items, three of which we discussed in detail this
evening. The proposed defeasance of the 2026 debt service, the proposed 2026 budget, the Long Range
Financial Plan, and then the salaried trustee appointments.
Additionally, we will have discussions on the following two items, the triennial update to Reimagine RTD,
the Mobility Plan for the Future, and the bus stop infrastructure and accessibility assessment, long

awaited. Also, please be on the lookout for updates regarding a path forward for the five-year financial
forecast, which should come out of the. Wednesday, October-- excuse me, that might be a Tuesday-October 22 study session from 5:00 to 7:00 PM at Blake Street, where we will discuss all matters
pertaining to the budget and financial forecasting for RTD. Madam CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. I thought you said you thought it was a Tuesday. It is Wednesday,
October 22, due to the fact that the Chair-- when we polled, it's Wednesday. So I just wanted to clarify
that. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I have it written down wrong in my notes. No problem. Wednesday,
October 22, 5:00 to 7:00 PM at Blake Street.
Seeing no other discussion, we will adjourn our meeting at 9:17 PM. Thank you. We made it through.
Questions, send them our way. Have a good night.

RTD Board of Directors and General Manager Johnson,
On behalf of the organizations below, we are writing in opposition to RTDs proposal to borrow
$539 million to purchase diesel buses over the next five years. Approval of this proposal
would hinder statewide efforts to reduce climate pollution and dangerous ozone pollution,
resulting in the Front Range violating air quality standards. This investment is a misuse of funds
and would lock in higher fuel costs for decades.
RTD has long positioned itself as a national leader in sustainable transit with a focus on
reducing air pollution, especially in high transit density areas. In 2017, RTD boasted the largest
electric bus fleet in the nation with its 36 electric MallRide buses. However, the agency hasnt
ordered a single electric bus in over a decade. The shift to new diesel purchases, at a moment
when peer agencies are accelerating toward full electrification, undermines that reputation,
negatively impacts public health, and risks increased costs due to the volatility of oil markets.
This contradicts RTD's climate commitments in its strategic plan and fleet electrification plan. In
2024, 61 transit agencies from 30 different states, including Alaska, Alabama, Florida, Idaho,
and Montana, secured FTA funding to purchase electric buses; if these peer agencies have
already done so, theres no reason for RTD not to.
We understand the near-term operational needs, specifically the need to replace aging
paratransit vehicles by 2026. However, we urge the Board to include electric buses in the
current round of bus procurement and to:
 Accelerate the construction and retrofitting of bus maintenance and charging
facilities to enable full electrification readiness.
 Maintain the existing diesel fleet longer, within FTA guidelines, especially since RTD
already exceeds its allowable spare ratio.
 Transition directly to electric when current diesel buses reach the end of their
lifespans, avoiding a costly and backward double investment in harmful fossil-fuel
infrastructure.
Were puzzled as to why RTD has not applied for any funding from the SB21-260 Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT) Clean Transit Enterprise (CTE) program, which is one of
the few state-funded initiatives in the country that directly supports transit electrification. With a
Fiscal Year 2025 budget exceeding $18 million, the program has awarded grants to 16
communities across Colorado, including Fort Collins, Avon, Pueblo, Durango, Mesa County,
Winter Park, Boulder, Denver, Breckenridge, and the Roaring Fork Valley. CTE funding supports
not only vehicle replacement but also electrification planning, charging infrastructure, and facility
upgrades  areas that RTD frequently cites as barriers to bus electrification. In 2025, the
Roaring Fork Transit Authority received $5.6 million for 10 new electric buses, which, upon
delivery in 2026, will bring their total electric bus fleet to 18 vehicles  nearly 20% of their entire
fleet.

Its frustrating that RTD has not received any federal Low-No Emission Bus grants since 2019.
We are concerned that RTD is missing out on valuable state and federal funding while other
agencies, many operating in colder and more challenging conditions, are advancing their
electrification efforts. This is particularly troubling as new state transit grants become available
in 2026, including the SB24-230 CTE Local Transit Grant Program and the ongoing Multimodal
Options Fund (MMOF) program. Given RTDs constrained resources and the significant transit
needs in our region, we need RTD to aggressively pursue state and federal grants, resulting in
system improvements.
The undersigned strongly oppose RTD's proposal to borrow $539 million to purchase diesel
buses and urge it to build electric-supportive facilities now and exhaust all possible
options to enable clean, cost-effective electric bus purchases. Every year of increased
diesel combustion means more particulate matter and NOx emissions in the air that harm public
health, especially Disproportionately Impacted Communities. Every dollar spent extending
diesel infrastructure and diesel buses delays Colorados clean energy transition and erodes
public confidence in RTDs long-term sustainability plan to reduce harmful transportation
pollution.
Leadership means using this moment to double down on electrificationnot to retreat from it.
RTDs choices today will define Colorados climate and air quality trajectory for decades to
come.
Thank you for your consideration,
Renee Larrarte, Climate & Transportation Campaign Manager, Conservation Colorado
Matt Frommer, Transportation & Land Use Policy Manager, Southwest Energy Efficiency Project
(SWEEP)
Jill Locantore, Executive Director, Denver Streets Partnership
Matt Muir, Executive Director, Coalition 4 Cyclists, 501c3
Becky English, Transportation Chair, Sierra Club Colorado
Ean Tafoya, Vice President of State Programs, GreenLatinos
Rudolph Rudy Gonzales, President & CEO, Servicios de La Raza
Alvina Vasquez, Chairperson of the Board, Servicios Sigue
Danny Katz, Executive Director, CoPIRG
Alana Miller, CO Policy Director, NRDC (Natural Resources Defense Council)

City of Boulder
City Council

October 13, 2025
RTD Finance and Planning Committee
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Directors of the RTD Finance and Planning Committee,
I am writing on behalf of the City of Boulder to express our concerns regarding the proposed use of $113
million FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) reserves for operational needs over the next five years,
including the diversion of $69 million in 2026, as shown in the 2026 proposed budget. While we are
deeply sympathetic to the significant fiscal challenges facing RTD, we cannot support a proposal that
diverts reserve funding from its intended purpose: completing the FasTracks corridors that our
community was promised two decades ago.
As you know, and as stated in RTDs Fiscal Policy, the FISA will be used to provide funding to complete
and operate additional FasTracks projects. It represents a commitment to fiscal responsibility and longterm planning, ensuring that taxpayer dollars collected would be reinvested in completing the voterapproved transit vision, rather than being absorbed into general operations.
We are troubled by the proposal to redirect FISA funds with no plans to backfill the account. Boulder
residents have paid the dedicated FasTracks sales tax for 20 years and deserve to see commitments
honored. As such, we respectfully request the RTD Finance and Planning Committee reject any proposal
to use FISA reserves for purposes other than FasTracks corridor completion.
We appreciate the important work that you do, and the difficult decision you face. We look forward to
continued partnership in advancing regional transit goals that serve all our communities.
Sincerely,

Aaron Brockett
Mayor, City of Boulder
CC: Boulder City Council, RTD Board of Directors
1777 Broadway, Boulder CO 80302

|

bouldercolorado.gov

|

O: 303-441-3002

October 14, 2025
RTD Finance and Planning Committee
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake St
Denver, CO 80202
RE: Proposed Use of the FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Dear RTD Finance and Planning Committee,
I am writing on behalf of the City and County of Broomfield to express our concerns regarding the proposed use of
$114 million from the $190 million FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) reserves for maintenance needs and
FasTracks debt over the next five years, including the diversion of $69 million in 2026, as outlined in the proposed
budget. We understand the significant fiscal challenges facing RTD and the difficult decisions required. However, we
cannot support a proposal that diverts reserve funding from its intended purpose: completing the FasTracks
corridors that our community was promised two decades ago.
As noted in RTDs Fiscal Policy, the FISA will be used to provide funding to complete and operate additional
FasTracks projects. This policy reflects a commitment to fiscal responsibility and long-term planning, ensuring that
taxpayer dollars collected are reinvested in completing the voter-approved transit vision, rather than being
absorbed into general operations.
Broomfield is concerned about the proposal to redirect FISA funds without plans to replenish the account. Residents
of the City and County of Broomfield have paid $95 million to the dedicated FasTracks sales tax for 20 years and
deserve to see commitments honored. Therefore, we request that the RTD Finance and Planning Committee
reject any proposal to use FISA reserves for purposes other than completing the FasTracks corridors.
We appreciate the important work you do and understand the difficult decisions the Board faces. We trust you will
take our concerns seriously and make a decision that upholds the commitments made to our community. We look
forward to continuing our partnership in advancing regional transit goals that benefit all our communities.
Sincerely,

Guyleen Castriotta
Mayor of the City & County of Broomfield

CC: 


RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager, CEO
Michael Davies, RTD Government Liaison

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

kai abelkis
Monday, October 13, 2025 9:58 AM
RTD.Directors; Matthew Popkin
Purchasing new busses

Hello RTD Directors,
First a note of appreciation for your commitment to public service.
You are all considering the purchase of new buses to replace an aging fleet.
RTD characterized the fuel source as Clean Diesel .
There is no such thing as Clean Diesel! With Colorado perpetually in violation of clean air standards
you will exasperate the health and wellbeing of our most vulnerable citizens.
Please stop kidding yourselves and the public by framing this decision around using the word clean to
excuse your possible decision.
On behalf of every child who finds themselves in the ER because of our poor air quality be brave and find
a truly clean energy source to run our busses.
Cheers!
Kai Abelkis
Longmont

1

