Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
November 17, 2016 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tobiassen, 1st Vice-Chair
Hoy, 2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler,
Treasurer Francone

Board members absent:

Secretary Solano

Others Present:

GM Genova, Barbara McManus

II.

November Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Tobiassen walked the committee through the Board meeting agenda,
reviewing all actions on the consent agenda and recommended actions. There were
no comments from the committee regarding changes or issues with the planned
actions items. Chair Tobiassen commented that he was very pleased the Bylaws
and Expense polices passed Committee and will hopefully have final approval on
the 29th.
Barbara McManus added that John Tarbert, Transit Police Chief, requested that the
Board Office add an item in Special Recognitions for the officer who rescued the
mother and daughter the day of the active shooting on the 16th Street Mall. John
Tarbert stated that the officer will be presented with a special Commendation at
the Board meeting on the 29th.
Chair Tobiassen asked for a motion to approve the agenda.

Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the
November 29, 2016 Board agenda.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed with the 4 in favor
(Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Tobiassen) and 0
opposed.
Director Solano was absent.

III.

Other Matters
Director Deadwyler said Stacy Gilmore of the Denver City Council called and made
a request for students to ride the University of Colorado A line.
Chair Tobiassen asked Director Deadwyler to contact RTD staff for a response as
there are provisions for such requests but he was not sure what they are.
Director Francone asked if we could move forward on a test basis of video of the
Board meetings and would like an update on where we are in this process.
Director Hoy said he had no opposition to recording the board meetings and would
look at their robustness of what is needed. He felt we could start out slow and
added that the Safety and Security department has cameras all over the District
and it would be of value to use their expertise.
Director Bagley remarked that this is something that is critical and appreciated
Director Francone bringing this up since he has been championing this for quite
some time. He added if Littleton has the ability to video tape, RTD should have the
capacity to do so as well and he plans on following this through even after he rolls
off the Board. He also agreed with Director Hoy that an incremental approach may
be the way to go.
Chair Tobiassen asked if we could implement something as soon as possible.
General Manager Genova said he would set up a meeting and move this effort
forward as soon as possible.
Director Bagley referenced the e-mail he sent to General Manager Genova regarding
the Platte facility and wanted to make sure it was being addressed.

General Manager Genova said he would get back to Director Bagley regarding
Platte.
Chair Tobiassen mentioned he, along with Director’s Hoy, James and Bagley would
be attending Transit Alliance event.
IV.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 12:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

