Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 18, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
May 18, 2010 at 5:45 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:47 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call.
absent.

III.

Directors Bagley and Daly were

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Elected official representatives from the US 36 Coalition spoke on behalf of providing support
for agenda item M, U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER)
Grant Contingent Commitment. Honorable Mayor Muckle, Superior, indicated this group
represents elected officials from Boulder, Westminster, Louisville, Superior and other cities
along the US 36 Corridor. It also includes business representation. He thanked RTD for the
improvements that have already been made along that corridor. As he talked about allocating
limited resources, he stated that support of item M for $30 million would leverage a significant
amount of other monies in a cost effective and timely manner.
Honorable Mayor McNally, Westminster, spoke of the benefit of the TIFIA loan to the whole
regional community. This will complete 1/3 of the corridor and will provide a much needed
visual for FasTracks of work being completed, job creation and doing this in a fast, economical
and timely manner.
Honorable Mayor Osborne, Boulder, expressed appreciation to the RTD FasTracks Monitoring
Committee, RTD team and especially General Manager Washington, Assistant General Manager
Van Meter and Karen Morales who had assisted in bringing this solution together. While the
people of Boulder will not necessarily get a direct benefit from this grant, they are very
supportive of this effort and will realize an indirect benefit for those who travel US 36 back and
forth to Denver. This will shorten the travel time and help to make transit more enticing.
Honorable Mayor Sisk, Louisville, expressed thanks to the US 36 staff who has worked
diligently to make the US 36 Coalition work so viable. The decision to approve Item M is a
significant step in making TIFIA monies possible. This will be a cooperative effort where
hopefully tonight, the RTD Board will approve 30 million, followed by a meeting with DRCOG on
Wednesday to obtain approval for another 25 million, and on Thursday with CDOT for another
30 million. This represents the perfect storm where a confluence of federal, state, local and
regional groups is working together in the interest of the whole.
Lori Frasier, member of the US 36 Coalition Executive Committee, represented the business
interest in supporting Item M. Part of their role is to educate members about their travel

options. There are approximately 25,000 people represented by this coalition. Support for this
funding will provide not only a tangible benefit to the people but will provide goodwill to the
Northwest corridor. With this approval, they can have shovels in the ground by next year and
will be able to leverage the TIGER grant.
Director Tayer thanked all the representatives for coming down to the Board meeting and
especially Lori for representing the business sector.
Dwight Hensen, Denver, provided a request for shuttle service for the Denver stock show
events. RTD will investigate.
Curtis Willoughby, Littleton, is visually impaired and lost access to the stop at Central Avenue
of the Flatirons business park when route 206 was changed. He is requesting a replacement
stop where he can access the National Federation of the Blind service organization.
Michele Halstead, CDOT, provided her support for the Item M, U.S. 36 Transportation
Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant Contingent Commitment. She talked
about the joint partnership and the work of the steering committee to bring this to fruition.
There is still some work to be done with completing the study, financial plan, and approval for
the transfer of TIGER fund. This is a perfect example of the community coming together to
leverage funds in the best way possible.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the Committee reports.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
There was no meeting this month. The next schedule meeting is June 4, 2010.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF APRIL 20, 2010 AND THE SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF April 27, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the April 20, 2010
regular board meeting minutes and the special board meeting
minutes of April 27, 2010.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor, and 0
against. Directors Bagley and Daly were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Eagle P3 Update
General Manager Washington reported they are proceeding on schedule with the Eagle
P3.


FTA New Starts Guidelines & Creation of Regional Work Group
It is anticipated that the transit agencies will have an opportunity to provide their input
to the new starts guidelines. RTD has established a regional work group to come up
with ideas as one region, one voice. The kickoff will be May 27, 2010.



Federal Grants Update

The General Manager had recently provided the Board members with a summary of
recent Federal grant requests and opportunities. He considers this manna from heaven
but staff must work quickly to meet the deadlines. One such opportunity is a joint
application between CDOT and RTD on the leg off I-225 between Peoria and Iliff.


North Area Transportation Alliance (NATA) Presentation
The General Manager and members of staff presented to the NATA group on May 17,
2010. It was a great meeting where they discussed a number of topics including;
Eagle P3, financial implications, and new starts opportunities.



RTD Top 5 Transit Initiatives
General Manager Phil Washington challenged his team to come up with best practices
in each of their perspective areas. These top five initiatives represent some of the best
practices including providing credit to the source of the best practice. Two of these
best practices come from RTD itself:
 e-mail subscription services providing notification to our riders
 Yield-to bus-should improve running time, etc.
 Workforce development initiative—this will be included in every grant
application submitted
 Customer Bill of Rights—if they are delayed more than 30 minutes for reasons
other than acts of God or scheduled activities, the ride is on RTD. They can
write to the top and information will be posted in various locations.
 Public Private Partnership



FHWA/FTA DBE/Workforce Development Workshop
RTD was one of the hosts for the FHWA/FTA DBE Workforce Development workshop
on May 18, 2010. This workshop was designed to showcase best practices from
Missouri, Wisconsin and Denver. Approximately 200 people were in attendance
including Directors Brohl, Malpiede, and Martinez. RTD staff helped facilitate this
meeting with other consultants that included members from the National COMTO
office.
Director Brohl provided her synopsis of the meeting. She represented the DBE
committee and provided some opening remarks. She expressed it is important that the
Board was represented front and center of this event and thanked the Chair for his
support of their participation. She is happy that their message resonated with the FTA
in March when the Board members and General Manager had a chance to talk to some
of the leaders and their staff in Washington. They have fully embraced the workforce
effort and she applauds Phil Washington and his staff for moving this forward. RTD is
getting lots of mileage from this effort.
DBE Chair Martinez commented that was an opportunity to showcase light rail in Five
Points which right now has lots of development in that area. The facility where this
event was located is a hub for SBE/DBE support and information.
Director Malpiede commended Director Brohl for her opening remarks. General
Manager Washington added the trip in March to Washington was key. They watched
as FTA Administrator Rogoff sent an email stating he wanted Denver to be first on the
tour for the FHWA/FTA Workforce Development Workshop.





Light Rail Operations and Maintenance Review
General Manager Washington has requested a safety review of our light rail operations
and maintenance. This review will be taking place this week.
Senior Leadership Team Reorganization/Recruitment Update
General Manager Phil Washington reorganization effort involves 11 actions. He plans
to make an announcement on June 1, 2010.

General Manager Phil Washington also announced the resignation of Robert Merriman,
Budgeting and Financial Manager.


Construction Ready Task Force
The construction ready task force is about looking at every corridor to see what work
can be done. He expects the financial close of the Eagle P3 at the end of August.
Afterwards they will present to the Board what we can do with the money that is left
over. His plans are to get all corridors construction ready by the end of this year.

Director Tobiassen provided a report from his recent trip with Accelerate Colorado to
Washington D.C. Approximately 80 leaders representing the regional community participated.
They attracted the interest of the Congressional delegates who met with the group. Peter
Rogoff, FTA met with them and had ravishing remarks about RTD and Denver especially the
General Manager. He spoke on the importance of having a solid Board, having been exposed
to a not so solid Board of the past. He talked about the benefits of leveraging resources and
coordinating community resources and talked about how Denver is leveraging the livability
agenda with affordable housing and TOD. Director Tobiassen felt this was an extremely
productive meeting and lauded the benefits of shared regional solidarity.
IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through L
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for items A through L with
13 votes in favor and 0 against. Directors Bagley and
Daly were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Construction Contract Award to White Construction Group for LRT Facility
Enhancements
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to White Construction Group in the amount
of $4,894,000 for the LRT Facility Enhancements project. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the FasTracks Light Rail Maintenance Facility
Project.

B.

Reciprocal Land Swap Agreement with CDOT
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee, to negotiate and execute a proposed
Letter Agreement between the Colorado Department of Transportation and the Regional
Transportation District for the Reciprocal Use of Right of Way for Transportation
Facilities confirming the verbal agreement regarding CDOT and RTD’s use of each
other’s right of way.

C.

Request for Approval of RTD 2009 Annual Report to Denver Regional Council o f
Governments (DRCOG) on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve submittal of the RTD 2009 Annual Report on FasTracks to
Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG). This report summarizes the

changes to the FasTracks Plan, including financing and alignment, which have
been approved by the Board in 2009 and early 2010. These changes are included
and referenced in the Annual Report.
D.

Approval to Adopt the Northwest Rail Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (EE)
Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the adoption of the Northwest Rail Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (EE)
document.

E.

FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of
Directors appoint one member to the Committee to fill a vacancy created by
resignation.

F.

Contract Amendment for Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess, P.C
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend contract 17F0034A
with Duncan, Ostrander & Dingess, P.C. for the provision of legal services specializing
in eminent domain for the West Corridor Light Rail Project and additional transit projects
to increase the contract amount by $1,000,000, for a new total contract amount of
$2,700,000. This contract was originally awarded January 15, 2008 for an initial
three years plus two one year options to renew. The contract is in the third year of the
initial performance period which began January 15, 2010 and will end January 15,
2011 with the ability to extend for two one-year options.
Funding for this contract increase is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the East
Corridor, Gold Line, Northwest Rail, Systems Improvements, and US 36 BRT – Phase I
projects.

G.

Contract Amendment for Property Acquisition and Relocation Assistance Services
Contracts; Universal Field Services, Inc., Briggs Field Services, Inc., and H. C. Peck and
Associates, Inc.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend contracts 17DH014
with Universal Field Services, Inc., 17DH001 with Briggs Field Services, Inc. and
17DH013 with H. C. Peck and Associates, Inc. for the provision of property
acquisition, relocation assistance, property management and planning services for the
West Corridor Light Rail Project and additional transit projects including the US 36
Phase I BRT and the Eagle P3 projects to increase each contract amount by
$1,000,000, for a new total contract amount of $2,065,000, $2,000,000 and
$2,550,000 respectively. These contracts were originally awarded September 14,
2007 for an initial two years plus three one-year options to renew. The contracts are
in the first option period.
Funding for these contract increases is included in the 2010 Adopted Budget for the
East Corridor, Gold Line, Northwest Rail, Systems Improvements, and US 36 BRT –
Phase I projects.

H.

2009 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial
reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2009 as prepared by Staff and
audited by the District’s independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.

X.

I.

State Audit, Item #11
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt the revision of the reporting structure for the internal audit
function to improve communication procedures and independence of the department in
light of the State Audit Examination.

J.

Budget Transfer for West Corridor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a transfer of $20,000,000 from the West Corridor Parking
Garage project to the West Corridor project budget. This transfer would accelerate
funding originally programmed in 2011 for the West Corridor project into 2010.
Funding for the West Corridor parking garages would be replenished in the 2010
Amended Budget to allow design-bid packages for the garages to be issued in late
2010.

K.

RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2010 Revised policy on Lifetime Bus Passes for
Spouses

L.

August 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 2010 Service Changes (Attachment A)
on to public review and comment

RECOMMENDED ACTION
M.
U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) Grant
Contingent Commitment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors offer a contingent fiscal commitment of $30 million to leverage the $10
million awarded to the U.S. 36 Corridor project through the “Transportation Investment
Generating Economic Recovery” (TIGER) grant program into a significant, $160 million
project extending the current US 36 HOV lanes west to Broomfield in a managed lane
(BRT/HOV/HOT) configuration, based on the following contingencies:
a.
b.
c.

The Eagle P3 project financial close matches or betters the established
budget as anticipated.
The balance of $130 million project funding is found and committed to
by the loan deadline.
In order to demonstrate local financial support to U.S. DOT and to
satisfy the 2.5% local match commitment for RTD FasTracks corridors,
local governments sign Intergovernmental Agreements (IGAs) to commit
$769,231 in local match via cash or in-kind cost reductions to RTD’s
share of the project.

Through preparation of the U.S. 36 Environmental Impact Statement (EIS), the U.S. 36
communities, in concert with RTD and the Colorado Department of Transportation
(CDOT), have been planning improvements to the U.S. 36 Corridor for the last six
years. The planning efforts have culminated in the recommendation of multi-modal
improvements ready for implementation. Funding for the $30 million is included in the
FasTracks Financial Plan in the U.S. 36 BRT – Phase 2 project and is programmed for
expenditure in 2010 and 2011 derived from current sales and use tax revenues, which
meets the fiscal obligation timeframe requirements for TIGER.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve the U.S. 36
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) Grant Contingent Commitment.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director O’Boyle stated that he supports the U.S. 36
corridor as he supports all the corridors in the FasTracks
plan. He also supports the leveraging of funds in
financing. However, he is still concerned about a
statement made by staff that the expenditure of the $30
million could negatively impact funds available for the
other unfunded corridors.
Director McMullen expressed his appreciation of the
cooperation from the whole area and he is glad to be a
part of this Board.
Director Brohl asked explicitly if her understanding of the
issues is correct. She understands that the 30 million is
in the budget for this quarter already; the 30 million
comes from the $208 committed funds to the corridor in
the plan; the money being spent on this would not be
available anyway regardless of whether it is spent here or
elsewhere and it does not leave any corridor harmed.
General Manager Washington responded that her
understanding is correct. He reminded the Board of an
action they had taken back in September to approve 30
million subject to US 36 obtaining a TIGER grant. That
did not occur and nullified that action.
Bill Van Meter responded the 30 million comes out of the
allocated $208 million for the corridor; this will not harm
any of the other corridors.
Director Christopher stated this is just an indication of
other creative sources of funding to come.
As
opportunities become available such as the grant money
discussed earlier by the General Manager, we will have to
be nimble, seize the moment and take advantage of these
opportunities. Leveraging of resources is necessary and a
cost effective way to get the construction completed.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for item M, U.S. 36
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) Grant Contingent Commitment with 12 in favor
(Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Cohen, James, Kemp,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1
opposed (O’Boyle).
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Christopher made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (e) DUSPA negotiations
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion PASSED.

The meeting adjourned to Executive session at 6:58 p.m.
The meeting adjourned back to regular meeting open session at 7:44 p.m.
XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
N.

Item from Executive session.
MOTION:

Director James made the motion to approve the item
from the Executive Session, DUSPA Negotiations.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion PASSED thirteen in favor and 0 against.
Directors Bagley and Daly were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

XIII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Busck expressed frustration with the amount of documents and paper copies that
Board members receive. He stated the Board needs to move on becoming paperless. We need
to explore our options.
Chair Kemp requested the General Manager to have IT to explore options and to work with
Director Tobiassen on this issue.

XV.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 7:52 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, May 18, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Susan Altes
Jeff Becker
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter

District I
District B
District K
District O
District D
District J
District M
District A
District C
District E
District G
District L
District F

Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Anthony Menendez
Brian Middleton
Karen Morales
Paula Perdue
Chris Quinn
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster

OTHERS PRESENT:
Daryl Kinton
Lorraine Anderson
Andrew Muckle – Mayor of Superior
Lori Frasier
Audrey Frasier
Doug Connor
George Gerske
Jeremiah Luderman
Dwight Henson
Debra Baskett
Curtis Willoughby
Doris Willoughby
Rick McNeal
Michelle Halstead
Bob Wilson
Nancy McNally – Mayor
Chuck Sisk – Mayor
Osborne – Mayor

John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Greg Straight
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Michael Washington
Phil Washington
Susan Wood

