Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 28, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Louie Archuleta – Mechanic – 22 years
Tony McCaulay – Senior Marketing Manager – 20 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 28, 2017

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Budget Transfer for Increased Access-a-Ride Contract Costs

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve to the Accessa-Ride contracts for MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053 in the amount of
$1,700,000) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055 in the amount of $810,000)
to cover the additional costs associated with increased driver wages. The total dollar
amount of the budget transfer is $2,510,000.
B.

Budget Transfer for Increased Call-n-Ride Contract Costs

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve to the Call-nRide contracts to cover the additional costs associated with increased driver wages. The
total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $176,000.
C.

Proposed May 2017 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2017 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $221,300 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
D.

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 15 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract
option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 15 additional
40’ transit buses and associated spare components in an amount not to exceed
$6,598,000.

XII.

Recommended Action
E.

Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with AECOM for travel modeling services. The current
contract value is $355,706.62. This amendment increases the value by $535,000 to a
total of $890,706.62. Funding is included in the 2017 expense budget and the budget
for the SH 119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.
F.

Approval of Router Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a sole source
contract not to exceed $2,500,000 with Sierra Wireless America, Inc. (Sierra Wireless) for

upgrade of existing onboard routers and purchase of new onboard wireless routers and
associated equipment (Contract Number 17DH004). This contract will include upgrading
existing routers with new integrated cellular data modems, purchase of new onboard
routers with associated equipment, documentation and training.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

