1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 28, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Francone called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Pro Tem Francone asked everyone to stand and join her in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Title
Director, District L
Director, District C

Status
Present
Present

Arrived
5:26 PM
5:13 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:23 PM
5:25 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Present
Absent
Present

5:29 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:31 PM

Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk

Director, District H
Director, District O

Present
Absent

5:21 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:25 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:10 PM

5:32 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were thirteen (13) members present at roll call. Chair
Hoy and Director Sisk were absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou
Cripps, Lee Cryer, Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, George Hovey, Brian Iacono, John Hersey, Ali Imansepahi,
Michelle Madrid, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Scott Reed,
Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Carla Abad, Caprice Agassounom, Kilian Agassounom, Jennifer
Aggrey, Jessica Aggrey, Phoebe Amoako, Leticia Anaya, Homer
Anderson, Rev. Nelson Bock, Gloria Borunda, Benedict Botchey,
Sharon Bridgeworth, Miguel Caballo, Meghan Carrier, Elvia Chavez,
Marcos Cortes, Chris DeWitt, Maria Diego, Mayra Gonzalez, Eva
Gonzalez, Paul Gosdl, Brit Harvey, Diane Isler, Tony Lewis, Janiece
Machey, Celeste Martinez, Nora Miguel, Meyah Neur, Victoria Okine,
Sabina Padilla, Gercon Padilla, Juana Rivera, Hadyn Roberts, Miguel
Salgado, Maria Soto, Vivian Stovall, Frank Tapy, Daniella, Torres, Joe
Tripplett, Gary Van Dorn, Felipe Vieyra, Leticia Zuniga

Retiree Awards
Chair Pro Tem Francone noted there were two retirees this month though neither was in
attendance. She recognized Louie Archuleta, Mechanic, for his 22 years of service and
Tony McCaulay, Senior Marketing Manager, for his 20 years of service. She congratulated
them on their years of service and a job well done.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Pro Tem Francone stated public participation was open to anyone that wanted to
address the Board. She reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.


Frank Tapy from Denver stated that he was a long-time resident of the Park Hill
neighborhood. Mr. Tapy informed the Board that he was the Treasurer of Together
Colorado. He summarized Together Colorado as a state-wide, multi-faith, racially
inclusive, non-partisan, non-profit organization that is affiliated with People
Improving Communities through Organizing (PICO) National Network. Mr. Tapy
explained that Together Colorado is involved in national issues that include:
education, mass incarceration, immigration, health care, and economic justice. Mr.
Tapy mentioned the fact that he was a teacher for several decades teaching art and
coaching basketball. He emphasized the importance of extra-curricular
opportunities for students. He stated that lack of affordable transportation often
means that some students cannot participate. He stated that the situation has
become more problematic with continued economic disparity and the increase in
school choice options that require longer travel distances. He stated that if
students possessed an Eco Pass, then it would allow him or her to have greater









access to more activities. Mr. Tapy concluded by saying that statistics state that
children that participate in a wide range of activities typically have better
attendance, high academic performance and better graduation rates. He stressed
that the education of our youth must be the highest priority in Colorado and in the
Denver Metro Area. He said as a community servant, RTD can play an important
role in the educational experience for students.
Daniella Torres, Denver, stated that she was a freshman at Colorado Academy.
Ms. Torres said that if she had a bus pass she wouldn’t need to worry having
money to get to school and her soccer games. She explained that transportation
should not discourage a student’s desire to learn and do extra-curricular activities.
Tony Lewis of Denver, the Executive Director of the Donnell-Kay Foundation, stated
that his organization’s core focus is to improve education and a key piece of that
objective is providing transportation. He said that high school students need
access to after-school programs, summer programs, jobs, and access to school of
choice. Mr. Lewis explained that two years ago the Donnell-Kay Foundation started
researching transportation policies of Denver Public Schools (DPS), City and County
of Denver (CCD) and RTD. It became apparent after the study that most students
lack transportation resources and need public transit. He said that the Donnell-Kay
Foundation, along with DPS and the CCD, have tried to engage in pass
conversations with RTD but have failed on many occasions. He explained that all
the parties involved created a pilot program that would link up with the My Denver
card and Eco Pass. Through this pilot, Denver Public Schools would purchase
10,000 Eco Passes. Mr. Lewis stated DPS does not want free passes only access
to the Eco Pass program. He explained that RTD has denied this request and he
believes it’s a big mistake. He asked the Board to overturn this decision and allow
DPS to purchase 10,000 passes for the pilot program and in turn RTD will get
valuable ridership data on high school students for the pass study task force.
Miguel Ceballos, Denver, stated that he remembered when DPS provided buses to
take kids to school. He followed up by saying that he does not see that as a
growing priority in his Montbello neighborhood. He said students need to get to
activities after school and they need access to get there. He said that he used to go
to school to Emily Griffith School growing up and had to travel to and from
Montbello every day. He said he didn’t know how he would have afforded the
transit fares if he did not have a reduced rate pass. He asked the Board to consider
the people that their decision that if effects.
Marcos Cortes, Denver, stated that an Eco Pass would benefit him, his friends and
it would also help out his parents. He said that most of his friends’ parents do not
drive them to school because the distance is too far. Mr. Cortes said that once he
starts East High School next year he will need to take RTD to and from school. He
said that it is too hard for his mom to transport all of his siblings to various schools















each morning. He asked the Board to let DPS and CCD purchase Eco Passes the
same way RTD allows corporations to purchase passes.
Jennifer Agrray, Denver, from Young Aspiring Americans for Social and Political
Activision (YAASPA), stated that, if all students had access to an RTD pass, they
would have access to more quality schools. She asked RTD to step up and let DPS
buy RTD passes.
Benedict Botchi, Denver, YAASPA and Together Colorado, said it is vital for
students to have access to bus passes. He explained and example of how his
brother missed a very important test because he chose to save money for other
things instead of using it for the bus. He urged the Board to prioritize figuring out a
solution to this problem.
Jessica Agrray, Denver, stated that a lot of her friends miss school because they do
not have money for the bus. She pleaded with the Board to allow CCD to purchase
bus passes.
Phoebe Amoako, Denver, YAASPA, stated that parents are paying $50/month for
their child to access a bus pass. She said that she is considering going to a school
far from where she lives; however, she may not be able to afford to get there. Ms.
Amoako said that there are a lot of kids who do not receive the education they
deserve because of transportation issues. DPS has the money to purchase 10,000
passes from RTD from their Eco Pass program, the same program corporations
purchase passes for their employees.
Reverend Nelson Bock, Denver, Together Colorado, stated that he has lived in
Denver for over 30 years. He cited that a large percentage of students from
Denver Public Schools come from low-income families and are on the free and
reduced lunch program. Rev. Bock said that transportation to and from school for
these families can be a very large financial burden. He said that parents want to
allow their children to have every opportunity to thrive and extracurricular activities
teach them very important values. He explained how extracurricular activities help
young people to fully develop their potential and become productive members to
our society. Rev. Bock plead with the Board to break the barriers and support the
request for RTD to negotiate a bulk purchase of Eco Passes for DPS students.
Victoria Okane, Denver, YAASPA, said that she believes that RTD passes cost too
much for students and families. She stated that she would redirect that money to
purchase swim equipment. She urged the Board to work with DPS and CCD in the
purchase agreement of 10,000 Eco Passes.
Caprice Agassounom, Denver, YAASPA and Together Colorado, stated that
transportation is essential to all students. In order to go her school of choice she
would have to take two buses and one train. The amount of money needed to do
this every day to and from school would greatly affect her family. Ms.
Agassounom asked the Board to consider working with DPS and CCD in the
purchase of the bus passes.









Myra Gonzales, Denver, stated that she was representing the Montbello Organizing
Committee on behalf of the Montbello students that could not attend. She noted
that out of 4,965 high school students residing in Montbello, 1,174 have opted to
attend out of district schools; therefore they need reliable transportation. Ms.
Gonzales stated that Director Deadwyler has told that she would support a plan if it
was cost neutral. She encouraged the Board to work with DPS, CCD, and Together
Colorado to provide bus passes for students.
Nola Miguel, Denver, Director of Globeville Elyria-Swansea Live Well, and former
Together Colorado. Ms. Miguel said that she was involved in forming the Success
Express program, which operates the little yellow buses that transport parents and
students in Northeast Denver. She said that this program originated when a group
of 8th grade students and their parents formed a committee to find transportation
for their children transitioning into high school. She said the children of the
Globeville and Elyria-Swansea neighborhoods are required to walk far to attend
schools near them, and are faced with safety elements that can make it dangerous
for them such as the highway crossings and train tracks. She mentioned a mother
who was faced with paying for numerous fares for her children and stated that
receiving passes for her high school students would help tremendously. Ms. Miguel
encouraged the Board to be part of the pilot bus pass effort.
Miguel Salgado, Denver, Youth Leader with Together Colorado, stated that
receiving an education is a gift. He said the true colors of modern society shows
when a student‘s education is compromised by how the student gets to school. He
explained that he has been riding RTD for a long time and sees how modern day
technology has manipulated and taken advantage of all people standing before the
Board. He then explained that a child paying $1.10 to get to and from school every
day would pay approximately $66 a month. Mr. Salgado said that he cannot speak
for other students but he stated he has rarely received an allowance and never had
a job, so getting money to travel on the bus is a hardship for him and his family.
He stressed that he does not understand how society expects them to succeed if
they continually set up obstacles. He asked the Board to let DPS, CCD and
Together Colorado negotiate a year around pass program for students.
Hadyn Roberts, Denver, explained the importance of the bus to persons of all
economic levels and backgrounds. He referenced a Fox 31 report by Kevin Torres,
which stated that, according to RTD sources, an increase to bus and rail fares is
necessary to keep up with inflation and rail expansion projects. He agreed that the
increase made sense but highlighted RTD’s mission statement, to provide safe,
clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, and cost-effective service. He emphasized to
the Board that bus fares are not cost effective to students. He stated that a
student’s bus fare increased by $0.20 and with approximately 180 school days a
year times two trips a day, a student is paying out of pocket approximately $2.60





VI.

day or $468 a year, whereas an Eco Pass is $600 a year. He explained that in
order for a person to break even using the Eco Pass, the person would have to ride
the bus 102 times. He asked the Board if they would commit to working with DPS
and the City of Denver to expand transportation options for students.
Vivian Stovall, Denver, Alliance for Retired Americans, stated that she’s been
taking transit since 1974 and has a passion for advocating for seniors and people
with disabilities. She said that she has watched RTD grow and appreciates the
services they offer to the community. Ms. Stovall said her main concern is
advocating for citizens that are transit dependent. She stated that she has a
concern that there are so many committees with the same goals not
communicating with each other. She mentioned that she is on the Citizens
Advisory Committee and she visits a lot of senior living committees where she
frequently answers RTD-related questions. Ms. Stovall suggested that she would
not mind being an advocate for RTD to assist with the communication barriers with
citizens.
Paul Garrett, Denver, an Episcopal Priest and Director of the Episcopal Church of
Colorado. He stated that he grew up in Denver and went to East High School. He
listed his different means of transportation used to get to school every day and one
of them was the bus. He noted that his church is five blocks away from East High
School and driving to school will be hazardous to students because of the evergrowing neighborhood. He suggested that it would be safer for students to bus to
school instead. Mr. Garrett asked to the Board to make Eco Passes available to
DPS students.

Committee Reports
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Hoy
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Chair Pro Tem Francone asked for a motion to approve the Committee Reports. The Board
was unanimous. There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
There was no update from the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of February 28, 2017
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to approve the Board
Meeting minutes of February 28, 2017.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Tobiassen,
Walker, Williams) and 0 opposed. Directors Hoy and
Sisk were absent.

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Chair Pro Tem Francone declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Pro Tem Francone provided the following report:
ATTENDED EVENTS AND AWARDS
 March 3rd – The Shine event held in Denver was attended by Directors Solano and
Tisdale.
 March 4th – The Board of Directors and the Senior Leadership Team participated in
the annual Strategic Planning Session held at the Denver Athletic Club.
 March 10th – The Aurora Chamber of Commerce held its 62nd Annual Awards and
Silent Auction. Former Chair Tom Tobiassen and former Director Barry Gore were
honored. Chair Hoy and Directors Broom, Folska, Sisk, and Williams attended.
 March 12-14th – The APTA Legislative Conference was held in Washington D.C.
Chair Hoy and Directors Folska, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, and I attended.
 March 14th – Commuting Solutions held its Membership Meeting in Broomfield.
Directors Anderson, Lubow, and Sisk attended.
 March 16th
o Arapahoe County’s Local Coordinating Council met, and Director Tisdale
attended.

The Colorado Smart Cities Forum took place, and Director Tisdale and I
attended.
March 21st – RTD staff conducted a Finance Workshop on the Strategic Budget
Plan. Directors Broom, Solano, Walker, and I attended.
March 23rd – Director Anderson and I attended the Jefferson County Economic
Development Corporation’s 24th Annual Industry Appreciation Awards Breakfast.
o




ONGOING AND UPCOMING EVENTS
 April 3rd – The memorial plaque recognizing former General Manager Cal Marsella
will be unveiled at Denver Union Station.
 April 5th – The Denver Regional Mobility Access Council (DRMAC) will hold a
Transit and Accessibility Task Force (TATF) meeting in this room at 5:30 p.m.
 April 12th – The monthly Jefferson County Transportation Action and Advocacy
Group (JEFFTAAG) meeting will be held in Golden.
 April 14th – The South Metro Denver Chamber Economic Development Group will
be holding a breakfast meeting in Centennial, and Director Tisdale will attend.
 April 18th – The DRCOG Regional Transportation Committee Meeting. There are
multiple Local Coordinating Council meetings scheduled in the district.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Met with Congressman Ed Perlmutter’s staff on Thursday, March 2nd
 Attended meeting in Washington, D.C. at Federal Railroad Administration
Headquarters with Steve Fender, Karl Alexy, Bob Lauby, Thomas Herrmann, and
David Blackmore of Federal Railroad Administration; Denver Transit Partners
Personnel; Henry Stopplecamp and Greg Straight on Thursday, March 2nd
 Interviewed by Mile High Connects regarding the development of their Strategic
Plan on Friday, March 3rd
 Participated in a conference call with DTP Board on Monday, March 6th
 Attended the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition quarterly meeting with
US 36 Commuting Solutions on Tuesday, March 7th
 Participated in the Operating Division Walk-Throughs; East Metro on Thursday,
March 9th, Elati on Friday, March 17th, and Boulder on Monday, March 20th
 Attended a quarterly meeting with Herman Malone of Business Action Coalition
(BAC) on Thursday, March 9th
 Attended the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, DC, March 11th through
16th
 Met with Matt Welbes, Federal Transit Administration, Acting Administrator, on
Monday, March 13th
 Participated in a Federal Transit Administration conference call regarding President
Trump’s budget blueprint on Thursday, March 16th













Provided the opening words at the Rail-Volution National Steering Committee
Reception on Thursday, March 16th
Met with Denver City Councilwoman Stacie Gilmore on Friday, March 17th
Met with John Tayer, President and CEO of the Boulder Chamber of Commerce on
Monday, March 20th
Met with Cynthia Patton, City and County of Denver Parks and Planning Manager,
Dionne Williams, Deputy Director of Denver Office of Children’s Affairs and Erin
Brown Executive Director fo Denver Office of Children’s Affairs, regarding the My
Denver Pass proposal on Wednesday, March 22nd
Attended North Area Transportation Alliance meeting on Thursday, March 23rd
Met with Greg Fulton, President of the Colorado Motor Carriers Association on
Friday, March 24th
Met with Cindy Terwilliger, FTA Region VIII Administrator on Friday, March 24th
Met with Senator Jim Smallwood on Friday, March 24th
Interviewed by Denver Post TV on Friday, March 24th
Met with the Colorado Public Utilities Commission on Tuesday, March 28th

General Manager Genova stated that he has been meeting diligently with staff at the City
and County of Denver (CCD) regarding the bus passes for Denver Public School (DPS)
students. He said that in these meetings with CCD he explains the different pass
programs in detail. He explained to CCD that the sale of our Eco Passes to high schools is
outside of the Eco Pass policy. He also pointed out that in his quarterly meeting with
Mayor Hancock he has been discussing the My Denver card and how RTD might be able to
use that card as a transit pass.
General Manager Genova also mentioned his discussion with the Executive Committee
regarding the non-profit pass. He said that non-profit organizations can buy fare media at
a 50% discount and then it is up to that organization to do the means testing for their
participants. He explained how the Board approved an increase of value fare media sales
by $1 Million dollars in 2016, which raised the face value of media available under the
program to $6.8 Million dollars. He said that the study performed in 2015 helped
convince the Board to increase sales to nonprofit organizations. Towards the end of 2016
sales peaked and RTD exceeded the $6.8 Million dollar threshold by $700,000. He stated
that in monitoring sales since the beginning of this year there has been a significant spike.
He explained that two temporary actions will be implemented in order to not exceed sales
of available media in 2017. He said the first measure would put any new agencies on a
waiting list. The second measure would limit purchases to what agencies have purchased
historically.
General Manager Genova stated that his team would come back to the Board next month
during a committee meeting and present a better analysis of the program and more

information on purchasing. He said during this presentation staff will identify some
options for the program. He affirmed that through the Board’s input staff will create a
Recommended Action for May.
General Manager Genova also explained how some schools purchase passes from the nonprofit pool of passes and can also capturing an additional 50% discount if they conduct
their own means reporting. He said he met with the Mayor and the Superintendent from
DPS regarding their pass request and talked about creating a pass that is similar to the
college pass, which would be based on use. He noted that RTD is awaiting demographic
information from DPS showing where students that qualify are located.
Director Folska asked General Manager Genova for more detail on where RTD is with the
FRA extension, which is set to expire on April 30th. She asked what the reasonable
expectation beyond April 30th is and when the opening of the G Line will occur.
General Manager Genova stated that he met with the FRA in March and talked about doing
a variance to the equation on how we calculate the warning times. He reported that the
FRA stated that RTD is on a good path moving forward and suggested meeting with the
public utilities commission. He explained that, since the waiver’s expiration date is set for
April 30th, RTD will need to ask for an extension during their visit to Washington D.C. on
Monday, April 3rd. He asserted that the FRA stands firm that, until RTD has a solid plan
on the completion of the University of Colorado A Line crossings, they will not allow RTD
to test the G Line. He stated that Denver Transit Partners (DTP) said that once testing is
approved for the G Line it would take them approximately 8 weeks for testing. He said
that the FRA asked RTD to set a revenue service date and they requested the end of
October 2017. He stressed that October 31, 2017, is not the opening date; it is simply a
response to their request.
Director Tisdale said that he appreciated hearing all of the students’ desires to participate
in extracurricular activities. He stated that he too grew up on transit and he appreciates
and empathizes with them. He asked General Manager Genova to give the Board
assurance that the temporary measures adopted by the Executive Committee will remain in
place until there is a report to the Board. He also requested an explanation on why the
program was oversold by $700,000. Lastly, he requested a process that will prevent
some non-profits from buying up all the passes, and said there needs to be a fair
purchasing mechanism.
Director Lubow asked why there was a huge purchasing spike in December.
Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer/Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, stated that agencies were spending their end-of-year budgets in December,

which accounted for the spike in sales. She also stated that there were 35 new agencies
that joined the program in 2016. She noted that the program went over budget because
the purchasing process is a manual process and not electronic, therefore staff was unable
calculate numbers while processing orders.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, said he has a long history
working with these individual agencies but RTD did not anticipate the level of interest. He
said that there was not a tracking mechanism in place prior to accepting the orders, so the
orders received had to be honored. Mr. Reed explained that the new temporary actions,
capping sales and establishing a waitlist, will allow staff to monitor sales more closely until
a revised procedure is put into place.
Director Lubow asked General Manager Genova to explain how school districts can get an
additional 50% off of their purchases through the non-profit pass option.
General Manager Genova explained that school districts can purchase passes at the 50%
student discount rate and then request another 50% off for being a non-profit
organization; however they will need to conduct a means test on the student to make sure
they qualify for the discount.
Director Lubow asked if that same type of scenario would work for the Denver Public
Schools’ students.
General Manager replied that some DPS schools currently go through this program and
RTD has discussed all the different options with DPS.
Director Lubow said that she is getting feedback that staff is not interested in discussing
the mechanics of RTD’s different pass programs. She stressed that RTD needs to have a
“Getting to Yes” attitude when assisting our customers.
General Manager Genova said that he has been having conversations with DPS however,
RTD has not said yes to the Eco Pass request because it is outside the policy guidelines.
He said staff continues to discuss how RTD can help DPS.
Ms. McKillop stated that Denver and Aurora purchase passes through the non-profit
program and on a school-to-school basis, based on the budgets they have available. She
said the means testing is based on whether or not the child qualifies for free lunch not
reduced lunch.
Director Lubow asked if the school districts have money to purchase the passes, could
RTD sell DPS passes through the non-profit program.

Ms. McKillop replied that DPS wants bus passes on a much broader basis which would
exclude the means testing. The volume that they want doesn’t fit into any of the
programs RTD currently has. She stated that RTD would not be able to afford the volume.
General Manger Genova said that DPS currently wants 10,000 Eco Passes at $2 Million
dollars per year. 10,000 local passes at the student discount rate would cost $6 Million
dollars and 10,000 regional passes would be double that amount.
Mr. Reed stated that RTD has in place a Board-adopted policy to sell Student Passes,
College Passes, and Eco Passes. The Eco Pass program is set up where every employee
signs up for the program but not every employee is going to utilize the pass. He continued
by saying that DPS will actually be using all 10,000 passes, so it doesn’t qualify as an Eco
Pass purchase. He emphasized that RTD has had numerous discussions with the parties
involved. He stated that DPS want the Eco Pass price but everyone will use their pass and
you will not be able to account for the reduction in usage which levels out the very low
price.
Director Williams stated that there are a lot of other groups that could benefit from
discounted programs. She said that there needs to be equity when offering discounted
rates.
Director Broom asked General Manager Genova if the FRA’s request that RTD consult with
the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) means that RTD has covered all of their bases and
the software issues are fixed.
General Manager Genova stated he was encouraged by the last meeting with FRA and
today’s meeting with the PUC as well.
Chair Pro Tem Francone stated that if RTD is going to give discounted rates to Denver
Public School students then we need to accommodate all students in all regions. She
calculated that the face value of 10,000 passes worth $49 per month over a period of 12
months would cost $5,880,000, which would result in a $3,880,000 taxpayer subsidy for
the program. She stated that she has had conversations with the Together Colorado
representatives and they were astonished by the numbers she presented them.
Chair Pro Tem Francone asked General Manager Genova if he could explain what was
going on with the definition of cohort.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD does not believe it is part of a cohort, and has
applied for a collateral refund.

Ms. McKillop explained that when the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA),
Denver Transit Partners (DDP) and RTD applied for the Railroad Rehabilitation &
Improvement Financing (RRIF) Loan, RTD was required to put up a $28 million credit risk
premium/collateral on the loan. Those funds have been sitting in Washington, D.C. as
RTD was considered high risk even though DUSPA applied for the loan. Since that time,
RTD has argued to get that money back. The only people that have been successful in
getting that money refunded were those that had paid off the loan, and had smaller credit
risk premiums. Between the Moving Ahead for Progress in the 21st Century Act (MAP-21)
and the new Fixing America’s Surface Transportation (FAST) Act, there was a piece of
legislation that said anyone that had paid off their loans as of 12/31/2015, could get their
credit premiums back. RTD paid off both the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and
Innovation Act (TIFIA) and RRIF loans on February 3, 2017. At that time, RTD sent a
notice to the people in office indicating that RTD planned to get that money refunded.
RTD has now sent official letters through DUSPA indicating that the loans have been paid
off, RTD is not part of a cohort, and RTD is applying the previous bill language written to
our set of circumstances. That letter was sent on March 22, 2017 and staff is waiting for
a response. She added that RTD will use whatever political mechanisms it can to help get
that money refunded, and noted that the $28 million would be split between the City of
Denver and RTD.
Director Deadwyler stated that she can relate to many of the students because she too
had to travel back and forth to school each day on buses. She said that she loved hearing
the students speak out; however, she realizes that they are millennials and they do not like
to spend money on anything. She said that she believes the students should be required to
pay for a portion of the pass.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Pro Tem Francone moved unanimous consent item D, Purchase of 15-Gillig 40'
Transit Buses, to Recommended Actions per Director Menten’s request. She asked for a
motion to approve items A through C.

Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda.

Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Archuleta,
Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow,
Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 0 opposed. Directors Hoy and Sisk
were absent.

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Chair Pro Tem Francone declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Budget Transfer for Increased Access-a-Ride Contract Costs

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve to the Accessa-Ride contracts for MV Transportation (Contract 13-DH-053 in the amount of
$1,700,000) and Via Mobility Services (Contract 13-DH-055 in the amount of $810,000)
to cover the additional costs associated with increased driver wages. The total dollar
amount of the budget transfer is $2,510,000.
B.

Budget Transfer for Increased Call-n-Ride Contract Costs

It is recommended by the Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the Board Appropriated Reserve to the Call-nRide contracts to cover the additional costs associated with increased driver wages. The
total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $176,000.
C.

Proposed May 2017 Service Changes

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the May 2017 Service Change package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of approximately $221,300 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.

XII.

Recommended Action
D.

Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 15 - 40' Transit Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to exercise the contract
option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig LLC. for the purchase of 15 additional
40’ transit buses and associated spare components in an amount not to exceed
$6,598,000.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
the Contract Amendment for the Supply of 1540’ Transit Buses.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Menten asked if the placement of the wheelchair area
will allow for open access on the aisle and if the buses getting
the modifications were the buses that she had been hearing
about.
Steve Gieske, Assistant General Superintendent, replied
that it is the current set of buses and RTD has been
working with Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition (CCDC) on
issues of accessibility and securement for different mobility
devices. He explained that the current configuration has the
wheelchairs facing each other and now they will be lined up
parallel on the curbside of the bus. He stated that the buses
will have a thinner flip up seat which will provide 4 more
inches to the aisle. He added that there will be additional
space for priority seating and extra space securement area.
Director Menten asked if CCDC will be happy with the
arrangements that are being made.
Mr. Gieske stated that staff met with CCDC on March 6 and
they were appreciative of the changes being made.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD was exceeding the
minimal ADA requirements, and staff worked with the ADA
community on the design of the buses. He noted that RTD
does the best to accommodate what we can, that is practical.

Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, added that the seating arrangements that were
designed addressed many of the concerns; such as the ease of
maneuvering through the aisle without little blocking the aisle.
She stated that the changes made will allow easier mobility
while maintaining the seating on the bus.
Director Menten asked if a lot of money was spent to
accommodate this request.
Mr. Gieske stated that it cost $2,000 per bus, but the money
was in the budget. He stated that staff believed in the
changes so much that they modified an additional 40 new
buses that RTD has purchased.
Director Williams stated that RTD has ADA Design Committee
and that committee reviewed this layout as well. She noted
that she was a member of that committee.
Director Deadwyler stated that she cannot fit on the train or
the bus with her mobility device because the areas are too
tight. She stated that even if additional inches were removed,
she still would not be able to park parallel.
Mr. Gieske stated that the flip up seats and mobility device
space on the curbside exceeds 57 inches, unfortunately, due
to the engineering of the vehicle, staff could not reconfigure
the street side of the vehicle.
Director Deadwyler stated that when she rode the R Line her
chair was backed up against the door and she didn’t feel
secure. She asked General Manager Genova is staff would
apply this configuration to the light rail trains as well.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD is waiting for the
approval of the modifications.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, advised the Board that as
soon as the settlement agreement between CCDC and RTD
has been approved by the court then the adjustments will be
made.

General Manager Genova stated that RTD is ready to retrofit
the light rail trains. He said staff currently has one rail car at
Mariposa that is ready. The removal of 8 seats on each side
of the rail car, for a total of 16 seats, has been removed to
make the modifications. He noted that staff will provide
pictures and diagrams of the modifications.
Vote on
the Motion:

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams) and 0 against. Directors Hoy
and Sisk were absent.

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Chair Pro Tem Francone declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
E.

Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary to amend the contract with AECOM for travel modeling services. The current
contract value is $355,706.62. This amendment increases the value by $535,000 to a
total of $890,706.62. Funding is included in the 2017 expense budget and the budget
for the SH 119 BRT Environmental Clearance project.
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Modeling On-Call Contract Amendment.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,

Lubow, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker,
Williams) and 1 opposed (Menten). Directors
Hoy and Sisk were absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Tisdale, Solano, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk
Chair Pro Tem Francone declared the motion PASSED.
F.

Approval of Router Contract

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a sole source
contract not to exceed $2,500,000 with Sierra Wireless America, Inc. (Sierra Wireless) for
upgrade of existing onboard routers and purchase of new onboard wireless routers and
associated equipment (Contract Number 17DH004). This contract will include upgrading
existing routers with new integrated cellular data modems, purchase of new onboard
routers with associated equipment, documentation and training.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion for the
approval of Router Contract.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed with 12 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker) and 1 opposed (Williams). Directors Hoy
and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [12 TO 1]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Solano, Walker
Kate Williams
Larry Hoy, Chuck Sisk

Chair Pro Tem Francone declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no Executive Session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
There was no new business.

XVI. Adjourn
Pro Tem Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 7:30 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

