Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 30, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30,
2010 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, McMullen, Malpiede, Martinez, O’Boyle,
Pulliam, Tayer and Tobiassen.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Joe Berdaus, Rick Clarke, Jane
Donovan, Carol Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Caitlin
Magee, Tony McCaulay, Robert Merriman, Jerry Nery, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Bob Wilson (GLAC), Brian Middleton, Julie Skeen, Maria
Garcia-Berry (CRL), Roger Sherman (CRL), Lisa Nery, Eric
Sonderman (SE2), Illana Poley (SE2), Randy Harrison (MOVE
Colorado), Chris Cramor (Commerce City), Sharon Terranova
(DRCOG), Bill Mosher (DUS), Ben Kelley (Kenney Group)

***
Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:31
p.m.

I. DUSPA Update
Director Bagley spoke about his recent appointment to the DUSPA Board. He
indicated that DUSPA will also need to take action to make him an official
member of the Board. Marla Lien indicated they will need a letter from RTD
which she would get Chair Kemp to sign tonight and DUSPA should get on
Wednesday. Director Bagley explained his role as a RTD Board liaison to the
DUSPA Board while indicating his reliance on the expertise of the staff to
support him on various financial and business aspects of this relationship.
He introduced Bill Mosher with DUSPA who will be providing a monthly
update. Bill Mosher made a presentation on DUSPA which spoke to the
financing status, challenges and opportunities. Marla Lien corrected the slide

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 6
on loan repayment sources that showed lease payment structure utilizing
FasTracks DUS bond proceeds. He talked about the current design status
which shows them at approximately 15% behind on the public realm,
landscape architecture. However, they have identified steps that will allow
them to catch up on this aspect of the project. He also identified the
milestones in the project and projected year of availability. He identified the
DUS construction activity in the 1st 60 days and pointed out some of the
critical issues in financing, Amtrak relocation, 18th street right of way and the
coordination with USNC Plans for a wing building. He plans to keep the Board
advised on a regular basis.
For a copy of this presentation, please refer to the Study Session minutes
located in the Board office.
Several Directors asked questions or expressed concerns:
 Director Tayer expressed a concern on the impact of the construction
on transportation access for riders from Boulder transferring from bus
to rail being able to make their connections. He expressed concerns
the distance was too far for this transfer now making it difficult for
them to make this transfer. Mike Gil, RTD Bus operations responded to
this comment and explained why the decision was made to move this
stop to 19th street. Director Tayer still requested a re-look for a better
stop and egress that is convenient for the riders needing to make this
transfer.
 Director Malpiede, a new Director, requested a sheet of the various
acronyms being used. She inquired about the plan of action for the
businesses and community along Wewatta who were affected by the
construction. Bill Mosher responded their PI team headed by Roger
Sherman of CRL are performing public outreach with several entities
and are working to maintain good communications with the
community.
 Director McMullen inquired what PNRS was. Marla Lien explained it
was the process whereby authorization to execute TIFA loan
agreement fulfillment of certain federal requirements affecting the
operational maintenance of site and operations would be performed by
RTD. She indicated plans to bring before the Board in April. Director
Brohl expressed concern over how do we make sure RTD’s role and
legal responsibilities are limited to operations and not to other
obligations. Marla Lien responded they are working on the 4th re-write
of this agreement which includes language to this affect.
 Director Pulliam expressed this does not address the access between
the main line and DUS where the moving sidewalks have been
eliminated.
II.

Communications Update

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 6
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager, indicated this was one of the updates
that the senior leadership team will be bringing before the Board. He then had
members of his newly restructured team to talk about their organization:
 Bill Holmes, Internal Auditing—spoke on the basic functions of the audit
department and that they complete about 20 audits per year. The audit has
always worked with the Board on the audit issues but in light of the state
audit recommendations, they will be taking a more expanded role with the
Board.
The Financial Administration committee will be renamed
Financial/Administration and Audit Committee.
Director Pulliam raised the issue of reporting structure for the internal
auditor. Scott Reed indicated that the auditors were basically ok with the
functional role of the internal auditors but wanted to see a more formalized
reporting structure that will show a dotted line relationship to the Board
including the Board review of his performance.
 Tony McCaulay, Marketing—identified some of the functions and highlights
of his department. Director Busck requested a 30 minute conversation with
Tony to explain the criteria they used for establishing their ROI for
marketing. Director Cohen shared some ideas he has around special events
and joint marketing. Director Brohl shared having seen one of the wrapped
LRT vehicles and how cool it looked amongst the stark contrast of the rest
of the cars. Director James inquired about opportunities to expand RTD’s
image in the community. Tony responded we have different programs out
now with the intent of doing this such as the new Faces of RTD campaign,
Westwood and Denver Post media exchanges and in the next couple of
month’s plans to roll out ads on the benefits of RTD.
Director Christopher indicated that he wants to see a cost analysis showing
the human resources invested in new media and what we get in exchange
(ROI)—i.e. how much staff time are we putting into new media and what
does it take to maintain these programs.
Director Tobiassen talked of his RTD Twitter and Facebook experiences.
RTD has approximately 600 fans on Facebook. He feels these are potential
tools for RTD to use. Facebook has surveys which could be used for
surveying of our service. He wanted to know what triggered a fare study.
Tony McCaulay responded we track where we are and compare were we are
in relation to 10 other transit agencies.
 Joe Berdaus, Customer Information Center—explained their function and
talked about an upcoming project to integrate MYStop into the state 511
system. Several of the Directors commented on the benefits of MyStop to
them.
Director Tobiassen inquired about when all the stops on Aurora would be a

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 4 of 6
part of MyStop.
 Pauletta Tonilas, FasTracks PI—spoke to the internal and external functions
of this department and the latest venture into social media networks. As
expected several of their efforts focus around developing communications
plan and key messages for FasTracks.
 Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations—the basic function consists of
liaison roles with the Colorado General Assembly, Congressional liaison,
lobbyists and other elected officials.
 Public Affairs—Manages various media requests, coordination and serves as
official spokespersons for RTD.
For more information on the communications organization, please refer to a copy of
the presentation that is included with the study session minutes in the Board office.
III.

Discussion of FasTracks Vote
Maria Garcia Berry introduced members of her team who had led the focus
groups and performed the polling of voters. She shared they had selected a
sample from Jeffco because it has the highest ratio of voters (approximately
26%) and a diverse population. This activity was sponsored through the
Coalition for Smart Transit, an independent organization.
Eric Sonderman and Illana Poley from SE2 facilitated the presentation from the
focus groups.
This was an abbreviated focus group of eight women and
seven men that took place over a snowy night in Denver. This could have
affected attendance.
The key takeaway from these focus groups is RTD is not on their radar
screen, people are more focused around the economy and its impact on jobs,
etc., and many of them do not know what FasTracks is about. FasTracks is
defined more around construction when people can see actual work occurring
than any of the other public information efforts. The dominant issue is
economy and jobs.
Ben Kelly with the Kenney Group discussed the methodology and what it
means. The survey they performed built on the survey from November 2007,
January 2009 and April 2009 and was balanced to reflect gender and party
registration with a +-4.9% margin of error.
Synopses of some of the key findings reveal:
 50% of the people felt RTD is moving in the right direction which is
down from a previous poll.
 In 2007 transportation issues ranked high whereas in 2010,
unemployment and loss of jobs (economy) was the most dominant
factor.
 FasTracks lacks a true name identifier with these voters.
 People are not overly optimistic that the economy will improve one year
from now or even more long term. In general the responses are more

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 5 of 6








guarded than optimistic.
In 2010, 78% are saying that FasTracks was a good idea. No real
change when asked how good a job RTD is doing with FasTracks.
The underlying theme is there is an increasing lack of confidence in
government in general to solve issues.
When asked the question about completing FasTracks, voters are split
down the middle on which path to take-whether to increase taxes or
complete FasTracks later.
Denver, Boulder, and Arapahoe County shows the greatest support for
FasTracks tax increase but overall the map does not show any
geographical district with greater than 55% in favor, a low number in
comparison. The decision to favor or not favor a tax is also affected
by priorities for other taxes that may be on the ballot.
The good news summary: voters want a regional system. 77% is
positive with 78% thinking this is a good idea.
Bad news: Voters are more focused on economy and jobs than traffic
or transportation issues. 40% of respondents attribute RTD problems
to RTD management. Completing RTD FasTracks is simply not a high
priority compared to other public service and funding needs. If a vote
was taken now, 2/3 say it will fail.

Extensive discussion from Board members followed these presentations with a
concern around is this a good time to go to the ballot or what work RTD may
need to do to re-educate and revitalize the perceptions of FasTracks. Maria
Garcia Berry commented that from a public information perspective, there is a
need to talk the language that the voters understand.
Phil Washington, General Manager, asked for some clear direction from the
Board on if he should instruct his staff to begin drafting ballot language. This
generated an excessive amount of healthy discussion on the pros and cons of
going forward for the 2010 ballot. Some of the Directors felt they could give
the General Manager an indicator now while others felt they needed more time
to digest this information and other associated indicators.
Director Christopher made a compelling argument that it is necessary in the
spirit of transparency, process and protocol that a special meeting is held two
weeks from today (April 13) for an opportunity to obtain public comments and
to formalize the Board position on going to the ballot in 2010.
Chair Kemp felt it was important to obtain a formal position from the Metro
Mayors Caucus as well and requested Maria Garcia Berry to see about getting
the Board a few minutes on the agenda to discuss this issue. The Board also
wanted to hear from the CAC committee. Director O’Boyle expressed that the
real question should be “Can we conduct a successful campaign in 2010?”
After some discussion over which date to have this meeting and some of the
Board members indicating they would be absent on April 20, 2010, it was

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday March 30, 2010 at
5:30p.m. Page 6 of 6
decided that a special Board meeting to obtain public comments and vote on
whether to go to the ballot in 2010 would be held on April 13, 2010.
V.

Other Matters
The other two items on the agenda, review of station addition policy was
postponed to the FasTracks/P&D committee meeting on April 6, 2010 and
the parliamentarian briefing has been delayed until a more conducive time is
available for this training.

VI.

Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 8:50 p.m.

