Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on April 3, 2007 at 7:35 p.m.
Page 1 of 2
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 3, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, April 3,
2007 at 7:45 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD Basement

Please Note: Beginning with the new committee assignments in 2007, FasTracks
Monitoring Committee meets the first hour preceding the Board Study
Session and is a Committee of the Whole.
Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Others Present:

Chairperson Martinez, Director Chacon, Director Busck,
Director Brohl, Director Christopher, Director Daly, Director
Kemp, Director Kinton, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam,
Director Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director
Yamrick
Director Elfenbein
Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Marla
Lien, Lloyd Mack Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed, and Phil
Washington.
Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Dennis Cole , Kevin Diviness,
Carol Duecker , Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova ,Manny
Herrera, Jennifer Heisler, Brian Iacono, Caitlin Magee, Robert
Merriman, Richard Morton, Jerry Nery, Daria Serna, Roger
Sherman, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Joe Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Errol Stevens, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Liz Telford
Kevin Flynn, Jeff Lieb, L.W. Morrow, Roger Sherman, Holman
Carter, Bob Kochevar, Maria Garcia-Berry, Lara Aldrete, Diane
Barrett, Steve Burkholder, Carolyn Siegel, George
Schuernstuhl, Mike Falcone, Dave Moore, Patrick Clark, Luke
O’Kelley, Tamara Door, Ellen Ittelson, Jim Graebner, Dominic
Dibrito, John Gustafson, Jon Esty, Mike Rowe, Arthur Rader,
Eric Anderson, Fabby Hillyard, Walter Isenberg, Catherine CoxBlair, Steve Roberts, David Cole, Larry Gibson

***

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on April 3, 2007 at 7:35 p.m.
Page 2 of 2
Call to Order:

Chairperson Martinez called the meeting to order at 7:35 p.m.

Study Session
I. Sales Tax Revenue Projections
Joe Smith presented a presentation on the funding sources for FasTracks
which showed how the baseline assumptions on sales and use tax has
changed from the 2004 projection to the 2030 projection and not for the
better. He anticipates this could result in a tax-revenue shortfall of about $1
billion over the next 23 years.
Cal Marsella stated that due to reduced sales tax projections we were going
to need to revisit future bus service levels and that service expansion was
going to be difficult due to lower population growth and revenue projections.
For a copy of this presentation, please review the Study Session Minute
Notebook in the Board office or view the presentation on the Board website.
II. Procurement Criteria
Brian Iacono passed out a copy of the August 14, 1990 resolution which
provides the delegation of authority given to the General Manager. A copy
of this resolution may be obtained from the Board office or viewed on the
Board website.
III. Parking for Board Members at 1600 Blake
Manny Herrera provided an update on what has been done to discourage
other personnel from parking in the Board parking spaces. In addition to
putting out additional signage, a guard will be posted in the parking lot one
hour before study sessions or Board meetings.
IV. Other Matters
Chair Martinez provided a copy of the Suave Magazine which will feature Cal
Marsella, General Manager, and Chair Martinez in the next publication.
Chair Martinez reminded the Board members to please submit a copy of their
March summary sheet to the Board office to be used to process their
monthly communication charges (i.e. cell, fax, high speed internet, land line
charges). A copy will be retained on file.

V. Adjournment—meeting adjourned at 7:55 p.m.

