1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Brohl, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kenneth Riley, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, June 21, 2011 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Pro Tem Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eight (8) Board Members were present at roll call and Director Riley participated via
conference call. Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Kemp, Tayer and Tobiassen were absent
from this Meeting.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Jesse Jackson, Service Support-District Shops, 27 years
Chair Pro Tem Cohen and General Manager Washington acknowledged that Mr. Jackson was
not present at the Board Meeting. However, Chair Pro Tem Cohen wanted to recognize his
27 years of service and indicated their sincere appreciation.
Chair Pro Tem Cohen noted that tonight’s special recognition goes to our employees that
participated in the International Bus Roadeo held in Memphis in May, and the International Rail
Roadeo held in Boston two weeks ago. The RTD Board of Directors would like to show our
thanks to all of our employees who are dedicated and perform outstanding service on the
front line every day. One reason the Denver/Aurora area was voted the best region for public
transportation really speaks to the high caliber of our employees.
Bruce Abel explained that as Chair Pro Tem Cohen had noted previously, the Board and
management wished to recognize the individuals who represented us at the Bus and Rail
Roadeo’s. Bruce Abel and Dean Shaklee made the presentations to the bus roadeo
participants. John Deschner and Marcos Carrillo were not present.
SPECIAL RECOGNITION
 Bus Roadeo International Participants
John Deschner-Driver
Jose Ek Chan-Driver (First Transit)
Mechanics: Larry Perkins, Ben Carroll, and Marcus Carrillo

 Rail Roadeo International Participants
Train Operators: Robert Dennis, Diane Chavez
Electro Mechanics: George Sweeney, Randall Lovegrove
Austin Jenkins noted that at the Rail Roadeo last year in Vancouver we had placed 1st;
however, as in any sport it is difficult to repeat one’s success. The competition this year was
tougher and included more participants than last year but our team did us proud by placing 4th
overall.
Austin Jenkins, Bill Bell and Phil Eberl made the presentation to train operator Robert Dennis
and Mechanics George Sweeney and Randall Lovegrove. Diane Chavez was not present but
noted this was her first participation in the international roadeo.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Frank Bruno – Vice Chancellor for Administration at University of Colorado – Boulder thanked
the Board for all that they do to serve the Boulder region. The Broadway/Euclid project is
important to enhance service and safety at this nerve center. TIF funding has been procured,
along with committed land and funds from the University of Colorado and even the students
have contributed to this effort by raising $300,000. This project will serve as an important
capstone to the reconstruction of Broadway that has been underway for the past decade and
Board support is urged to allow this project to move forward without delay.
Chair Pro Tem Cohen mentioned that Director Tayer regretted that he was not able to attend
tonight’s Board Meeting to meet with Mr. Bruno, but was very happy that Mr. Bruno could
attend to give his comments.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Brohl
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Directors Brohl & O’Boyle
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Daly
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp
Director Daly provided a couple of changes to the committee reports and these reports have
been corrected as appropriate.

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Chair Pro Tem Cohen noted that Director Bagley, the Chair for the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee, was absent but indicated that the

committee will be working closely with the General Manager to finalize his goal setting for
2012 which will come to the full Board for a vote at the July 19th Board Meeting.
VII.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE COMMITTEE UPDATE
Chair Pro Tem Cohen commented that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force minutes were
included in the Board Packet and that the full report will be presented to the Board next
Tuesday at the Study Session on June 28th.

VIII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE UPDATE
Chair Pro Tem Cohen noted that there were no updates at this time.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF May 17, 2011
MOTION:

Director McMullen moved for the adoption of the May 17,
2011 Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 8 votes in favor (Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen and
O’Boyle) and 0 against. Directors Anderson, Bagley, Brohl,
Kemp, Tayer, and Tobiassen were absent from this vote.
Director Riley could not vote via phone.
Chair Pro Tem Cohen declared the motion PASSED.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT









General Manager Washington noted that the Transportation Research Board met last
week, and that he has been asked to serve on the Board of Directors for the
Transportation Research Board. The program selects and approves various projects in
transit for research and funding.
General Manager Washington indicated that he along with Bill Sirois presented the
FasTracks program and the Denver Union Station presentation to the Urban Land
Institute representatives from Sacramento, Detroit, Houston, and Cleveland.
General Manager Washington shared that he, Chair Kemp, and the Governor were
interviewed by an ABC affiliate from Atlanta regarding the FasTracks program, what
we have done to implement the transit expansion program, and what lessons learned
can be taken from our experience to Atlanta.
General Manager Washington added that there will be a Community Collaboration
Forum tomorrow in which we were invited to attend that is being hosted by the City
and County of Denver that will also be attended by Vice-President Joe Biden’s senior
staff. We will present our FasTracks presentation for them, along with other
individuals from the region.
General Manager Washington noted that tomorrow morning we will be hosting a WIN
event with 15-20 Metro Area Prime Contractors in the region in which we will be
encouraging prime contractors to commit jobs to WIN participants. These contractors
have not necessary worked with RTD before, but we are asking that these
contractors to commit jobs to this program. Director Deadwyler will provide the
welcome.







XI.

General Manager Washington mentioned that the Annual Employee Recognition Award
Event will be held later this week at the King Center at Auraria Campus where we
recognize the great work of all of our employees both salaried and represented. The
Board is invited to attend.
General Manager Washington highlighted the upcoming 2011 Triennial Review that
will begin August 1st in which the FTA will be here to complete the 3 year review
where 27 areas in the district will appraised and audited. Results of this audit
determine how well we will do in Federal Funding in the future and examples of areas
to be reviewed are Title VI, Fare Increases, DBE, Buy America, Procurement, Legal,
Financial, Technical, Drug and Alcohol program, Equal Opportunity, National Transit
Database, Safety and Security, and Bus and Rail Maintenance.
General Manager Washington added that 4 car trains will begin tomorrow on the D
line. The technical glitches have been worked out with the City and County of Denver
and since those have been resolved, we are letting the public know that 4 car trains
will be an option for peak hours beginning on the D line tomorrow.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Pro Tem Cohen asked for a motion to approve items A thru F on the unanimous
consent agenda.
MOTION:

Director James made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A thru F.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 8 votes in favor
(Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen and O’Boyle) and 0 against. Directors
Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Kemp, Tayer, and Tobiassen
were absent from this vote. Director Riley could not
vote via phone.
Chair Pro Tem Cohen declared the motion PASSED.

A. Authorization for Contract Amendment with White Construction for Elati Maintenance
Facility
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment not to exceed $200,000 to White
Construction Group for additional enhancements to the Elati Light Rail Maintenance
Facility. This action would increase the current contract amount of $5,357,417.64,
including previously awarded change orders, to a new contract total of $5,557,417.64.
Funding for this contract amendment is included in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget
for the FasTracks Light Rail Maintenance Facility Project.
B. I-225 Property Acquisition Phase I
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the I-225 Segment 1 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed
with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.

C. RTD-CCD East Colfax Transit Project Intergovernmental Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to complete
an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between RTD and the City and County of Denver
(CCD) for RTD’s participation in the East Colfax Transit Project (ECTP). Funding for this
project is included in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget through a $2 million grant from
the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), with $1 million local match provided by CCD.
There would be no net financial impact to RTD.
D. Recommendation for Transfer of Funds from RTD to Denver Union Station Project
Authority
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that: (1) RTD enter into
an Agreement to obtain FASTER grant funds from the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) in the anticipated amount of $4 million for use in the historic
Denver Union Station (DUS) which may be administered in conjunction with Denver Union
Station Project Authority (DUSPA); (2) transfer funds from 16 Chestnut LLC or a related
entity for construction of a roadway and pedestrian access at 16th Street and the
Consolidated Main Line (CML) to DUSPA; and (3) grant the General Manager authority to
execute any agreements or amendments necessary for this purpose, which may provide
for advance of grant funds prior to receipt from CDOT and may provide transfer of funds
from RTD to DUSPA.
E. Oracle ERP Developer Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his delegate, to execute all documents
necessary to award a new 3 year contract, for the amount not to exceed of $495,000,
for Oracle ERP Developer services to Access Data Consulting Corporation, contract #
11DC001. The contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services
contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1985.
F.

XII.

Approval of August 2011 Service changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the August 21, 2011 Service Change package as revised and
summarized in Attachment A resulting in a net annualized cost of approximately
$272,000, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G. Authorization to Approve IGA for funding for the Broadway/Euclid Transportation
Improvements in Boulder
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) to partially fund the transit
related improvements associated with the pedestrian/transportation improvement project
located on Broadway at Euclid with the City of Boulder in the amount not-to-exceed
$570,000. Funding for the project is included in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD

Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $570,000 from the Broadway & Euclid capital
project in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget to expense to facilitate proper accounting
for the IGA.
MOTION:

Director Malpiede made the motion to approve the
Authorization to Approve IGA for funding for the
Broadway/Euclid Transportation Improvements in
Boulder.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 8 votes in favor
(Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede,
McMullen and O’Boyle) and 0 against. Directors
Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Kemp, Tayer, and Tobiassen
were absent from this vote. Director Riley could not
vote via phone.
Chair Pro Tem Cohen declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Pro Tem Cohen noted that an Executive Session would not be held at this meeting.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Chair Pro Tem Cohen indicated that there was not any new business to bring forward to the
Board.

XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:13 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, June 21, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley

District M
District C
District J
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District K – via phone

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Brohl
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District O
District H
District L
District D
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Bill Bell
Jessie Carter
Ben Carroll
Jose Ek Chan
Rick Clarke
Carolyn Conover
Robert Dennis
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Lisa Fliam
Mike Gil

Cory Granrud
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien
Richard Lobato
Randall Lovegrove
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Anthony Menendez
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez

Larry Perkins
Stephen Pilon
Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
John Shonsey
Greg Smith
George Sweeney
Walt Stringer
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Bill Van Meter
Del Walker
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Frank Bruno – University of Colorado Boulder Facilities Manager, Ed Bush – CRMCA Promotions
Manager, Lea Johnson – First Transit, Stu Livensparger – First Transit Manager, Chris Taylor –
Spectrum AV, Nicole Schroeder – Gilmore Construction, Stephany Westhusin – Euclid Project
Manager for City of Boulder.

