2024-04-16
Special Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Hello, everybody. This is Chair Erik Davidson of the RTD board. I will now call the
Tuesday, April 16, 2024 special board meeting to order. We are convened as of 4:31 PM. I would
respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us. Please note that the meeting of the RTD Board of Directors will be audio and
video recorded. Meeting recordings and unofficial minutes of the meetings are posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. We are also providing communication access, real-time translation,
also known as CART. Additionally, the CART's transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for
anyone who would like to access a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. Anyone who would like access
to this service should please send an email to the RTD Board Office at RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com
and a link will be provided. Also, a live stream of this meeting is available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
today's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you before proceeding to
speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would
like to speak by pressing Star 9 and can then toggle their mute settings with Star 6.
I will now call for the roll. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Director Davidson. I am here. That is 15 present with zero absent.
Next is our public participation period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the board. If you
would wish to speak and have not done so, you can raise your virtual hand on Zoom or press Star 9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. And if you are dialed in, you can use Star
6 to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that participating in this process, you are being recorded. And if you do not wish to be
recorded, you may submit your comments in writing to the Board Office. If any speaker has documentation
or reference materials for the board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email the materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. During this time, the
Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to be contacted, you may
indicate in an email to the Board Office.
At this meeting, this is a special board meeting that is scheduled prior to the Finance and Planning
Committee. So we are on a limited time. And I am going to request that speakers be limited as noticed to 1
minute to provide any comments so that the Board can hear everybody who would like to speak and still
have time to get through our agenda on time for Finance and Planning.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and will have up to 1 minute to provide their
comments. Has anyone raised their virtual hand? I'll now ask for Mr. Kroll to assist in that process.

JACK KROLL: Chair Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time, I do
not see anyone present who has indicated a desire to provide public comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Kroll. Have any emailed comments been received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: You all have not received any email comments specific to this meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr Kroll. With no participants in the queue-- and we'll pause for
a moment-- we will close the public comment period at this time and move to our recommended action
portion of the agenda.
There is one recommended action on the agenda listed as Section 4, Action A. This is with respect to the
House Bill 24-1447 Board Position. It is for the Board of Directors to adopt a position on House Bill 241447, or HB 1447. I would like at this time as chair to make a motion to adopt an opposed position on House
Bill 24-1447. Do I have a second?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Motion. Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I believe I heard Director Rosenthal as the second with Director Davidson as the
movement. Before opening up for discussion, I would like to state my reasons for recommending this
opposed position. I have listened carefully to feedback from Directors who have provided their feedback at
earlier meetings throughout the past few weeks. I have also listened carefully to the feedback that this
Board has received, as I know we all have.
I have not heard any support positions or amend positions from Directors, hence my recommendation to
adopt the oppose, and in fact have heard things that would indicate an opposed position. I would like to
summarize some of those items that I have heard conveyed with respect to concerns of House Bill 24-1447
to help guide our further discussion from here. I'll go through these points now.
First of all, HB 24-1447 legislatively overrides a decision made by the voters, who established RTD's current
governance model. This move not only bypasses the democratic process, but also does so without
comprehensive public outreach, which would be necessary for such a significant change. It's essential to
recall that RTD is primarily funded by our taxpayers and riders, who contribute over 75% of RTD's revenues.
Any shifts in how RTD is governed must involve their input extensively to ensure inclusive and effective
governance.
Moreover, as this board has expressed concerns about and heard concerns about directly from riders and
rider advocacy groups, this bill proposes at-large elections and fewer districts with a higher number of
voters, which threatens to simultaneously dilute voter representation and increase campaign costs, raising
barriers rather than lowering them for equitable representation. Additionally, this bill mandates that RTD
adhere to the recommendations made by the Accountability Committee. This is redundant since RTD is
already implementing these recommendations, which is the subject of an ongoing audit of the Office of the
State Auditor.
While this bill cites the Accountability Committee's recommendations, it entirely ignores the committee's
findings on governance, which did not identify any clear, substantive problems with RTD's existing structure
and, further and importantly, recommended extensive study and extensive stakeholder engagement if any
governance restructuring is contemplated in the future. Furthermore, it is not clear what problems are being
solved by HB24-1447. And in fact, there are several underlying flawed assumptions that the bill seems to
be predicated on, which is another thing that I have heard Directors comment on.

One specific example in the current draft of the bill is the assertion in the bill summary that Directors
represent only their district. This shows a misunderstanding of the fiduciary duties of the RTD Board of
Directors, as with any board, who are obliged to act in the best interests of the entire organization and all
of its users, not just their electoral districts, which this Board consistently does do.
Additionally, HB24-1447 does not clearly address the most pressing issues facing RTD. Instead, the bill
introduces changes that seem to be misaligned with the actual needs of RTD and its stakeholders, including
the taxpayers and riders who fund the system. Moreover, despite these significant changes in governance,
HB24-1447 does not propose any new funding models to match the increased control it creates. Finally,
and significantly, with the legislative session rapidly approaching its end, this bill is being rushed with
amendments and changes that are still in discussion, which is far from ideal for the thoughtful policymaking
process that would be necessary to make such a significant change, especially when the definition of
problems being solved for are not clear, no study has been conducted, the public has not been engaged,
and stakeholder engagement and consensus is limited.
That concludes my remarks summarizing some of the primary concerns that I have heard this Board
express, as well as some of the stakeholders of RTD that have communicated their concerns to us. At this
time, before we move on to questions and comments from Directors, I would like to call on Michael Davies,
our Government Relations Officer, to present additional aspects of this bill, as presented in the Board report,
and touch on those things that may impact staff from an administrative burden standpoint. Mr Davies,
please, the floor is yours.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair and Members of the Board. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. Regarding House Bill 1447, the written report that was provided to the Board provides a section by
section summary, all the way through Section 22 of the bill. There's 22 sections in the bill. I'm not going to
go through each section. But I want to go through and provide a brief summary of a few of the most
consequential sections and would be happy then to take any questions from the Board regarding other
sections.
Section 2 of the bill requires RTD to submit fixed route service delivery plans to the Denver Regional Council
of Governments for review and comment. Also included in section 2 is direction for the Colorado
Department of Transportation to contract with a third party to study the RTD boundary size and service to
align with certain goals. That study is to be submitted to RTD, the General Assembly, and the governor's
office by March 1, 2026.
Section 5 of the bill establishes a transitional board to serve in an at-large capacity from January 1, 2025,
until December 31, 2026. The transitional board is comprised of seven current board members whose terms
expire December 31, 2026; two new directors elected at large during November 2024 election; two directors
appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate; two non-voting ex officio directors appointed by
DRCOG; and finally, the Executive Director of CDOT, or their designee, also serving in a non-voting ex
officio role.
Section 6 establishes a new board of directors beginning January 1, 2027, that could be comprised of 10
members total. Seven members would be voting directors, including three directors elected by district, two
elected at-large, and two appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate. Three non-voting ex
officio members would be included in the same manner as the transitional board. Additionally, the new
board is also required to develop with community input a mandatory onboarding program for incoming
directors.

Section 13 of the bill requires RTD to complete and submit to the General Assembly a 10-year strategic
plan that aligns with certain goals and considers aspects of the study that I mentioned in section 2 of the
bill that would be completed by CDOT.
Section 15, and this is the last section I'm going to summarize, Section 15 requires to create dashboards
to reflect financial, capital projects, ridership, and recruitment retention information. Much of that information
and dashboards very much mirror Accountability Committee recommendations.
And with that, I will conclude my remarks. And as mentioned, happy to answer any questions about other
sections or topics of interest included in the bill for the Board. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Davies, for your report. Much appreciated. I'm going to open up for
discussion, debate, questions on this item. And we'll open up to any Director wishing to provide additional
comments on the proposed legislation.
I did just want to lay out some ground rules given where we are to be mindful of our time constraints, given
the Finance and Planning Committee meeting approaching, and also given our opportunity to testify on the
bill tomorrow. I would ask each director to please limit your comments to 3 minutes or less. Also, I would
ask that any questions posed to staff, notably Mr Davies, be limited to those that will influence Directors'
decisions. Once we have heard from each director, I will see if there are any further comments to circle
back around and would asked Directors to keep those second comments as limited as possible.
Again, I would like to remind this team that there is an opportunity to testify before the House Transportation,
Housing and Local Government Committee tomorrow at 1:30 at the committee hearing where this will be
heard. It is our understanding that this bill may be laid over, but testimony will be heard.
I would like to remind everybody that we do believe that this bill is subject to change and amendments are
still being discussed despite the late nature of the session here. All right, with that, I'm going to go ahead
and open up for any questions for Mr Davies, again, limited to those that may influence decision, as well as
any discussion or comments that Directors would like to offer at this time. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr Chair. My fellow Board Members, last night I had the pleasure and the
distinct honor of hosting a town hall with several of you. And the overwhelming information that I got back
from community was that this was probably not the right move. Their perspective and their feedback to me
and to several of us in the room was that they are concerned with the fact that they would be losing
representation through their paying in of the system and having a voice at the table. There have been a lot
of us talking about this and having conversation. But I do believe that the breakdown of this work and this
information, as laid out in the Board packet, leads me to the conclusion that it's probably best to oppose at
this point. I have also not heard any support from this, from anybody that I have interacted with.
And just for the record, attending the City Council of Denver meeting this morning, where their governance
committee did discuss opposition to this bill from the point of view of the Denver local elected, nonpartisan
representatives of the city was very aligned. And they appeared to be in an opposed position as well,
although there is more to come on that. We should receive further updates from them. But I want it to be
there to hear what they had to say as my district is fully inside the City and county of Denver. So I add that
to the compliments, and that's all. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary. Director Buzek, please.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. And thank you for your comments. I agree wholeheartedly with
everything you said. It appears to me-- and hopefully we'll focus on some of these things tomorrow in
testimony. I'm not sure if I'll be able to do that. I'm happy to be there if it might help.
This legislation focuses on two assumptions, as you indicated, that are not valid. First, that we do not have
a "professional" board of directors. Obviously, we all know why that's wrong. But the legislation doesn't say
how replacing one elected board with another elected board somehow overcomes this professional
requirement of this board of directors.
The other argument that continually gets made is that the size of our board is too large, and we need a
smaller, more nimble board. As I stated in the RTC, DRCOG RTC meeting this morning, boards like ours
and governments as well operate at the speed of government. And the speed of government is necessary
for a number of reasons.
First, a lot of times it's required by law, by statute, state and federal, that we engage in certain processes
in a certain time frame in order to make decisions. Secondly, in order to ensure transparency, we do a
significant amount of public outreach. And sometimes that interferes with the ability to make decisions at
the snap of a finger because we have to get input from people. And I think getting that input is much more
important than being able to snap our fingers and make a decision. So this nimble argument, I think, is a
fallacy. I don't think we have that problem.
And as I had Mr. Kroll find out for me, if you look at the RTD district and you count the number of House
and Senate seats that live within the RTD, there are 61 of them. And they manage to govern just fine. So I
don't think the size of the board impacts the ability to be nimble, to make appropriate decisions.
And once you make that argument, if you think you're going to be faster with a smaller board, what's going
to suffer is transparency. That's all I have. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And thank you for your very good discussion about rationale for
opposition to this bill. I wanted to make a couple other points.
Each of us represents an individual district. And because we represent that district, our constituents feel
comfortable and compelled to contact us individually to bring forth issues. If we were all to serve at large,
then we could all be getting similar requests or requests from people across the district that might put us at
conflict or create some conflict with one another. I think it's very efficient the way we can channel some of
those citizen concerns and comments through an individual director and to the Board Office or management
of RTD. So I believe that having, even though we do try to act as directors responsible for the whole agency,
I think that manner of communication is very effective.
One other thing I wanted to mention is that both Director Davidson and I were appointed by our County
Commissioners through a competitive application process. This bill would eliminate the county's or city's
ability to do so.
And the third comment I have is that I am not certain what qualifications CDOT would bring to the training
of our mass transit bus operators. That's just a comment I have. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair. Director Sloan, please.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, thank you, Chair Davidson. The comments so far have made me proud to be on
this Board and have made me realize, you know, what a diverse, intelligent group of people we have here.
I have three questions. None of them have long answers there.
For those of you who have been more involved in this process, and maybe Mr. Davies would be the best
one to answer, before we vote, I'd like to know what changes-- number one, what changes are being
proposed at this late night hour on a hodgepodge bill? Two is funding, what for, RTD, one of the changes?
And finally, if it is laid over, does that mean it is really impossible for the bill to be considered in this legislative
session? Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. I'm happy to address those. And then, Mr Davies, I'll turn it
over to you if there's anything you'd like to add. We've done some time together working on this here. So
thank you for the question, Director Sloan.
I think it's really too early to know what changes may come through. There's a lot that's being discussed.
And our understanding is that there are potential amendments underway, primarily aimed around the
governance structure and that there is discussion around potentially changing, eliminating, reducing the
number of at-large seats, given the overwhelming feedback that those at large seats create a very high
campaign barrier. There is some discussion of potentially increasing the number of districts that would
directly elect directors, similar to what we have now with the 15, but a fewer number of those.
There is some discussion around other changes to this bill that I think it's just not especially clear at this
point. So I think the bill sponsors, from my understanding, have heard the concerns of the community
regarding these changes to representation and are now working on amendments, most of which I have
heard have been what are the right number of elected by district seats, and should there be any at-large
seats?
Regarding the issue of funding that you had raised, you know, in the beginning there was some discussion.
And I think it's maybe no surprise to anyone on this Board. You know, I feel very strongly that at some point,
given what our long-term forecasts are, we are going to need to partner with our state to identify additional
ways to bolster and backstop transit funding.
When we had started this process, we had been told that, you know, governance changes are necessary
to make way for that. I'm still not clear that we're going in the right order here. And at this point, there is no
funding that's being proposed. There have been discussions, there have been rumors about funding that
might come in the future. I can certainly lend my perspective that I believe should that come to fruition, it's
important to understand the impact of those funds, the longevity of those funds, in order to best understand
and study how that may or may not influence the governance structure. So at this time, no funding has
been proposed, although there continues to be the same types of discussions that we heard several months
ago that perhaps there could be, and governance is important to make changes to allow for that.
In terms of the bill being laid over, now my understanding is that this isn't being postponed indefinitely at
this point, that in fact, this is to allow time for amendments to be made. We are starting to hear the positions
of other groups at this point. And there are potentially some amend positions that will be coming forward
from stakeholders, although there have been quite a few opposed at this point.
So it's, I don't believe, suggesting that the bill would be indefinitely postponed, but rather that amendments
will be pursued to answer the concerns of stakeholders, particularly those that have expressed amend

positions. Mr Davies, is there anything that you would add to clarify anything with respect to Director Sloan's
questions?
MICHAEL DAVIES: No. Thank you, Chair. Nothing further.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Sloan, does that address your questions. Great. Thank you very much. Director
Whitmore, please
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr Chair. First of all, quickly, I just want to publicly acknowledge your work
on this matter. It's a very tough situation, as we all know.
And I just want to say that I appreciate your summary. I think it encapsulates so many of the key points.
And it's going to be presented by you tomorrow in a professional manner. And that's the way we've handled
this whole situation, we, as the Board, and certainly our staff. And I just hope that comes shining through
with our testimony tomorrow. I will not be able to be there due to a work obligation that I cannot escape.
I, too, Director Sloan, very proud of being part of this body. This is a professional board. And this is a nimble
board.
So let me give an anecdotal story of how I can justify that statement. It began at 9:21 AM this morning when
a city manager of one of the cities that I represent reached out and wanted to have another session with
our CEO and General Manager and myself and other staff members.
She's not in town. She's got other work to do in Washington, D.C., upon request. And by 1 o'clock, we had
a meeting date set with her tremendously busy schedule that works with the city council's work session.
I would submit that acts like this happen frequently. And it can be handled easily for 15 of us by our great
Board Office and the support staff that Deborah has. I would say this is a classic example of being both
nimble and professional. Thank you, Mr Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to share with you that most of the transit organizations
that I have worked with who follow transit policy, or most of them, are going to be in an amend position.
And though we prefer to take an opposition to the bill, I would-- again, I trust you, Chair Davidson. I hope
that they give you more time to speak tomorrow than just 2 minutes. But I know you've set a collaborative
tone, and I appreciate that.
But there are two or three issues out there that I think are still kind of negotiable. And I have talked to-- or
staff has shared me their thoughts on it. But one is the market rate for properties. And the other one is this
study of the entire region.
I would not fear that study for the region. And I'm going to give you a reason why. I think it, again, will prove
how much money it takes to do these projects.
And I'll be honest with you, I'm getting very frustrated hearing about Seattle, Seattle, Seattle. And then
when you look at them, you realize that they have three transit agencies running King County. So I have
no fear of them doing another study on the region if that helps identify the financial needs that RTD needs.

And I trust all of us tomorrow will present ourselves well. And again, I reiterate what Director Whitmore said.
I think, Mr. Chair, you're doing a great job. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. And thank you, Director Lewis and Director Whitmore for the
personal comments. I very much appreciate it. And I would bounce that right back. This is a very stressful
period and difficult period as we contemplate a number of legislative matters.
I would like to thank this Board for your collaborative attitude and patience throughout the process. And
also I'd very much like to thank Staff. Mr. Davies, thank you for all the work that you have put into this. And
I very much thank Staff for the patience as Board Members do go through this process. And this is already
an incredibly stressful time in transit, as we know, with tremendous priorities that the agency is facing,
ranging from our deferred maintenance projects to optimizing and working to optimize the operating
environment for our employees. There's many number of issues going on right now. And I thank everybody
for their patience dealing with a stressful time. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr Chair. I just wanted to note, you know, as the individual on this Board
that frequently raises their hands and suggests reforms or says, you know, what about this, or how about
we do that, and as the one who wrote the 2020 RTD reform bill-- and in fact, that's how I met several of
you. Director Lewis was there. We worked with CDC.
If I thought this bill helped riders of any community, if I thought this bill helped the disability community, if I
thought this bill helped the Board become more effective, or if this bill could somehow provide more transit,
I would be in support, even if it, you know, frustrated some of my colleagues. And I just don't-- I don't see-this bill doesn't do any of those things.
And I think the saddest part for me is that there were many, many months in which we could have been
stakeholdered with more effectively. And no one came to us and said, hi, we're hearing this feedback. What
do you need to be successful? And think that's a shame because as the one who is this self-styled reformer,
at least when I ran for this office, you know, maybe there are some things that could be or could have been
done. But we are at the 11th hour, and there are just a few weeks left of session.
Finally, I want to stress that this bill will impact our workforce and the ATU and potentially their right to
effectively collectively bargain. As I think most of you know, they are in a strong oppose position. There are
other unions coming out in an oppose position because they see this as dangerous, and they want to show
solidarity with frontline workers.
And to me, you know, I think that it's not just about the governance of this Board. It's about the people that
we serve. And we also are responsible for the health and well-being of our workforce. And I don't believe
they were included in this conversation, including, you know, the training aspect.
The same with the disability community, I don't think we were included in this conversation. And while I
don't think the sponsors have any ill intent, because I can understand the frustrations, you know, I just
wanted to, you know-- I just felt like those things needed to be said on the record.
I concur with the other statements made by Directors, as well as yourself, Mr Chair. But we represent the
communities that we serve, yes. And I think we all ran because we care about public transit. All of us want
more public transit. And just the idea that-- and I'm so sorry if I'm hitting my two minutes, sir. You can cut
me off. But just the idea, you know, that we don't do things on behalf of the whole region suggests that, you
know, perhaps people don't know how this board works or seen what we've done.

But that all of the sudden, the far northeast where I represent disappears on a map January 1 of next year.
And, you know, the folks that I ran-- like my neighbors, you know, I taught high school here. I raised a kid
here. I know every single line here, every single R&O. And this is a volunteer job. And we do this because
we love our communities.
Board size, you know, if anything might be too small if you consider massive population growth. But again,
I just wish someone had said, hey, this is what we're hearing, and what can we do to help? Because I think
we'd all feel better.
I think the sponsors are hurt at some of the feedback. And I think we're all rightfully hurt at some of the, you
know, tenor. And so with that, I mean, I would-- I'm obviously going to be a strong oppose.
And I just would also add that as we do our testimony tomorrow, one thing I've found in speaking with
legislators and other groups is that they don't realize how much we do every day practically unpaid. That
isn't necessarily in the news or in a committee meeting or on the record. We're also advocates. And we
serve as a point of customer service.
And even, you know-- and we also get policy done through working with staff and our GM CEO. We do a
lot that people can't see. So tomorrow in my testimony, I'm going to talk, again, very briefly about who I
represent. But I'm going to list some of the things, you know, that I've worked on or working on or were able
to get done, just briefly touch on a couple of points. And I think that might also help the committee
understand not just how difficult this job is, but how well we really are doing giving the limited resources
that we have. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr Chairman. And I appreciate and applaud the comments of all of the
Directors, including yourself. And I concur in each and all of them. I won't say any more arguments in
opposition because they've been expressed. And we'll be testifying to that tomorrow.
But I feel in this forum, for this group, I am compelled to recall the words of Sir Thomas More when he was
put on trial for his refusal to sign the supremacy oath. And it was a capital crime. And he was to be executed
for refusing to do it.
And Thomas More said to that assemblage, "It is not for the supremacy oath that you have sought my
blood, but because I would not bend to the marriage." It is important to understand that there is no problem
with governance that has been identified, articulated, or even hinted at. And that's not what this bill is about.
It's because we would not bend to the marriage. Thank you, Mr Chairman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Thank you, Directors, for all of your comments. I completely
concur with everything that's been stated from Directors and very much appreciate the tenor of the
conversation. It is disappointing. I think none of us should ever be afraid of change in pursuit of a more
perfect system and a more perfect region.
And we have a lot of things to work together on transit. But I sure would love to work together and be asking
questions about how to improve transit in the region. So hopefully we will have those opportunities in the
future to come.
At this point, seeing no further discussion questions or comments from directors, I'm going to go ahead and
call for a roll vote. Treasurer Bouquet.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes in favor of opposition.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, I should have restated that the motion at hand is to take an opposed position on
HB24-1447. Thank you, Treasurer. I will record that as a Yes. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: [INAUDIBLE] Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am a Yes. This is Chair Davidson. With 15 Aye votes and zero no votes, zero
abstentions, the motion passes. Thank you, Directors. Thank you, members of Staff, for being here.
Seeing no further discussion-- actually, let me just clarify. I will call for a motion to adjourn, and we will
adjourn. But there is another meeting tonight. It is the Finance and Planning Committee meeting.
So those of you that are participating in Finance and Planning, please don't go anywhere. You can keep in
this Zoom meeting. But we will start at the 5:30 PM time when we are called to order by Committee Chair
Tisdale. But there is no need to leave this meeting prior to that.
So with that being stated, with no further discussion, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
BOB BROOM: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That-- all right, great. Thank you. The meeting will be adjourned as of 5:13 PM. See you
all at Finance and Planning. Thank you very much.

