Oct 9 2018 0530 PM Financial Administration &
Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: It is now just after 5:30. My name is Ken Mihalik, the Chair of the Financial
Administration Audit Committee. I will call this meeting to order. Move it a little bit closer?
Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board are digitally video recorded and will be
captioned and made available to the public via the Board's website. Safety is our core value.
I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. This is a new one. This one is about
driving in fog and which seems appropriate for today.
Make sure you leave plenty of distance between your car and the one front of you, take
advantage of your windshield wipers and defrosters, don't use your car's high beams and also
don't use your cruise control, and follow the right side line of the road to guide you in really
thick fog, and check your mirrors before slowing down, gently apply your brakes if you choose
to pull over and wait out the fog, pull off as far to the right or off of the road as possible, or take
transit. That's a good one too.
And additionally, in the event we must evacuate the building for fire or any other emergency
please calmly exit out the door you came in at the back of the room. Go up the stairs to the first
floor around the security desk and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be
there to direct you to a safe meet up area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an
evacuation will be assisted by our RTD staff as necessary.
With that we have two handfuls of recommended actions tonight. The first one is an amendment
to the 2018 Amended Budget. It is recommended that the Board of Directors adopt resolution
number to be determined series of 2018 to amend the 2018 Amended Budget for the base system
for one, the inclusion of a new capital project, and two, increase to the estimated unrestricted
year in fund balance.
And this supports the GMs goals. Core Goal #3, Strong Financial Management; Task Goal #1,
Fiscal Sustainability; and Task Goal #3, Asset Management State of Good Repair.
Is there a motion? Director Solono is the mover and Director Archuleta is the second. Heather,
would you care to elaborate on that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Mr. Chair, this is Heather. I'm going to turn it over to Jannette
and she's going to walk you through-- I think we have one change to the reading of the action
item and then she's going to walk you through the amendment.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, thank you. We do need to make a correction to the
Recommended Action. While yes we are amending the Amended Budget for inclusion of a new
capital project, the correction needs to read and an increase to the appropriation, not the
estimated unrestricted year end fund balance.

So we're increasing the appropriation for a new capital project. I spoke with the Board Office
about this correction and they will publish a correction from this point forward. So what we are
doing is-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Should we have them amend that?
ROLF ASPHAUG: And this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. If there's no objection you could
simply make that correction by acclamation by unanimous consent.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there any objection? Well, maybe just a show of objection. None.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Nobody objects, then you could just make that change that way.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: What we are doing is amending the 2018 Amended Budget only for a
new capital project that was inadvertently eliminated from our amended budget. The project is in
the amount of $27.1 million for the continuing purchase of 27 light rail vehicles.
This project was approved in last year's SBP. It was a three year project, but for a variety of
reasons the project funds that were scheduled to be drawn in 2018 were inadvertently emitted
from new capital. The purchase of the LRVs will be funded by previously issued COPs, which
were programmed in the budget, so there is no new funding needed for the purchase.
The total appropriation does change it will be higher by $21.7 million. We detail that in the
Board item so we are requesting approval of the amendment to the amended budget. Are there
questions we can answer?
KEN MIHALIK: It doesn't appear that there are any questions at this time. Let me go to the
phone. Sorry. I do see one, Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: The very beginning of your introduction you transposed two numbers.
Instead of 21.7 you said 27.1, and I just didn't want that to be gone without making the
correction-JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: --for recognizing that.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. Yet another error that we need to correct. But yeah, that's
correct. It is 21.7. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'm going to check with anybody on the phone. Do you know if anybody's
on the phone with us? There is.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm on the phone.

KEN MIHALIK: Director Anderson, thank you for that. Do you have any questions or
comments on this?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: No, I don't. I will be in favor of this recommended action.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Is there anybody else on the phone this evening? I ask just
because we have got a number of possibilities, so thank you for that. Seeing no other questions,
we will move to a vote. And Director Solano was the mover and Director Archuleta the second.
And with Director Anderson's yes, that's 11 yes's and one no. And that is Director Menten.
The second recommended action this evening is as follows. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2019 through
2024 mid-term financial plan. Do I motion? Director Williams and Director Archuleta again.
Heather Jenee, you care to elaborate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So this is Heather. I'm going to let Jannette start off and then I
will be wrapping it up. So Jannette.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. This is the six year plan that integrates both the SBP and
the APE. We have been discussing the development of the plan and our assumptions in
committee meetings beginning in April. We have been working on various drafts until we got it
balanced. And it is balanced.
The mid-term financial plan forms the basis of our annual budget and our long range plan. In the
section of your package exhibit one is the cash flow for the SBP. Heather will talk about the APE
in a few minutes. Let me talk about some of the changes that we have made since we were here
last.
The fare revenue now mirrors the fair recommendation adopted by the Board. And what that
means too is that we have shifted more of fare revenue to fast tracks than the Base system from
our original plan. We are going to project anticipating seeing flat ridership growth on the Base
system side, but more on fast tracks.
Our sales and use tax is the March forecast from CU leads. And as regards, expenditures, once
again we are budgeting diesel fuel at $2.30 a gallon, gasoline at $2.65 a gallon. Our capital and
expense projects are incorporated into the plan based on high priority projects and to the extent
to which these projects meet our state of good repair priorities.
The list of planned capital and O&M projects for the Base system are included in exhibit two and
exhibit three in your packet and a list of deferred projects is in exhibit four. These are the noncritical projects that we have postponed to help us balance the Base system plan.
As part of the plan for the Base system we are projecting the issuance of COPs in 2022 in the
amount of $23.1 million to finance our fleet. This was necessary due to the fact that the Base fare
revenue was revised downward and we incorporated higher costs for purchase transportation due
to projected rebids in the future.

As far as reserves go we plan to contribute to reserves in three of the six years of this plan. We
will require a draw on our reserve funds in the years 2019 through 2021 to balance the plan. But
then after that we will refund our reserves, such that the total of our three main funds will reach
$94 million in 2024 on the basis of this plan.
The Base system plan is balanced. We have a positive unrestricted year end fund balance over
the six year period and we do not anticipate the need for a subsidy from Base to fast tracks over
this time period. As I said we do use the Base system plan as a target for the 2019 budget and I
will return in a little while to talk about that as well. And Heather will talk about the APE.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'm going to refer you to exhibits seven and eight. Exhibit seven
just talks about the total cost estimated for those projects through 2020. That number has not
changed at this time. It's at $5.6 billion.
Regarding the cash flow there to exhibit eight, just wanted to point out a few things that has not
changed much since the last time we presented to, except for what was being referred to by
Jannette, and that we did adjust the fare revenue allocating a slightly higher amount to fast tracks
than we were to the Base.
The reasoning for that, we've actually talked about in the past-- that's due to even though the bulk
of our bus system is on the Base system, that's still where the bulk of our ridership and fare
revenue is generated, we continue to see a slight decrease in bus ridership while we're seeing an
increase in light rail and commuter rail, which is also a national trend.
The bulk of our ridership on fast tracks is light rail and commuter rail. Well, in fact, all of it is in
light rail or commuter rail. And those tend to be regional prices or airport prices, which generate
more fare revenue. So we did make that adjustment, which actually benefits fast track slightly, so
we'll see slightly more revenue available in the long term. And I'll talk about that a little bit more
in the long term plan.
We are able to get a three months reserve in fast tracks over the six year period in year 2019
unlike we're able to do in the Base system, as well as we're able to fully fund the FISA through
the six year period of time. Those are all the questions, let's wrap it up. Those are all the
comments we have. We'd be glad to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So under the deferred projects, which is exhibit four, one item
that I have a question about, maybe something that I missed, but let's say 3/4 of the way down
the list that says redevelopment of Weston property. Do we have a Weston properties that mean
wealth and property?
HEATHER JENEE: No. The Weston property is that district shops and plat, and it's actually the
back area where we have the CDL course and everything. And due to some issues around takes
that we had to do with North Metra et cetera, we're going to have to configure that space.

We've got drainage issues and we're going to have to restore the CDLs facility. But we're doing a
more in-depth analysis before we fund that to see what we need to do exactly. And I would see if
anybody else is nodding their head yes or no, I screwed that one up. So that's why we've deferred
it. So it is the Weston Property and it's behind the whole plat district shops area.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. And then just one last question with an item later on tonight's
agenda for the settlement. Were any additional projects added to this deferred list?
HEATHER JENEE: Due-- Let me-NATALIE MENTEN: Due to the pending settlement. No, they were not.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's my only questions. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you Chair Mihalik. I noticed on page 16 of the Board packet in
discussing service increases. There's a paragraph in there that talks about service increases,
including enhancements for a bunch of things including routes Ellen 324 and Broomfield Call-nRide. And I'm interested in that because they're in my district. So if somebody could offline
perhaps or even if you have something now, but talk to me.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: You going back and forth with that. We've seen these service
increases in the Base system plan/SBP for the last three years or so. So it's something that we
have incorporated consistently. Nothing new here, but we'd be happy to talk to you about it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. In the event that proposition 110 should be
approved by the voters, some of the cities and counties that have spoken with us concerning that
have indicated that they would be willing to use a portion of the proceeds that they are to acquire
under that proposition for purposes of various projects that we have. Needless to say, none of
that is reflected in here now in terms of the projects that are deferred or otherwise. Correct?
HEATHER JENEE: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: But the point is that should such funding be available, we might be able to
take some projects out of the deferred list and put them into an active status.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: If there are additional funds available, yes we would be able to do that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's all.

KEN MIHALIK: Just for my clarification, the deferred list is deferred beyond the window of this
mid-range?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. And they could come in if there was an emergency and we
had to move it in, but we'd have to move something else out, and it would be brought to this
Board.
KEN MIHALIK: Actually no, I will check with Director Anderson. Sorry about that. Director
Anderson did you have any questions or comments about this?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I think the staff has done a great job on this. I went through it
yesterday. I was particularly pleased to see one of the things that they did include was some
automatic doors at Union Station.
Not only is that good for folks that have difficulties with access, but it is also good for people
that are traveling and people that are pushing suitcases. So I thought that was really good.
So I appreciate all that staff has done to work through these issues. It's always hard to do it, but I
think this is one of the better plans I've seen in all the years I've been on the Board, so thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Chair, could I just respond to that?
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely.
HEATHER JENEE: I just wanted to point out that that is a project that came up through the
ACPD Advisory Committee, and that group has been working with our staff on it for probably
about nine months now. So we've been able to come to a compromise on that as to how many
doors and be able to move that forward through the budgeting process. So I just wanted to point
that out.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Anderson, just for clarification, you're supporting this then?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I certainly am supporting it. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: And with that, we will move to a vote. Director Williams, I had you as the
mover and Director Archuleta as the seconder. And with Director Anderson's yes, that's 10 yes's
to two no's, those being myself and Vice Chair Menten.
Well, we're moving right along. The third recommended action tonight is on the heels of the
previous one. It's recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2018 long range financial plan.

And this supports the GMs goals of strong financial management and fiscal sustainability. Do I
have a motion? Thank you Director Broom and Director Archuleta. And again, Heather and
Jannette.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'm going to handle this one. I just wanted to point out some of the
highlights I think. There have been a few changes since the last long range plan presentation. I'll
point those out also. But I did want to point out that we have been able to produce this long range
plan without a transfer from the Base system as Jannette mentioned previously in the sixth year
midterm financial plan.
We have also been able to fully fund the FISA. We've had to use the FISA in the short term a
few years here and there between now and-- I'm sorry, not now, but 2025 and 2027. But it's fully
restored in 2028. And then we end up with a balance, a significant balance of around $700
million by 2040 in the FISA.
The other thing I wanted to point out, there are two COP issuance that were in the plan last year
also, which was 2025 and 2028. Those continue to be in the plan. And there are no additional
COPs to be issued past those dates in the long range plan, either for the Base or fast tracks.
We are able to reach three years of operating reserve by 2029 in the Base system. In 2019, as we
mentioned previously, we're able to reach it in fast tracks and continue that through the life of the
long range plan currently.
There are no other outside of the fast tracks projects opening Syrian North Metro. There are no
planned increases in service over the long range plan at this current time. We are anticipated to
start seeing balances in the Base system.
In the plan, you saw I think it was last month that it was going to be 2026 with the changes we
had mentioned in the mid-term. That moves the Base system to 2029 with an estimated balance
at the end of 2040, in addition to the reserves of $915 million. In fast tracks we estimate seeing a
balance.
The previous month we showed it in 2031. It's now 2029 in fast tracks with an estimated $1.2
billion in unrestricted funds and $700 million in the FISA. These are significant numbers above
where we were last year, mainly attributable in both the Base and fast tracks due to increased
revenue forecasts that were better than what we had the previous year.
The changes in fast tracks also were due to the shift in revenue from Base and focused more on
rail and commuter rail, and those affairs that are associated with that. So with that, I'll be glad to
take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: We have several lined up. Director Williams, you are the first.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Chair Mihalik. I have an odd question it actually has to do with
the previous action. Is that acceptable?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure, we'll be good. Let's give it a try. Can we decide, sure, throw it at
us.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I want to know from the people on the Board who voted against the
previous action, what is their recommend-- they didn't vote for it. What are they proposing
instead?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. That wasn't me then, so I can't take that.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, it's for Director Mihalik and Director Menten. So how do we do that
procedurally? I couldn't get in there fast enough because I had to wait for them to vote. But I
would like them to speak to why they voted against something.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, not wanting to make this a back and forth Director Menten, I'll let you
start off.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm already on here, even before she asked because I was doing like a
three-fer. It's all going to be about the same answer. So I'm already on there to do that.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm good with that. I'll defer my question until Director Menten speaks. But
I think we need to look at that kind of thing. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Next on the list, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. My question is, is are we providing adequate funding for our
pension obligations or are we balancing our budget off of pensions?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair? So I can talk a little bit about that when we get to the
pension piece too. But no, we have accommodated the negotiated pension increases that we
have, and, therefore, the Union pension. So for the Union, if you remember in the CBA we
negotiated, not only the 13% contribution by RTD and 5% by the staff member, but the $6.2
million flat one time contribution at the beginning of the year.
So instead of paying an amount per month, if we make the upfront contribution once it's better
for the pension to do that on an annual basis. So that has been included. Of course, we don't
know what that would look like for future years after the CBA, but we have assumed that
ongoing cost plus inflation. And then for the salary pension, we have recommended in one of the
future actions to fund $5.1 million per year.
That may not be large enough if the trustees want to get that pension done faster. But there
wasn't a recommendation this year from us or the trustees to up that amount. And then we're
continuing the recommended contribution at 9% for the other salaried plan. So I would say no,
that we have accommodated those pensions within the existing plan.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. I just note that there's a lot of governmental agencies that are not
adequately funding their pensions, so thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I was already on there to say instead of each time. I'll give
a few examples to be very brief because the list might go on too long than we would tolerate
tonight. A good example would be the certificates participation.
I believe that's a debt mechanism that was created solely to get around asking taxpayers for their
approval on debt, that what happens with certificates of participation sometimes referred to as
COPs, that's my preference calling them that, is that it requires an annual approval of this lease
agreement, this mechanism again, in my opinion, to get around asking taxpayers.
But in reality it's debt. There's bondholders. There's interest. There's collateral. So I feel it is
deceptive and we'll not ever support going around the back of taxpayers, contrary to the
constitutional amendment we have in Colorado that requires that we ask them.
I think we are tapped out and we know that our first payment needs to be to the mortgage
holders, and therefore, it endangers services when that is present. And that's why we're tapped
out. Let's give a pension example since that was just brought up.
I feel the employees should be chipping into the pension. And that's not present in this budget.
That will be an action we'll speak of later tonight. I'll be voting no on that. So that would be just
a couple of examples. And I'm speaking to the entire, this is why I voted no and why I would
continue to vote no because I don't think there's enough enthusiasm on the Board to address
those two issues. So I hope that was helpful for you and that would be why I would be again
voting no on this issue. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. And Director Lubow, if you allow me, Director Menten
said it much better than I could. But for those very reasons the COP, and as Richard Broom
mentioned, that pensions are an issue. Unless we get in front of it it's not going to get any better.
Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I noticed Heather and Jannette that on one of the
pages, I guess the second page of your memo under financial impact, there is actually a statement
that funding from FISA and the unrestrictive fund balances would be used to fund the remaining
unfunded fast tracks carders. Which in the six years that I've been here I don't think I've ever
seen in one of these memos, so it's very exciting for me.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, that is our commitment, that at some point we will finish those.
And they have not been prioritized at this point.
JUDY LUBOW: I understand. And of course, if alternative money sources came in earlier than
that, that might somehow make it possible to have a project before that, before the 29.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, as we've discussed the problem is not just the project but the
funding of the ongoing maintenance. So if all of those issues were addressed, yes, we're always
open to looking at how we could advance projects.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I will check with Director Anderson. I'm going to make that
mistake a few more times tonight. Director Anderson, did you have any comments or questions?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I don't have any questions, but I do have a couple of comments. I
think as I read this yesterday, I thought it was really optimistic and much more optimistic than it
has been in the past. So that makes me feel good.
Just to reiterate on the use of COPs, I believe and certainly our attorneys can say that this has
been adjudicated by the Supreme Court and it is a legitimate way for governments in the state of
Colorado to meet their obligations to the public.
So I will be supporting this and I think that staff has done a good job in outlining all of the
issues. And I think with the build up of the FISA so that in the future fast tracks can be finished.
So thank you all. You've done good job.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Anderson, and again, just to clarify your vote on this?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Is for approval.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much and we will move to a vote. I had Director Broom as the
mover, Director Archuleta the seconder. And same as the previous one, 10 yes's with Director
Anderson; and two no's, myself and Vice Chair Menten.
And we're moving along. Excuse me. The fourth one, it is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2019 contribution
of $5 million, $100,000 to RTDs salaried employees defined benefit pension trust, otherwise the
DB Plan, which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.
It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2019 contribution of 9% of each
participant's eligible compensation to the salaried employees defined contribution plan or the DC
Plan, which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment. And this
supports the GMs goals of workforce and human capital. Do I have a motion? Thank you
Director's Archuleta and Williams. We are ready for you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. So I just want point out again this is for the salaried pension
plans. We have two plans and the representative plan we deal with through the CBA and you
approve that contribution earlier in the year when we approve the CBA.
So for the salaried plans we have two. The original plan was the DC or the Defined Contribution
Plan. It was closed at the end of 2007. So anybody that has been employed since January 1 of
2008 falls into the new plan, or I'm sorry, Defined Contribution Plan. Sorry, I had them
backwards.

So each year we have the actuarial come for the old plan, the old pension plan for those
employees that start here prior to 2008. They do a review with the Board. At that review they're
usually like a year in a rear. So when they do the review they're looking at January 1 of 2018.
They'll do a new one in January 2019.
The recommended contribution was $7.3 million for 2019. We are not recommending an
increase at this time. We'd like to keep it at the $5.1 million that we're currently contributing in
2018. At that $5.1 million contribution a 100% funding could be reached in 2031. And starting in
2022, though, that contribution would drop below $5.1 million.
Now, this assumes a rate of return about 7 and 1/2%. The trust is examining that rate of return
and is looking at lowering that rate of return. If we lower that rate of return, it will increase the
amount of contribution that we need to make, or if we continue the contribution the same it
would draw that fully funded number out a couple years.
However, since we're doing this on the recommendation that the actuarial has made for 2019,
again, we are recommending keeping it at the $5.1 million number. For the DC Plan, the
contribution we're recommending is 9%. It has been that 9% since 2008 when this plan was
started.
And then if you look at the second page, we've put on the cost of that. So at 9% it'd be $4.2
million. The budget that Jannette's going to present to you later does include the $5.1 million and
the $4.2 million for the 9% contribution. So with that I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather, how many employees are involved in
this plan? Do you have a ballpark number?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Still about a little over half of our employees, so about 60% are in the
older plan and about 40 something percent the newer plan.
KATE WILLIAMS: But I mean, this is salaried employees only.
HEATHER JENEE: Yeah. So we have about 800 salaried employees. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I could do the math if you bear with me a minute. So at $5.1 million
divided by 800 would be how much-HEATHER JENEE: No. It'd be about 50% or 60%. About half of the people are in the $5.1.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I have to do the math, sorry. Unless somebody is faster than I am.
Do $5.1 million divided by 400 people is what we're contributing annually-HEATHER JENEE: Per person.

KATE WILLIAMS: --per person. Correct?
HEATHER JENEE: Yeah. We don't look at it that way. We look at a flat contribution, but yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: I get that. But that's what it would be? And then at 7% and 9% per year end,
so how many years does it take to be fully vested?
HEATHER JENEE: It takes five years in the new plan. Those in the old plan are all fully vested.
KATE WILLIAMS: Already fully vested. I'm just trying to work out where we go financially.
And how many people that are involved in this plan are no longer working here that have
retired?
HEATHER JENEE: I could get those numbers for you. I don't have them handy.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So I think you see where I'm going with this. We can maybe do this
offline, then I'm happy.
HEATHER JENEE: Yeah. That was in the actuary report, so I could pull that up for you again
from April and see-KATE WILLIAMS: I was looking at that, and that's what led me to this train of thought. OK, I'm
good. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. Chair Tisdale, you are recognized.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I do have a question relative to the
Defined Contribution Plan. And the fact is as I read the report that the plan does have a
discretionary rate that may be used for the contribution between 7% to 9%.
And I see the comment that it's been 9% each year that we've done this. Can you give me please
any history on whether the Board has ever considered lowering the contribution rate within the
discretionary parameters previously provided to go as low as 7%, and they'll save in this case
almost $1 million in contribution?
HEATHER JENEE: Mr. Chair, not to my knowledge in the three years I've been here. Do you
know either? I have not been back all the way to 2008, but I did review probably the last five
years and I have not reviewed the meeting minutes from that, but the contribution
recommendation has always been the 9%.
DOUG TISDALE: And I suppose you-HEATHER JENEE: But I can go back and check to 2008.
DOUG TISDALE: No, that's fine. I assume since it's been 9% throughout that it's probably just
always been 9%. I'm just asking really if anyone knows if there's a reason the question has never

been posited, why don't we make it 7% in a particular year if we think we have budgetary
constraints that we'll be facing relative to other issues?
HEATHER JENEE: So Mr. Chair, I know that since I've been here there has been a conversation
internally about that number. And especially within the last several years when employment is so
tight and the amount of pay that we can offer is within the governmental guidelines, so to speak,
not the private sector, and we are competing with the private sector, that this is one of the few
things that we have that we can offer beyond the salaries that is attractive to employees.
And even though you have to be five years before you're vested, we do see it as a very good
benefit that we can offer in lieu of some of the other things that we can't offer. So we have had
that conversation internally.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent articulation. Thank you for sharing it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Solano, you are next.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you Chair Mihalik. I don't have a question but I have a comment. I
think this is counter to the needs of the bargain for pension plan. And I think the bargain for
pension plan is being shortchanged by actions like this. So I'm going to be a definite no.
HEATHER JENEE: So Mr. Chair, can I address that?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
HEATHER JENEE: So the amount that we participate per person for the bargain employees is
significantly higher than what we participate for the salaried employees. So I just want to make
sure that's clear. Remember, we contribute 13.5% in addition a flat $6.2 million on top of that.
For their plan it's a little richer, assuming it's fully funded at some point than this salary plan. So
I just want to clarify that.
PAUL SOLANO: Can I follow up, please?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, you can.
PAUL SOLANO: My argument to that is the salaried employees receive a lot more pay than the
bargained for employees, so I'm still a definite no.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Archuleta.
BONNIE ARCHULETA: Thank you, Chair. Can I be a bit off the subject a little bit? How about
the hourly people who work, do they get a fund or anything?
HEATHER JENEE: So the hourly salaried employees?
BONNIE ARCHULETA: Not salaried, the hourly workers, the bus drivers and anybody--

HEATHER JENEE: Yeah. So as part of the CBA the RTD contributes 13% to their pension, plus
a flat $6.1 million per year on top of that.
BONNIE ARCHULETA: All right. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I think we should keep in mind that there's never going to be a
unfunded liability in the Defined Contribution Plan because the employee gets whatever the
market generates for them. And that's the desirable part about having a Defined Contribution
Plan. Defined Benefit Plan where you get in trouble, where you promise a certain formula.
And if the plan doesn't perform and it doesn't generate the earnings that you've assumed, then
you can end up with these very large extra payments, like the $6 million per year that you're
seeing in one of our plans that you have to put in. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: No. And that's a good point. I think that 7 and 1/2% expected return for
perpetuity, although it looks like you guys are looking to adjust that, or at least I should say
lower it is a good thing. Seeing no other questions, although I did it again. Director Anderson,
did you have any questions or comments?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I have no questions at all. I will say that I will be supporting this
plan. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that and we will move to a vote. Director Archuleta, I had you
as the mover, and Director Williams as the seconder. This time nine yes's including Director
Anderson, and three no's, Director, Solano, Director Menten, and myself.
We are on the 5th of nine recommended actions. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the 2019 plan year
salaried, salaried benefits plan and authorizes the general manager or CEO or his designee to
enter into agreements with the insurance carriers.
And this supports the GMs goals of workforce and human capital. Do I have a motion? Thank
you Director's Folska and Lubow. Heather and Jannette, we are ready for you.
HEATHER JENEE: So I'll cover this one. I just want to point out a few things. First of all, this is
the second or third year in a row that we have had virtually no increases. This is actually a
decrease for 2019 to our overall benefit package for health.
And so it's pretty remarkable in this environment that we're facing right now that we've been able
to do this, and so I want to congratulate our benefits committee as well as our HR staff in doing
that because it's just unheard of. So me tell you how we've been able to do that, though.

So the first thing we did was based on a comment that we received from the Board, well, several
comments that we received from the Board a couple of years ago, in trying to equalize the
amount that RTD pays for both the Cigna plan and the Kaiser plan.
We have been steadily increasing the employee contribution to the Cigna plan. The Kaiser plan
is the least expensive for both the employer and employee, and so that's what we've used as the
benchmark these last two years. So in the medical and arena, the Kaiser high deductible plan
we're recommending no changes. The Kaiser HMO plan we are recommending an increase in the
deductible.
So this is one of the ways we tried to keep it without huge increases to either the employer or the
employee. So the individual would go from $800 to $1,000 and family from $1,800 to $2,000.
For the Cigna high deductible plan, there's an added benefit. It's called the Cigna Now and that
applies to both the high deductible and the regular PPO plan.
And previously you could only get the 90 day prescription through mail order. Now you can go
to several different stores to be able to get that, like Walmart, King Soopers. And so what we've
done is increase the employee contribution. It was increased by a third of the amount last year
and another 25% or so are taking up to 55% contribution for the employee.
We were supposed to go up to 66% this year or 2/3 of the way, but when we looked at that
number it was a huge increase, especially for those on the Cigna Family Plan. And so we decided
to spread that out over another year. So we're going to implement that over four years at this time
and we'll continue to review that as part of the Benefits Committee every year to see what that
impact is to our employees.
One of the strategies is we don't want to do it too quickly because, how do I say this, more sickly
employees are on the Cigna plan and that would force them into Kaiser, which then would force
the Kaiser numbers to go up. So we're better off with a certain number of employees on the
Cigna plan to create that competition between the Cigna and the Kaiser plan.
If we went to all Kaiser, then Kaiser would happen to monopoly on us and we would probably
see increases in prices that we haven't seen in the past. So we want to balance that so that we
don't lose that competition so that our overall prices don't increase significantly for either the
employee or the employer.
On Delta, we've done minor changes as a result of some of the ADA recommendations that
we've had to implement. And we expect a slight increase, or a 6% increase in dental rates. But
life and disability we're going looking at a new provider that was going to hopefully provide
much better customer service when it comes to disability or payment of a life claim.
As you can imagine, that's a pretty, pretty traumatic event for the employee. And we're feeling
right now that the current provider just didn't provide the level of service that we wanted and the
level of compassion that we needed for our employees at that time. We hope this new provider
does, and so we're looking at switching providers for that.

And there are no changes for the vision or the business and travel accident. When you take all of
that into consideration, we're actually seeing a decrease over all benefits of 1.15% to the
employer contribution. And so with that I'm glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm going to start with Director Anderson this time.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I think this was also good news that I saw
in this huge financial package. And the only thing, I will be voting for this. But I think that it
would be well for RTD to continue wellness programs and particularly stop smoking programs
because smokers cost health plans more than nonsmokers.
So it would be good to do that. And it would also prevent some of the deaths that we've had in
the past year among our employees. So thank you and I will be supporting this.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you.
HEATHER JENEE: Mr. Chair, could I just add something to that? So we do have a very robust
wellness program of which Kaiser and Cigna donate, I call it donate loosely, contribute to that
wellness program that we have in the form of cash. And so that's very beneficial and also's one of
the things that helps keep our rates down because of our wellness program. So we're very proud
of that and I think they do a very good job.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't see anybody else. And I'm still trying to get down here one of the days
to do the yoga at Blake.
HEATHER JENEE: Yeah. Fridays at noon.
KEN MIHALIK: Haven't done it yet.
SPEAKER 2: It's on Thursday.
HEATHER JENEE: Is flu shots this Thursday? Yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: Thanks.
HEATHER JENEE: He could get a flu shot.
KEN MIHALIK: Rather do yoga. I'd rather do yoga. Well, with that we will move to a vote. I
had Director Folska as the mover, and Director Lubow as the seconder. With Director
Anderson's yes I have 11 yes's and one no, and that being Director Solano. We are moving faster
than I thought we were going to.

HEATHER JENEE: Don't say that. You jinxed it.
KEN MIHALIK: It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves and adopts the revised fiscal policy statement for 2019. Do I
have a mover?
Thank you, Directors Archuleta and Williams.
HEATHER JENEE: Mr. Chair, Jannette Scarpino is going to walk us through the fiscal policy.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Jannette.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. The only proposed changes to the fiscal policy are to
wording and clarification of the investment policy.
We are number one, substituting a reference to the approved RTD investment policy for the
entire investment policy section; and number two, we are substituting the words mid-term
financial plan for any references to the SBP and the APE in the document. You have both a
marked up and a clean copy in the packet, but we would welcome your comments.
KEN MIHALIK: One speaker, I'll start with Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Regarding the reserves, this is where we reduced the amount
required for our policy couple years ago. Would that be right, somewhere in there?
HEATHER JENEE: Mr. Chair?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
HEATHER JENEE: Actually we didn't reduce the amount required. We changed the reserve. So
we took out the capital reserve in the Base system as the requirement because we felt capital
fluctuates up and down. So between the Board appropriated and the unrestricted-JANNETTE SCARPINO: Operator room
HEATHER JENEE: --and the operating reserve equals 3 months
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Because we used to be at 6 months some time ago, right?
HEATHER JENEE: No. We've been at three months since the Fiscal Policy Sustainability group
met. They're the ones that came up with the three months.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I thought we had since-HEATHER JENEE: But we did changes. We took out capital because that used to be there, and
to me that was well, one that's not traditional to count capitalist party or operating reserve and

because that should just be for capital items. And so we actually in some ways raised that
requirement because we took capital out of there. And that was used to offset usually that three
months.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And on that same thread, there are some governments who have used
emergency reserves and they have buildings listed now instead of cash. They took the cash and
put buildings in there. So when you go literally have a fire sale-- I'm politicizing, sorry. I will
leave it at that.
HEATHER JENEE: So I want to clarify. So we actually have replaced through the Board's
action some of our cash reserves for Taber and put property in there. But for no other operating
reserves, we would never do that. That is for a permanent reserve that we're not allowed to touch,
which is Taber.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And I was mostly putting at state of Colorado, which I know
has done that practice that I just talked about. So I'll leave it at that. But thank you for answering
the question about the reserve.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams, you are next.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just wanted to say that I for one am not sorry to see the APE go away.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Anderson, any questions or comments?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: No. I will be voting in favor, however.
KEN MIHALIK: You are in favor? OK. Thank you. See nobody else in the queue. We will move
to a vote. Director Archuleta, I had you as the mover, and Director Williams as the seconder.
And with Director Anderson's yes, that's 12 yes's total, and we'll move to the unanimous consent
agenda.
I haven't jinxed anything just yet. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the general manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to increase the contact authority for the Enghouse contract by $499,050,
making the total contract value $1,510,340.
And this supports the GMs goals of successful delivery of transit services Do I have a motion?
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Sole move.
KEN MIHALIK: And a second? Thank you again K Director's Archuleta and Williams. Heather,
you are up again.
HEATHER JENEE: So this is to add the option years. We have funding for those additional
option years and supported the IVR system through those additional option years. So if you're
not familiar with our IVR system, it basically improves customer service and avoids call times.

It's an automated process where when you call in you're able to get messages and get directed to
the right place so you're just not sitting there. We estimate that we deal with about 2,000 calls per
day processed with that IVR system. And then it really helps with our ability not to have to
increase staff in call centers, et cetera, because a lot of those things can be answered through this
automated system.
So we do have the funding available. It's been set aside for future years. We assumed we were
going to have this maintenance, but we need the authority from the Board to exercise those
additional option years for this contract. So I'd be glad to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. This is related, but it's not financial. So how
popular has the IVR system been with the people who use it? I know Larry. Larry, are you here?
HEATHER JENEE: I think he's back there.
KATE WILLIAMS: He's back there.
HEATHER JENEE: In the way back.
LARRY BUTER: Good evening. This is Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services
Accesseride. So of course IVR is shared both with fixed route as well as paratransit, so I can only
speak for paratransit.
And I will say that it's improved services tremendously in light of the fact that the system alerts
passengers about 10 minutes before their vehicles arrive. That's been huge for us. That in and of
itself is worth the price of admission.
KATE WILLIAMS: That answers my question. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Don't go away, Larry.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I was going to say don't leave.
I'm so glad to have this opportunity with you. My personal experience with this system is like the
worst thing ever.
I don't even want to call. So I mean, I'm feeling like if I go out of my way to avoid them all
together-- actually I've learned how to by pass at some, that and take lunch. But it was
desperation. I hate that system and I don't think it's worth any admission. And if you say it's
worth the price of admission, I kind of wouldn't mind seeing the cost benefit analysis. I do
understand that it's helpful to call 10 minutes before somebody is arriving and that sort of thing.
But my paratransit experience, my Access-a-Cab, Access-a-Ride, all of it, has not been desirable.

And I know that it hasn't been with Director Deadwyler either. And I think there's a lot of room
for improvement. So, actually, I'm going to vote no on this, because I just think it's totally
unsatisfactory. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director Folska. Director Solano you are next.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. When we talk about an insufficiency, clarify the
language here in the dollar savings that we're going to experience with the IVRs.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the efficiency comes from not having to hire actual people to take
that call volume per day.
PAUL SOLANO: I understand that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I don't have the exact dollar amount, but we could probably get that
dollar amount for you if you needed it.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. Today, I'll be voting no.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, Director. Solano. Director Anderson, it's your turn again.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. You know, I will be a yes vote on this. I
have stopped receiving calls from people in my district who have had issues.
And I think that the call ahead of time has prepared them to be ready. And so I will be supporting
this. And I'm sorry the rest of you won't. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you very much. Seeing nobody else in the queue, we will move to a
vote. And it was same as before. Director Archuleta is the mover.
Director Williams of the seconder. And with Director Anderson, that makes 10 yeses and 2 nos.
Nos are Director Folska and Director Solano.
And it is recommended by the Finance Administration and the Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager and his designees to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to resolve Regional Rail Partners North Metro project claims as outlined in
the settlement memorandum prepared at the conclusion of the party's September 20, 2018
mediation and to unauthorized use of the FasTracks Management Reserve to fund the first
disbursement of funds in the amount of $15 million. And this supports the GMs goals of
successful delivery of transit services. Is there a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
KEN MIHALIK: I had Director Solano first and then Director Folska as a seconder and a bit
louder.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, I'm going to turn it over to Rolf.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you very much.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Mr. Chair, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. We had extensive
confidential discussion concerning this claim at the October 2, 2018 committee meeting. I've also
talked with Director Williams, who was unable to attend that meeting.
We can't go into a discussion of the legal issues concerning this matter, but we are available to
answer questions here or by follow-up with me. The bottom line is that RTD has reached a
tentative settlement of various delay and other claims by RRP, the design build contractor for our
North Metro line, which will entail RTD making a $15 million payment now, an $8.75 million
payment at the date of substantial completion of the project, and an $8.75 million payment on
September 10, 2019, which is the date currently scheduled for final completion of the project.
We are also releasing certain retention as laid out in the recommended action.
In return, RRP is releasing its claims as set forth in the settlement agreement, which would
otherwise be going to arbitration at the end of November and is also capping additional claims as
provided in the recommended action. We've listened to the Board's focus on completing the
project.
We've listened to the Board's focus on wanting to cooperate to the best we can with our partners
on building this project. We believe this will help the parties move forward to complete the
project as soon as possible. This recommended action details how the settlement is to be funded,
including use of the FasTracks Management Reserve. And, note, this is not the FasTracks
investment savings account or the FISA.
The settlement agreement also includes commitments to partnering and scheduling as described
in the recommended action. I can go into more details if desired either now or, if you'd like to
contact me personally, between now and the board meeting. But these were discussed in detail
on October 2nd in the course of providing legal advice to the Board.
We can also provide you with additional background on the project if desired. But, again, we
provided some of that information in executive session. If you have any questions, I'd be happy
to attempt to answer them. Or, myself, Heather, Dave Genova, we could try to answer them at
this time.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, you are first off.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I am just wondering in reading this document and it will
note the financials for this action itself in three areas. So the first would be the recommended
action which was read by Chair Mihalik, then under, also, financial impact and then also under
alternatives. And in all three cases, it mentions the $15 million, but refers only to those other
dollar amounts which you just-- unless I'm forgetting. But you spoke of them.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Right.

NATALIE MENTEN: But they're not referenced in here by dollar amount. The $15 is three
times. It may be somewhere else within that, but it's not in what was read.
So it's simply saying what's in part of this other document. So nowhere does it mention the 8.-- I
mean, it does within the body, but not within the read action.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Right.
NATALIE MENTEN: So is there a reason that it read that way?
ROLF ASPHAUG: I'll tell you. I'll take responsibility for that. The amounts that we have agreed
to are in the settlement memorandum that I have that-NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, right.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And that is mentioned in this. And we can provide the settlement
memorandum to the Board or to anyone. It's a public document, but we did not attach it. But we
can do a couple of things if you wish. We could amend this to include those specific amounts
and provide more detail if you wish in the terms of the recommended action and actually
encompassing it in there, or we could handle it the way it was handled already.
NATALIE MENTEN: I think, because the settlement memorandum is not here as a attachment,
correct?
ROLF ASPHAUG: That's correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be my preference, to just put that actual memorandum
amended into this packet versus amending the language that was read by the Chair. I'll leave it
up to the rest of the committee. But I think for the public, it would be in our best interest to lay
those out instead of saying go see this other document.
ROLF ASPHAUG: All right. I do have one concern. And that is that the memorandum refers to
the intent of both sides to try to reach a particular revenue service date. The reason I wanted to
leave that out was that I was concerned that there might be confusion as to whether that was the
official revenue service date at this time.
And, of course, there are all kinds of factors that go into that. I don't want to make it sound as if
someone reading this saying, hey, guess what? We are going to have revenue service as of this
date.
You know, start buying your tickets. Because there's a lot that goes into play in determining what
an actual revenue service date is. So that's the reason that we left that out as an attachment, quite
frankly.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would have more of a concern that we're referring to a document that's
not there than somebody who's going, you promised me XXXXX. So I don't know what

compromise can be made. But right now, I see it as one of the things I [INAUDIBLE] the
government says, goes see this document.
OK, where's the document? I mean, even if the media or somebody were to ask, what would you
do then? So I would feel much more comfortable if, somehow, your concerns and others would
be alleviated. But the dollar amounts would be there.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And that's my responsibility in taking that out, not noticing that the actual
8.75 million word referenced in the actual recommended action. So we could go ahead and do
that if there's general consensus with the Board to go ahead and attach that as an exhibit.
KEN MIHALIK: Is there anyone opposed to adding the referenced document?
JUDY LUBOW: I'm not opposed, but I have a question.
KEN MIHALIK: Is it-JUDY LUBOW: A point of order. I'm trying to understand it.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: I was concerned, because $15 million was mentioned, but the rest of the money
to the 32.5 was lost somewhere. And would the attaching the settlement memo explain that part?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. Yes, it would.
JUDY LUBOW: And so is that going to be paid through? Because it wasn't mentioned in this
memo that, perhaps, the project itself could absorb it. So that was a question that I had. Does the
implication that there was that money floating around still in the project?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'll try to answer that. This is Heather.
ROLF ASPHAUG: The memo doesn't do into that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we are still reconciling the project cost, because of all of things that
have been going on with that project over the last couple of years. We are hopeful that we'll be
able to take a portion of that from the project, but we're not sure at this time. Since the immediate
number that we needed to come up with was the $15 billion to be able to disperse within 15 days
of the Board action, that's what I have come up with at this time.
That does not mean that we will not have to come back to you in the future for the remaining
amount if we are not able to take a portion or all of that out of the existing budget. If we can take

it out of the existing budget, you wouldn't see an additional action. If we don't have sufficient
funds, we will have to come back to you and propose a funding source for the additional amount.
And at that time, you would see another action.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I apologize. If I could add-- actually, as I was listening to this, I was
wondering what the recommended action states. It does state in the discussion that it's $15
million within 15 days, $8.75 million at substantial completion, and $8.75 million on September
10, 2019. So it does actually detail in the discussion section those provisions in the settlement
memorandum. I thought for a second from what you were saying that I'd accidentally left those
out. But it does reference all of those amounts as being the $32.5 million.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. When I look at an action document, what I'm mainly looking at is
what was title, what was read. Yes, we have background, but then financial impact especially,
like me looking at a legislative bill. It's not in the financial impact except to say, go look at this
other document. And then under alternatives, it's also not there.
So if you would feel more comfortable, Rolf and some others perhaps, to amend this so that
those other dollar amounts are in there, and then you don't have to worry about the date issue,
that would make me feel better. Because then the public is able to easily see within here. Those
main three things I see as like a summary and the bullet points.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Understood. We could certainly do that. Then it would make it an even
easier motion, actually, just to move those sentences up from the discussion portion to the
recommended action portion, essentially.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I move to make a motion, right? Can I do that now?
ROLF ASPHAUG: And you don't need to if there's unanimous consent to just to do that,
honestly, just to move things along.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Menten, is there anyone opposed to Chair Tisdale, you are opposed.
OK. So we'll-ROLF ASPHAUG: All right.
KEN MIHALIK: You can make your motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, I'm making a motion that the additional actual dollar amounts of
this settlement are to be included in by dollar amount not referenced to another document within
the-- now, I scrolled too fast-- title the financial fiscal impact and then also in the alternatives. So
what is now in the background is part of the title.
JUDY LUBOW: And in recommended action. What do you mean by title?

KEN MIHALIK: You need a second, OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: The title to me is what Director Mihalik read. So it is actually called here
the Recommended Action. I would reference that as the title.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
[INAUDIBLE] second.
NATALIE MENTEN: I got a second over here. Because, right now, I just think it's not full of
disclosure. And I think that would be best.
KEN MIHALIK: I see there's speakers in the queue. Well, is there any discussion on the motion?
So of the speakers in the queue, is anybody wishing to speak about the amendment? I see Chair
Tisdale fits the bill. You are recognized.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. If none others are wishing to speak to the amendment who were
in the queue, I'm happy to. I'm only concerned, because I understand the thought relative to
making the financials available to the public. I submit that the report, as given to us and as
published for the general public, already contains exactly that information.
And the only thing that we are authorizing is the disbursement of $15 million. That's all that
we're authorizing. And I don't want us to pre-authorize the 8.75 or the 8, because there are other
conditions that are also-PAUL SOLANO: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: --in the settlement memorandum that may or may not be met. And I'm not
going to pre-authorize anything until I know those have been done. This 15 million, we can
authorize at this time based upon the entry into the agreement. But I don't want to make it so that
we are, in some sense, contractually bound to make a payment as to something that may not
occur.
And in any event, in addition to that, we have the statement from our Chief Financial Officer that
those funds would have another source, and it would not be necessary to come back to the board.
So I just don't like the idea of throwing that in now for the sake of disclosure when the disclosure
is already made in the report which is a public document. So I will oppose the amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. Director Lubow, is your comment about this amendment?
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I'm just wondering if we couldn't straighten it out and say that what's
being authorized is the $15 million, but the other two numbers are-NATALIE MENTEN: [INAUDIBLE]

JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, are just being planned for. And the only thing being authorized to be
spent at the moment is the $15 million.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL SOLANO: It's a good point.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can I call the question? I call the question, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, anybody-[? Put it on the ?] amendment.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: On the amendment.
KEN MIHALIK: Is anybody opposed to the call to question? I see Director Menten is opposed.
So we will continue.
DOUG TISDALE: Can we have vote?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: A vote.
JUDY LUBOW: You have to-KEN MIHALIK: Amendment.
DOUG TISDALE: Vote on calling to question.
KEN MIHALIK: Vote on call to question, right. Thanks for keeping me-ROLF ASPHAUG: If there is opposition to calling the question, then you have to have a 2/3 vote
in favor of calling the question.
KEN MIHALIK: We will vote on the call to question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. I have to find my button. Where the heck did it go?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. So this vote, to be clear-- I apologize for stepping in. But I just want to
make sure it's clear. The vote right now is being taken simply on whether to call the question and
not have further discussion about the amendment.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I don't know where to put-- it's not here.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I don't know how to do it either.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I don't have it.
KEN MIHALIK: It's being prepared.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So-ROLF ASPHAUG: [INAUDIBLE] question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: --I say yes, call the question. That's my vote.
JUDY LUBOW: So you're the mover.
KATE WILLIAMS: Now, [INAUDIBLE]
NATALIE MENTEN: You're the mover.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I know, but there's no button here. Oh, here it is.
JUDY LUBOW: Sorry.
PAUL SOLANO: We didn't have a-seven to four is-KEN MIHALIK: And-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We didn't ask Lorraine.
KEN MIHALIK: We didn't ask Director Anderson.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Anderson, yeah.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. Director Anderson, are you with us?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Yes. I'm a yes to call to question.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. So with that, that is eight to four, and it does carry. And so we will now
vote on the amendment.
JUDY LUBOW: Could it be read?
KEN MIHALIK: I think that's a good suggestion. So I'm annoying I'm going to try to get this
right the first time. This is my version of the recommended action.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee the Boar of Directors
authorize the General Manager and his designees to negotiate and execute all documents

necessary to resolve Regional Rail Partners North Metro claims, which includes-- may include. It
says include-- which may include total payments of $32.5 million. The payment schedule is as
follows, $15 million within 15 days following board approval $8.75 million at substantial
completion, and $8.75 million on September 10, 2019, a current estimate for final completion.
In addition, subject to RRP submitting contract required documentation showing proof of
payment to subcontractors, RTD will not withhold further retention on progress payments and
will release 50% of the current retention amount within 45 days after September 20th, i.e.
November 4th, with the balance of retention released as provided by contract. As prepared at theROLF ASPHAUG: Or, as outlined.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: I'm sorry, Rolf. What was that?
ROLF ASPHAUG: I would just recommend at the end of that saying, subject to and as outlined
in the settlement memorandum.
KEN MIHALIK: And then-- subject to as outlined in the settlement memorandum prepared at
the conclusion of the party's September 20, 2018 mediation and to authorize the use of the
FasTracks Management Reserve to fund the first disbursement of funds in the amount of $15
million. That is the proposed amended language. And I have-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Point of clarification, that is the motion put forth by Director Menten.
KEN MIHALIK: Correct. And Director Menten was the mover. Director Williams was the
seconder.
NATALIE MENTEN: And we're going to go to the vote, right?
KEN MIHALIK: We are voting.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: And Director Anderson, I will take your vote when you are ready.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I am a no vote.
KEN MIHALIK: So with Director Anderson's no, it's five yeses, seven nos, including Directors
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Lubow, Tisdale, and Walker.
DOUG TISDALE: Call to question on the main motion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The original motion.

NATALIE MENTEN: On what?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The original motion?
KEN MIHALIK: Any opposition?
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, OK. Because the amendment did not go.
KEN MIHALIK: Seeing no opposition, we will vote on the original motion.
NATALIE MENTEN: So who's the mover?
KEN MIHALIK: Now, I have Director Solano and Folska as the seconder. And then Director
Anderson, you are needed to vote one more time on this.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I vote in the affirmative.
KEN MIHALIK: OK.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: We didn't call to question.
JUDY LUBOW: We didn't vote on it.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: We didn't ask her.
JUDY LUBOW: We didn't vote on that.
DOUG TISDALE: We [INAUDIBLE] her objection.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: Because I opposed it.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: I don't know why-KEN MIHALIK: My correction, I did not catch that.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: That's all right.
JUDY LUBOW: What?
KEN MIHALIK: So we will-ERNEST ARCHULETA: [INAUDIBLE] speak up enough.
[LAUGHTER]

NATALIE MENTEN: What do you mean?
KEN MIHALIK: First time for everything.
NATALIE MENTEN: So you just vote no.
PAUL SOLANO: This is the second time [INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: I vote no on that.
DOUG TISDALE: Scrub this, and vote on to question.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes. It appears that there is an objection to calling the question. So you
would have the same 2/3 vote-KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: --to call the question and have no further discussion on the main motion if
calling the question passes.
KEN MIHALIK: Yup, my apologies. I missed that. So-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: --this is now the-ROLF ASPHAUG: I didn't see that either.
DOUG TISDALE: --procedural call to question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Really?
PAUL SOLANO: Vote on call to question.
DOUG TISDALE: Correct.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, it's being reset, everyone.
NATALIE MENTEN: So, Chair Mihalik, what are we voting on right now?
ROLF ASPHAUG: We are voting on calling the question. I apologize. This is Rolf Asphaug.
NATALIE MENTEN: Calling the original motion?

ROLF ASPHAUG: Calling the question on the original main motion, no further debate on the
original main motion, proceed to a vote on the main motion if this passes by a 2/3 vote.
NATALIE MENTEN: Wow.
DOUG TISDALE: We need our screens to reflect-NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: --the ability to load.
NATALIE MENTEN:
Right.
KEN MIHALIK: [INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: In progress, according to this screen.
KEN MIHALIK: And-KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: --while we're waiting for that, Director Anderson, do you have a vote on this
call to question?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We're ready for the vote.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I don't see. I don't have my button. I don't have a button.
KEN MIHALIK: This is for clarification. This is the call to question on the original-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I vote yes.
KEN MIHALIK: --motion.
[INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: I want to know if Chair Mihaliks get [INAUDIBLE].
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can I vote yes?

DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Mr. Chairman. It's a procedural question. I don't think we need
to use the E-board to do that. I think we can do a show of hands on a procedural vote.
ROLF ASPHAUG: We can. The bylaws permit that.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes votes. In the standards for Director [INAUDIBLE].
KEN MIHALIK: 1, 2, 3-DOUG TISDALE: Call to question.
KEN MIHALIK: --4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9-- I see a total of-JUDY LUBOW: [INAUDIBLE]
ROLF ASPHAUG: It appears that there are well in excess of the 2/3.
KEN MIHALIK: I see 10 yeses. And so the call to question passes. And so-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. So we're back to Director Solano as the mover and Folska as the
seconder.
KEN MIHALIK: We are going to vote on the original motion. And, again, that was moved by
Director Solano and seconded by Director Folska.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm a yes vote.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Anderson. And I see-- let me read this off. With Director
Anderson, I've got 11 yeses and one no. And I can't quite see who that is.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The no vote is Director Lubow.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, Director Menten's taking responsibility for it, so.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. Sorry, Menten.
KEN MIHALIK: So, again, 11 yeses, one no, Director Menten. The motion passes. And I've got
now in the queue-- Director Lubow, did you have any comments? You're done. Director Folska,
did you have any additional comments?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, there was just a calling the question on the main motion, so there
shouldn't be any more discussion on the main motion.
KEN MIHALIK: I agree.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I guess we got a little excited. So may I have a question for
clarification?
NATALIE MENTEN: Same here.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm not arguing about what's there. I was just wondering about the dates.
Are they hard? May 23rd, June 10th, and September 10th, of November 4th?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair, I would emphasize I'd be happy to take any questions offline if there
are-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah.
ROLF ASPHAUG: ---any follow-up questions. I just want to emphasize that if this fails, we will
be going to arbitration at the end of November. So I'd be happy to take any questions.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's fine, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. And Director Menten, does yours fall into the same category?
NATALIE MENTEN: Mine? I don't know without asking, you know? So that's a real problem.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Then ask away.
NATALIE MENTEN: If somebody would request a settlement memorandum, are they going to
get it?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Will it be redacted?
ROLF ASPHAUG: There's no basis to redact it, no.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's my only question. Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. We haven't jinxed it completely. But-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can we pick it up again.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Rolf, for keeping-ROLF ASPHAUG: No.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: --keeping me straight. It is recommended by the Financial Administration
Audit Committee that the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the purchase to
transportation service-ROLF ASPHAUG: I apologize, Chair. Did the motion pass?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Oh, all right. I didn't see it. All right, thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: 11 to 1.
ROLF ASPHAUG: 11 to 1, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Keep up, Rolf. Keep up.
[LAUGHTER]
PAUL SOLANO: 11 to 1.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 11 to 1. We're moving on.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Let me start over on that one, just because I think we're still trying to-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Get our heads on.
KEN MIHALIK: Yup. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the purchase transportation service
line items of the Transdev-On-Demand budget to the service line item of the MV transportation
budget to cover the variation in cost incurred as a result of the reassignment of Access-a-Ride
service to MV transportation in 2018. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer requested is
$535,000. And this supports GMs 2018 goals of strong financial management and fiscal
sustainability. Is there a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: [INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
KEN MIHALIK: I have Directors Folska as the mover and Director Williams as a seconder.
Thank you both. And, Heather, you are up again.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Real quickly, I'm not going to go through in any detail, but we're
basically moving funds from one line item Transdev-On-Demand, who could not fulfill the
services, to the other vendor, MV Transportation, who could fulfill those services. And so it's a
line item transfer, no additional funds required. And I have Mr. Ford here if we have any specific
questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Anderson, I'm going to start with you. Did you have any questions or
comments on this budget transfer item?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: No, not at all. And I will be a yes vote.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for that. I'll give another 2 seconds. I don't see anybody in the
queue on this item. So we will move to a vote. Director Folska, you were the mover and,
Director Williams, the seconder.
KATE WILLIAMS: [INAUDIBLE]
KEN MIHALIK: With Director Anderson, that's 13 yeses and will move to the unanimous
consent agenda.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, this is Heather. I'm going to turn over the next item to Doug
MacLoed. And he's going to introduce our guest from the Leeds School of Business unless you
want to take a break.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I was thinking about it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You're looking at the clock. I'm going, may a break's a really good
idea, but it's up to you.
KEN MIHALIK: I think we-DOUG TISDALE: [INAUDIBLE] privilege.
KEN MIHALIK: I think we've earned a long 5 minute break.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Short 10 minutes. So we will get started on the updates tonight. The first is a
sales and use tax update from our friends at the Leeds School of Business. And I'll turn it over to
Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. Doug MacLeod, Controller. We have our guests here
from the Business Research Division of the University of Colorado CU Leeds School of

Business for their semiannual report. They submit to us twice a year our forecast for sales and
use taxes. They just submitted the September sales and use tax forecast to us in September.
That will be used for the 2019 Budget that will be brought to you next month for approval. And
tonight, they're going to talk about what they see in the economy and how they arrived at their
forecast numbers. But, tonight, we have with us Robert McNown, Rich Wobbekind, and Brian
Lewandowski.
RICH WOBBEKIND: So the presentation is going to be handled by myself and Robert
McNown. And Brian is here for questions along with the rest of us when this is done. A quick
overview of what we're planning on doing tonight-- certainly, starting with an economic
overview. Then we're going to go into the model in the second part of the presentation.
[INAUDIBLE]
RICH WOBBEKIND: OK. We're going to go into the model on the second part of the
presentation-- issues related to uncertainty, the forecasts and revisions, and, finally, talk about a
comparison with the Colorado Legislative Council and Office of State Planning and Budgeting
Forecasts. The forecast is in the context of, obviously, a very strong economy, not only in the
state of Colorado, but nationally, coming off of over 4% GDP growth in the previous quarter.
The forecast that we're using continues to show positive growth, but on a declining rate going
forward into 2019, 2020, and beyond.
This is going back more to trend. Current growth is over what we would call trend growth or
potential GDP at this moment due to the tax cuts and fiscal expansion that has occurred up with
deficit financing. So a combination of those things has led to a very robust economy. As you
probably saw on Friday, the unemployment numbers were released nationally. And they're at a
low since-- 49 year low, 3.7%.
When we look at GDP growth expectations, we use a model from Moody's that drives the
forecast. So we'd like to highlight the fact that from the last two forecasts to the current
September 2018 forecast, there's been about a 6/10 of a percent uptick in their forecast from
2018 and 2019. But you might also look at the last set of bars on the graph showing that faster
growth in '18 and '19 is being offset by slower growth in 2020.
They're sort of pulling the growth forward in their forecast, again, from the tax cuts and
increased government spending. The context is, again, with increased interest rates. If you want
more discussion of that later, that's fine. We're happy to discuss that-- but one more rate increase
this year, likely three more increases next year, at least according to what I'm seeing right now.
So we're looking for this forecast in that context.
Moving on to Colorado, and you may recognize the Free Mall Ride, we are looking at interesting
growth in Colorado. We had peaked in 2014. We have seen a decline in '15 and '16. And in the
latter part of '17 and into '18, we've actually seen a significant increase in employment in this
state.

Much like the national numbers, we've sort of gone in the other direction in '17 and '18, very
positive and very balanced growth in the economy. When we look at that in a more general
sense, when we're looking at these pictures, we're really talking about very solid growth,
especially when you think about how tight the labor market is in Colorado with unemployment
well below 3% and looks like it's going to stay there. How did this happen?
Well, surprisingly perhaps, labor force participation has picked up significantly over almost 3
percentage points in Colorado over the last three years. We are currently, in the last month, the
fourth highest nationally in terms of labor force participation. Our previous peak was, as noted
on the slide, 74.5% in 1998.
But you can see while we've had a steady increase in labor force, it's more rapid. That's the tan in
the background. It's been more rapid recently and, again, coming off of that change in labor force
Participation I might highlight that, nationally, labor force participation has not increased over
the last two years. It's been flat.
So Colorado is the anomaly, one of the anomalies in the country, and in that particular regard. In
fact, when you look at our ranking, we're always one of those states that has pretty high labor
force participation. And if you look back all the way, you know, past our recessions in the late
'80s and our recession in 2001, you can see our labor force participation dip during some of those
periods.
But, now, the number for the 12 month moving average is up to six. But as I mentioned to you
for the last month, it's up to number four in terms of labor force participation. But it has been
higher. In the heydays of the '90s, we hit number two and the number I was talking about earlier.
So this is a good thing in terms of the tight labor markets that we're facing. And, hopefully, we'll
see some continuation of that. When we put Colorado in context over a 1 year, 3 year, 5 year,
and 10 year period, the numbers are relatively astounding.
We continue to be a shining star, a top five state, in many areas higher than five, in terms of GDP
growth, in terms of employment growth. Population growth has slowed a little bit in the last
couple of years. Net migration to the state has slowed a little bit, but still very strong population
growth. And the population growth rate is roughly twice that of the national number.
So, again, in context, very, very positive. Per capita personal income growth-- 11th highest in the
country. And the only-- I shouldn't. I always want to say this, and I have to catch myself.
I always say, the only state in this part of the country. But our neighbors to the north that have
more animals than people have very high per capita income, energy related. Don't quote me on
that.
But they are higher per capita income. But we have very capita income. And most of the high per
capita income states are on the coasts.

And then as you move along-- the overall per capita income, 13, growth at 11. And the only
number I think that's really, perhaps, of concern on the slide is the bottom one. And we certainly
feel that way, that the home price index for the 10 year average were the fastest rising FHFA
state in the entire country over 10 years.
So this has put a lot of stress and strain, as you know, on cost of living and something that I'm
going to talk about a little bit more here in a moment. So we have developed a slide-- actually,
Brian did. We thought it of interest.
We've been talking in different parts of the state and talking about what's gone on in the growth
rates and so on. And this particular slide looks at, if we grew like an average state has grown
since the recession of 2009 versus what we actually did and these are our numbers that we've
generated off of that, we'd have 323,000 less people. I will tell you.
I've given this slide a couple of times, and people started applauding when I said 323,000 less
people. It's like, wow. Put up the fence, huh?
Real GDP-- $34 billion less. Employment-- 160,000 less. But the average home price would be
$96,000 less. So you get the overall picture there when you look at how strong growth has been
in the state.
And this is the slide I was referring to a moment ago. When we look at inflation in the state, in
particular it's Denver, Aurora, Lakewood-- it's not full statewide that's measured by the federal
government from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. But you can see all items, core inflation, shelter,
and medical, as we've broken out here.
Every single one of these, with the exception of medical in 2016, the bar in Colorado is higher
than the national bar, meaning our inflation rate has been higher. As you can see, the shelter one
was dramatically higher for several years until this year. It looks like it's sort of on par with the
national number, as we've put a fair amount of housing units in place.
The mystical one to me that someone on the Board can describe to me is what's going on in
medical care in 2018. But with that, we're going to move on and talk about the model. I'm going
to pass the baton to my colleague, Professor McNown.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. Thank you, Rich. So Rich has set the stage for the model and the
forecast that we've developed in this latest update. So this outlines the way the model works,
that, basically, the national economy variables that Rich has been describing and commenting on
drive the Colorado economy variables, which in turn affect RTD use tax revenues and then,
indirectly working through the district economy, affecting RTD sales tax revenues.
So although it's the US economy that drives the forecast, there is still some degree of
independence in the Colorado economy in our model. Because as Rich has indicated, the
Colorado economy has been performing a bit more robustly than the national economy. And so
we need to incorporate that into our model and our forecasts. So, basically, this slide summarizes
the key variables that go into both our short, medium-term model and our long-term forecast.

So in the short-term, it's pretty much a traditional demand-driven business cycle type model with
employment both in the national and Colorado levels as a key variable. And personal income in
Colorado, of course, is a key determinative of retail sales, which in turn drive taxable sales both
for the state and then for RTD itself. And then the long-term forecast model, we rely on very
heavily.
It's pretty much a supply side model in that we're taking into account, ultimately, the
demographic changes that are projected by the US census and, also, the State Demographers
Office and how the aging of the population is going to have adverse implications for long-term
economic growth-- adversely affect savings and investment, labor supply, productivity, and total
output, and, therefore, household expenditures. And we'll see that in the long-term forecast. So
although the slides that Rich has presented certainly indicate a very robust economy, steady,
moderately strong growth both in the US and the Colorado economies, but there's always a great
deal of uncertainty in making these forecasts.
The ultimate impact of the tax cuts, for example, with the growing federal debt that arises from
that and the implications that has, possibly, for Federal Reserve policy. They continue to raise
interest rates, because of fears of an excessive of fiscal expansion. What's happening in the
international sector in terms of our trade negotiations-- finally, at least, the NAFTA or whatever
the new name is, that is settled. But there's a lot of other action in the trade arena going on.
And so, naturally, we try to keep as up to date as we can with our frequent revisions. And as
Doug mentioned, we do this every six months-- bring in the latest data, see if the equations need
some revisions. But for the most part, the model remains intact from update to update.
So the key driver for RTD revenues, of course, would be retail sales. And, unfortunately, the
retail sales measure at the state level has not been produced since February of 2016. And that
used to be a key variable in our model.
So we've had to cope with that by, essentially, backing out estimates of retail sales based on state
level sales tax collections. And, here, you can see that, at the state level and at the district level,
the two series for general fund sales and use tax revenues and for RTD sales and use tax
revenues have paralleled each other pretty closely. You notice there's the big jump back in 2005
which was, of course, the adoption of the FasTracks. But beyond that, the two series moved
pretty well together.
So here's moving towards the bottom line of our key forecast for the next two years, for the
current year and 2019. If we look at total revenue, it's projected to grow at 5.8% for the current
year, 5.6% next year, so definitely a good, strong growth to hold up over those next two years.
So what kind of confidence can we have in these forecasts?
Well, we continue to do an analysis of our forecast errors. And we know that every forecast is
going to be subject to some uncertainty and some revisions and some surprises. But I think our
record is quite solid. Particularly, to read this table, the dates at the top indicate the dates that the
forecasts are being made.

And there's a lot of numbers there. So we can focus, let's say, on the red numbers, which are the
forecast errors for the revenue forecast for the entire year. So, for example, if we look at the row
labeled 2015, in March of 2015, we were making a forecast for the level of revenues for that
entire year of 2015.
And that was based entirely on data prior to 2015. So that's all that was available. We see that
our forecast was high by 1.8%.
So, similarly, you look at the other red numbers. The errors are really pretty small. And, in fact,
the model seems to be unbiased in the sense that the number of forecasts that are too high are
equally offset by the number that are too low over the entire eight or nine years that we've been
working on this project with RTD.
So that's pretty reassuring and that the simple average of all the errors is about minus .2% with a
3% standard deviation. So I think we can feel fairly confident about these forecasts. And even
though, as I say, there's always some uncertainty on the horizon, at this point, we don't see any
red flags for the current year or for 2019. And so we feel pretty confident about the numbers that
we're presenting here.
And this slide just sort of reviews what I just said from the previous slide. We also do mediumterm forecasts, so beyond 2019 out to 2024. And we present this in the form of three alternative
scenarios, again, based on the Moody's national projection-- so an optimistic scenario, a more
pessimistic scenario, and then, of course, the baseline scenario that we focus on for the most part.
And there's not a large difference. Let's say if we move way out to 2024-- not a large difference,
about a 6% difference between the most optimistic and the pessimistic scenarios. We think that
these are a fairly reasonable bounds for what we can expect over this medium range horizon.
And the baseline scenario, for example shows growth of about 41% in total revenues, 41%
growth from 2017 out through 2024.
Now, turning to the long-term model, so I said that that model is dominated by demographic
phenomena-- the aging of the population, and the slowing overall population growth as well. So
you can see that our long-term forecast, unlike many long-term forecasts, isn't a simple straight
line extrapolation. But, rather, there are some bumps and wiggles in there that reflect the pattern
of demographic change that we can be fairly confident is going to occur. Because most of the
momentum that's in our population forecasts are kind of already built in given the birth rates,
given the births that have occurred and the fact that birth rates and mortality rates change very
slowly.
So, finally, another check that we like to make is make sure that we're not totally out of line with
our partners in this forecasting business. And so we look at what's coming out of the Colorado
Legislative Council and the Office of State Planning and Budgeting. You can see that, for 2018
and 2019, our forecasts in the first column are really quite close to theirs.
There is quite a difference for 2020, particularly in employment. We're forecasting a
considerable slowing of employment growth. And, again, I think that's a reflection of the

weakening that is anticipated in the national forecasts as well. It's also somewhat lower in 2020
for retail sales.
So, finally, just to give an overview of our modeling procedure, we recognize the forecast can be
too high or too low. Although, the degree of error has been relatively low historically. Our
forecasts are built in a sound theoretical model with proper attention to various statistical criteria
to make sure our equations meet these diagnostic criteria.
We do not fiddle with our forecast through the infamous add-factors that forecasters will often
do. Instead, we rely on the integrity of the model itself to produce the forecasts and make no
subjective adjustments. And we're certainly not political in our judgments here.
We're just trying to give our best estimates of what we think is going to happen over the coming
years. So thanks for your attention. The three of us would be happy to answer any questions you
might have.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much for that. I know Director Broom is in the queue.
BOB BROOM: I had a couple of questions. Rich showed a slide early on that shows a significant
slowdown in 2020. I wonder if you could comment on what causes that. Or, is that a byproduct
of the income tax law that was passed at the federal level which drops off at some point for
individuals?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Well, Moody's is not alone in their forecasting of a slowdown on the US
economy in 2020. The impetus from the tax cut and fiscal spending increases really hits in 2018
and 2019 and then peters off in 2020. But there's also, sort of somewhat implicit in this, the end
of, by that time, what will be the longest expansion in US history. I mean, sooner or later, the
economy takes a little bit of a breath. It's not calling for a recession, but it's calling for a
slowdown, a couple of quarter slowdown in the process.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. The other question I had was on internet sales. Since, now, I guess at
some point, Colorado will begin to receive additional sales tax from internet sales, when do you
foresee that happening? Or, is that already taking place?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Yeah. It's already in the data. So it's already happening. And I don't know
about you, but when I'm buying things on the internet, they're all getting sales tax assessed to
them. So this should be included already in the data.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale, you are recognized.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dean Wobbekind, the question I had is
pre-saged a little bit by Director Broom's question. It sounded as though what the Professor said
was that you're not taking into account any impact of the USMCA going forward on this. And
I'm wondering whether you have something you can expand upon to say why.

And I say this, because the Consul General of Canada is going to be meeting with me on Friday.
And I'm pretty sure that the Canadians having agreed to the same deal as the Mexicans and to
create the new agreement is going to have some impact. But do you think it's just going to be a
continuation and so, therefore, there's no reason to take that into account as a separate factor?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Well, let me start by saying the forecast that we have didn't include that
agreement. It was generated before the agreement-- not just ours, but the one from Moody's. So
their next forecast update that we get quarterly will have that included and see how much it
affects theirs.
But we don't incorporate things we don't have absolute knowledge on. I hate to say it that way.
But, you know, hypotheticals of what China's going to do to our trade or we're going to do their
trade or whatever, until those things get resolved, until we see actual data, we can't incorporate it.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And relative to the impact of the tax cuts, you think that, as a practical
matter, the heavy impact has been experienced in 2018 will carry over in 2019, but then you
expect a leveling out of any positive impact from that?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Yes to that. I mean, I should be careful when I say this. We don't know
the supply side effects of this yet. And pretty much anybody who talks to this topic will say the
same thing.
We've seen the demand side effects from higher-- well, more after tax income and corporate
profits tax lowering. We have not seen to date the supply side effects of potential more
investment and other things. And that will be sort of a measurable outcome.
So, you know, we'll see that in another year or more. But, right now, talking about the demand
side of the equation, we definitely think it peters out after 2019. And most models show that, not
just the Moody's model.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you are next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thank you very much. I always find your
reports and analyses very interesting.
I have a couple of questions. On one side of the equation, I was wondering if you took into
account the 20,000 or so new housing start permits? And I think that might be in the region in
our district. But maybe it's outside of our district.
And I'm not sure if the Colorado State Legislature actually passed this, but I think they did, of
not charging sales tax on used car sales. That's one part of my question. And the other part is I
wonder if you can talk about or if you include the cost of things like global warming, climate
change, homelessness, addiction, incarceration, into your models. That's all.

ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, those are reasonable and difficult questions. Indirectly, we do take
into account most of the factors that you mention. So, for example, although we don't have
housing starts explicitly as a variable on our model-- partly because they're so difficult to
forecast themselves. If we can't forecast housing starts, it doesn't become that useful to us in
forecasting other variables.
However, the population of the state and the population of the district are key variables even in
our short-term model. So to the extent that in-migration or whatever increases the population we
experience, that's going to affect housing starts. And then, indirectly, that figures into our
equations for personal income, for example, and, therefore, sales tax revenues.
On the environmental side, I think that that would be something that could constrain supply in
the long run. And we have some concerns about environmental impacts on agricultural output,
for example. But I think it's really beyond the scope of what we've been able to model in the long
run.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
RICH WOBBEKIND: Oh.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And the issues of homelessness, incarceration, addiction, the cost to our
economy like?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. Well, again, only indirectly in the sense that a key variable is our
civilian labor force. And to the extent that people move in or out of the labor force, because of
incarceration or because of addiction or other social issues, that definitely will show up in our
model. Employment is such a key variable, which in turn is related to our labor force and our
civilian labor force population.
Let's see, you also raised the question about taxation of used car sales. And, as I understand it,
RTD and the state have a unified base for tax revenues, sales tax revenues. And so to the extent
that, as you saw in that one chart, there is sort of two, the state revenues and the RTD revenues,
moving somewhat in lockstep, that if then we can use forecasts of state revenues to help forecast
our district revenues, then that will be incorporated in there as well.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And I was just curious, if I may ask, who are the 300-some-odd thousand
people who left Colorado?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Oh.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Demographically, were they seniors?
ROBERT MCNOWN: No, they didn't leave Colorado.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, I'm sorry.

ROBERT MCNOWN: That was 300,000 people who added to our population-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK.
ROBERT MCNOWN: --relative to what we would have expected if our population had grown at
the same rate as the United States. Am I right on that?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Yes.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah.
RICH WOBBEKIND: Yeah. So that's the-ROBERT MCNOWN: I think when the people applauded, Rich, they didn't understand.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, they thought they left. I mean, that's how I heard it. But then-RICH WOBBEKIND: Oh, yes. Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Who are-RICH WOBBEKIND: They did.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: They came in?
RICH WOBBEKIND: No, no, no. They knew that they came in. But they started booing or
whatever, you know, because, you know, they wanted the people not to come in.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And who came?
RICH WOBBEKIND: Well, all sorts of people from all around the country. I mean, we have
migration from California, from Illinois, from Texas.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, they were workers, or they were senior citizens. I mean, what kind
of was the demographic breakdown of-BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: So we can provide that for you in the next update. But the Colorado
Demography Office has really rich data on the growth of our population by age cohort, by
gender, by race, ethnicity. And so we can make some assumptions about the age cohorts that
move here, if they're in their prime working age population or if they're retirees.
But we know that Colorado has done a very good job over time importing workers from other
states and importing really educated workers from other states. So this has worked in our benefit
over the last 30 years or so. So when we present that data to you next time, I think that's the story
it'll tell.

What we can also see is states that we're a net recipient from and a net giver to. So, you know,
many states we have people migrating to Colorado. But there's still some states, we call them
donor states, states that we donate our population to over time. And if you think that's helpful
information, we're happy to include it.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I think it's very helpful. And, finally, what would happen if we had a sort
of tsunami of senior citizens finding themselves homeless? What would that do to the economy?
And maybe you could tell us later. That'd I would be interested in.
ROBERT MCNOWN: [INAUDIBLE]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. That might be saved for your next update.
ROBERT MCNOWN: OK. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you for your insightful questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Hoy, you're next.
LARRY HOY: Thanks, Chair Mihalik. So if I'm out of line, I guess, Chair, you can tell me.
We're going into our election season right now. And we're bombarded with information about a
particular amendment, amendment 112.
And it's all about the economy according to what we see. I'm not asking you to forecast that into
tonight's discussion. But I am asking, have you among yourselves sit back and talked about that?
And if it does pass, does it have an impact on our future sales tax revenues? Maybe you haven't
even kicked it around yet.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, yeah, we have. Certainly, Brian and I have broached the subject.
But in terms of taking steps to amend the model in any way, not yet.
LARRY HOY: Yeah, OK. That's fair enough. And I was thinking, as I was thinking about this
question, that the impact of that good or bad might be reflected in some of the other items that
you track-- employment, and sales and things like that?
ROBERT MCNOWN: That's right.
LARRY HOY: Yeah, OK. I just [INAUDIBLE].
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: It certainly would be.
LARRY HOY: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. And I'll go to Director Anderson real fast. Thank you.
See if she had anything on this.

LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. Most of my questions were posed by Chair Tisdale.
However, I do have one concern. And that's since Adams County is a part of our district and
what the tariffs are doing to our farmers in Adams County, have you looked at that?
ROBERT MCNOWN: Well, so, of course, our model works with historical data. And even
though we certainly anticipate that there will be some adverse consequences to our agricultural
sector from the Chinese tariffs, let's say on soybeans in particular, that hasn't shown up in our
data so far. So six months from now when we return with our next update, I may have a better
answer for you. I would say a more informative answer, not necessarily a more favorable one.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Oh, thank you. I appreciate the work you've done. Thanks.
RICH WOBBEKIND: You're welcome. And may I add to this-- so Colorado's not a soybean
state. So we're focused much more on the cattle, which are 70% of our agricultural productions
in animals.
And so far, through the last month, the agricultural data, export data, is actually stronger this year
than it was last year, is still on the increase. All by way of saying, that I don't necessarily think
it's unimportant by any means. I don't think we've seen effects yet until these things get worked
out. And for us, extremely important is going to be Canada and the Canada and Mexico
agreements for ag as well as Japan and some of Asia.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Seeing no other questions, thank you very much gentlemen.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Next up is an audit update from Ms. Isaac-Heslop.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: [INAUDIBLE] That's good. That's good. [INAUDIBLE] Chair
Mihalik, members of the Board, ladies and gentleman, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop here, Manager of
Internal and IT Audit. As you can see, I'm here all alone, because Kevin Parker retired on the 1st
of October.
So before I get into the little update, we are already in the process of hiring his replacement. And
in addition to that, we're looking at some professional audit help in the form of contractors to
complete the year out. So knowing we've had such a long time already and quite a bit more to
come, I've included in the packet an update which I tried to simplify it.
So that you get a really good idea of what we've done, what's outstanding. And so I'm just simply
going to open the floor to questions. If anyone has any questions on it or an audit on the whole,
or if you have anything on the audit plan you can give me offline, I'll be happy to have that as
well.

KEN MIHALIK: I don't see anything in the room. But I'll check with Director Anderson real fast
on questions or comments-LORRAINE ANDERSON: I'm fine.
KEN MIHALIK: --to the audit update.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Yes, I'm fine. I've read the audit that was given to us last week, so
I'm fine.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. And no one else in the room.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you guys.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you very much. You promised it'd be brief.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I did. Thanks, guys.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ann Marie.
KEN MIHALIK: And-[IINTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That was good.
KEN MIHALIK: Heather's making her way up again to update us on the Access-a-Ride fare
discussion.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, Mr. Chair. Last month, when you adopted the fare change for
2019, there was a discussion about Access-a-Ride. And the staff was asked to come back with
some alternatives. And so we're back with some alternatives. And we'd like your feedback
tonight, so that we can go ahead and prepare, if necessary, in action for next month if the Board
wants us to make changes.
So just real quickly, I wanted to run through just some comparisons maybe you hadn't seen
before that we put in your pocket. Oh, and I didn't say. Micheal's with me tonight, so if you have
any questions for him, too.
The pre-2016 cash fare was $4.50, $10 regional, and $26 for airport. You can see the current
Access-a-Ride cost for 2016 through 2018 went up for local at actually $4.75. The regional
actually went down to $8.50. And the airport went down from $26 to $17.50.
The reasoning for the $4.70 at that time when that fare change was made was that the Access-aRide folks don't have access to the smart cards. So the smart card discount was given and then
doubled. So that was a $0.50 discount.

And then on top of that, if you bought a five-ride ticket book, then you were paying $4.25 for
that Access-a-Ride, which is the current fare. We had proposed, originally, when we went out to
the public double the cash fare, which would have been $6 for local, $10.50 for regional, and $21
for airport. As we mentioned previously, we heard a lot of feedback on that at the open houses.
And so we specifically called a meeting of our two advisory groups, which are the Access-a-Ride
Paratransit Advisory Committee, APAC, and the Advisory Committee for People with
Disabilities, ACPD. At that meeting, we did ask for input as to what they felt a reasonable
amount was. The staff recommendation of $5, $9, and $20, which is $5 local, $9 regional, and
$20 airport was the feedback we received.
We know, since that time, that members of both groups are now divided on that number and
have come to the Board with various other options. Last month, you asked us what it would look
like if we kept the fares the same at $4.70, $8.50, and $17.50. And that cost is approximately
$300,000.00 dollars each year. And we're assuming just for '19 right now. That was the request.
One of the complicating factors is if that discount that was received for the five-ride ticket book
of bringing the $4.70 down to $4.25, we have not modeled that number. Because we were not
aware-- and that's our fault-- that that additional discount was in effect. So if you kept that
number in addition to the $4.70, then there would be an additional cost associated with that that
we couldn't quantify at this time, but something slightly more than $300,000.00 dollars.
We are looking for feedback. Oh, I wanted to mention in your packet it said we're looking at the
five-ride ticket book. I tried to make that correction in MinuteTraq, but I was not very successful.
We're actually moving to a six-ride ticket book. Because we received a lot of feedback of you're
making us buy another ticket book, because we can't get back home on five rides. We can only
get there, back, there, back, there, back, and there. But we can't get back again. So we are
changing that to a six-ride ticket book.
The staff recommendation is still to go with the increase of $5, $9, to $5 to $9 and $20. But we're
more than open to your feedback tonight. And we will take the necessary action depending on
the feedback we get this evening. Michael, did you want to add anything to that?
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Williams, you are leading us off.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather and Michael, hi. Good evening.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Good evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Here we are again. It seems to me, in all of the Pass Program Working
Group effects that went on, that there was an organization called Mile High Connects that stated
repeatedly that they had money escrowed to help with that program. $3 million dollars I'm pretty
sure was the amount that was stated more than one time. And I'm just wondering if it has
occurred to us to ask any of those groups if they want to assist us with this $300,000.00 dollar
deficit, since they're all been here for a year testifying and being involved. That's a question.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. We can ask again. But to my knowledge, those
dollars did not exist.
KATE WILLIAMS: They came here and lied?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'm not saying that. I just said, to my knowledge, they don't exist in our
conversations. They have not offered those funds to us.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Can I go a little further?
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So let's assume that even though they said repeatedly that they had $3
million dollars escrowed to help with this, let's assume that I misheard that. And is it possible
that, since they have been very vocal and very involved, that we could ask them if they wanted to
exacerbate their stated mission, which is to promote and be involved in transportation services
for the disabled and those in need, that we could ask them to help us with that money?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: So this is Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager. We're in
continued conversations with Mile High Connects-KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sure.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: --as a partner. And so we can continue that conversation with
them.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. It's nice to be recognized.
[LAUGHTER]
Sorry. You know, I'm a big one for discounts for people that need it. But I'm wondering where
the money would come from. And I'm just wondering what you guys have thought about that. It
surely has entered your mind.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, the most obvious place is we can just reduce the contingency for
next year, or we will have to make reductions elsewhere, so prior to the finalization of the 2019
budget.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: That would be the easiest, would be to reduce the contingency so we
don't re-have to go back through and look at every project we have out there. But we can look at
project-JUDY LUBOW: Are you talking about reserves or contingency-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. Oh, I see.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Your reserves.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. OK. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Heather and Michael, I appreciate what you do.
And we're trying to take the extra steps to help our most vulnerable populations in our
community. And I think we need to push a little harder to try to figure out how we can assist this
group of people. And I appreciate, and I encourage you to keep looking. Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. We'll go to Chair Tisdale next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just to confirm, the report submitted with this
update reflects that the 2019 proposed fares-- would in general be, let me find my page again,
here we are-- would, in general, be less than what we were charging in 2016 and earlier years, as
I look at it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It is correct for regional and airport.
DOUG TISDALE: Right.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But for local, there was an increase from $4.50 to $4.70 and then to
$5. To be fair, the bulk of the rides on Access-a-Ride are local.
DOUG TISDALE: Local as opposed to regional?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Or airport. So I do want to make that-DOUG TISDALE: No.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I didn't want to mislead you there.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, no. And it's not just me, it's the public. Because the second thing
that is information here that I think many people don't know the fully-- you call an allocated, I'd
say the-- fully loaded cost per boarding for Access-a-Ride is $63.00 dollars for someone to get
on an Access-a-Ride vehicle. That's what it costs us to do it, correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. So it's $63.00 dollars to do that. And what we're proposing is that we
charge $5.00 dollars out of that $63.00 dollars and that, as Mr. Washington explained so ably
when I asked the question about this before in describing why do we give people who have
Access-a-Ride credentials free rides on every other medium-- and the answer is because we'd
love to have them ride the other media that we provide-- light rail, buses, commuter rail. Because
that doesn't cost us $63.00 dollars every time they get on.
So I understand that. And I think that's a brilliant argument. And we should absolutely keep that
going.
The last point I wanted to confirm, because I really do want to be able to respond to the questions
that I know Director Solano has heard. Because Director Solano has been a very able
spokesperson for this community and making sure that they're getting fair and balanced
treatment, if you will. So the question is the original proposition to do this fare increase was done
in consultation with a lot of different constituencies.
And they supported this.
And what happened is various individuals from those constituencies have now complained and
said they're dissatisfied that their particular view wasn't adopted. Is that more or less a fair
summary?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: That's fair.
DOUG TISDALE: Then that's all. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: And before I go to Director Williams, I'm going to check with Director
Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I certainly agree with Chair Tisdale. I
think the staff proposal is certainly fair when I look at the cost of $62.92, rounded up, is $63.00
dollars. And a $5.00 dollar fare, a $9.00 dollar fare, even a fare to the airport is just one third of
that cost.
So we are subsidizing these folks for a huge amount of money. And that's fine. I have no
problem with that.

But I liked the staff proposal. It works. And so I would not support any fare change other than
the staff proposal. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, thank you for adding your recommendation onto that. Because that's
really what they're looking for tonight. Director Williams, you are next.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for recognizing me, also. I have a couple of points that I want us
to think about. The City and County of Denver recently gave $250,000.00 dollars to Chariot to
run a bus service that is complementary to our bus service. It runs, basically, along a lot of the
same route that the 83L runs. $250,000.00 dollars the city gave in there just to fosterize another
$150,000.00 dollars to add an additional bus to that. So, perhaps, we could ask the City and
County of Denver if they wanted to help us run paratransit service for the needy and disabled for
a similar amount of money.
Additionally, there are several committees now. We have the Access-a-Ride Paratransit
Advisory Committee and the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities who meet on a
regular basis. And, perhaps, we could ask those two committees who are made up of a bunch
very involved and, basically, aware and intelligent people, if they have any suggestions, like if
they wanted to look at pursuing grants to help supplement this program.
I think those are some people that would be interested in being involved in helping us make up
this deficit shortfall, so that we could move forward with this. So there are some
recommendations. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for those suggestions. Director Folska, you were next.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But you didn't recognize me.
[LAUGHTER]
But that's OK. Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I think what might be useful in understanding this
conversation here is the notion of equity. And in order to illustrate it best, I'm going to give an
example of three people.
One is very, very tall. One is medium height. And one is quite short. And they all three want to
look over a fence.
So the tall person can already see everything over the fence. And the medium height person can
kind of reach over and have a little help to look over the fence and see fine. But a very short
person needs a bigger boost up to see over the fence.
That's equity. $300,000.00 dollars is just shy of what we're paying our General Manager. We're
able to find millions of dollars to settle lawsuits. And 40% of the people that use Access-a-Ride
have to.

If they can use the free fixed route, they do. And many, many of them do. So I would not be in
favor of this. And I would ask this Board to find the will to have a fair and equitable strategy for
people with disabilities.
Those folks are on a fixed income. And, by the way, it doesn't increase with your costs of living,
like everybody else here with a paid salary. So pennies mean a lot of them, a lot. I'm not going to
support any kind of fare increase for them.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for that. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I normally don't jump to the defense of Denver. But I think,
you know, we can't pick out one jurisdiction and say to them, we want you to subsidize a
particular program when this program is available throughout the entire district. I just think that's
the wrong road to go down. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you. I know I've heard this sometime over the last eight years, but I can't
remember. How many passenger trips do Access-a-Ride patrons represent in the total mix?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We don't have that handy, but I think-LARRY BUTER: Over 700,000 trips in 2017.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 700,000 trips in 2017. Over 700,000-LARRY HOY: Oh. For the whole year, 700,000. OK, thanks. That's all I need.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Director Menten, you are next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. I'm just wondering if there is a document or a spreadsheet
or something that might like I have all the data points on the top 10 or 20 reasons why somebody
cannot use fixed route service? Could I get that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We can work with our paratransit group to provide that.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be great. Is that something that would not be much trouble to
get together? Is that something that maybe already somewhat condensed and put together?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't know that we have it. But I will work with them to see what we
can get. And I'm sure, working with our two advisory committees, they can get something
together.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That would be helpful instead of going to committees and
kind of interrupting and getting in response here and there. If there's something that could be put
together, that helps me in my head. Thank you very much.

KEN MIHALIK: Well, if you're looking for-- I don't know that you've got all the
recommendation that you were looking for, or at least-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. We'll have more discussions between now and next month.
KEN MIHALIK: More discussion, OK. Well, then my personal recommendation would be to not
raise the rates if that's worth anything.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: More discussion to come.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, both. Thank you, Mr. Washington.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Heather, you're going to update us on the 2019 Requested Budget? Yes,
Jannette's going to come up and talk to you about any changes since.
DOUG TISDALE: Two more.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You had two more.
KEN MIHALIK: Sorry. I didn't-- that came in fast. I didn't catch that. My apologies. Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: And thank you. Thank you for the second chance to talk about this. I just
wanted to say that it's difficult given the really large amount of money that the trips cost to
justify giving more assistance to these folks.
But I think in terms of fairness, in terms of effect on somebody's budget, we're probably dealing
with people who really don't have money for increases. And so I just want to suggest that we
look under all the sofa covers for the quarters and nickels and dimes that'll amount to the
$300,000.00 dollars to help them. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Michael, maybe you would be the best one, that if you could touch
base with me later about I just wanted to know with Access-a-Ride. Just because somebody is
using Access-a-Ride doesn't mean that they're low income, right? And I would like to know what
rules and regulations exist.

We're allowed to charge up to two times amount. But since now we've opened, what I think, is
can of worms with income verification using the state of Colorado, you know, maybe that's
something that seniors should have. Maybe seniors should have to prove their low income before
they get there.
Otherwise, we go to the off-peak fares. So just as we go into the Access-a-Ride, if whoever
would be the best to do that, please reach out to me. And I'll just say that it's a busy time in my
other life right now with election. But-MICHAEL WASHINGTON: OK.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to talk to you about that.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Absolutely.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And Director Solano?
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Mihalik. This is in response to Director
Williams' suggestion we look at Denver for assistance and opposition from Director Broom that
we shouldn't lean on Denver. Perhaps, we should look at all the municipalities within our district
and intergovernment agreements reach out to the municipalities and find out who would be
interested in working with RTD to assist this vulnerable population.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Anybody else care to have a second go? No? OK.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: Call to question.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Next, Heather and Jannette, the 2019 Requested Budget update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Jannette's going to run through the 2019
Requested Budget.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I'm back. So we are rolling out our preliminary 2019 Requested
Budget. This is a first draft budget. It is subject to further appropriation-- I'm sorry, further
revision. We are not asking for appropriation at this time.
Let me say the Base System and the FasTracks budgets will change in the final recommended
budget, because the FasTracks new capital is preliminary. The capital carryforward is not
updated at this time. It is based on the September 30th close of our books. And the SBP expense
projects and the expense project carryforward are not included in this first draft.

We combine the Base and FasTracks budget into this financial statement format that you see
every go round. It begins on page 136 of your packet. This is a modified income statement and
cash flow. And we also include a statement of net assets and fund balance.
But we take these numbers, and we roll them up into the Board Report. We summarize them for
you beginning on page 127 of your packet. And, here, you have a summary of operating
expenses, debt service, capital expenditures, that is our uses. And this is what we will ask you to
appropriate.
And we also show you a summary of all of our operating revenue and our non-operating
revenue. These are our sources. We do not appropriate sources. We only estimate them.
So just some general highlights at this time-- our sources include fare revenue. We are estimating
a $16.8 million dollar increase over the 2018 amended. As we've spoken, we have incorporated
the recommended fare changes.
Sales and use tax will total $668 million. This is a 5% increase over the 2018 projected number.
This is per the CU Leeds September forecast.
Now, in the mid-term financial plan, we used the March forecast. And the September forecast is,
you know, that much better. We're using that in our 2019 Budget. We also anticipate other
increases in grant revenue and investment income.
In terms of uses, if we see any decrease in operating expenses, we will see it mostly on
FasTracks project or the construction side of the business. And this will be offset by an increase
to FasTracks operations, which is our operating and maintenance costs for FasTracks. Base
numbers will probably go up. Because, as I said, we are not including the SBP projects and the
expense project carryforward at this time.
We will see these numbers in the final budget. We are using the SBP for departmental expense
targets for the Base System. We may need to make further changes if we haven't identified any
necessary items yet in the SBP.
In terms of debt, we will have no new debt issuance in 2019 for either Base or FasTracks. Fleet
purchases will be funded by previously issued debt. Capital expenditures on the Base System, we
are forecasting new capital of about $50 million that is directly from the SBP.
And on FasTracks, the preliminary number now is $29.8 million. Again, this is new capital. This
is mostly from North Metro and the purchase of Flatiron Flyer vehicles. Again, no capital
carryforward is estimated at this point.
In terms of fund balances for the Base System, the Board appropriated fund, we are forecasting
an increase of $3 million to $23 million, no increase to the capital acquisition fund. And our
operating reserve, we're showing a modest increase to $15 million. My hunch is this will change,
could look better when we bring the final budget forward. On the FasTracks side, our fund

balances, FasTracks is at three months of operating expenses. And the FISA is projected at $85
million at this time.
Our next steps-- by October 15th, we have to post our budget to the public. And we are about to
post it on our website for review. We will do that in the next day.
On November 13th, we will be back to the Finance Committee to present the recommended
budget, which is our final budget. On November 27th, we will take that budget to the Board. And
I want to say that we are available and encourage meeting individually with any of you prior to
November 27th. So, please, contact us if you would like for the review or want to meet one on
one. Questions?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. While we're talking budget, I was doing some
math based on our early discussions. And if we give 700,000 Access-a-Rides a year at $60.00
dollars each, that's $42 million dollars. Is that correct? Did I do that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Are you talking about our fully loaded cost at 700,000 rides at $62
bucks?
KATE WILLIAMS: Right.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Is what it costs us, yes, versus what we collect.
KATE WILLIAMS: $42 million dollars a year is the cost of the Access-a-Ride program. OK,
thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Just reading an article, but traders are betting that oil's going to go to $100 a
barrel. If it does do that, what's the budget impact on us?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Significant. Probably, we would see probably another $5 million
dollars in cost if it went up that high and we're not able to lock before then.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Annually, sorry. $5 million annually.
KEN MIHALIK: Good question. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Jannette, I noticed that in your report it says farebox
revenue is projected to go up about 11.5% over 2018. Does that mean that the fares on average
were that much higher than 2018? I mean--

JANNETTE SCARPINO: No, it's because of the fare increase.
JUDY LUBOW: No, I understand.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Oh.
JUDY LUBOW: But what I'm saying is I assume that our fare increases are approximately 10%
or whatever CPI is. But this is more than that. So if you could just explain how that works.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: So it should be a combination of-- mostly, it's due to the fare increase.
That's the bulk of it. And then we're opening SERE in 2019.
So there'll be a small increase in ridership due to the SERE piece of it, which will also generate
fare revenue. But the bulk of that increase is due to the fare changes that we made.
JUDY LUBOW: As well as the Gold Line-JANNETTE SCARPINO: Oh, yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: [INAUDIBLE] coming forward-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JUDY LUBOW: So it's a combination of the fare-HEATHER MCKILLOP: [INAUDIBLE]
JUDY LUBOW: --and the expansion. OK.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: If you want the numbers, I can break them down for you. It's up to
you.
JUDY LUBOW: No. Thank you very much. Appreciate it.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, you have the floor.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thanks, Chair Mihalik. Jannette, what's the total budget that we have
here, the final number?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: It is-JANNETTE SCARPINO: The district-wide appropriation at this point, but, again, it does not
include the capital carryforward, but the appropriation at this point, $1.25 billion.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And isn't it so that the typical cause for providing complimentary
paratransit nationwide is 10% of that budget? Mr. Buter might have a better answer. But--

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I don't think we know the answer to that question. We'd have to look it
up.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that's my knowledge. And it's pretty solid. And I remember Bruce
Abel talking about that a lot, that that's the average. And we've been able to keep our cost flat.
And, again, Mr. Buter, if you're here, you can respond to this. Flat-- because of the Access-a-Cab
program that we subsidize also.
So while it sounds like an inordinate amount of money, it isn't. It's even lower than what the
national average is. And you go ahead and verify it and come back. But I'm pretty confident
about that. That's all.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: The appropriation, though, includes the debt payments, the
contributions to reserves, et cetera. So, OK.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. I'll check in with Director Anderson and see if she's still
with us.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I am, but it's trying.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: We're nearly done.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Well, for your part, there's still some other things. I have no
comment. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, thank you. Thanks for staying with us. And I guess that's it for the
budget update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Doug's going to do a quick update on the August monthly financial. I
think the ones in your pocket are estimated. And he has actuals now, so.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. I don't know that I necessarily need to call this up on the
screen. I'll just be really quick about this. So, thank you, Heather.
The sales and use taxes, we put an estimate in there. We got the real numbers earlier this week
after the packet had already gone out. It turns out that they were very close to what we estimated.
So the package shows that we're 5.8% over last year. We're actually 5.7%. And we're 1.1% ahead
of budget. So that's about $4 million dollars ahead of budget and $22 million dollars ahead of
prior year.
Ridership continues to be under expectations, about the same trend, 3% to 4% on average. Fare
revenue, we're just slightly under budget at 0.3% under budget year to date. But we're 2.2%
higher than 2017 through August.

The combination of sales and use taxes and fare revenue puts us about $4 million dollars over
budget, which is about 1%. So we're tracking really close to where we expected to be at this
point. And that's all I have. If there's questions, we'd be happy to take them.
KEN MIHALIK: I think you're going to get off easy tonight, Doug. Thanks.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thanks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Mr. Chair, I did want to have a staff comment under other matters
when that time's appropriate.
KEN MIHALIK: That time would be now.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So some of you may be aware that there was a report put out by
Moody's on the PABs, which are the Private Activity Bonds for DTP. That was a lot of acronyms
right there. But I just wanted to clarify, in that, there was a report put out. It is filed with EMMA
which is our national repository we have to file everything as well as them.
Those are not issued by RTD. A lot of times, you'll see the heading RTD PABs. But they're not.
They're not issued by us.
The only obligation we have to DTP is to pay their TABOR portion of the payment, which we
pay monthly. The intent is that they use that money to pay the PABs, but there is nothing that
forces them to do that. As long as we fulfill our obligation, they can use that money for whatever
they'd like.
The PABs, there's a consideration that there might be a downgrade for those PABs based on
what's going on currently with the lawsuit. But that does not affect RTDs credit rating. It does
not affect our ability to pay.
And that is solely on DTP. So I just wanted to clarify that, because I think that issue has come
up. And I wanted to make sure everybody was aware how that is associated with us.
KEN MIHALIK: It's good information. Thank you. Director Archuleta.
ERNEST ARCHULETA: This don't got nothing to do with Heather's saying. But I just wanted to
give a shout out to our security. No one gives them any kind of play. Thank god for our security.
Thank you very much. That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Just very briefly, I wanted to let you know that this morning General
Manager Genova and I had the privilege of going to DEN to greet about 145 people from the
Jacksonville, Florida Chamber of Commerce, including Nat Ford, who is the Chairman of APTA
and is the CEO of the Jacksonville Transit Agency. And everyone was exceptionally appreciative

of the fact that Dave and I and Sherry Ellebracht showed up there, gave them a rousing welcome,
and a fun ride on University of Colorado A Line from DEN down to DUS.
PAUL SOLANO: Were they wearing shorts?
DOUG TISDALE: There were a couple people who were not appropriately dressed. And they
were cowering inside our little sales office down there on the train platform waiting for us to
actually start talking.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, the cold weather is probably still better than the hurricane. So-KATE WILLIAMS: Right.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. One quick clarification, Nat Ford is the Immediate Past Chair of
APTA. Dave Stackrow's the new Chair. So I'll do a quick update on the GMOC, that meeting
that was held today. If you'll recall, the General Manager Oversight and Performance Committee
met in September and approved the appointment of negotiators, Chairs Tisdale and me, for the
purposes of exploring potential amendments to the executive employment agreement, the
Board's contract with General Manager Genova.
The terms of those potential amendments were subject to the parameters set by Board members
during that September GMOC meeting. Last week, Chair Tisdale and I met with General
Manager Genova and, in negotiating with the General Manager, we presented potential contract
terms that we felt would be in the best interest of the organization, terms that would serve to
significantly reduce costs, create stability in the position of General Manager, and allow full
agency flexibility moving forward. In today's GMOC meeting, the committee approved on a vote
of five to two the recommended action for those potential contract amendments.
That recommended action will be discussed in the Executive Committee on Thursday, two days
from now, and will potentially be placed on next week's Board meeting agenda. So I guess
everyone here and on the phone is on notice that that's up for discussion for the agenda item on
Thursday. Two other-- or, I guess, one other quick item.
I was appointed to the Finance Committee, APTA's Finance Committee. And I was also
reappointed to Leadership APTA Committee. So, that'll carry me out through my life here on
RTD. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And I think you must've stolen somebody else's comment. So-LORRAINE ANDERSON: Could I-- excuse me?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, Director Anderson, I will-- do have any other matters?

LORRAINE ANDERSON: I would like to compliment Director Walker for his appointment to
those two APTA committees. Director Walker is well thought of in APTA. And APTA is really
the leader in our industry. So congratulations, Jeff Walker. I appreciate your contribution to
greater transit. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Anderson. Seeing no other matters, our next meeting is
November 13th. And we will call this meeting adjourned.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

