Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

September 16, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
September 16, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

III.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call.
arrived after roll call.

Directors Brohl, Busck and Ruchman

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards.
Special Acknowledgement
Chair Kemp acknowledged Liz Rao, AGM for Planning and Development and FasTracks, for all
her efforts, dedication and knowledge that she has contributed to the success of RTD and
FasTracks. He provided her with a gift certificate from the Board in appreciation. Liz Rao will
be leaving RTD in pursuit of other opportunities.
Cal Marsella presented Liz Rao with a plaque from the Board and RTD. Cal stated that Liz has
been a pivotal part of the RTD team and has his utmost gratitude for her contributions. He
read the inscription that was written on the plaque which also showed a picture of DUS and
light rail, two projects that Liz has been very instrumental in leading.
Liz Rao accepted this honor graciously and stated RTD has been a great family to her for her
14 years of service. It has been a pleasure working with the Board and the senior management
team. It has been quite a ride and a lot has been accomplished. Liz Rao thanked her FasTracks
team and staff for all they do and credited them for her success.
Director Daly as head of the Operations Committee thanked the RTD staff and operations for
the wonderful job they did during the DNC.
Chair Kemp reminded the Board members that Board meetings start promptly at 5:30 and
appreciate if the Board members could be in their seats so we can conduct business as
necessary.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Martha Harvey spoke about handicap parking at RTD park-n-Rides. She stated that whether it
is an issue for anyone now, it will be sooner or later as the population is aging. She currently
takes the D line from Highlands Ranch and has noticed that while we mark bicycle racks and
other things, on a map, a person does not know how many handicap spaces are at a location

until he/she arrives. She counted at the Mineral station approximately 23 handicap spaces
out of 1256. While RTD may be meeting minimal standards, this is not good enough. She
has made similar observations at other stations. She would like RTD to address this issue of
handicap parking at park-n-rides and working on ramps for access.
Chair Kemp requested Cal Marsella to follow up with Ms. Harvey. Director Pulliam indicated
that he had spoken with Ms. Harvey a couple of days ago and someone should already be in
the process of following up with her.
Chris Robbins, Aurora, spoke about the need to make transit pay for itself. He expressed that
TOD could be the key to funding FasTracks and the light rail in the long run. RTD should
lobby for legislation or consider establishing a separate district/entity to address this issue.
The goal should be to make FasTracks and light rail self-sustaining.
Chair Kemp requested Board members to give their attention to the speakers who deserve
this respect during their three minutes of public speaking.
Rick McNeal, Denver, spoke about the bus stop that is in front of the building next to the one
he lives in that has two benches for sitting. He indicated the building is up for sale and that it
makes more sense to put the bus stop in front of his building where there is handicap access.
He spoke also about the 16th and California light rail stop that has no facility for handicap to
sit. RTD needs better facilities for handicap to sit.
Mr. McNeal indicated he had photos of the opening of the Platte Valley which provides
reminders of what they did and accomplished as a small non-profit organization. This was
during the period of Frederico Pena. Mr. McNeal indicated he has an idea for putting pens
and lights on canes that might get Laidlaw and other drivers to recognize them.
Chair Kemp requested Cal Marsella to have someone follow up with Mr. McNeal on his ideas.
Robin Kniech, FRESC, spoke about the TOD plan and how while RTD’s core mission is
transit, affordable housing ensures that transit is accessible to all people regardless of
income. Affordable housing connects the transit mission to TOD diversity. Affordable
housing also builds ridership. Robin spoke to studies/surveys that have been done on other
transit agencies and stated RTD could have stronger commitments to affordable housing
while working within the confines of the legal limitations. They applaud and support RTD
efforts to have a more assertive role in affordable housing.
Director Christopher inquired if Robin’s surveys could be shared with the Board. Robin
responded that they will need to brief since the document is a little complex and they are
working to make it a more friendly document.
Dan Chero, Boulder, spoke about the benefits of the EcoPass program and encouraged RTD to
keep the program.
John Maslanik, Denver, shared feedback on the EcoPass program he has received while out
talking to constituents. He read two letters expressing concern on the 50 employee minimum
and on proposed changes to EcoPass. These letters will become part of public comments.
Russell Greear, Denver, indicated he is moving to Director Elfenbein’s district (district A) and
thanked Joe Berdaus for helping him to navigate from his home during the DNC. He also
thanked the Board office for their help. He stated he understood the need for as fare increase
and there is nothing we can do about it.
Raphael Shay spoke on how he likes the EcoPass especially as a small agency working with
transitional housing and encouraged RTD to keep the program.
Daisy Burks spoke about access-a-ride on behalf of dialysis patients. She indicated she had

just spoken to one of her dialysis friends who had to wait 5 hours for a will call pickup after
completing her dialysis treatment. She stated the drivers are the best and helpful but under
considerable stress. She was concerned about the proposed increase in fare and if sooner or
later they will have to decide between eating and getting their treatment which is a matter of
life or death for dialysis patients.
Chair Kemp instructed Cal Marsella for followup.
Mark Wirth shared he has a website that has been getting regular hits from people concerned
about EcoPass. There are lots of people who want to keep the EcoPass program as is.
Rick McNeal, Denver, stated his willingness to work as a volunteer on a committee to delve
into the affordable housing issue and RTD’s role.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports. Chair Kemp reported in the Chair’s report on his
presentation before a group of Maryland delegates to the DNC about FasTracks. He stated
they were very interested in learning more about the FasTracks program as they are in the
infancy of pursuing a similar effort called the Redline Project there. There are taking notes
from RTD.
Several of the directors commented on how well RTD was represented during the DNC
convention and all the positive feedback that was received about our service, professional
courtesy, mall shuttle, light rail, security and the RTD system in general. Board members
complimented the staff on their flexibility and courtesy. Director McMullen reflected on how
well the system ran and how in 1978-79, Directors before them had the backbone to make the
hard decisions to go forward with the 16 street mall. The Directors are standing on the
shoulders of those who have come before them and he is more resolved than ever to move
forward with FasTracks program and to have it complete in 12 years.

VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF August 19, 2008
Chair Kemp indicated there was a correction to the August 19th minutes and requested
Bruce Abel to provide that correction. On page 30 (backside) last paragraph that begins
Director Tayer asked for better clarity… this has been corrected to say “Bruce Abel
responded that approximately $2M of the $3M EcoPass new revenue is due to the
changes from the 14%, 5% and $5.00 SkyRide surcharge and approximately $1M of the
$3M EcoPass new revenue is attributable to the estimated net gain of the 50 person
minimum pricing.”
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the August 19, 2008
regular board meeting minutes with the amendment as stated
above.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Chacon was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

Additional corrections to be noted in the August 19 minutes include:
Due to the number of clarifying questions that have arisen on the proposed 50 employee minimum

associated with changes to the EcoPass, we have been requested to ferret out the specific statement
made by Cal Marsella in the August 19, 2008 Board meeting. That statement as transcribed verbatim
is “The 50 employee person minimum does not mean that all the companies cited are out. It just
means they have another decision to make. With the 50 person minimum, the price structure will just
say there is a minimum ante to get into the EcoPass program. They will look at how many people use
it and how many don’t and they will say do I stay in it or drop out or perhaps subsidize a different
type of program like the Flexpass, monthly pass, whatever. Some will still stay in because if the
business case says they have so many people using it, it still works for me. It is not like they are out
by definition. That is a business decision they are going to make. I think we have already beat this
$5.00 SkyRide fee to death….”
Recommended Action-Item F, Parking Management: include vote on primary motion to adopt the
Parking Management Program as defined.
MOTION:

Director Yamrick moved that the Board of Directors adopt the
Parking Management Program as defined.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Brohl,
Busck, Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick) and 1
against (Daly). Director Chacon had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

A corrected copy of the August 19, 2008 minutes will be re-issued as approved.
VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
Cal Marsella provided a summary statement of the performance of RTD during the DNC as
extraordinary. Everyone stepped up to the plate across bus and rail operations, security,
administration and every aspect of RTD that was involved from the planning to the end. Phil
Washington was very instrumental in ensuring contracts were in place and RTD would be
reimbursed for its costs. Cal received nothing but positive comments and high remarks about
RTD and several cities want to emulate RTD and its success. The Mayor of Hawaii met with
Cal and shared that he and his delegation had the opportunity to interview about 30 people
about our transit system and only received positive feedback. Cal also shared that he and
Chair Kemp met with a State Representative from Detroit who was like a sponge soaking up
information about RTD and FasTracks.
1. “Your Show” being sent to the Board
Cal Marsella shared he had done a 15 minute interview on “Your Show” which Scott Reed
had forwarded to the Board.
2. Bus Roadeo
The bus roadeo was held on Saturday, September 13, 2008. This was the largest roadeo
with about 50 contestants. A number of Board members participated in the driving
competition with Chair Lee Kemp placing first, Director Daly second, Director John Tayer
third, Director Busck fourth, Cal Marsella fifth, and Director McMullen completing the
lineup. Director Elfenbein did his part in dishing out beans and Director Yamrick was there
for the camaraderie.
All of the Board members shared this was a very positive experience and reflected
positively on the healthy state of RTD. More importantly, the RTD employees got a chance

to show what they do with their families and generate pride and ownership in the expertise
they bring to the RTD family. Special kudos were given to Greg Yates and his staff for
organizing this event.
Stewart and Stephenson provided the food. Cal Marsella vowed to make this even bigger
next year.
3. Meeting with Downtown Denver Partnership on EcoPass, Mall LetterCal Marsella met with a subcommittee to discuss EcoPass. Cal is learning much from the
public input process and that there is a need to streamline and make the fare program
easier to understand. RTD is working on some options that hopefully will address this
request from the public hearing process. Next Tuesday, September 23, 2008, the staff
will share a number of things with the Board that includes DBE goals, fare options,
FasTracks options review and of course the budget workshop. This will be an important
meeting.
Pertaining to the mall letter, Cal Marsella has met with Tamara Door and has also sent a
letter to Downtown Denver Partnership expressing the concerns about the mall paver costs
and responsibilities. The letter includes the language from the amendment proposed by
Director Tayer.
Director McMullen commented that he thinks it is time to consider a total restructure of all
the RTD pass programs to make it simpler and easier.
Director Kemp noted that there will be a special board meeting September 30, 2008 to
approve the proposed fare change. Due to the interest generated, public comments will be
allowed for this meeting.
4.

Meeting with Colorado Rockies/Stadium District on East Corridor Property
Cal Marsella met with members of the Stadium district to discuss how the new alignment
would affect parking spaces in and around the stadium district. While it is a bit premature
and no record of decision will be available until next year, it was a productive exchange.

5.

PPP Meeting in Philadelphia
Cal Marsella will participate in a PPP discussion for the FTA in Philadelphia September 18,
2008 and will be traveling September 17-19, 2008.

6.

Public Hearings on Fares
As stated above, RTD will take its lead from the public hearings on fares and will be bringing
new options forward in an understandable presentation on September 23, 2008. This will
also include a discussion on the impact to small businesses.

7.

Other Matters
Director Ruchman noted that the FasTracks Public Outreach is a good process to start but it
should extend beyond the period September 24-28, 2008. Ongoing dialog with the
community, elected leaders and others are critically important to this process.
Cal Marsella clarified the discrepancy between the key commodities indicators from two
months ago with the most current figures as based on real and current market conditions.
Cal Marsella shared that RTD has locked in on diesel fuel for 2009 at $3.10/gallon.

IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Ruchman moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda A-H.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

AMENDMENT TO
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Tayer made motion to pull item F to
recommended action per request from Director Chacon.
Director Yamrick seconded.
Director Kinton stated it was a good precedent that the
Lend Lease Horizon is providing on funding for the
Horizon development.
Director Ruchman indicated this was a great model that
other forward looking developers should follow.
Director Yamrick thanked the representatives from Lend
Lease Horizon who worked this deal and stated this was
one of her proudest moments as the representative for
this District.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Chacon was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

B.

Regional Transportation District Resolution No.__, Series of 2008, Acceptance of
Annexation Petitions from Lend Lease Horizon LLC
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the annexation of the 503 acre Horizon Uptown property to RTD.
The property owners, Lend Lease Horizon LLC, have petitioned RTD to approve the
annexation. Upon approval of this annexation, the area would become part of District
F. None of the requests or commitments contained in the development plan has been
agreed to and the approval of this annexation does not commit RTD to any future
service at this time. Any future service request will require a separate agreement by
the Board.

C.

Proposed RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks Southeast
and Southwest Corridor Extensions Environmental Study and Basic Engineering Phase
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and execute a proposed
RTD/CDOT Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) for the FasTracks Southeast and
Southwest Corridor Extensions Environmental Study and Basic Engineering Phase.
There is no financial impact related to the approval of this IGA.

D.

Approval of Contract Amendment with H.C. Peck & Associates, Inc. RTD Contract No.
17DH013 Property Acquisition and Relocation Assistance – West Corridor
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract amendment to increase the total contract amount on
RTD Contract No. 17DH013 from $800,000 to $1,300,000.00, an increase of the
$500,000. Funding for this contract amendment is included in the West Corridor
Budget.

E.

Approval of Contract Amendment with DMJM Harris for Final Design for the Elati Light
Rail Maintenance Facility Expansion and Mariposa Upgrade.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD’s contract
with DMJM-Harris for the Light Rail Maintenance Facility Environmental Assessment –
Conceptual Engineering (EA-CE) be amended to add $257,531.42 to the contract
amount for the consultant to complete final design. These funds are included in the
FasTracks budget. The current contract amount is $1,598,975.00. This amendment
will increase the contract value to $1,856,506.42. Funding for this contract
amendment was included in the 2008 Amended Budget approved by the Board.

G.

Resolution No.__, Reimbursement Resolution for CAD/AVL and Bus Fare Boxes
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the Resolution No.__, Reimbursement Resolution for CAD/AVL and Bus
Fare Boxes, expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses
relating to the procurement of bus fare boxes, radio communications systems which
support voice and data communications featuring computer aided dispatching and
automated vehicle location (CAD/AVL) functionality and related equipment.

H.

Resolution No.__, Series of 2008, Designation of Elector for the Downtown
Development Authority Election

X. RECOMMENDED ACTION

F.
Resolution No.___, Series of 2008, Revised Strategic Plan for Transit Oriented
Development
MOTION:
Director Ruchman moved that the Board of Directors
accept the resolution, series 2008, revised strategic plan
for transit oriented development as amended by Director
Tayer.
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Elfenbein indicated he supported the amendment
in spirit but felt the language was inappropriate both on
the resolution which states …”promotes” and the
strategic plan that states “ensuring.” RTD is a transit and
cannot promote or ensure TOD. This does not fit the
RTD vision.
Cal Marsella shared that he and Marla had previously
reviewed the language and was comfortable with the use
of the word promote and ensuring. Marla Lien indicated
that technically RTD cannot ensure but from the
perspective of what was stated, she was OK with the
language.
Extensive discussion occurred over the proper wording
and use of the words “promoting and ensuring.” Several
directors offered suggestions to change the word
promote and ensuring to “strongly support.

Director Quinlan suggested it was arrogance for the
Board to try to tell the TOD developers/municipalities
what to do.
Director Martinez and Christopher felt the language was
appropriate and that municipalities often tell RTD what to
do. They felt the stronger the language, the better.
Director Martinez expressed concern that every TOD has
buy-out clause for affordable housing and this policy
needs to be strong enough to send a clear message.
Director Christopher expressed there is a clear nexus
between transit and affordable housing. Director Kinton
reminded the Board of a similar conversation when they
were approving the health care issue for contractors and
this issue is even more relevant to transit.
Director Tayer felt the language was appropriate and he
wanted this to stand as is. Director Tayer stated RTD is
a public entity with responsibility to ensure that the
transit we provide serves a broad range in our
community. We do so within our limits of our authority
by promoting affordable housing. However, he would
compromise by changing the language in the resolution to
say “support” instead of “promote” but he felt the
language in the TOD policy itself should remain with
“ensuring.” This is an aspirational policy, not doctrine.
SECONDARY
AMENDMENT
(substitute motion): Director Elfenbein offered a secondary amendment that
would approve the resolution using the language in the
resolution to “strongly support” in place of “promote” and
replacing the word “ensuring” with “strongly encourage”
for the strategic plan.
Director Busck seconded this motion.
VOTE ON
SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:

An electronic roll call vote was taken on the secondary
amendment to change the language in the amendment
provided by Director Tayer with 8 in favor (Busck, Brohl,
Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Pulliam Quinlan, Yamrick) and 6
against (Christopher, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Ruchman and Tayer). Director Chacon was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VOTE ON PRIMARY
MOTION INCLUDING
SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:
The Board voted to approve the TOD resolution which
included the proposed language to modify as follows:
Paragraph 7 of the resolution, “…patrons, strongly
support affordable housing development in close
proximity to RTD transit services…” and amend the
Affordable Housing Policy Enforcement bullet of section
3.1.2 with issues…”At the same time, RTD is committed

to strongly encouraging a diverse range of housing
options, including affordable units, in close proximity to
RTD transit service. With this goal in mind…”
The Board voted in favor of this motion with thirteen in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp,
Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer and
Yamrick) and 1 against (Quinlan). Director Chacon was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared this motion PASSED.
I.

Approval of 2008 and 2009 Contract Amendment to Montoya Masonry for 16 th Street
Mall Transitway Lanes – Granite Paver Maintenance – Second Year Option
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorizes the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to accomplish the following two amendments to the Mall Paver Contract for
Montoya Masonry.
Amendment #1: Increase the current contract funding for maintenance of the Mall
Transitway Lanes for the remainder of 2008 through December 31 by $300,000.
Funding for this contract amendment is included in the 2008 Amended budget.
Amendment #2: Exercise the second year option of this 3rd year contract and authorize
$1,000,000 funding for 2009. This amount is included in the 2009 Requested Budget
and this amendment will not be executed until the board adopts the 2009 Budget.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve this action
item and to include the proposed amendment provided by
Director Tayer.
Director Ruchman seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Ruchman clarified a correction to the date to be
specific to Jan 1, 2010 for the date.
Director Elfenbein stated that RTD is only responsible for
the transitways, not the mall.
Director Elfenbein stated he could not support this
motion. This is neither the time nor the proper way to do
this and puts RTD in a precarious situation with its
partners who have supported us on a number of issues.
There are a number of other projects/efforts going on
with the mall and this is dangerous to take this action
now.
Director Ruchman felt we need to send a strong message
to the partners letting them know the RTD Board is
serious.
Director Brohl argued that the proposed amendment
change is a policy change that should stand along and not
be tied to this specific board action. The Board is being
short-sighted to do so.

Director Martinez agreed with Director Elfenbein on two
accounts: RTD needs to continue on with the proposed
construction and since the Board has already instructed
the General Manager to send a letter to the partner and
we need to let this process work.
Director Pulliam agreed with Director Ruchman that a
message needs to be sent saying RTD is serious. Now is
the time.
Director Yamrick commented that she is a proponent of
mass transit. What she understands about the 16th
Street mall is cost is high, we need to do cost-sharing
but RTD needs to partner in the revitalization of the 16th
St mall as it is vital to our sales tax base. The people
who visit and walk up and down the mall spend a lot of
money. If RTD is not providing mass transit on the mall,
this opens the door for privatization and she is highly in
favor of mass transit.
Cal Marsella stated that if he understood the amendment
correctly, it would still provide the contractor with the
option but that in Jan, 2010, he would need to report
back on the amendment.
Director Busck asked the General Manager if the
proposed language gives him a clear direction of what the
Board wanted. Cal stated it did. He further asked the
question can the General Manager live with the language
proposed and if it would create problems for him. Cal
Marsella said he could live with the language and it did
not pose a problem for him.
CALL FOR THE
QUESTION:

Director Busck called the Question.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion to call for the
question and vote on this action item with the proposed
language by Director Tayer included.

VOTE ON
MOTION
TO CALL THE
QUESTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 7 votes in
Favor (Busck, Kemp, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer
and Yamrick) and 6 against (Brohl, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kinton, and Martinez). Director Chacon was
absent and Director Quinlan had left.
Chair Kemp declared the motion FAILED.

DISCUSSION:

Director Christopher indicated he was comfortable with
the General Manager moving ahead on this issue with the
interested parties and this would not be detrimental or
harmful. He felt this was more of a policy or message
sent to the General Manager so he will be voting in favor.
Director Elfenbein expressed the partners are already
working with committees/RTD on resolving this mall issue

and he thinks taking this action will just muddy the
waters. It is an insult to our partners and may have some
reverberations later.
Director Tayer stated he fully respects the partnership but
there is a long history of trying to work out solutions to
what has become a very expensive problem for RTD. He
feels the partners need some strong incentive to come to
the table. This amendment is an expression of frustration
and a very reasonable statement to see serious
discussions to come to an amicable conclusion and is
intended to light a fire under the negotiations in light of
RTD’s attempt to address our current budget issues. He
added that these are good partners but unfortunately the
timing stinks.
Director Daly added none of this is new. Isn’t this just a
nudge from the Board to strengthen the argument?
Director Brohl made a compelling argument to separate
out this policy change from the passing of this
recommended action. The Board is setting a policy and
trying to wordsmith something at the last moment. Her
biggest concern is we are doing this for the sake of
expediency when the Board could send a more powerful
message as a separate policy endorsed by the full Board.
The effect of it right now is it neither helps or hurts the
GM in his negotiations with the partners and is not
relevant. The Board should focus on dong it right, not
fast.
Director Martinez concurred with her statements and read
an excerpt from the letter that Cal had sent. Cal
reemphasized that the partnership is working with RTD
and he does not want to leave the impression the
partnership has not been cooperative-they have.
Director Yamrick reminded the Board that in 2005
Director Elfenbein was saying the same thing to hold off.
It is time to do something because doing nothing just
stalls.
Director Elfenbein did not remember this
conversation but stated the cost was not significant. Cal
Marsella reminded Director Yamrick we had the issue at
that time of a lawsuit.
Director Kinton inquired if the maker of this motion
(Director Pulliam) would accept the amendment as a
separate action. Director Pulliam declined.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Cal Marsella clarified that the resolution as being voted on
included the two amendments stated in the resolution and
the Tayer amendment would be appended to the
resolution.
Prior to the vote, Directors Brohl and Martinez wanted to
go on record as supporting the action to approve the 2008

and 2009 contract amendment for the Montoya Masonry
work to go forward and are also in favorite of John
Tayer’s motion but as a separate action. This action gives
them no choice to separate out the two so they will have
to vote no as the motion is currently stated.
An electronic vote on the motion was made with 8 in
favor (Busck, Daly, Christopher, Kemp, Pulliam, Ruchman,
Tayer and Yamrick) and 5 against (Brohl, Elfenbein
Kinton, Martinez, and McMullen). Director Chacon was
absent and Director Quinlan had left.
Chair Kemp declared the Motion PASSED.
The motion as passed is the approval of the 2008 and 2009 contract amendment to Montoya
Masonry for the 16th street mall transitway lanes-granite paver maintenance –second year option with
the attached amendment language: RTD will continue to explore other alternative maintenance
strategies and surface treatments for the transit way of the 16th Street Mall, in consultation with mall
stakeholders, with the goal of implementing a significantly lower cost approach to meeting its
contractual obligations by 2010. This analysis also will consider a more appropriate maintenance
cost-sharing arrangement between the Mall stakeholders, with the same goal of significantly reducing
RTD’s financial commitment to upkeep of the transit way of the 16th Street Mall. RTD staff will report
to the RTD Board on the progress of this analysis early in 2009, with sufficient time for the RTD
Board to provide direction on the appropriate steps toward reducing RTD’s financial commitment to
maintenance of the transit way of the 16th Street Mall and for subsequent implementation of that
direction by January 1, 2010.
J.

January 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed January 11, 2009 Service Changes
(Attachment A) on to public review and comment.
MOTION:

Director Ruchman moved to approve the moving forward with
the propose January 11, 2009 service changes.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 12 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Chacon was absent, Director Quinlan had left
and Director Pulliam had left the room.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XIII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:35 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, September 16, 2008

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
William McMullen, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Wally Pulliam
O’Neill Quinlan
Dave Ruchman
Barbara Yamrick

District I
District B
District K
District E
District O
District D
District J
District N
District A
District H
District L
District G
District M
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
David Genova
Terry Howerter
Cal Marsella
John Perry
Liz Rao
Teresa Sedmak
Cal Shankster
Bill Sirois
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Greg Yates
OTHERS PRESENT:
Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post
Krista Sprenger – Lend Lease
Greg Ochis – Lend Lease
Gary Ulbery
Robin Kniech - FRESC
Dan Chao
David Cook – University of Colorado
Jerry Staples
Steve Gee
Jeff Cluphf
Martha Harvey
Steve Roescher – Siemens
Kim Snyder
Debbie Champion - Riders 285 Coalition
Chris Robbins

Larry Buter
Sherry Ellebracht
Svetlana Grechka
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Scott Reed
Daria Serna
John Shonsey
Roger Sherman
Pauletta Tonilas
Phil Washington

Peter Wessley
Ed Colby – URS
Linda Wamboit – CPRC
Tom Wamboit – CPRC
Greg Straight
Rick McNeal
Joe Racosky
Martin Wirth – Riders 285 Coalition
Laura Yribia
Raphael Shay
Michelle Halstead – CDOT
Daisy Burks
Marilee Utter – Lend Lease
Russell Greear

