Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 6, 2009
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

January 13, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 6, 2009 at
5:55 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Barbara Brohl, Chair; Directors Bagley, Busck, Chacon, Christopher,
Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer,
and Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Rick Clark, Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Sherry Ellebracht, Bill Van Meter, John
Shonsey, Dave Genova, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Liz Telford, Stan
Szabelak, Henry Stopplecamp, Julie Skeen, Dave Shelley, Nadine Lee, Brian
Middleton, Mark Bauer, Reed Lee, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Phil Eberl, Carol
Duecker, Susan Wood, Paula Perdue and Lisa Trujillo.

Others Present:

Carol Tobiassen, Margie O’Boyle, Holman Carter (ATU), Roger Sherman,
Jeff Leib (Denver Post), Kevin Flynn (Rocky Mountain News)
****

Call to Order

Director Brohl called to the meeting to order at 5:55 p.m.

1.

Recommended Actions
Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to Execute
a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the South Wing Parcel at Denver Union Station
Marla Lien, General Counsel provided an overview of this item. The action is to pass the
attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to sign the purchase and sale
agreement. The Letter of Intent was approved and executed a year ago; it was signed
by the General Manager and members of the EOC. The title company now wants a
resolution by the board to execute purchase and sale agreements. The original action
had allowed the General Manager to authorize this but the title company is now requiring
a resolution.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 6, 2009
Page 2

Marla indicated that North Wing and Triangle will be brought to the Board in February.
After much discussion, it was determined that an update will be given at the next Study
Session.
Director Christopher indicated that he would like to hear from the Developer on the realestate and finance package.
Director Kemp requested a flow chart to show how organizations feed into the
development of the program and how the financing model is being done.
Director Tayer requested a more clear explanation that would give the Board confidence
that they are not going to be left holding the bag and losing some resources that are
available.
Director James requested that an update on the design issues also be discussed at the
Study Session.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to execute a Purchase and
Sale Agreement (PSA) for the South Wing parcel at Denver Union Station (DUS) with the
Union Station Neighborhood Company (UNSC) or an affiliated designee. The Board of
Directors authorized the General Manager to execute such an agreement in January
2008. The title company has made a Board resolution authorizing the sale a requirement
of closing.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the January 20,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

East Corridor Draft Environmental Impact Statement
Carol Duecker, East Corridor Manager presented this item and indicated that the East
Corridor Team is nearing completing of a Draft EIS and looking for approval from the RTD
Board to release the document at the end of the month. Covered in the presentation
was: brief history, description of activities to date, summary of preferred alternative,
summary of EIS findings and next steps. For specifics on presentation please refer to
PowerPoint presentation.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 6, 2009
Page 3
Director Martinez congratulated the East Corridor staff on bringing this forward and for
the process that was used in the East Corridor. Because it went so smoothly, he would
like the process used for the other corridors.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the East Corridor Draft Environmental Impact
Statement (DEIS) for public and agency review. This is the first of a series of steps in
the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and means that the agencies are
requesting official public and agency comment and feedback on the No Action and the
Preferred Alternative and their impacts.
MOTION:

Director Martinez made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the January 20,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

Request for Approval to submit 2008 FasTracks Update Report to DRCOG
Susan Wood, Planning Project Manager presented this item to the Board. She mentioned
that this report precedes the required annual Senate Bill 90-208 report. The SB 208
report will be submitted after the board has selected an option for completing the
FasTracks Program. Once this action is adopted, the SB report will be submitted three
months later.
Chair Brohl requested that it be made clear that this is just an interim report as to not
confuse the public and have them think a decision on FasTracks was already made.
Susan Wood acknowledged that this would be included.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve preparation of a 2008 FasTracks Update report for submittal to
DRCOG in January 2009. DRCOG has informed RTD that we may submit this report as
an interim update on the status of the FasTracks Plan to identify relatively minor project
changes that may necessitate amendments to the Regional Transportation Plan (RTP).
This report precedes the annual Senate Bill 90-208 report that is required by Colorado
Statute 32-9-107.7.
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the January 20,
2009 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on January 6, 2009
Page 4
VOTE ON
MOTION:
2.

The motion passed unanimously.

Updates


P3 RFP
This information was not included in packets and the purpose for this update was
to give the board a brief overview. Chair Brohl asked that questions be submitted
to Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board, for submittal to Bill Van Meter.
Brian Middleton, Senior RFP Manager gave an update of this item. He indicated
that they met the goal of sending RFP out at end of December and that they have
three strong teams short-listed. He also mentioned they would come back in an
Executive Session next month to discuss financial terms.
For details of presentation please refer to PowerPoint presentation.



3.

Commuter Rail and Bus Maintenance Facility
Nadine Lee, Engineering Project Manager mentioned that the two reasons they
brought this to the Board are they would like to take to the public on January
22nd to gather comments and secondly they would like to present staff
recommendation on preferred site in February or March at the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee. The new site being considered is Fox North. The three
relocation sites being looked at for the Bus Maintenance Facility are Fox North,
Fox South and the 51st East site.

Other Matters
Cal Marsella, General Manager handed out Resolution No._2__ of 2004 which is the Hold
Harmless Agreement that the Board passed regarding FasTracks and also the options
that the Board looked at. He pointed out that nowhere does it define what “Hold
Harmless” or what “Equity” is. The commitment of the Board and staff is to build
FasTracks from end to end within timeframe. He does not want to see debate descend
into corridor vs. corridor. It is clear that the Board retains authority and responsibility.
Cal Marsella offered a CMRL Tour to orientate the new Board Members about the site
and potential issues.

4.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday,
February 3, 2009.

5.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director Brohl declared the meeting adjourned at
8:15 p.m.

