2023-06-27
Board Meeting Part 4
LYNN GUISSINGER: Everybody, take your seats, please. Meeting will come back to order. All right. Let's
see. Give me just a minute. That's what I'm working on.
SPEAKER 1: I didn't see that [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We had a motion to divide the Suspension Policy from the Code of Conduct. So
we still need to vote on the Suspension Policy. Let's see what that-- I think that would read, "for the Board
of Directors to adopt revisions to the Service Suspension Policy."
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved, Director Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, Director Williams. All right. And then, Director Williams, I believe you need
to-- were there changes made by the staff in April?
KATE WILLIAMS: I didn't think there were. [INAUDIBLE].
SPEAKER 2: I believe there were some changes made to it. I do not have that yet.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson or Ms. Snyder, is that right? When the staff made changes to the Code
of Conduct, were there-DEBRA JOHNSON: There changes initially made when this was brought forward to committee that
basically cleaned up some language, being more inclusive, using "their" instead of "his or her," utilizing
"customer" in lieu of "passenger." But those are contained in your Board packet, packet page 171. There
were no additional refinements made since the commencement of the outreach period of April 3.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So there were more changes made around at the same time as they were made in
the Code of Conduct.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. And then I want to move to amend the Suspension Policy, adopting staff's proposed
changes dated April 3-- and I don't know what pages they're outlined in. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. That's fine.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's the motion.

SPEAKER 3: Beginning of page 171.
KATE WILLIAMS: And then we need a second to that motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we have a second to Director Williams' motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. So our first motion was Director Tisdale, seconded by Williams. The second
motion was Director Williams, seconded by Tisdale. [LAUGHS] Right. All righty.
[? DOUG TISDALE: ?] [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]

SPEAKER 4: We needed that today.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director-- Ruscha, do you have a comment, something to add?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So the Suspension Policy has not been walked through with
this Board at any meeting. We got a few points of rationale, but we haven't actually discussed or heard from
staff why they felt these certain changes were needed or how it would help them do their jobs or keep bus
or transit safer. So I would invite us to have that conversation. It also is very difficult to find on the Respect
the Ride website. And we did not workshop the actual Suspension Policy changes to the public.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Are there other comments. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. There's reference to a citation under Fare Evasion, page 172. What-- and I
apologize if I missed it-- is this a financial citation? And if so, how much is it, or does it vary? Is it a criminal
citation? Is it-SPEAKER 5: Right at the top, in the first paragraph.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, in Fare Evasion, it says, first offence, warning. And then second, third, and further,
each say "citation." I just want to know what it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's right at the top of page 172, in the first paragraph.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Steve Martingano, Deputy Chief of Police- so just for the actual state statute, it's
$75. Different counties put extra costs on it. So the City and County of Denver, if you get a Fair Evasion
citation, it's $82.50. Any of the other seven counties that we service, it's $106.50.
BOBBY DISHELL: And what's the penalty for failure to pay a citation?
STEVE MARTINGANO: So the actual penalty is-- you're talking about-- the statute of it is actually a criminal
offense.
BOBBY DISHELL: Criminal offense.

STEVE MARTINGANO: I'm sorry, a motor vehicle offense. It's not a criminal offense, it's a motor vehicle
offense.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right. Thank you. Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha, did you have more?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I have a handful of questions to this proposal and to understand better staff intent.
But since Director Dishell brought up Fares Evasion, I would like to start with that. So the first, just to
understand-- and this actually just goes generally speaking. When it comes to suspensions, who is allowed
to issue a suspension? My current understanding is that it is RTD PD or a bus or rail supervisor. But can
that please be clarified? I think to the public we said this would fall under the PD's purview only.
JOEL FITZGERALD: So my understanding is that, historically, it has been able to be written by-- or they
have been able to be written by bus and rail supervisors as well. This has been something that hasn't been
placed in practice. However, this is something that is allowed to be done since it's a civil citation. And in
essence, we're able to tell other police departments that they can write under our citations. And we're able
to tell Allied employees that they can write it. And therefore, we're able to allow other employees of RTD to
write it as well, which is a force multiplier for us since the instances of behavior that led to us putting this
forth means that we have to have more people to be able to look out for problems and to be able to issue
those citations accordingly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So just that I understand, when it comes to fares evasion, any RTD staff
can issue that citation. And whatever legal procedure needs to follow, we're permitted?
JOEL FITZGERALD: There was some-- this question was generated a couple of minutes before we got in
here today. There were some dialogue between myself and legal and others about this. However,
historically, my understanding is, after doing some research, that other people in RTD were allowed to write
these citations at one time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification-- we are talking about other employees are capable of writing
service suspension, not fare.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, so then-JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm sorry. I thought that was the question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: That's OK. I confuddled the question, sir. So I think I have two questions. The first is,
just plainly, who is allowed to issue a suspension? And then the second is, who is allowed to issue a citation
for fares evasion that would come with a criminal penalty?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, the fare evasion in and of itself won't make it to criminal penalty because it's a
traffic violation. So-JOYANN RUSCHA: Civil, thank you. Statutory penalty, is that fair.
JOEL FITZGERALD: That's how we want to-JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So that means that only RTD PD can write a citation for fares evasion?

JOEL FITZGERALD: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. OK. I might have to get a followup with council on how that works, but I just wanted
to check.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Council or the Board?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I guess maybe offline. I didn't understand how individuals who were not police or even
perhaps security could write a civil citation. But that could be a legal-- that can be a followup, offline
question. Just want to understand the jurisdiction.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, again, we're private property inherently, so we're able to dictate. That's why
we're here before the Board asking for enhancements, because the one administrative penalties that we're
able-- or I should say the administrative penalties that we're able to level against individuals who are chronic
offenders are these type of prohibitions. So we have wide latitude in that regard, to ensure that those people
don't continue to cause problems on any implement of transportation.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. Thank you. So then, I have a follow up, quick question, as it pertains to fares
evasion under the Suspension Policy red line. And if someone could remind me what page that's on
because I'm on a different page.
DOUG TISDALE: 172.
JOYANN RUSCHA: 172? OK. It currently says that the first offense will be a warning. But before the Board
is a proposal to remove that first warning. But we did talk about education a lot at this meeting and in
community conversation and also warning folks and redirecting them to resources. It's also-- it is a violation
of statute, although it's treated the same, as Chief Fitzgerald pointed out, as a moving traffic violation, to
lose your fare. So I guess what I'm asking is why would we remove the warning and replace it with a
potential suspension up to two weeks, as opposed to just having warning as our current policy for first
infraction?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, as written on package page 172, first offense, it does says warning, up to one day
suspension. And "written" is stricken. So that means, if somebody came into contact, they could educate
and informed said customer and say you have to ensure you have your fare. They're not being issued a
written warning. That's being stricken.
JOYANN RUSCHA: So, unless I'm reading this wrong, currently the policy is a warning. We're revising this
to say a warning up to a suspension. So that would be a change of the current policy, correct? And I'm just
trying to understand why that is necessary.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You are correct in-- just a second, Chief. Yes, I want to qualify my statements by
saying, yes, you are correct. It's warning up to one day suspension. I'll yield the floor to the Chief
momentarily. But recognizing what I presented earlier, it depends on the severity, as we talked about, and
provides our law enforcement officials with greater latitude so we can ensure a welcoming transit
environment. Chief, please feel free to elaborate. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You said 99% of what I'd say. I'd only add that our folks on the ground level had input
into the changes that we've made here and needed and asked for stiffer penalties for individuals who we
deal with that are chronic offenders, who perhaps have been issued penalties in the past. Their duration of
the penalty has expired, and then they have re-offended. Some people, who our folks, our operators, our

police officers, our security staff that are contracted with us, deal with every day, are folks that have earned
the status of getting the suspensions or the penalties that they have-- that we've leveled. And I would say
that our response to being able to provide a safe and welcoming transit environment is to ensure that the
chronic violators, those individuals, face something a bit stiffer than a two-week notice to leave.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And I would just round up by saying this speaks to what we heard this evening when
we had the various operators speak to us. Operator Jimenez talked about his assault. There was additional
comments from others that spoke firsthand about their experiences. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I appreciate that, and I heard the same-- I heard the same commentary. I'm talking just
specifically to fare evasion, which also includes losing your ticket. So I still don't understand why we need
to remove the warning and make it warning, up to a one-day suspension because we don't know if someone
lost their ticket or they purposely evaded their fare. I know I have lost my ticket. I was let go. But not
everybody, you know, has that privilege.
So I, personally, as far as some of these minimum suspensions that we have in this policy, they don't-- I'm
not particularly-JOEL FITZGERALD: I'm glad that you were given that kind of deference. That leads into one point that I've
reinforced since I talked about all of this, and that is that officers have discretion. And the folks that are out
here that are dealing with people make determinations as to whether or not someone is a chronic offender
or someone is like yourself, who may have forgotten their ticket. We're assuming a whole lot here. We're
assuming that people aren't going to allow those folks that lose their ticket to ride and aren't trying to engage
in fare evasion.
I will reinforce again that our folks see it every day on the ground at stations throughout this jurisdiction.
They see folks that evade fares. And it doesn't apply to everybody who rides public transit, nor would we
want it to. So again, your example is perfect because that's what we would like to see. We want our folks
to make good decisions about those folks that, perhaps, lost their ticket in transit. And those things happen.
And I just had a conversation with the folks in the back. And we talked about the kind of discretion that they
have out there. But we also talked about having the teeth behind what we're standing for here and what
we're asking for, to be able to deter those people who are not paid-fair customers or folks that don't make
mistakes and that cause problems in the system, to not be either allowed to ride for a predescribed,
predetermined period of time or be off the system for much longer time. And the standards that we had in
place. when I first got here, and in speaking with the people that work on the ground, needed to be
reinforced and be more severe. So that's why we've posed the penalties that we did.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Chief. And I don't want to take up everyone's time and continue to dialogue.
I just-- I feel-- actually, I do want to say on the record-- so what our staff does, in terms of using that
discretion, is going to be under your purview and your leadership. So that's actually not my concern. I'm
talking about contracted staff, security staff, et cetera, who might not have the same kind of education and
guidance that our RTD PD are getting every day. And that's why I personally felt more comfortable with
leaving it as a warning, understanding that if somebody evaded fare, which is, again, a civil violation, it's
also theft, and they did something else against the Code of Conduct, we have other rules to still suspend
them.

But if your only violation is a fares evasion or not being able to produce a ticket or a receipt, I personally
would prefer to keep it at a warning first. That still would allow us to capture the repeat offenders. And then
I won't say anything more to the effect of fare evasion. But that was my concern.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Oh, I appreciate that. The information that we get from paying customers is a sense
of frustration throughout the system for those fares that are either not checked or go unpaid. And the
feedback is so intense that, again, we needed to ensure that we put stronger language in place for those
people to deter folks from not paying fare and not-- I should say to deter folks from not evading fare. Our
folks throughout the system, and the feedback that we've gotten through the Respect the Right in particular,
told us that fare is high on the list of problems that people see. And they want something done about it.
Again, I want to give the officers the opportunity to address the problem. But we also have security officers
out there. And you're right, they are under the guidance of the police officers out there and our supervisors
that are out there. So I rely heavily on our supervisors to make good decisions about the issuance of tickets.
And I have to rely on supervisors to do that. And I think that assuming that they won't make good
discretionary decisions is probably not the best policy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you. I'm on packet page 173, bottom of 173. When you-- I guess, first
a clarifying question, which is, in the first sentence, we say that everyone issued a Notice of Suspension
shall be entitled to a hearing if requested. And then down at the bottom, we say "all persons receiving a
Notice of Suspension shall receive a notice of a hearing," which implies that the hearing is being scheduled
upon the issuance of the citation. And I just want to clarify which one it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Can you say where you are again, please?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. The bottom of 173, Section 4, Item 1. The first sentence says every person issued
a Notice of Suspension shall be entitled to a hearing if requested.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: And then down at the bottom, starting with "All persons," which is the second line from
the bottom, in black. "All persons receiving a Notice of Suspension shall receive notice of a hearing." And I
just, before we vote, I just would like to clarify which one it is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Thank you very much, Director Dishell. That implies if they request it. So if they
were issued a citation and they said I want a hearing, then they would be provided with the notice of a
hearing.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. I have one other question and then an amendment to, I think, make that language
read the intent that I heard, which is when you apply for a notice-- when you apply for a hearing, is your
suspension "stayed," for lack of a better term, in the gap, or are you suspended-JOYANN RUSCHA: Guilty until proven innocent?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, until you prove that you shouldn't be suspended?

DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm going to yield the floor to-- sorry-- Deputy Chief Martingano.
STEVE MARTINGANO: I'm sorry, Director. You said does the suspension stay in place while they're
appealing it? Is that what you asked?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yes. So they have 10 days to appeal. It does stay in place when they-- they have
several measures to go ahead and appeal it. They could send it through email. They could write us a letter.
At times they even call up to explain it. But during that time, it is in place until we verify all their information.
We look into it, and then we make a determination after receiving what they want to appeal and what their
reasoning is for appeal.
So for an example, if they say, hey, this is my second time without a fare, but I did buy a fare. I bought it on
my mobile ticketing. We then call over to the mobile people within RTD. Hey, did this person buy a mobile
ticket? They did. Here's their receipt. All that kind of stuff is looked into to make a determination on their
appeal. So we take the appeals to the furthest length that we can to decide if they actually should have
been suspended at that point in time or not. Does that make sense?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. So then after the fact, if it's reversed, they're allowed to ride.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yes. Then if it is reversed, the way we do it is, if they are suspended, through our
records management system, we will put-- let's just say Joe Smith gets suspended. We put an alert on their
name, that if that person is contacted on our property, we could see that they were suspended for 30 days.
If their suspension was appealed and it was overturned, we then take that alert out of the system so that
when you contact Joe Smith, you run his name, it does not show that they were suspended anymore.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. That all makes sense. I move to amend the sentence beginning with "All persons"
in Section 4-- top of page 173, Section 4, Subsection 1, "Right to a Hearing," two lines from the bottom, the
sentence beginning with "All persons." I moved to amend that sentence to reinsert "their right to."
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have a motion.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, and to capitalize the N in "notice" and the S in "suspension."
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. "All persons receiving a Notice of Suspension shall receive notice of their right
to a hearing." Is that-BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The N-- "Notice" and "Suspension" are capitalized. And there was a second from
Director Williams. OK. Any comments from staff? No. OK. All right. Are you-- there are two more people
waiting to speak. Are you directing-DOUG TISDALE: Wish to speak on the main motion, support the amendment. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Is there anybody opposed to-- does anybody want to speak to this Amendment?
OK. We'll take a vote at this point. Is anybody opposed to this amendment? Right, Director Dishell's-- oh,

did we get a second? Yeah. OK. Williams was the second. Director Dishell's amendment passes. Director
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: There. OK. Thank you, Madam Chair, for your patience, and all of you. I believe that, on
the whole-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure you're turned on, or you need to speak to it. There you are. Now it's
working.
DOUG TISDALE: Me, of all people, to do that. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate your
patience and understanding. I think that this section, relative to some of these appeals and so forth, could
benefit from some potential clarification. I note, for example, following the section that Director Dishell-Treasurer Dishell just addressed on page 173, if you turn to page 174, in the Item 2 proceedings, and you
go down to the final paragraph of that, beginning "in the event the person does not appeal" et cetera. And
then it says "the original Notice of Suspension becomes final." It almost implies that there is a stay for the
first 10 days to allow the person to appeal.
Now, as I said, I think this could benefit by some clarification. But I believe we have had an articulated
statement from Commander Martingano-- or Deputy Chief-- and from Chief, addressing how the procedure
is done so that it would not make it inappropriate or impossible to approve this policy tonight. But we could
flag this for better language going forward. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. OK. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So on page 173, there's new language that reads "it shall
be the suspended individual's burden to prove, by a preponderance of evidence, that they did not engage
in the conduct that resulted in their suspension." So for the audience, generally "preponderance of
evidence" just means it's more likely than not they engaged in that conduct, given that it's pretty hard to
prove a negative. I would like to move that we strike that sentence. An individual cannot come to us and
prove they didn't commit an infraction. Rather, we should be providing the evidence we have against this
individual, even if it is a written statement from staff. And then the RDT PD can decide based on that. But
so I guess I'll make a motion to strike that last sentence in that paragraph, given that you can't prove a
negative.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the sentence is "it shall be the suspended individual's burden to prove, by a
preponderance of the evidence, that they did not engage in the conduct that resulted in their suspension."
You're moving to strike that? Is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: I'll second it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Any discussion? Do you have discussion on this item, Director Williams? OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I understand, I think, the reasoning behind Director Ruscha's movement. But I think it
could be simplified by the addition of because-- "if they appeal." I think if we add the words, "if they appeal"
at the beginning of that, then it is their burden to prove, by a preponderance of evidence. That's what this
is talking about. And that's what Chief Martingano was talking about, is if they appeal the suspension and
they want to go to a hearing, then they need to provide evidence.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Well, it seemed to me, if they're suspended, then that means that the evidence was
already presented. And then, therefore, they're suspended. And if it's appealed, then it's like, well, no, that
evidence is not correct, or not true, or not legitimate. So I think it probably should stay. But I'd like to hear
from Dr. Fitzgerald on that procedure and why the verbiage is that way. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're just absolutely right. It's exactly what the intent is. You get something in writing
saying that you are suspended. And it's signed by the person that is suspending you. Therefore, you have
the statement as to why you're suspended.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's see. Director Williams, are you-KATE WILLIAMS: That's where I was trying to get.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, you're done. OK, Director Tisdale. Are you done, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We [INAUDIBLE]. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think-- and again, this could benefit from some clarifying
thought perhaps going forward. But I believe that the intent behind Director Ruscha's proposal is something
with which I have sympathy and understand. And as I read it, I have to admit that in my own mind, reading
the bottom of page 173 and the top of page 174, that I read it as it shall be the suspended individual's
burden to rebut by a preponderance of evidence that they engaged in the conduct that resulted in their
suspension. In other words, have the agency present the written citation, the ticket if you will, the report of
something having happened. And then the individual doesn't, in the first instance, have to prove a negative.
But if they're going to rebut, they have to have a preponderance of evidence to rebut.
So that's how I was reading it. For that reason, as stated, I would vote against the amendment, but I do
understand the purpose and think that we could clarify that language going forward. And I assume that
that's probably how, in fact, any such appeals have been processed in the past. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I think-- honestly, I think it should be on the agency. Right? If you're going
to say I was wrongfully cited, it should be on the agency to say, no, this was a correct citation, as opposed
to on the individual to say-- to prove it the other way. But I think I like Director Tisdale's language. I think it
can be improved. But I also-- what does an appeal look like? Is there someone from Counsel's office? Is it
just the individual and the officer and a hearing officer? What is an appeal here? What does that look like?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Most times, Director, when someone appeals one of these citations-- let's use an
example of-- I think Deputy Chief Martingano may have articulated this. If someone is able to prove that
they did have valid fare, most times we address it before it ever needs to get to the point where it goes to
a Commander of Administration, who is the person that's the deciding body for an actual hearing per se.
It's not set up to be some process where you come before a room like this and you present your case. The
person would come in and bring whatever information they chose to bring in or send us whatever
information that they choose to have us evaluate. And we would be able to then backtrack, use video
investigations or other means to prove or disprove whether this person did what they were allegedly cited
for.

So you have a person who cited them because they saw or had this person act in a certain way, whether
it's a violation of fare or some other problem that they've observed. That is their-- that is the witness. That
is the person that saw some of the behavior. So that would be your first step.
The second step, again, is the person that decides that they want to contest, providing us information to
the contrary and then us researching it. And it normally doesn't take that long for us to research and find
out whether the person did or did not qualify for the citation.
BOBBY DISHELL: And one other question, which is our-- and I know that we-- well, let me rephrase. If we
suspend someone for engaging in a crime as defined in the Colorado Criminal Code, recognizing that we
may not actually be prosecuting that crime, and the person is found to be not guilty, are they still
suspended?
LYNN GUISSINGER: If they're found to be not guilty in a court of law, is that what you're saying?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, in a court of law.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it would be-BOBBY DISHELL: 173. I didn't do my homework.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Did you-BOBBY DISHELL: That's not respondent. It says "evidence that a corresponding criminal case was
dismissed may be considered, but is not dispositive."
JOEL FITZGERALD: So there are, as you know, sir, being an attorney, there are different standards by
which the Justice system may work, as opposed to an administrative penalty. You may or may not be guilty
of a crime, but you may be guilty of a violation that meets our threshold for administrative penalties. That's
why we need both.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'm going to skip over to Director Guzman, since she hasn't spoken yet-- he.
[LAUGHTER]
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It's good thing I'm two spirit. So it is my understanding, Melanie, and I-- sorry. I'm
sorry. General Counsel Snyder-- this is why I wanted to use the honorifics earlier. I had a conversation
about this very issue because I was dissatisfied with the original questioning, and I wanted to get a deeper
understanding that, because this is administrative law, which is on the civil side of things and not criminal,
that this is above and beyond what we are required to do as an agency for any individual. And that even
offering the right to have an appeal to a suspension is more than we are required to notice, more than we
are required to offer.

And I do feel, although I still have a concern about who's responsible for proving what, that the language
can go back through another committee if we need to. But I am confident that, if maybe she can address it
because I don't know the language that you used. I have the notes written down somewhere. But how that
is more than what we need to do in this moment. I'm sorry. Does that make sense? It's a little unclear. But
I'm fuzzy. It's tired-- I'm tired.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Yeah. No, well said. I don't see anybody else in line. Is that right? I mean, we
have another list of potential Suspension Policy amendments. And it sounds like people have some
questions with the language. I think Director Tisdale had a good point in saying we could move this forward
tonight and still look at it through the Operations and Safety Committee. And it seems like we're getting to
a point where that makes sense.
I'm going to call on Director Bouquet also, since he hasn't spoken yet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I was just going to make the point procedurally, don't we have Director Ruscha'
Amendment that I seconded on the table right now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We just-JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I just wanted to make sure that we make note of that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I did want to note for the record, and everyone received
this in their inbox. The ACLU actually wrote a letter with some concerns about our proposed code and the
Suspension Policy. They specifically stated case law, holding that a transit authority with a Code of Conduct
does have to afford due process. And so I would say that, rather than potentially kicking a constitutional
question down the road, we either settle it today or we-- or we just table this until next month because I
think that these questions are pretty meaty.
That being said, I just have one final question before the vote. Could staff explain why they need this
sentence at the end of the paragraph starting on the bottom of page 173? What is currently missing in our
procedure that you need to have a person prove that they are not guilty of an infraction. Excuse me, a
customer-- a customer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I mean, Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So as Director
Guzman was very accurate in stating, we are in an administrative law context here. This is an administrative
code, not the criminal code. So when we're talking about the way this works, we have a suspension that's
issued. The party that wants to change the status quo, which is the person that they want to appeal, it's
their burden in administrative law to challenge the status quo and explain that they haven't made the
violation.
And just to be clear, I'm not going to quibble here on the record with anything that the ACLU put in their
letter. But I just want to be clear. The standard that we're meeting in the Suspension Policy is meeting the

constitutional standard for procedural due process, which is, notice of an equal opportunity to be heard.
And that's definitely what we're achieving here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I don't buy that we don't have due process obligations just because this is
an administrative procedure. But again, I still did not get the answer to my question as to why this sentence
is needed. The suspension is done without a hearing. So that is an immediate consequence. And a person
loses their right to transit at that point.
So I understand what you're saying. In an appeals process, the appealing party might have to prove a fact.
This is all about a set of facts. But one of those facts could be you are providing no evidence that I committed
this infraction. So I understand that the burden is generally, in a civil proceeding, related to fact. That's not
what this sentence says. It says a person has to prove a negative, which-- I mean, do we expect our
customers to just videotape their whole transit experience just in case someone says they committed an
infraction so they can prove us wrong otherwise?
And if I may, if we have a complaint against an operator or one of our staff or one of our PD, there is an
investigation. And that person is not reprimanded or given followup education unless we can find some sort
of evidence. That seems appropriate. So I just don't understand why we would, again, ask someone to
prove they didn't do something, provide some kind of evidence they didn't do something. And there's nothing
in this current Suspension Policy or the revised policy that even allows that customer the evidence we might
have against them.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yeah, Madam Chair. Thank you. So to be clear, the party who's suspended is going
to get all of the evidence that is being used against them. So they'll get all the information. If there's video,
if there's a statement from a witness, they're going to see all of that information. So that is provided to them.
That's part of the notice of what you're being-- the reason that you're being suspended.
So they would get all of that notice. And then it's not uncommon to have, just like Deputy Chief was talking
about, he was explaining a situation where a person could say "I didn't actually do what you said that I did.
I didn't evade fair because I actually paid for it. Here's the evidence of that." So it's the same thing if there
were an assault, for example. If they were suspended because they assaulted an operator, they could say
that was not me. I was not the person that was there that day. Or they could say, this is what happened
that day.
I won't get into fanciful analogies. But that's their opportunity to explain why a suspension is inappropriate.
And that's what the Commander of Professional Services has to take into account, any mitigating
information, any additional information that's provided and look at the entire record of what's provided on
appeal.
JOYANN RUSCHA: But if I may, that's not what the sentence says though. So, I mean again, why would
we, as a body-MARJORIE SLOAN: Point of order-- excuse me. You were not recognized by the Chair. We've been getting
a dialogue between you, Director Ruscha, and members of staff. And that's really not appropriate for a
Board meeting.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it would be good to wrap this up if we can. You have a motion. What's your
motion that's on the floor at this point?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah-- to strike the final sentence in paragraph 4-- or excuse me, Section 4, Appeal
of Suspension.
SPEAKER 6: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
SPEAKER 7: Director [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Dr. Williams, you have your-- are you speaking to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. I was going to call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: I was going to call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I guess it looks like there's nobody that's still speaking. Are you OK with if we go
to the vote? We don't need to vote on calling the question then. All right. Let's see. Where is my roll. I'll call
everybody. This is for the Amendment to strike that last sentence-- "It shall be the suspended individual's
burden to prove, by a preponderance of the evidence, they did not engage in the conduct that resulted in
their suspension." Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director-- Director Davidson has left. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am a no. So the motion fails. There are three Yes votes, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10- 10 No votes, two people absent. I note that there are a number of other amendments that were sent out
to us. Those, again, could be raised in the Operations and Safety Committee. Yes, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm trying to find my Speak button. Speak. Speak. Yeah, I'd like to reiterate again that I
personally would really like some time to go through what's proposed and understand it so that I could
either get on board or have a justifiable reason for not getting on board. And so I'm, again, offering that we
move this to some later point in time. And I don't know procedurally how to go about doing that other than
to make the statement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, I think that if you-- if someone wants to call the vote on the amendment to-- on
your motion to pass the amended version, that again, we have your agreement to look at these. Or we
could do them a different way if we want to. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I do want to applaud the Operations and Safety
Committee for being willing to take this up because there are, as we have said, some tweaks here and
there. We just addressed one of them, where as I said, I in reading this rule, said it's to rebut rather than to
prove. So I understand that. And I think these should be given careful attention. That said, I want to see a
Suspension Policy in place tonight to accompany the new Respect the Ride Code of Conduct that we have
just adopted. Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So it sounds like these amendments would also be looked at, Chair of the Operations
Committee, Director Williams, that we would also look at that during our next Operations Committee. OK. I
also want to point out, I don't think they've formally been introduced tonight either. They have not been
formally introduced.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They have not, right?

JULIEN BOUQUET: No one's formally introduced them yet.
SPEAKER 8: Make the motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the motion on the-- I'm sorry. May I speak?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: So the motion in front of us now is to adopt the staff changes for now. so that we have
something to work forward with. And then at the Operations and Safety Committee, we will work on
amendments to what we have voted on tonight.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Well said.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hoping we can move to a vote pretty quickly here. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And not to belabor it, but I'm just hoping we don't have to deal with both
the Code of Conduct change amendments and the Suspension Policy both on the same day in the
Operations and Safety Committee. Can we maybe put it into two? Because I mean if-- well, Madam Chair,
just if you don't mind, if we're going to entertain 15 amendments on the Code of Conduct change and
another x number-- five more, I don't know how many-- are going to maybe materialize between now and
that time, plus potentially, we may have amendments from-- staff may say, you know what, we heard some
discussion, or maybe there was an amendment that we thought we need to change. Could we just not do
this all on the same day? Just a suggestion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that that's a suggestion that will be well taken and considered by your Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: I was just going to say, it's up to the Operations Chair's discretion, I believe, if we would
take it on. So I think that might be a conversation offline.
KATE WILLIAMS: Unfortunately, I expect that we will have other items beyond just this at the Operations
and Safety Committee.
BOBBY DISHELL: This can probably be taken offline.
KATE WILLIAMS: And based on what we have seen in the last couple of months, we may have a lot of
other items. So I would be happy to split them into two meetings, if the people who proposed them are
amenable to that, so that we have-- because we will have had time to look at them before that. And
hopefully, we'll be able to go through them quicker. But I'm happy to take it on any way you look at it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair. To the previous Director's question, I guess I would just say
that's probably why we voted to divide the question. Tonight we are passing up to-- I don't know-- 54
changes to our code. I would ask my colleagues to not stifle discussion tonight and just, instead of voting
to call the question, to just permit, at least for the public, a few more amendments that I would like to make.

LYNN GUISSINGER: There is a motion to call the question. But that was for the previous amendment, I
think. So there's a-- I guess there's a request to make some amendments. Were you calling the question
on the original motion from Director Williams?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, that's my motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Motion to call the question-- second from Tisdale? OK. All in favor-DIRECTORS: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed.
DIRECTORS: Nay.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, that means three Nay votes and 10 Yes votes. And so we are calling the
question. OK. This is to adopt the Code of Conduct amendments as amended by-- service suspension, asJOYANN RUSCHA: Staff-proposed changes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The staff-proposed changes. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a Yes. There are 12 Yeses, and one No, and two absent. Motion passes.
Now, there is a motion on the table to adopt the Service Suspension Policy as amended. Oh, and that also
included-- this also includes Director Dishell's amendment. And I guess I need either to take discussion or
another motion to call the question.
KATE WILLIAMS: I move to call of the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. All in favor of calling the question.
DIRECTORS: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed. OK. [LAUGHS] So the vote is 12 For, one against. The nay vote is
Director Ruscha-- two absent. We are moving to the vote on adopting the Suspension Policy. Director
Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE TISDALE: Yes
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a Yes. That is 12 Yeses, one No. The No is Director Ruscha. The motion
passes. And there are two people absent. All right. We still have one more item, which-- let's see. The final
item-KATE WILLIAMS: It's on the top of page 178.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I've got my little script here. I'm just looking for it. The final action is to declare June
28th is Ride with Pride Day. It's recommended by RTD Directors Ruscha, Guzman, and Dishell that the
Board of Directors adopt a resolution to do the following-- One, proclaim June 28th as Ride with Pride Day;
two, request RTD Administration to apprise the Board of Directors of its vision for the 2024 Ride with Pride
Day and any related Pride Month initiatives no later than March 1, 2024. Do we have a motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. We have Director Guzman moving, and Director Bouquet is the second.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chairman, point of order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.

DOUG TISDALE: In referring to the written notification from the three Directors-- and I ask this because I
simply don't know. I think this may have been addressed at the Executive Committee meeting. And so I
was not a part of that until the second half, when I was able to monitor that meeting. But the recommended
action simply says to proclaim June 28 as Ride with Pride Day and then to request RTD Administration to
proceed with certain activities. But what was presented to the Board for inclusion, i.e. the written notification
that the three Directors signed, was to adopt a resolution supporting both the establishment of a queer
cultural district in the City and County of Denver and the declaration by the Board of June 28. Was that
original notification amended by the three Directors in the Executive Committee?
I think, just for the sake of the record, it would help.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I believe that the original notification was amended by the three Directors, requesting
that the Executive Committee accept that amendment. Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. Again, just to keep a clear record.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Right. Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think that the way it was sent out is the-- well, this language is what was passed
by the Executive Committee. All right. We have a motion and a second. Are there discussion? Is there
discussion? Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. So, we don't often do proclamations. In fact, I asked our Board
Office staff to tell me how many proclamations we've done in the past. And since 2015, we've done four.
Every one of them directly related to the provision of transit services. This proclamation doesn't do much of
anything, really. I mean, I don't mean to be offensive in that regard. But it's just a proclamation that this is
Ride with Pride Day.
Now, we were also provided with a memorandum from Board Office staff about an award-winning social
media campaign adopted and put in place by our General Manager and her team, called "Colorado Proud,"
that recognizes and celebrates not just one community of interest but many. It recognizes Black History
Month, Women's History Month, Black Women's History Month, Asian-American and Pacific Islander
Heritage Month, Jewish American Heritage Month, LGBTQ+ Pride Month, Hispanic Heritage Month, Italian
Heritage Month, Emotional Wellness Month, Native American Heritage Month.
This proclamation is repetitive in that regard, in that it wants a proclamation to recognize this day and this
community, when they're recognized consistently by RTD. I just-- I don't get it. It also has no fiscal note.
But all of the examples they give about what other transit agencies have done involve spending money-wrapping buses and doing all kinds of things. And there's no talk about where that's coming from in the
budget. So because of all of those reasons, I will not support this item, not because I don't support the
community. I don't support this item. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I, Madam Chair, I'll go ahead and yield to the others before I comment. OK. Director
Rosenthal.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm going to put on my Pride-- Pride stuff here. So, as the
members may know, about a half a million folks packed into the City and County of Denver just a short few
days ago and had a wonderful celebration for Pride Festival. And as an out gay man myself, I have to say
that I had a wonderful time.
Thank you to the General Manager. Thank you to all of our drivers, and operators, and mechanics, and
staff, and everybody at RTD who transported half a million people, some of whom drove a car, to be fair,
but many of whom took transit. And so I know that was a Leviathan effort on their behalf. So thank you.
And so I'm kind of struggling with this resolution. I believe it is a conflict of interest for me. And therefore,
I'm going to abstain on it. Much as I internalize and use, every single day, the concepts of justice, and
equity, and diversity, and inclusion, as a person who has been over years as an activist and person who's
been elected and has done so much in the community and, currently in my job on a daily basis,
implementing those standards of Jedi, I just think that it is not up to this Board to impose and micromanage
our General Manager and staff in this regard.
Similar to what Director Buzek is saying, we have a brand. And the brand includes all of the different
communities that he mentioned. And I believe that this resolution can actually be fairly seen as exclusive
and not inclusive. Because, are we going to do a resolution for all the rest of them? And arguably, we
should. But what about also any other community that's not listed, somebody who's not included? And
therefore, that does trouble me.
And I think another point to make is, no matter what the vote is today on this resolution, it has no reflection,
similar to what Director Buzek is saying, has no reflection, whether they're Yes or No or Abstain, that we're
not disrespecting any Board member. We're not disrespecting anybody in the LGBTQIA2S+ community.
We are actually trying to do what's the best policy and what we normally do in these circumstances.
So I just have to say thank you to Director Ruscha for bringing up this discussion. However, it tears me that
it is not-- that we're not able to move forward with this. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a brief statement I want to make, and that is that RTD serves everyone equally.
We don't discriminate on race, religion, sex, immigration status, or anything else. Everybody rides. And
members of the Board of Directors are non-partisan elected officials, whose purpose is to affect
transportation policy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Catlin, and then I'm hoping we will go to a vote.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I agree with Director Williams. And I've said this before, I really would like us
to get back to looking at all of our decisions through the lens of, are we providing good, safe transportation,
public transportation. And I believe that this is a little bit outside of that scope. And along with Director
Buzek, I probably will be a No vote, but that does not in any way detract from my admiration for you, Director
Rosenthal, in your very, very articulate speech. I was very impressed. Thank you, very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Seeing no one else in the queue, I'm going to move to a vote. OK. Director
Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. I yielded my time to others, so I didn't realize I was taken out of the queue.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, gotcha. OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, ma'am. So I guess I would ask folks to refer to packet page 178, which is
the accompanying memo to this item. And if you go to page 179, it clearly outlines how this aligns with our
strategic plan, namely community value, customer excellence, and employee ownership. We did speak
with staff. And I will let our GM/CEO speak to, it if she would like, or if the-- excuse me-- the Chair would
recognize her. But in Executive Committee, we did not get-- we did not get those concerns from staff that
were shared here with the Board.
And then, I actually do have an amendment to this that was asked for by community members and was
agreed upon by the sponsors. I don't know if staff has it, but I believe I handed them a copy.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What's your amendment?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Should I just read it? May I just read it? Thank you. All right. So the amendment would
add to the "whereas" Section, where it would insert a paragraph at the end-- "Whereas the members of the
LGBTQIA2S+ community using RTD services, being disproportionately targeted with aggressive,
intimidating, and/or violent behavior" still remains. And additionally, it adds a paragraph under the "be it
resolved" section that says, "The Board adopts a strong position against aggressive, intimidating, and/or
violent behavior being targeted at members of the LGBTQIA2S+ community using RTD services and
resolves to make education and enforcement a priority in accordance with the latest RTD Code of Conduct."
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're adding all of that to the recommended action?
[INAUDIBLE]
JOYANN RUSCHA: To the resolution. If I may approach the bench, I could hand this to you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm trying to figure out where it's added. Oh, under the "whereas?"
BOBBY DISHELL: So this would go here. And this would go-- no, this is the wrong thing. But whatever.
This is Director Rosenthal's amendment. That didn't get brought. But this would go here or as an-[INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: So it would go on the-- if you scroll down, I think.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't see all the whereases on this recommended action. I don't see a proclamation.
[INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: At the very bottom.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. There it is.
BOBBY DISHELL: So the "whereas" would go there, and the "be resolved" would go at the bottom. Or does
it have an and? No. So the "be resolved" would either go first or second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. More discussion? [LAUGHS] We got buses to catch soon, or it's going
to be too late here. So--

BOBBY DISHELL: So, there's been a-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order-- is that a motion, and is there a second?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, there's no second yet.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I'd like to thank Mr. Bamber, who wrote this. I have the email that he sent to
Director Ruscha, and which she replied, these were OK'd by us. So I don't know who the "us" is. But I'm
not in favor of this, and will not be supporting it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of the amendment?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. No. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I think this changes the whole texture of this action item. And again, and I
hate to say it, an 11th-hour amendment, it's disrespectful to the rest of the Board. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And just to echo what was said earlier, it amounts to a poison pill on this
proposal. We're trying to keep this positive and uplifting and everything. And this is a tragedy that the folks
in our community, in my community, my community, who are being attacked. But this is-- we have already- I mean, I appreciate the sentiment. I appreciate the sentiment that we should not have anybody attack
anybody. What do you think we've been doing for the past number of hours with the Code of Conduct and
the Suspension Policy? You know? But we have a system. You know, we have Colorado Proud.
We have people who are being uplifted. We've got former speaker Ferrandino. We've got the Governor
Jared Polis. We have Larry Meisel from the Jewish community. We've got Fran Campbell from the AAPIHM
community. And can we focus on the current plan? And this just comes across as distracting from the
messaging that we have already set forth.
And if our Directors would like to work on making changes to that Colorado Proud brand, which has been
done, by the way, in collaboration with Colorado Historical Society, Colorado Public Library, private
individuals. And that RTD staff from the Communications and Engagement Department, they partner with
Civil Rights to assess and select subjects for each featured month. You know, let's not bind our CEO and
our Marketing Department, when we already have a plan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Let's focus on the plan. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for your thoughtful feedback. I appreciate that you all look at this is not an
exclusive thing. It was trying to be inclusive. Director Dishell, Director Ruscha, shall we withdraw this? It
sounds like it's going to fail. Let's be honest.
BOBBY DISHELL: Well, [INAUDIBLE] let's vote. Put it to a vote.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Then let us call the question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right.
DOUG TISDALE: You've got to vote on the amendment first.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yep.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We've got a calling the question on the amendment first. Do we have-- does
everyone-- who would like to call of the question?
KATE WILLIAMS: Me.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All in favor of calling the question on the amendment.
DIRECTORS: Aye. Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Anyone opposed. All right. The amendment is this language that was sent
by Mr. Bamber, I guess. So, I guess I should call the roll. Find it here. All right, Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I am a No on the amendment. So, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, No's. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 Yeses.
Have to have eight votes to pass anything. So the Amendment doesn't pass. So may w call the-- just want
to call the question on the main motion?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Hey.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, just a procedural point of order. Can we get confirmation that, in order to
pass an amendment, we need eight Directors currently.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's in the statute.
JOYANN RUSCHA: It says we need eight Directors to pass a resolution, not an amendment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that right?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Just like we don't need eight Directors to pass something in committee either.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Ruscha is correct. That, the requirement of eight
votes, is for formal action.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Then, there were seven Yes-- seven Yes votes and six No votes. No votes are
Buzek, Catlin, Guissinger, Tisdale, Whitmore, and Williams. So the amendment passes. So the motion, as
amended, is there-- did you want to speak? Should we call the question? Are you done, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I would just like to say thank you for this discussion. I really appreciate it. For whatever
it is worth, I did take other Directors' amendments to this into consideration. And that's reflected in the
motion in front of you right now. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director-- so this is a vote on the motion, the recommended action to adopt
this resolution now as amended. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Broom, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: no
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I am a Yes. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Abstain.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Abstain. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
LYNN GUISSINGER: 1,2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7-- let's see. So there are only five Yes votes. There are only seven
No votes, but there are only five Yes votes. So this motion does not pass. All right. Oh, let's see.

Unless anybody objects, I'd like to skip the report of Director activities tonight. Is that OK?
VINCE BUZEK: Madam Chair, I just want to make one point that it really applies to the Code of Conduct.
A comment was made that we just passed a Code of Conduct that does not proscribe criminal activity, such
as taking drugs on transit. I would advise that Director to look at paragraph 48 of the Code of Conduct.
That's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right. And then are there any other matters?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: I do have one other matter I'd like to bring up. It is my understanding that the Board Office,
unilaterally, without consultation with the Board, has banned all food in this room. I'm not in favor of our
having dinner in this room, quite honestly. I think it sends a bad message to the public. And it looks awkward,
at best. And so a number of years ago, we said, we will have dinner, if we choose to eat it, upstairs. But the
notion of not being able to have a snack is something that I think the Board Office acted inappropriately.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll just address that. I don't think that came from the Board Office. I think that came
from our People Power, Ms. Pileggi, and our Legal Counsel. I think it could be revisited. But that was a
decision-- I do not believe that was a Board Office decision.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. I appreciate that clarification. And I would suggest that our People Power,
who are incredibly well respected, loved, appreciated, cherished, and treasured beyond my ability to
describe, should also know that the Board gets to set its own rules in the boardroom. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Anything else? All right. We have a motion to adjourn?
DOUG TISDALE: So move.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: We are adjourned.
DOUG TISDALE: Well I knew that was going to go down.

