Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 6, 2007
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 15, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, February 6, 2007, at 4:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chairman; Bill Elfenbein, Vice-Chairman; Noel Busck,
Bruce Daly, Lee Kemp, Chris Martinez, Neill Quinlan, Barbara
Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Liz Rao, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Tom Bastien, Jennifer Brandeberry, Kevin Flynn, Holman Carter,
Bill Jones, Sarah Kuntzler, Carolyn Siegel, Michael Dino
****

Call to Order:

Chairman Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:09 p.m.

I.

State Update – Jennifer Brandeberry, state lobbyist for RTD, gave the State
update.

Utility relocation bill – Sen. Suzanne Williams is carrying this bill and it
is currently in drafting. Representative Jack Pommer will be the House
sponsor.


SB 07-088 RTD Parking Management Bill – This is up in Committee on
February 14 and two significant amendments have been drafted. Tom
Bastien, state lobbyist for RTD said that the first amendment has to do
with an escalating penalty schedule -- $20 for first offense, $50
second, and $100 for third (and subsequent) offenses. The second
amendment excludes the parking garage at Denver Union Station from
the operation of the bill. The bill will be heard next week in the Senate
Business Affairs and Labor Committee. Senator Jennifer Viega is the
prime sponsor and that is her committee.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 6, 2007
Page 2 of 3


HB 07-1186 - Annexation of “incorporated” enclaves bill—led by City of
Aurora – This bill is being carried by Jim Kerr. It will be heard next week
in House Transportation Committee at 1:30 p.m. on February 13, 2007.
There is no opposition to the bill at this time. Aurora has asked that a
representative from RTD be there at the reading of the bill in case there
are any questions.



Railroad indemnification issue – Senator Fitz-Gerald is the Senate sponsor
for the joint resolution that encourages the Federal Government to provide
seed money for an insurance risk pool. Representative Madden is going to
sponsor the resolution in the House. This is a resolution and not the
actual bill where the District would be obtaining the right to buy
insurance. The lobbyists will meet with Senator Fitz-Gerald on Thursday,
February 8, 2007 at 2:30 p.m. to discuss some of her ideas regarding the
actual bill.



RTD boundary description consolidation amendment – Late bill status has
been given to this bill, and it is currently in drafting. The bill will be
introduced on Friday, February 9, 2007. Representative Paul Weissmann
of Louisville is the House sponsor of this bill.

Federal Update - Mike Dino from Patton Boggs gave the Federal Update. The
president’s budget has been released. T-REX will be funded at $78.8 million
and $40 million for the West Corridor which is $15 million more than
requested. This is a very positive development in light of the removal of
most earmarks from the 2007 budget.

II.



APTA Legislative Conference, March 11-13, 2007, J.W. Marriott Hotel,
Washington, D.C. – Eight Directors will attend this conference.



Dinner with Patton Boggs and legislative staff – Monday, March 12, 2007,
Caucus Room – Director Pulliam asked how Amendment 41 applies to this
dinner. Cal Marsella said that he would ask for clarification from General
Counsel Marla Lien. Mike Dino said he would check with his Washington,
D.C. office to see what limits the congressional staffers may have on their
ability to attend the dinner. The Committee agreed to keep track of the
dinner and if there were any questions, the District would cut a check to
cover the Directors expenses.
Director Kemp asked if the funding for the West Corridor could be cut.
Mike Dino responded that for FY ‘07 everything is expected to be fully
funded. It can always be amended but it does not seem likely at this point.
Cal Marsella mentioned the New Starts Report that puts the District in the
pipeline for a full funding grant for the West Corridor to be signed in late
2007/early 2008.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February 6, 2007
Page 3 of 3
III.

Other Matters – Chairman Pulliam introduced Bill Jones, Attorney for ATU
Local 1001. Mr. Jones addressed the Committee and presented a legislative
proposal for 2007 regarding the privatization bill. At this time they do not
have any sponsors for a bill; they do have a pledge for late bill status. Mr.
Jones distributed a memo regarding their proposal. This memo is available
for viewing in the Legislative Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook. As
soon as there is a draft bill, Mr. Jones will bring it to the Committee for
review.

IV.

Adjournment - There being no objection, Chairman Pulliam adjourned the
meeting at 4:37 p.m.

