Sep 19 2019 1200 PM Executive Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. You're there.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Yes. And I'm glad I'm not present in the room with all of those people,
because I came down with a miserable cold last night.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, great. We were with you last night.
DOUG TISDALE: On behalf of the assembled, I send you our appreciation.
PEGGY CATLIN: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right, then for the sake of the record, I will now called to order the
Thursday, September 19, 2019, meeting of the RTD Executive Committee. We are convened in
the Board Conference Room at 12:05 PM, Mountain Daylight Time.
Present with us in person from the Executive Committee are the Second Vice Chair Angie
Rivera-Malpiede, and the Secretary Jeff Walker. With us on the telephone is First Vice Chair
Peggy Catlin and Treasurer Shelly Cook, which means that all five members of the Executive
Committee are present either in person or by telephone.
In addition, on the telephone, I am informed that we currently have Director Natalie Menten
present with us. Are there any other Directors on the phone other than those that I have
identified? I'll take that silence as indicating that-- I'm sorry.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. We didn't hear that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Shontel Lewis on the phone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, it's Shontel. Is it Shontel?
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, is that Director Lewis?
BOARD MEMBER: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. That's correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you very much. All right. And then in addition to that, we have
present in the room Director Lynn Guissinger and also Executive Manager of the Board Barbara
McManus, and our General Manager and CEO Mr. Dave Genova. We have a number of other
members of the public who are present and which I am grateful for, because I'm certain that any
questions that we have may be directed to those individuals, and we may be able to supplement
the record with necessary information for our consideration.

We also have at least one member of the Fourth Estate with us as well. And rather than going
around and identifying the people who are in the room, they are conveniently situated such that
the camera covers their presence. And we can identify them and we may, as the meeting
precedes, have opportunity to call upon them and get further information.
All right. So the first item of order for the Executive Committee is the review of the September
Board meeting. You see before you the draft Board Meeting agenda for Tuesday, September 24,
2019, which is pursuant to our regular procedure. I will note that in addition to the routine items
that appear there, I'm personally asked as to retiree awards. We have quite a few this month. Do
we have information as to members who will-- I'm sorry, retirees-- who will not be present?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have about half attending but not all confirmed.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much, Madam Executive Manager. Relative to the
Board agenda itself, we have three items on the unanimous consent agenda, having proceeded
through committee and receiving unanimous consent. And then we have two items on the
recommended action agenda, those being items that came through the committee process but
were not unanimously approved, and therefore, came forward with a positive recommendation,
but not unanimous.
First as to those items, or as to anything through the items 1 through 12 on the Executive
Committee agenda, are there any comments, questions, or concerns that any member of the
Executive Committee would like to address at this time? I'll take that silence as consent.
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
DOUG TISDALE: And we consider that to be approved. And we'll have a formal vote on the
agenda in a moment. But we do know that there is an additional item that has come through the
bylaws process that we have exercised previously in, not only in this current Board term, but also
in past years, where pursuant to the bylaws three Directors may bring before the full Board an
item as a recommended action item. And that item is first presented to the Executive Committee
for its knowledge, but for the sake of the record, the mere act of those Directors' submitting it,
pursuant to our bylaws, puts that matter on the agenda for the full Board meeting.
Now that said, we will know here-- and I will note a typo in the draft agenda that's been
presented to you-- if you look at the agenda 13, items from three Directors or more, it's listed as,
item approval of National Medal of Honor Museum. It recites, it is recommended by the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee. That will be called corrected in the agenda that
will go out with the Board packet to reflect that it is recommended by six Directors because that's
how this came up through the bylaw process.
And it relates to a newly initiated, recommended action item concerning the National Medal of
Honor Museum. We wanted to take the opportunity today-- oh, and I will, just for the sake of the
record so we don't forget about this, there is an Executive Session that will be conducted next
week as well for purposes of discussing with legal counsel matters on the DTP, the Denver

Transit Partners, and the RRP litigation. And that will be an Executive Session that will occur at
the end of the meeting.
And in fact, perhaps it would be appropriate, and I'll ask the Executive Committee's consent on
this, that the Executive Session, instead of being listed before old business and new business, for
the sake of the agenda, if we would put that after old business and new business so that people
don't feel that somehow we interrupted the flow of the meeting to have an Executive Session-and then come back after they're all tired, exhausted, and have left, and proceed with other
business that we didn't talk about.
Is there any objection to moving the Executive Session to following new business?
BOARD MEMBERS: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing no objection, if we would please make that agenda change. Now
relative to the agenda item presented that will come before the Board on Tuesday concerning the
National Medal of Honor Museum, let me take just a moment to set the stage for this. And then I
know I have a series of questions that I would like to ask of some of our visitors and from the
staff. And I know that there are other members of the Executive Committee and the Board
members who are with us in person or on the telephone who would like to add questions as well.
Let me begin with the process. And there has been some comment made that I think is very
appropriate for us to address so that people don't have a misimpression of how this comes before
the Board at this time. In August-- on August the 6th-- we were presented with a Board of
Directors report prepared by Bill Van Meter, our Assistant General Manager for Planning, dated
July 31, 2019, concerning this matter. You all remember that. You were there. You participated
in the meeting.
The next steps, which was the last PowerPoint slide on that packet, identified that the item came
before us on August 6, that the National Medal of Honor Museum CEO was meeting with people
in Denver on August 8 and that the matter would come back before the Board on September 17
so that terms could be presented to the Board for its consideration, with the anticipation that we
would then have a vote on September 24 concerning that.
I just want to address that, because I want to make sure that people do understand that we do give
notice as to such things, and we do proceed with that in an orderly manner. All that said, in the
course of our meeting on Tuesday night, there were numerous requests for additional information
from Directors. And I believe that all of those requests were genuine, sincere, civil, and
respectful in their statement and appropriate to the consideration of an important matter like this.
And we actually have some additional information now. Uhmm, there was a submission by six
Directors for a new recommended action item to come forward because the action item that was
proposed on Tuesday night to the committee failed to pass by a vote of 7 to 7. It is fair to say that
we have been, in the last 36 hours, flooded with information relative to the National Medal of
Honor Museum, both in terms of the support for the project, in terms of the plans for the project,

and also in terms of the financial implications of the project. And I think we'll be able to get
more of that information.
Now it is, in point of fact, addressed to all present regrettable that the Board did not have the
benefit of all of this information before Tuesday night. I believe it genuinely would have
facilitated and advanced this matter in an orderly fashion had we had that information. We did
not. But we're going to push past the past. Now we have the information, and now we have a
new recommended action item as submitted by the six Directors, and we can proceed.
With that in mind, I have a series of questions. But first I want to ask the Executive Committee
members to step in and ask their questions. I'll begin with our first Vice Chair. Madam First Vice
Chair, do you have any questions? You had an opportunity to review this information? First, let
me confirm that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. I did.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And now let me open the floor to you for any questions or
comments you wish to make relative to this agenda item.
PEGGY CATLIN: I actually want to concur with your statement that regrettably we didn't have
all of the information. I will say that I think there is still a little bit more information that has
been requested by some other Directors that we will be awaiting. But I want to thank the staff for
responding in such an expeditious manner.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any other thoughts before I ask Second Vice Chair
for her thoughts?
PEGGY CATLIN: Not yet, but I may choose to jump in after I hear all the comments. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: And of course you may. You don't give just one bite at the apple. We know
that. Madam Second Vice Chair, may I call upon you now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think it's very fair for me to say that I
want to move past this as well. And I think that if we had received the information, it would have
been a completely different conversation. But the reality was we didn't know what we were
doing. And I want to thank the Mayor's office for taking the time to brief myself and I know
some other Denver RTD Board members with the information. That was quite invaluable.
And as you can imagine, my community has been calling me and reaching out to me. But I do
think-- what I'd like to say to this group is the one thing that I'm taking away from this in lessons
learned is the necessity for an inclusive communication component within the RTD, not just the
Board of Directors, but the staff working together and making sure that the information that's
being disseminated is being done on an equal level, that there's nobody meeting alone, but that
we're all hearing about it, and that the Executive Committee get that information so we can

disseminate it to the other Boards of Directors so that everybody feels like their voice is heard
and they're being included in all processes.
DOUG TISDALE: And I appreciate that last observation in particular because I want to
emphasize Director Lewis did specifically request of Board office staff, for example, where is
the additional information? And we gave a response that we didn't have it at the time. And I
spoke with Director Lewis personally regarding this as well-- and that as such information was
received that it would then immediately be distributed to all the members of the Board of
Directors for their consideration and consumption.
And we have been doing that. I will point out some of this is coming in-- I suppose we might
characterize it as fast and furious. And so it's taken us a while to catch up with that, but we are
doing that. But thank you for that observation because I think that's critically important.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Other thoughts you want to share before I go to the-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Secretary?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I'm good. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Mr. Secretary, thoughts that you'd like to share with us-- or
questions?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. First is I'm wondering if we can change the title on the agenda item? I
don't want to give the impression if anybody does vote no that they were voting against the
National Medal of Honor Museum, just the sublease. They're two different things. And it might
just be approval of National Medal of Honor, the sublease parcel for the National Medal of
Honor Museum part of the sublease.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I think perhaps your suggestion is if we simply were to say, approval of
National Medal of Honor Museum sublease-JEFF WALKER: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: --just add the word "sublease" at the end of that, that would do it. Is there
objection to adding the word sublease at the end of the agenda item?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I think that's actually a good idea.
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing no objection, the word sublease will be added.

JEFF WALKER: OK. And then I don't have any further questions for anybody or for you or
anyone else. But I will say that I looked at this as any of the other contracts that we negotiate all
the time, just another sublease. Its importance-- that very notable use of that land, but it's still just
the use of the land.
And I serve on Denver's Planning Board. And typically, or often, sometimes, proposals would
come in and they would satisfy one part of the full number of hoops or permits that then would
be required. But they wouldn't have all of the pieces because they'd want to finish one before
they'd move on to the next one.
So I don't know what the design of this park would look like. I don't know what the parks, or
benches, or rocks, or things like that-- that doesn't matter. Where I looked at it was we have a
potential for a contract with an entity just like we do every day. And there are several on this
agenda item. And that's fine. I didn't see any other things in this first one. So I don't have any
other, further questions.
I appreciate the additional information. It's always nice to know that. But for my reasoning, I
didn't need to know that for this session.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And again, as to each of you who
have spoken, this is not your only opportunity to speak. Of course, as we ask some questions of
our guests, we may have additional questions you may like to bring later. Madam Treasurer, may
I turn to you now and ask for any initial comments-LYNN GUISSINGER: [SNEEZE] Excuse me.
DOUG TISDALE: --thoughts or questions you would like to share as we all collectively bless
Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: And thank you, Sir. And I agreed with the comments previously about the
provision of information. It is a two-way street in this respect. The Finance Committee has-- at
least for Chair and Vice Chair-- have a chance to preview items coming up. And I think we can
both be an early warning system about perhaps the need for additional information. So I'll work
with Chair Mihalik on that in terms of developing a process for identifying that sort of thing.
But I think, too, involving the committee to which an item is being assigned, at least, That would
be helpful as well. So agree with the [AUDIO OUT].
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And as I said, I have a
number of questions that I'll want to go through me some detail here just to make sure that we
have an adequate record so as to respond to any questions and concerns that have been raised by
Directors.

And let me also for the sake of the record point out that all of the Directors are always invited to
and welcome at the Executive Committee meeting. We do not routinely have the Directors who
were not members of the Executive Committee participate in the proceedings, but they are
always recognized and always certainly welcome to raise questions. And so at this time, I will
ask-- we have on the-PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Tisdale, could I interrupt just for one minute? This is Peggy Catlin. If I
could just add one more thing to Director Cook's comments about the committee members? And
I ask that to the extent that the Director has-- to the extent that an action is within a Director's
district, I think it would be nice if we were proactive and reaching out to that particular Director
as a courtesy since it would be in his or her district. So I would just add that to Dr. Cook's
comments. Thank you. Good discussion.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for your observation. We appreciate your sharing that. Let me ask
now-- because we have two non-executive committee members on the telephone and we have
one in the room. Let me begin with the one in the room, and then we'll go to the telephone for
any initial comments or questions that you may wish to raise at this time. Director Guissinger, I
recognize you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. You need to take off, Jeff?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. OK. Sorry. I apologize to everybody. I have to go, but I will call in.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I would just reiterate the comments that are being made that Angie
started and others have said, which it's so important to bring all the information to the Board, the
information that you brought from the Mayor's office, which covers a much broader estate, is
hugely helpful and I think will hopefully make a big difference.
And I appreciate that Director Walker was saying about this being a sublease. But I guess as
Chair of the Communications and Government Relations Committee, I'd also look at it in the
bigger view of our partners and how important it is to them. And that makes it very important to
us.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that. Let me proceed alphabetically and with the
Director as to whose district this directly impacts and go to Director Lewis on the telephone. And
please remember, Director, speak directly into the phone so that we all hear you. And we
actually have a number of people here in this room.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. I'm actually just listening in.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Again?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm listening in. I don't have a comment at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, all right. Thank you very much. Appreciate that. Director Menten, you
are with us. Would you wish to make any comment at this time?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I would go back to see the writing that Director Walker had
mentioned about making it very clear that this is in regards to a park. And when I look at the
language in the recommended action itself-- and not the background, bit the recommended
action-- I do not know that that is as clear as we would like to be.
DOUG TISDALE: I take your comment. I hear. I believe because the recommended action item
incorporated by reference the September 11, 2019, Board of Directors' report that identified that,
that it is there. And I would have a bit of hesitation in modifying the actual language of the
recommended action item because that's something that came up through six Directors. And we
don't have the freedom to modify the language that they presented.
That said, the clarification, I think, is reflected now in the minutes and I think is clearly
understood. And the attachment, as I said, being the September 11, 2019, Board of Directors'
report depicts a park in the third page of that report and describes a park in the first page of that
report.
So I would hope that would appear to be adequate. Does that respond to your concern to
recommend?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. Not really. I think the public right now is under the impression that
the RTD Board voted against locating the museum on property that we have. And I think that
would help us in letting the public know exactly what we were asked to vote on. So I'll leave that
at that that I am still running into people who are not clear about that.
But then leaving that note behind for a moment, I had gone in during-- let's start with-- during
our discussion on Tuesday night mentioned that I believe there are alternatives across the street
from this proposed museum location and have now taken the steps to be visual on what I feel is a
much more logical, and readily available, and in all regards a better option for this park that we
would love to see go in conjunction with the National Museum of Honor. Because as we all
know, we didn't vote against the museum.
I don't recall even hearing opposition. There was no opposition that I know of present about the
museum. It was all about the park. Well, located just I think approximately 100 feet away, kittycorner to this proposed museum location, is a park. And I would suggest that the majority of the
Board of Directors and the majority of the those living in of Denver, working at the Capitol, may
not even realize what's located in this park right now.
I have documented the photos of what exists there. And I would like to just ask how many of
those on the Executive Committee know about the memorials that are located in what's called-and let me put this in front of me again-- that is located in the Veteran's Lincoln Memorial Park?
How many of you know what memorials are there now?
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much for the question. We appreciate that. And I
will note for the record that you raise a good point that I think that we need to make clear to the
public and to all interested parties, and that is that the RTD Board did not in any way, shape, or
form vote against the National Medal of Honor Museum. The RTD Board did fail to advance a

proposal for the placement of a gateway entry park on the gravel lot that is owned by RTD at the
intersection of Broadway, Colfax, and Lincoln.
And I will ask as we have an opportunity to ask others questions about this other property. So I
will bring forth your question that I will ask others about it. So thank you for sharing that. And
we'll do it. Do you have any other questions or thoughts you'd like to suggest at this time?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'm actually asking at this time, sitting there, do you know what
memorials--[AUDIO OUT]? Do you know what those are?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. And I'm sorry, Director. This is not an opportunity for crossexamination of the Executive Committee. This is an opportunity for you to give us questions that
you'd like us to pass on. We'll be more than happy to do that. I do actually have a map of that.
I'm also aware-- what you have not, I think, been made aware of is that the Fallen Heroes
Memorial is about to be constructed in that park where you are suggesting that they could
relocate this entryway.
And I was at the announcement of that last evening. And my understanding is that construction
on that will commence shortly. So yes, there will be yet another Memorial Park located in that
parcel. Are there other Directors who have questions before I go to some of the questions-NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. I'm not quite done yet.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, please go on.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So I thought I might let you know what is in the Veterans
Lincoln Memorial Park, which is 100 feet away, has well-established, gorgeous trees, ADAcompliant sidewalks. And what's in that park right now is the Colorado Veterans Memorial, a
replica of the Liberty
BOARD MEMBER: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: And most notable is a Congressional Medal of Honor statue dedicated to
the first recipient in Colorado to get the Medal of Honor. So give me, this park that exists with
133,000 square feet and has established grass, again, beautiful trees, and these memorials already
set to honor our veterans, and is located 100 meters away from the proposed museum would be a
logical place for this grand park.
And the other side is, as noted, we are-- our purpose at RTD is transportation. And I do believe
there are uses that we may want for the 6,600 square feet that's located kitty-corner. I would
suggest that we should bring this to the attention of the National Medal of Honor Foundation
because I do not know that they are even aware that this memorial honoring Joe Martinez is
there.
I don't know that they know the Colorado Veterans Memorial is there and that these are all-- that
this infrastructure already in place. And I think many people, including the RTD Board [AUDIO

OUT] the public and the media are not aware of this very suitable location for that grand park
that's desired.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you for sharing, Director. We appreciate that. And I'm sure
that you will have an opportunity also to share those thoughts, not just with the Executive
Committee, but with the full Board on Tuesday night. And I have noted your questions. And I'm
going to ask specifically those questions of the people here whom have knowledge. So each of
your questions will be posed to them, rest assured. Other not-NATALIE MENTEN: Wonderful.
DOUG TISDALE: Any other comments you want to share at this time?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, except that, again, I think this is an ideal solution to all of our desires.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And congressional
medal statue. Just making note of your question so I can be sure to ask the individuals here. All
right. With that said, let me ask some questions now with staff. And I'm going to begin with Mr.
Sirois, who was the presenter on this topic on Tuesday night.
Mr. Sirois, as our Planning Manager for this particular project that has been proposed, we now
have, as I say, a whole lot of additional information. I think the first question that the Executive
Committee would like to have resolved is, why didn't we have all this information on Tuesday
night?
BILL SIROIS: Well, we were aware in our conversations with both the team that was pulling
together the proposal-- aware of these letters that were being produced. We weren't aware of all
of them. But we're certainly aware they were being developed and, again, did not ask for them as
part of the presentation to the Board on Tuesday night. So that's all I have to say.
DOUG TISDALE: One question that has been raised repeatedly is, the possibility of use of this
gravel lot for a specific, direct transit purpose, as opposed to an ancillary transit purpose-- and I'll
address that momentarily-- in the future. Is there information that staff has that we have any
present contemplation or thought of possibility of placing any transit improvement on this leased
lot, which we will lose in 2075?
BILL SIROIS: We did check with staff from an operations standpoint to ensure that there was no
need for any RTD use on the site. And we did receive confirmation of that from staff, from other
staff.
DOUG TISDALE: There was a specific question that was raised as to whether we might build a
new headquarters facility on the gravel lot at some point in time. Can you tell us what
information staff developed relative to the potential of RTD actually getting rid of this grand, old
wonderful structure and building a new headquarters facility there?

BILL SIROIS: As part of due diligence on the site, in terms of looking at uses, we did look at
that as an option but concluded fairly early on that it was not feasible or the right time for RTD
to consider that because of the cost.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. So in addition to cost, are there also some development constraints
relative to view corridors and so forth associated with this property?
BILL SIROIS: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Can you expand on that?
BILL SIROIS: Well, there are-- with capital view plane, there are restrictions, particularly on the
east end of the site, which again, we looked at it. And there are ways to design the building
around that, but again, it isn't a constraint on the site.
DOUG TISDALE: Huh. Thank you. Relative to the question of alternative location-- I'm going
to look to some of the people behind me to respond to that momentarily as to whether they, in
fact, knew there was a statue to a Congressional Medal of Honor winner. Apparently, somebody
might not have known that. And so I want that clear on the record at some point too that perhaps
they hadn't even walked around the property to see what was there.
But relative to the economic impact on this, on the City, on the RTD, on the region as a whole,
and on the state of Colorado, do you have information concerning economic forecasts and
impacts of this, or do we have some of our guests here to respond to that?
BILL SIROIS: I think we need to ask the guests which provided the information for this evening.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Let me perhaps begin, if I may, with the Executive Director of the
Governor's Office of Economic Development and International Trade. And I'm going to invite
you, if you would like, Ms. Markey, to just sit up here so you're closer to the microphone.
BETSY MARKEY: OK. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: --so that we can get that. But could you share with us, please, some
information relative to the economic impact and any forecasts that you may have developed
associated with the placement of a National Medal of Honor Museum on the property that the
state owns and this entryway gateway park.
BETSY MARKEY: Yes, absolutely. Thank you for the opportunity. And I can give you a highlevel impact the project will have on the state and then, more specifically, the economic impact
for RTD in the future. So we expect, based on modeling forecasts and other Regional Tourism
Act forecast that the museum will attract about a million visitors a year to the state of Colorado.
At full operation, it'll support 300 ongoing jobs. And in the first five years, the museum will
create 150 ongoing jobs at an annual wage of about $68,000 a year.

The museum is expected to generate millions of dollars a year in net new sales tax revenue to the
state of Colorado, to the City of Denver, and to RTD, the Science and Cultural Facilities District,
and other area municipalities and counties to help keep our visitor offerings fresh and
competitive. Also the museum will generate hundreds of construction jobs from its $150 million
capital budget.
Now specifically, I'd love to talk a little bit about the economic impact of the project on RTD.
OECD estimates, based on economic models of similar museums' financial impact on net, new
out-of-state visitors, that this museum will generate between $600,000 and $3 million per year in
new sales tax revenue to RTD. This estimate above does not include the following fiscal benefits
that will also be generated by the museum.
Number one, new sales tax revenue from in-state but out-of-district museum visitors and school
districts that travel to Denver specifically for this experience, combined with other museum
experiences. And number two, new ridership and farebox revenue generated by visitors to the
museum, examples, visitors taking the A Line from the airport to Denver to see the museum, or
bus lines into Civic Center Station.
Our ability to attract the museum's interest in Colorado is, in fact, based on the investments our
region has made in infrastructure and transportation like RTD, and this helps reinforce ridership
and revenue to keep our infrastructure viable. The museum will be located, as you know, right
across Civic Center Station and will increase use of the bus lines, mall shuttle, and circulator that
serve the stations. We know that-- we think the museum is intended to be a catalyst to
walkability and vibrancy in downtown Denver. So happy to answer any questions that you have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have one, just out of curiousity.
DOUG TISDALE: That's very-- excuse me, sorry. That's very helpful. I appreciate that. I'm
going to open up now for questions from members of the Executive Committee who may want to
follow up on that. Thank you. Madam Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Just out of curiosity, what is the
proposed square footage for the museum? I guess I've not seen that anywhere.
BETSY MARKEY: Right. And there will be-- so you know, it's on state-- the museum is on
state-owned land. And what is-- there be some state offices as well. So it's actually really a winwin for this state and for the museum. What is the square footage that the museum will be using?
Is it?
ERIC HIRAGA: Approximately 120,000.
BETSY MARKEY: About 120,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
BETSY MARKEY: Mm-hmm.

DOUG TISDALE: OK. Other questions, Madame Second Vice Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam First Vice Chair, any questions that you have for Ms. Markey? Give
you a moment to take your phone off mute if you're listening. But Madam First Vice Chair, do
you have any questions you would like to pose to Betsy Markey, the Executive Director of the
Governor's Office of Economic Development and International Trade?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. I'm sorry it took me awhile to get my phone off mute.
No, I really appreciate the summary of the economic benefit that was also reflected in the staff
email that we got earlier today. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Madam Treasurer, any questions you'd like to pose?
SHELLEY COOK: No, that's all very impressive. Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, are you on the phone at this time, sir?
Sounds like he may be and he may be fumbling for a mute button there, but I don't know. But I'll
just-- I'll leave it open there. Mr. Secretary, do you have any questions you'd like to ask at this
time?
JEFF WALKER: No. I don't have any right now.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. Ms. Markey, let me ask you, relative to the
estimate of sales tax. Again, you said, perhaps at least $600,000 and perhaps as much as $3
million in sales tax revenues. And you indicated that was the sales tax revenue that would flow to
RTD pursuant to our 1% tax.
BETSY MARKEY: Correct, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. I appreciate the-BETSY MARKEY: Yes. That was just to RTD. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Right. That's a good clarification for us to understand. And as I understand it,
you also talked about the fact that users-- visitors to the museum-- would undoubtedly be users
of our transit services in order to reach the museum, which would be immediately adjacent to the
Civic Center Station.
BETSY MARKEY: Mm-hmm.
DOUG TISDALE: And one thing that I had mentioned that I wanted to ensure that this was in
your contemplation-- and maybe others may be better prepared to respond to this-- that the
entryway park, the gateway park is not simply a gateway to the National Medal of Honor

Museum, but in fact constitutes a gateway to the Civic Center Transit Station that is immediately
adjacent to and a part of the property that we're talking about subleasing.
BETSY MARKEY: Yes. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. I think that's a clarification that helps me understand this better.
And I appreciate that.
BETSY MARKEY: And I think that both the City and Downtown Denver Partnership can really
speak to the unique location and how it really does tie together all the civic amenities in that
area.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. We'll get to them in a moment. And I just think that because
there may have been some confusion that somehow there was going to be, oh, dare I say it, a
wall built that would keep the transit users away from the gravel lot. But no, it would all flow in
through this whole area, correct, as you understand it?
BETSY MARKEY: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. That's very helpful of you. Thank you. All right. If
there are no other questions for Ms. Markey at this time from the Executive Committee, let me
ask you if there is someone who can address more adequately and completely-- and thank you
very much for your participation, Ms. Markey-- this question of the gateway park being truly a
gateway to the National Medal of Honor Museum as well as to the transit station?
Who might feel best able to respond to that? Come forw-- yeah-- to go into my gameshow mode,
come on down! Go ahead.
RANDY THELEN: Well, good afternoon and thanks, everybody. So my name is Randy Thelen.
I'm the Senior Vice President of Economic Development for the Downtown Denver Partnership- and been actively working with the team on this project for some time. The comment about the
park, I think, and the connectivity of the site-- it's at the Center Station-- is a key element to this
project.
In a lot of ways, literally, RTD is delivering this museum to Denver in the sense that the folks
that have been making their due diligence work came by way of the A Line, took the mall shuttle
to the site. We walked the stairs and looked over the site. And it started to make an impression
on them that clearly has been lasting as we are now one of two final sites.
When they observed the site and how people will get to and from their location, the mall shuttle
is a primary driver for how they see people getting to and from their museum, and they want to
make that experience from the moment you leave the bus or the mall shuttle, you start to begin to
experience the museum and what it all has to offer and with a grand promenade.
And if you think of how major national museums are positioned, or that we all think of the
Smithsonian as along the National Mall, that even how we treat our art museum in Denver, and

how it's landscaped, and it's-- the experience starts before you walk through the doors, that is
something that they're looking to deliver with the museum and why they've put such priority on
this promenade.
And I think you're right to point out that it will not only take visitors from the shuttle to the
museum, it works the other way as well. And certainly thanks to the Union Station, all the transit
options are there as well. So it's a highly-connected site. They're considering transit to be a
primary way for people to get to and from the museum. And so I think to be able to provide that
experience from the moment you leave the shuttle to the moment you walk to the door I think is
highly important to them.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Thelan, let me ask you this question. And I will open up for a moment to
the other members of the Executive Committee. But this is one that has been bothering me. I
mean, were you aware that there was a statue to a Congressional Medal of Honor winner just a
little over 100 feet away from the museum in this other park on the south side of Colfax?
RANDY THELEN: Yes. And the museum is as well. I think it might provide good context for
people to understand when they first started looking for a museum location across the country,
they narrowed it down to six major markets that they felt had the tourism and visitor profile that
would be interested in a museum of this quality. And those cities were New York, Atlanta,
Dallas, San Diego, here, and I'm missing one.
DOUG TISDALE: Arlington.
RANDY THELEN: Arlington's one of them. That was Dallas, though.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Washington, DC. I missed Washington, DC. So Dallas , Arlington is one and the same.
Washington, DC was the sixth one. So when they first reached out to Denver, we had already
made our way through a funnel down to the six final markets. And they were looking for a site
that had significance, that had promenance, that had this sort of grand stature, again, like you
think of with the Smithsonian-type of museum on the National Mall. They tend to have a great
green space that leads up to their front door.
As we looked at sites all across the region, frankly, it's a very difficult thing to place. The options
for these kind of facilities are pretty limited. And we continue to come back to this state-owned
parcel across the street. It's a prime location. It's the corner of Main and Main from a civic asset
standpoint. It's across the street from the capital.
If you elevate the building-- if you build up with the building, you get a chance for some
amazing mountain views. And it speaks to the sort of reverence and respect that you'd want in a
museum of this nature. That was very exciting to them. But as they have thought all along that
they would have more of a green space environment, that's where the promenade idea really took
hold and became a priority for them.

They also recognized that across the street is a major civic center, the Civic Center Park designed
by Frederick Law Olmsted Jr., who also helped redesign the National Mall. I mean the parallels
to this site in the Mall are almost uncanny. Lincoln-- Abraham Lincoln-- signed into law the
National Medal of Honor. It's on Lincoln Avenue.
So at some point it becomes not a coincidence. It's almost fate that it's meant to be for this
location. They are fully aware of the memorials and monuments that dot Civic Center Park and
the State Capitol complex as well. And that became part of the drawing card for this location.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me ask you because I mentioned the Fallen Heroes Memorial that is to be
constructed over near the Veterans Monument. Can you just help identify for the benefit of the
committee where approximately that Fallen Heroes Memorial will be constructed?
RANDY THELEN: Yeah, [Shuffling papers]. Can I see your pen?
DOUG TISDALE: Mm-hmm.
RANDY THELEN: It's going to be right up in here. There's an obelisk that's going to light up.
Right now I forget what memorial that particular one is-- but right sort of looking on to that.
DOUG TISDALE: So for the sake of the record, it's immediately to the east of Lincoln in the
green space in front of the Capitol that somehow falls within the walkway that goes up the hill-up Capitol Hill-- to the Capitol steps.
RANDY THELEN: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. That helps. All right, now I'm sorry. I charged ahead
with questions. I apologize to the Executive Committee. Let me ask-- Madam Second Vice Chair
I think has stepped out. But let me start with Madam First Vice Chair. Do you have any
questions for Randy Thelen, the Executive Vice President for Economic Development with
Downtown Denver Partnership?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not. Thank you, Randy.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. Madam Treasurer, do you have
any questions for Mr. Thelen?
SHELLEY COOK: No, I don't. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And Mr. Secretary, do you have any questions for Mr.
Thelen? We give people a-JEFF WALKER: No, I don't.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. All right. I heard that as a no. And Madam Second Vice
Chair, have you joined us via telephone at this point? All right. I do not hear her. So I think we're

OK with that. So I think that, generally speaking, response to those questions-- except can you
help us-- from a second source-- help validate some of the information that the Governor's Office
of Economic Development and International Trade has provided to us relative to estimated
annual visitors and sales tax impacts on RTD, the City, the region, the state?
RANDY THELEN: We have not duplicated that research. We've worked with them and
reviewed it. But we're not-DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. Are there any other members of the
Executive Committee who might have questions for Mr. Thelen at this time? I'll pause and let
you unmute should you choose to do so. OK. Having sufficiently paused, I think there are no
other questions for you. We appreciate that.
I know that Mr. Eric Hiraga from the Denver Economic Development and Opportunity Office-somewhat indelicately referred to as DEDO. I'm not sure if I like that acronym, but nonetheless,
that's, I guess, what it is-- I want to ask your, if you will, validation first concerning these
projection numbers that we've talked about because I think that's really a significant part of this
discussion.
ERIC HIRAGA: Yes. So the City has run its own, separate projection, separate for the state, for
the City and County of Denver. We are very conservative. In fact, we modeled it at 500,000
annual visitors. And then we calculate vouchers, tax, sales tax, food and beverage tax. Our
calculation on the less conservative side is around $2 million a year of benefit to the city tax
sales base. That's very separate from the economic impact that Betsy Markey had studied.
So we believe that through having this museum immediate-- in year one, we will start generating
$2 million, over $2 million, and escalating from that point. And then we did not include the
benefits from the actual construction activity. The museum and the building alone, at $100
million, obviously generates taxes from the construction activity and the construction materials,
personal property taxes in addition to that.
And of course, the jobs that it creates-- 150 jobs in the beginning escalating to 300. So we see
this as not only a great project to honor our heroes, but in addition to that, having a long-lasting
impact on our tax base. And those dollars are actually just the Denver portion of what we cede in
sales tax. It does not include the other entities that we split up with.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And obviously when there are 300 people who are
going to be having jobs there, they're going to need to get to work. And given the parking
expenses, it's probably fair to assume that they'll be taking public transportation.
ERIC HIRAGA: Absolutely. I think Randy had a very good analogy of just even the site visit of
taking the A Line straight from the airport, jumping onto the 16th Mall shuttle. That access point
really, as we have been discussing with the Museum, engaging with our Parks and Recs
Department, they see that as a gateway and an entrance into the museum, but a connecting point
for all of Civic Center.

What's interesting is as we are competing with Arlington, Texas, it's important to know they are
providing open space. And we are in a locked-in built environment. So as we look at the
opportunities there, they do want to engage with the community and with the partners that we
have here in this room. We are discussing a national design competition.
And of course, as partners-- and I would like to clarify one point as you discuss who this
sublease agreement would be. It is actually the City of Denver proposing to sublease this
property. And in partnership, we will work with the Medal of Honor Museum on the contract
details. And you will have a second bite at the apple, at the Board, I would say, as David, and our
City teams, and the Museum would really work on the details of the proposal, everything from
security, the maintenance, to flexibility for future RTD transit needs.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I appreciate that clarification because in all of the
communications that the Chair has issued regarding this, and that the Board Office has issued,
and I believe that our Communications Department has issued, we have reflected that it is a
proposed sublease by RTD, which is, itself, subject to the master lease for this property.
It is a proposed sublease by RTD to the City and County of Denver for the use and benefit of the
National Medal of Honor Museum, not for some other purpose, but for that express purpose. And
I appreciate your clarification of that. I know we have communicated that, but I think it warrants- just as Director Menten appropriately pointed out some of the amplifications that she wanted to
make certain were clear on the record, I think it's important for us to state that as well.
One thing, and Mr. Hiraga, and you may-- and then I'll open up to the Executive Committee and
ask questions-- one thing that you may not be the right person to answer, but a question has been
raised. And I know that one Director, I believe Director Lewis, who's on the phone with us-- and
others have also said-- what is the proposal for people getting across Lincoln Street at that point?
Again, I don't know if you're the right one to answer it, but I think it's a fair question.
We have this property. We know they are obviously adjacent to the transit station. That's no
problem. It's a great entryway for us. But how did they get across Lincoln Street? What's the
contemplation there?
ERIC HIRAGA: Yes. So there was a discussion of an overhead bridge. And we won't-- are not
willing to do that through our Planning Agency and Public Works Department-- obviously would
not tunnel. So we would need to modify and have it the safest crossing that we can have. And I
think it would be through technology and signalization. So that does remain to be an item for
Public Works and for us to clearly tackle on with some innovations there.
There is a lot of activity on the design of that road, as you know, because of the BRT. And so we
have engaged our Public Works office. But this is one of those items that's on our task list. It was
within our proposal, along with many other things from our office and our partners sitting around
our room here. But should we be selected in October, those discussions will be very earnest and
quick.

DOUG TISDALE: And if I can, one final question before opening up to the Committee, there
was a suggestion made on Tuesday night when considering the original proposal that came
before the Committee that the acquisition of the park space was merely a mechanic by which the
National Medal of Honor Museum sought to evade any responsibilities or obligations for the
construction of a green roof building on the site where the building itself would sit pursuant to
Denver's green roof ordinance.
Can you comment on that at all?
ERIC HIRAGA: So the ordinance is a City of Denver ordinance. There has been no discussion
on trying to have an alternative and using this park site for that. So that would be a surprise to
me.
DOUG TISDALE: All right Thank you. I appreciate that, but it was a fair question.
ERIC HIRAGA: Yes, it is. I
DOUG TISDALE: Wanted to make sure that we have someone address that. All right. Madam
Second Vice Chair, are you with us on the telephone?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. I don't hear her, so I'll go to Madam First Vice Chair at this time.
But I just wanted to see if she was back with us. Madam First Vice Chair, do you have any other
questions for Eric Hiraga?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair-- this is Director Lewis. Yeah, I just wanted to let you know that I
have to get off the phone. The question that I have before I get off the phone is just-DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Wait a minute. I'm sorry. Wait a minute, please. Wait a
minute I'm sorry. I can't hear whoever that is. I think it might be someone other than-BOARD MEMBER: Director Lewis.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, it was Director Lewis, OK. Thank you. Director, if you'll just hang on a
second, please, if you can. I really need to go in order.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to let you know I'm getting off the phone in case you're
looking for me.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, all right. I apologize. I thank you for sharing that. So you're going to be
completing your call.
PEGGY CATLIN: I yield my time to Director Lewis.
DOUG TISDALE: OK, Director Lewis, go on ahead.

SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to know if your folks that are in the room that are answering
these questions would be available at our Board meeting for the Directors who are unable to be a
part of this phone call.
BETSY MARKEY: Yes.
ERIC HIRAGA: Yes.
BETSY MARKEY: In fact, we've got a two-page summary, which we'd be happy to email you
and you can get it after the rest of your-DOUG TISDALE: And Director Lewis, if you couldn't hear that-- excuse me. We've got a record
we got to make. Remember? Director Lewis, there is-- and I think we may already have emailed
this to you-- there is a two-page summary that the Governor's Office of Economic Development
and International Trade will make available to us.
That will be circulated. Also these individuals, I am informed, will be present at the Board
meeting. Now in the Board meeting, we don't set this up as public participation time. That's why
this meeting was so important today and why everybody was notified of that.
That said, they will be allowed to talk during the public comment section. So we will have
presentations by them that they can make during public comment. And you can also reach out to
them separately, and anything that they have will be provided to you.
And these minutes, which is why I don't want to sound strict about this-- but these meetings are
transcribed. And these minutes will be available for everyone in the public to read so that all of
this information will be available to everyone in the public. Does that answer your question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. You all have a good day. Thank you so much for your time.
BOARD MEMBER: Bye, Shontel.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Bye. Right.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Does that conclude that-- OK. All right. Thank you. All right. Madam
First Vuce Chair, let's go back to you now. And thank you for yielding. I'm sorry. Because
sometimes it's hard for me to hear the voices on the phone, so I appreciate your patience with me
as well. Any questions or thoughts that you would like to share with us at this time?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I do appreciate the question regarding the pedestrian crossing of Lincoln
Avenue. That was a concern I had as well. And I'd be interested to see future mitigation plans for
pedestrian safety. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Mm-hmm. All right, thank you. And I appreciate that. And I think Mr.
Hiraga's making a note. And I'm certain that that will be something that they address further and
will be able to respond more fully as to that.

Madam Secretary-- I mean, Mr. Secretary, first. Mr. Secretary, any further questions or
comments from you for Mr. Hiraga?
JEFF WALKER: No, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Treasurer, do you have any at this time?
SHELLEY COOK: I don't. But I wanted to make you all aware that I have now gone into a class
I teach. And it's through University of Colorado at Denver and Denver Public School, the Girls
Athletic Leadership School. And I've taken advantage of our meeting to-- it's a class on public
service and public policy-- to put you on speaker so that this class here could hear this
proceeding. So thank you for letting me combine what we're doing-BOARD MEMBER: Jobs.
SHELLEY COOK: --for public methods for this class.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's wonderful. We are all about transparency and sharing
information. So thank you very much for that. All right. Then I think that answers most of the
questions that I have. Director Guissinger, what did you have?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a question. A couple of people, including Director Menten, have
drawn the distinction that we're not voting against national museum. We're voting about the
sublease at the park. My understanding is we're in competition and that the agreement is that
both are important to the proposal. In other words, a vote against the sublease is almost certainly
a vote against the museum. Is that right?
ERIC HIRAGA: Yes. This open space is a critical component to the bid. Not only-- they are
looking at this open space. They are engaging in a community-oriented design competition at the
National Design competition. And their thoughts are to have this available to the public,
therefore it's open to your ridership as well-- and to have-- I don't want to use the word,
memorial-- but elements to be decided by this competition that really honors these medal
recipients.
In addition to that, they see this as an outdoor venue in which they can have ceremonies and
other activities. So it'd be a very active park. But it's still yet to be determined exactly how that
looks. But there will be a process should we win. And like I said, you'll have another bite at the
apple if that gets more defined and as our staffs work together on the framework of the actual
details of the contract.
DOUG TISDALE: So if there were outdoor events in this park on the gravel lot that RTD leases
at this time, then those public events would be subject to news coverage and people would see
our Civic Center Station in the background of all those news stories. Am I correct?
ERIC HIRAGA: Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, all right. Thank you. I hadn't thought about that. Thank you. Director
Menten, I don't mean to exclude you. I wanted to make sure I got everyone else asking their
questions first as members of the Executive Committee. But let me turn to you now, Director
Menten. I tried to ask the questions you had. Are there any other questions you'd like to raise
with any of the people who have participated in this discussion?
OK. I'll let that go one more moment. Director Menten, are there any other questions that you
would like to raise that we haven't already addressed? I hear none. So I'm going to conclude that
Director Menten is either not at the present moment posing such questions or may have run off
on the call.
Are there any other questions or issues that any member of the Executive Committee would like
to raise concerning this agenda item before we have a vote on the approval of the September
Board meeting agenda? Hearing none, may I have a motion, please?
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, oh. Oh
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Who's?
NATALIE MENTEN: I disconnected-- that's OK. I disconnected myself when I tried to unmute.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh.
NATALIE MENTEN: I just wanted to note that I sent most every one of you a press release,
which shows the pictures of these memorials and the park with a description of this 133,000
square feet available just 100 feet away from the proposed museum location, as I know you have
likely not done a visual inspection. And I hope that will help you in understanding what I was
trying to state over the phone.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that. Thank you. Let me confirm to you, yes, we have been
distributed copies of the press release that you issued. And we have-- the pictures are found on
the back of that. And I will say at least personally from my own perspective, yes, I am very
familiar with these. I've been walking that park since 1956. God, I just confessed to something I
shouldn't have probably.
In any event, yes-- and I thank you for that-- but yes, we did receive it and have distributed it as
well.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: You're welcome. All right. Any other comments or questions from members
of the Executive Committee relative to the approval of the September 24 agenda? Madam
Executive Manager-JEFF WALKER: Chair --

BOARD MEMBER: Wait.
DOUG TISDALE: Wait. Who is speaking?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes?
JEFF WALKER: OK. So sorry. I'm trying to double task here. I just wanted to say that I
appreciate all the conversation, all the discussion, the questions, the answers that were provided
and the way that they were provided. I think this whole process shows the strong relationship
between RTD, the City, the state, and now it's reaching into the federal government. And we've
always had that. This is just a different part of it.
But I think that this project as a whole will be beneficial to the City. I think the synergy between
all the other museums just down the road, the art museum and the film museum, I'm confident
that [INAUDIBLE] Colorado will be a really strong draw for a whole lot of people. And I think
that RTD and all of our partners and friends and neighbors will benefit from them. And that's all.
I'm done.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Appreciate that. I was about
to recognize the Executive Manager and then I'll come back and ask if anybody else has any
closing thoughts before I ask for a motion. Madam Executive Manager?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So we need to take a motion on the action item to move this to the
Board meeting before we approve the agenda.
DOUG TISDALE: As the whole? All right, so may I have a motion, please, to move forward
with the agenda item number 13, the approval National Medal of Honor Museum sublease as
submitted by the six Directors. Do I hear a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: I move.
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. I'll take the motion from the First Vice Chair, and I'll take
the second from the Secretary. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those in
favor indicate here saying, aye. Aye. Are there any opposed?
BOARD MEMBER: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: There are none that passes unanimously. That item is on the agenda. Now for
approval of the agenda as a whole. May I have a motion to approve the agenda as a whole?
BOARD MEMBER: So moved.

BOARD MEMBER: Moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. I'll take the first as a motion and the second voice that I
heard as a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those in favor
indicate by saying, aye. Aye. Are there any opposed?
There are none. That passes unanimously. The agenda is approved for the Tuesday, September
24, 2019, full meeting of the Board at 5:30 PM. We only have one other matter to address in this
meeting today, in the Executive Committee, and that's to make you aware-- not to ask your
approval of-- but to make you aware of the 2020 meeting calendar.
And that has been distributed. It is given to the Executive Committee in the first instance for its
review and consideration. It takes into account things such as the American Public
Transportation Association meetings that many of us attend, along with resolution and other
matters.
It will be presented to the Board also next week. And then we will be given one month to
contemplate that and suggest any changes or revisions before we actually publish that. That's the
other matter we wanted to bring to your attention.
The last remaining matter, of course, is our favorite matter and that is our General Manager's
opportunity to address the Executive Committee and to share with us anything, whether it would
be concerning the topics we discussed today or other matters to come before the Executive
Committee. Mr. General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I appreciate the members who have joined us today
and the dialogue to answer the Board's questions. So thanks very much to all of you that have
joined us today. Look forward to moving this forward. I don't really have any other matters, Mr.
Chair, other than an announcement on our newsroom. It is live now. So that's a resource for
everyone to use that wants to learn everything there is to possibly learn about RTD.
And so I would encourage you all to check that out today. And I think we're kicking it off with
several pieces, including one piece-BOARD MEMBER: [INAUDIBLE]
DAVE GENOVA: --by the Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. And was there a comment on the telephone? It might have been
just a simple adieu. All right. Is there any other matter to come before the Executive Committee
at this time from any member of the Executive Committee? Is there any other item to come
before the Executive Committee from the Executive Manager? Is there anything further to come
before the Board from the General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: No.

DOUG TISDALE: And does any Director have anything further that they'd like to just make sure
that we hear before we close out? Hearing that, for the sake of the record at 1:18 PM on
Thursday, September 19, we stand adjourned. Thank you all very much.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

