2022-03-18
Special Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I will now call the Friday, March 18 Special Board Meeting to order. We are
convened as of 8:33 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to
speak.
And I want to start by thanking everyone for meeting so early, meeting under challenging conditions. I
want to thank the Board Office staff for scrambling to get this together and make it work.
Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. The official meetings
of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's
YouTube page.
Colleagues, being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to
enhance and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, is our collective duty
to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. These are values we can all agree upon. As such, I encourage
each of us to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board and to act in accordance with those
principles, which are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
I'll now call the roll Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek's here. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Present. Sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Sorry, present.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Sloan? No? OK. Director Sloan is excused absence. Director
Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good morning. I am here.
VINCE BUZEK: That's great. With 14 present and 1 absent, we have a quorum.
Move on to the public comment section. This is our public participation period, which is open to anyone
who would like to address the Board. Those who would like to address the Board but are unable to attend
Board meetings can submit their comments in writing at RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com.
Gillian or Tai-Shrae were there any email comments received for this morning's meeting?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there was not.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you. We'll move on. If you wish to speak and have not already done so,
please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it's your turn to
speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings.

Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to
speak this morning. If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email
those materials to the Board Office at the following email address, RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Speakers,
please refrain from profane or obscene speech, direct your comments to the Board as a whole, and
refrain from personal attacks.
And who would be our first speaker, if any?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Chair Buzek, I don't see any hands raised.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. With no participants in the queue, we'll close the public participation period at this
time.
We have one [AUDIO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman, you are muted, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. I'm going to go back.
With no other participants in the queue, we'll close the public participation period at this time. We have
one recommended action item on the agenda, listed as item 4A. That action item is for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, GM/CEO, to execute a successor three-year
collective bargaining agreement, CBA, between the RTD and the Amalgamated Transit Union Local
1001, ATU 1001, effective January 1, 2022 through December 31, 2024 for all represented RTD
employees. Do we have a motion?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale and Director Williams-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
VINCE BUZEK: Rivera-Malpiede is the second. And Director Tisdale is the movant.
I would now like to ask General Manager Johnson and staff to present any pertinent information regarding
this action item to the Board. Thank you.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. And good morning, Mr. Chair and members of the Board. It is my
pleasure to engage you this morning to present staff's report for your consideration regarding the
authorization of the successor collective bargaining agreement with the Amalgamated Transit Union
1001.
This meeting would not be taking place if ATU 1001 and RTD did not work in collaboration and in good
faith for the betterment of the vast majority of the agency's workforce. ATU and RTD understands that
one could not spell union without U and I, because to be represented by a union, an individual must first
be an employee of said organization. My sincere appreciation to Lance Longenbohn, the President of
ATU 1001, the officers of that organization, and the bargaining team, as well as a hearty appreciation to
Michael Ford, our Chief Operations Officer, Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Kent
Enwright, our acting Director of Human Resources, who served as RTD's bargaining team.
It is important to note that our agency's labor environment is not traditional in the public realm and that
RTD has one union representing 2/3 of the workforce, which is the ATU 1001. oftentimes, when we
engage in conversations relative to union representation here at RTD, the first thought most people have
is always centered upon operators and mechanics. However, ATU 1001 represents 64 different
classifications within the agency.
Those classifications include, but are not limited to, telephone information specialists, clerical workers,
Treasury clerks, facility workers, instructors, and service monitors. Hence, making across the board
decisions regarding wage, benefits, hours, and working conditions without factoring in the specific needs
for these very different classifications will not yield a highly functioning workforce, as we will be unable to
recruit, retain, and reclaim employees.
Recognizing the residual impacts of this seemingly never ending pandemic, working on the front lines
often is not an attractive choice for many, due to the human interaction. Hence, the vast people power
problem, as people collectively evaluate their life choices and work preferences, as evidenced by the 4.5
million workers who left their jobs the latter part of 2021, according to the US Labor Department's Job
Opening and Labor report.
Coupling this issue with the highly transmissible Omicron variant has led to significant workforce
challenges across the board. As all employees are entitled to protected leave, such as Colorado's Healthy
Families and Workplace Act, this has left the agency with a new P3, a people power problem. Trying my
hardest to find a rainbow in the clouds, the federal rescue funding has provided an opportunity to shore
up the below market wages and benefits, as well as other quality of life issues, to make RTD more
attractive and an employer of choice by providing competitive wages.
The bargaining team and I intentionally focused on our four strategic priorities so RTD can continue to
strive for success and the agency can position itself to be a trusted regional partner and an employer of
choice within the Denver Metro region. As a reminder, these four strategic priorities served as the
functional pillars that we use. Community value, which is, RTD strives to be a community partner,
providing value to our customers, as well as the broader Denver Metro region while sustaining planet

Earth. Customer excellence. RTD strives to consistently deliver high quality customer service. Employee
ownership. RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled and engaged workforce and moreover strives
to be an employee of choice in the region to employ talented, courageous, agile, committed, and creative
employees to guide the agency toward a successful future, and we must provide competitive wages. And
rounding out, there's financial success. RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial
resources.
So the labor objectives spawned from those strategic priorities, and specifically those are: deliver services
sustainably, ensure employee ownership, enhance quality of life, and embrace values and thrive. Taking
into account our why, which is embedded in our mission, we make lives better through connections, and
our vision to be the trusted leader in mobility, delivering excellence and value to our customers and
communities. None of this can be realized if we cannot sustain service delivery, as we are a labor
intensive organization.
Focusing on the priority of employee ownership, it's imperative that we leverage what I coined as the
three Rs, recruit, retain, and reclaim employees. That can be done through the enhancement of quality of
work life and by embracing our values, which is passion, respect, diversity, trustworthiness, and
collaboration, as well as ownership.
Before I conclude my remarks, I would be remiss not to recognize that today, March 18, 2022, is Transit
Operators Appreciation Day. I extend my appreciation to the dedicated bus and light rail operators and
commuter rail engineers, without whom the agency cannot deliver high quality transit services throughout
the Denver Metro area, as well as to all the agency employees who make vast contributions each day
with our daily mission top of mind of making lives better through connections.
I will now yield the virtual mic to Kent Enwright to orient you to the collective bargaining process and key
elements contained in the CBA. Mr. Enwright?
KENT ENWRIGHT: Thank you, CEO and GM Debra Johnson. Good morning, Mr. Chair and Board.
Thank you for the opportunity to participate in this meeting this morning.
I would also like to thank CEO and GM Debra Johnson for her support as our executive sponsor through
the bargaining process, the RTD bargaining team for their hard work, commitment, and collaboration in
moving these negotiations forward, and especially Lance Longenbohm and the ATU bargaining team for
their collaboration and hard work to complete our negotiations. We would not be able to accomplish this
work without all the participants.
Throughout the negotiations, all parties followed the golden rule of collective bargaining. That would be
bargaining in good faith. Good faith bargaining is the party's legal duty to bargain with each other through
proposals and counterproposals at reasonable meeting times and with a frequency to allow the parties to
reach an agreement and ultimately to sign the collective bargaining agreement that has been reached.
We began our bargaining journey with over 18 months of preparation to refine our interests and priorities
and began meeting with the ATU bargaining team on October 7, 2021. We held our last bargaining

session in the last week of February, 2022. In addition to bargaining in good faith, negotiations must
address the required mandatory subjects of bargaining. Throughout the process, our bargaining remained
focused on reaching agreement on these mandatory subjects of bargaining, including wages, benefits,
hours of work, and working conditions.
Wages include, of course, pay rates, bonuses, shift differentials, incentive pay, plans, overtime, and other
matters related to compensation. Benefits include, among other things, vacations, insurance, and
pensions. Hours of work include work schedules, breaks, vacations, and holidays. And finally, work rules
include things like safety practices, disciplinary rules and procedures, and policies regarding employee
monitoring, and other matters that relate to the work process.
Throughout our preparation and bargaining, we worked with many stakeholders and resources, both
inside and outside the organization, in developing and refining our proposals and counter proposals.
Through our preparation for bargaining, we had extensive meetings with all of our operational teams,
together a wish list of CBA changes, prioritize the issues and select the issues that would be most
impactful to RTD operations, in addressing our people power problem and ability to recruit and retain and
reclaim our most valuable resource, our people, as well as addressing employees' quality of life and
enhancing operational efficiencies.
After this extensive preparation and bargaining, priorities fell into the categories of economic
enhancements, quality of life for our employees, and operational efficiency enhancements. In
collaboration with our ATU partners, we made substantial economic improvements, including increased
wage rates for all job classifications to enhance our recruitment, retention, and reclaiming opportunities.
We worked on the Defined Benefit Pension enhancement to honor our employees and the closure of the
plan to new entrants to support our long-term financial success, and created a Defined Contribution Plan
for new hires to attract the next generation of our employees. In addition to those primary items, we also
worked on multiple allowance and premium increases for things like tools, boots, uniforms, construction,
and certifications.
I will now turn it over to CFO and AGM Doug MacLeod to talk in more detail about our work in these
areas.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Kent, and good morning.
Regarding the primary financial impacts from this contract, we have two categories of expenditures that
will be [INAUDIBLE] primarily recurring expenditures-VINCE BUZEK: We can't hear you very clearly, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Can you hear me now? OK. Thank you. Apologies.
Regarding the financial impacts from this contract, one of our primary areas of focus was to align
recurring revenues with recurring expenses and one-time revenues with one-time expenditures, such as

the pension corrections. So Kent mentioned the primary categories, those being wages, health and
welfare, and our retirement benefits, as well as allowances.
Regarding wages, in 2022, an across-the-board increase of 16% for non-operators to wages will be
implemented. Operators will receive a 16.6% increase, so that the beginning wage or the entry wage is
$24 per hour. In 2023 and 2024, a 4% increase will be applied across-the-board to all wages in each
year.
Health and welfare benefits will also be more fully funded with an increase in contribution from RTD. We
believe this will provide additional stability and fiscal sustainability to our health and welfare plans, which
will benefit our employees. The 2022 increase is anticipated to cost $23.8 million. This funding has been
included in the Board approved budget that was approved in November of 2021. The 2023 and 2024
increases will impact the budget by $7.6 million and $7.9 million, respectively. Those funding amounts
have already been included in the mid-term financial plan that was approved by the Board in October of
2021.
Regarding one-time costs, the pension that our represented employees currently participate in was last
fully funded in 2001. It has been as low as 37% funded. In order to shore up this pension in the past,
certain measures have been undertaken which reduce benefits for certain employees that were hired-- for
all employees that were hired after January 1, 2011. We also had to increase funding to that plan, which
helped stop the bleeding, however, it did not fix the overriding problem of the underfunding.
With the CBA, we had the unique opportunity to shore up that funding of that plan. This will require a
$160 million one-time contribution, an increase to the contributions from RTD from 13% of wages to 15%
of wages, while keeping employee contributions static at 5%. This will double the benefits, the pension
benefits for those employees who had their pension benefits reduced that were hired January 1, 2011
and thereafter by doubling their benefits. It will also provide more assurance to all employees participating
in the retirement plan that funding will be available to ensure that their benefits are there when they retire.
For RTD, this creates community value by limiting the financial risk to employees by closing this pension
plan to new employees beginning in 2023. However, the CBA will enact a new Defined Contribution Plan
that we feel is very attractive through a 9% contribution from the employer and up to a 5% match that the
employee would put in.
That summarizes the economic impacts from this collective bargaining agreement. And with that, I will
yield the floor back to Kent.
KENT ENWRIGHT: Thank you, Doug. In our priority area of quality of life improvements across the CBA,
we have agreed to items such as increased time allotment for rest breaks between shifts, improved
restroom facility access and standards, flexible floating holiday usage of birthday and anniversary days,
an enhanced light duty program to allow employees to return to work while they heal, and a new
framework for a collaborative apprenticeship program to develop potential employees and enhance
current employees' development.

Our final area of priority was around operational efficiencies. And in this area, we have agreed to a
contract term that is in alignment with our fiscal year, improved flexibility and work assignments to help
maintain service, language affirming the value of our RTD employees that is unique in the industry,
improved grievance processes to create a greater space for resolution, and improved use of email to
share information with employees.
At this time, I'll turn the presentation back over to CEO/GM Debra Johnson to conclude our remarks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Enwright. And I want to thank the team. And I also want to
acknowledge Michael Ford, that didn't present but had an integral part in working collaboratively to ensure
that we leveraged our operational efficiencies as he worked with his respective teams to manage the
operational efficiencies that we hope to attain through your consideration and authorization to execute the
collective bargaining agreement.
So Mr. Chair, I'd like to thank you all for convening this meeting this morning and adjusting your
schedules to evaluate and take into consideration this critical action before you. So thank you very kindly.
I yield the floor back to you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And we're going to move into the discussion phase right now. But I'd like to start,
and on behalf of the Board of Directors, I want to thank President Longenbohm and his team, GM/CEO
Debra Johnson and her team, for the hard and diligent work they did bringing this matter together.
Debra Johnson and I agreed early on that the Board would be intimately involved in this process, which
resulted in several Executive Sessions to discuss and give input on the agreement as negotiations
proceeded. This was a deviation from past practice, where the Board was only brought in at the end to
vote on the CBA. This CBA is truly a product of the negotiation team and your Board of Directors. And
Debra Johnson, I thank you for making that happen for us.
I'm going to ask the Directors keep their comments short because of our tight time schedule today. And I
will now move on to discussion. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. I just want to thank Debra Johnson. And I want to thank
everybody who rides RTD and hope that they benefit from all of these changes that we have all worked
so hard to make the system better. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I, too, applaud everyone who participated and
extend my appreciation for the great collaborative work that has resulted in a cooperative agreement that
I think is one of which we can all be proud.
I do have one question I do want to put on the record. And that is, if you look at page 4A of the-- I guess
it's, I'm sorry, packet page 7 for this item, referring to Article III, Section 20 of the agreement relative to

part-time operators, there is a statement in this summary that says, limits part-time operators to weekend
work only and states that those hours worked do not occur toward the weekly maximum.
I would just, for the sake of the record, appreciate it if we could amplify on that and indicate that part-time
operators are not limited to weekend work only. And that's my question, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Mr. Chair. I will have Mr. Enwright answer that question for us.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good.
KENT ENWRIGHT: Thank you. Yes, that is not a limitation. This is actually an expansion of the
opportunity for part-time employees to do weekend work only. So as you have a summary in front of you,
it doesn't have the full language. But it is an expansion, not a limitation.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate that. That's all, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for the question, Director Tisdale. And Mr. Enwright, thanks for clarification.
Second Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I also wanted to congratulate the team for its hard work in
negotiating. And I also want to applaud GM/CEO Johnson the team for using as a cornerstone for these
negotiations our principles and our strategic goals that were set forth by this Board nearly a year ago. And
just, it's so important to me that those anchor all of our decision making. And this has proven true in this
particular negotiation. So once again, congratulations.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. I don't see any more virtual hands raised. I'll go to the
Directors that are assembled in person. Any Directors there, please state your name and go ahead with
your comment.
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: I don't believe anybody has any comments.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Sounds great. So we've got a motion. We've got a second.
I'm going to do a roll call vote, just so we can all be on record for this one. Director Bouquet, what's your
vote?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Buzek. Yes. Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: So a unanimous vote of all Directors present. Congratulations. Hopefully this goes a long
way to helping us with our three Rs, as Ms. Johnson brought forward.
So with that, that concludes this action item. Are there any other matters to come before this Board?
Anybody at the, Board members that are assembled in person, anything? I can't see your hands, so--

PEGGY CATLIN: We're good.
VINCE BUZEK: We're good? OK.
With that, I will entertain a motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
VINCE BUZEK: Angie, second. Any opposition to the motion to adjourn? Hearing none, we are adjourned
at 9:01 AM. Thanks, everybody, for your work on this. Thanks again to our staff for their hard work.
Have a good day.
MICHAEL FORD: Congratulations.
BRANDY HUNTER: Congratulations, y'all.

