1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kenneth Riley, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
OCTOBER 25, 2011 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.
Chair Kemp announced that Director Anderson was excused from the meeting due to an
emergency,

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Twelve (12) Board Members were present at roll call. Director O’Boyle arrived after roll call
and Director Anderson was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Victor Crenshaw, bus operator with twenty years of service was not present.
Special Recognition
LT. Stacey Goss with the Denver Police Department recognized RTD for its work and
participation in the regional Operation Mountain Guardian exercise, a homeland security
exercise. In particular she recognized Gary Googins, John Tarbert and John Perry.
Chair Kemp and Assistant General Manager Austin Jenkins presented certificates to
winners of the 2011 rail roadeo. Austin also introduced Bill Bell, LRT Manager and Phil
Eberl, Manager of LRT Maintenance who announced the winners.
Operators:
1st Place: Robert Dennis
2nd Place: Carl Hill
3rd Place: Narcisco Garcia
Bill Bell noted these were the good and very best and all three have been past winners.
Maintainers:
1st Place: George Sweeney
2nd Place: Kevin Steele

3rd Place: Larry (Todd) Kiel
Phil also noted these were outstanding maintainers with experience and previous wins.
George Sweeney has won a number of contests including two international first place
wins.
Chair Kemp expressed appreciation to all these winners for the excellent job they do and
how well they represent the high caliber of employees at RTD.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Prior to public participation, Chair Kemp noted there were a number of speakers tonight. He
stated that if anyone was here relative to the ADA (access-r-ride), this was not an item to be
voted on the agenda tonight. However, public participation was open to anyone who wanted
to speak.
Debbie Brinkman, Mayor Pro Tem for Littleton, shared the relationship history between RTD
and the City of Littleton and stated that Littleton has been there for RTD. She expressed
concern over the proposed change to route 401 and the impact to the Colorado Center for
the Blind that is located in Littleton. She stated the negative impact on their livability
experience and goal to create independence for the blind. She asked RTD to restore this
route to its fullest.
Phil Greenwald, Transportation Planner for Longmont, referenced a resolution passed by the
Longmont City Council. He stated that over the last eight years, Longmont has taken a
disproportionate hit in terms of rate increase and service cuts. He also spoke about an effort
taking place in Longmont which could impact on transit and asked RTD to hold off on any
service cuts until after August, 2012. He referenced a “transit fund” that he had heard of
and asked RTD to consider using that fund for such an occasion as this.
Beth Manski, Town of Superior, spoke on the negative impact to the town’s disabled and
elderly if the call-n-ride services were discontinued. She stated the town of Superior
contributed about $1.9M in 2010-2011 and felt the $185K to retain the services was a mere
drop in the bucket compared to its negative impact.
Kirk Hunger, student at the Colorado Center for the Blind, stated that he uses the route 401
to get around and these changes will hamper his ability to stay independent. He stated the
route 401 is a lifeline for anyone west of Santa Fe to get to the light rail. The message this
change sends to him is “you are not worth getting out and around at night.”
Julie Deden, Director of the Colorado Center for the Blind, shared that since 1999, this
center has been located in Littleton because of their understanding of access to public
transportation. They have moved to the Pinnacle address; however the transportation has
been good for helping make the students mobile. She requested that RTD restore the 401
back in its entirety so that these students can have the same opportunities for a quality of life
like everyone else.
Kenny Anderson who lives in Aurora and is also a student at the Colorado Center for the
Blind, talked about what this means to him and his access to freedom. He compared taking
away these routes (i.e. 401. 67) to taking away cars from drivers. The Center teaches
students on how to take “charge with confidence” and it is impossible to do that if the
transportation access is taken away.

Michelle Schoen representing the West Wood residents, spoke about the route on Morrison
Road. She shared they are revitalizing that area, and that a number of the users are not the
traditional 9-5 type users or neighborhoods.
Tom Anderson, 1st Vice-President for the National Federation of the Blind, spoke to the value
of the Colorado School of the Blind in helping blind students to achieve their independence.
Students come from around the country and one of the draws is the good and functional
transportation system. Cancelling the 401 and the 60 would impact on new students who
use the route 60 to get home and have an overall adverse effect on the economy in Littleton.
We must preserve the right of the blind to live effectively in the Denver area.
Maurean Nielfield, instructor at the Colorado Center of the Blind who also lives in the
apartment serviced by route 60, talked about teaching students to live independently. They
use the route 60 for new students to go back and forth since there are less safety issues.
She requested RTD to reconsider the elimination of this route and the change to the route
401.
Diane McGeorge spoke of starting the center in 1988 with a goal to help blind know how
they can live full, independent lives. These students are looking for a way to give back and
not be takers. They are learning to be full participating citizens and if we curtail the 401, 60
and other routes serving that area, RTD needs to realize what it is doing to the spirits, lives
and growth of thousands of people.
Jesse James shared that he has multiple disabilities that restrict his mobility. He would feel
assaulted if the route 401 bus is removed out of his life.
Gary Van Dorn stated it would be a travesty to take away the bus from the Colorado center
of the Blind. They need to retain their independence.
Beth Allred, a graduate from the Colorado School of the Blind, spoke about how the Center
gave her independent skills to live and travel. She urged RTD not to cut off a community that
desperately needs access to light rail.
Scott LeBarre, President of the National Federation of the Blind in Colorado spoke about the
Colorado Center of the Blind as one of the major projects they have to turn their
independence into productive, real life experiences. The blind can realize their true capacity.
He urged RTD not to cut the 401 or the 60. He also stated this issue should be looked at
from a public policy perspective. RTD is critical to the infrastructure which allows people to
move here and integrate into society. Cutting these routes will destroy the vitality of this
community. He requested RTD to rethink all of this and explore other options such as better
marketing, He urged RTD to continue to build Denver and not destroy one of the attractions
which is the service provided by the Colorado Center for the Blind.
Jan Scott, who has lived at the Pinnacle for about 7 years, spoke about what eliminating and
cutting service would have on her daily activities as well as its impact on her neighbors.
Right now just to do a simple errand takes 4 hours using public service. She asked RTD to
reconsider cutting services west of the Pinnacle station.
Shayne Brady, Capitol Hill United Neighborhood (CHUN), indicated this was an advocacy
group for the neighborhood for over 40 years. The CHUN has the densest population in the

city. The CHUN Board took a vote in favor of retaining the #2 route and encouraged RTD to
re-consider their decision.
Dave Evanes shared that he uses the route 401 and thanked RTD for reinstating the route
during the peak hours. However, he is still concerned about the non-peak time when there is
a need for reliable service. Call-n-ride is not a good alternative. He proposed options such as
using the call-n-ride buses for fixed route service and improving marketing to improve
ridership.
Barb Keto advocated for route 401. She indicated that perhaps having better parking
facilities could increase the ridership as people will be able to get to the station.
William Bradshaw, Cherry Creek Steering Committee, spoke about their efforts to maintain a
level of stability in the Cherry Creek area. They are working on an area plan and good
reliable transportation and connectivity are critical elements in this plan. The Cherry Creek
Board has adopted two resolutions around this issue. He urged RTD to reconsider the route
2 service.
Jesse Soto and Melonie Marrone from Longmont addressed the Board together. Jesse is an
ADA client who will be affected by these changes to the fixed route schedules. Melonie read
a letter from Jesse’s employee stating his heartfelt concerns over the possibility of losing a
good employee because of the loss of the Bolt services.
Karey Carbough from Longmont who is visually impaired spoke about his concerns. When
cuts were made previously, ridership had diminished more. If cuts are made on the 323,
ridership may further deteriorate. He has noted some deadheading on the L, Bolt and the J at
both the beginning and the end of the routes. Since these routes travel pass some of the
areas of concern, why not let them continue to drop off passengers along this route. Call-nride is not a reasonable alternative.
John Stockwell of Littleton spoke in favor of the route 67. He stated he has a dyslexia
learning disability that prevents him from driving, though he is a productive research
associate at the Colorado School of Mines. This is a drastic route change and appears
disproportionate. This shows a “failure of imagination” by RTD to come up with more
acceptable options.
Helen Bushnell, Lakewood, stated that RTD is in a crisis and now would be a good time to
tap into that “rainy day fund.” She also indicated that cities and municipalities have monies
that they may be able to contribute to this transportation crisis. RTD should make contact
with these cities and request financial assistance in providing transit services.
Duncan Larsen, Colorado Center for the Blind, read a letter from Anna Lane, Executive
Director of the West Community Economic Development Corporation, Business and Cultural
District of Denver. A copy of this letter is on file in the Board office.
Martha Roskowski, City of Boulder spoke on behalf of the Bolt and Longmont/Boulder
services. She read a letter from Honorable Mayor Osborne expressing concerns on routes
203,225, and Bolt. Martha provided a proposal for RTD to use funds from the “rainy day
fund” to address these transportation issues and slow down on the fiscal sustainable goals.
Scott McCarey, Boulder, spoke to retain the Bolt route and requested RTD work with Boulder

on looking for possible sources of funds.
Christopher Blair, Boulder, also expressed concern on the Boulder routes 223 and 225.
Former Director Barbara Yamrick spoke on behalf of the proposed changes for Heather
Gardens in Aurora. She stated Aurora is the 3rd largest city in this area and it would be a
travesty to not have any call-n-ride services in this city. She reflected on how 7 years ago,
the fixed routes were removed and the call-n-ride service put in its place. With the proposal
to reroute the 130 along that route and with the proposed work on the Yale Bridge, the
citizens will be at a great disadvantage if we cannot sustain ridership. We will be back where
we were 7 years ago and Aurora will suffer behind all these changes.
Jesus Orrantia from the office of City Councilman Paul Lopez expressed concern over the
Westwood route. He stated this is a community with a large Hispanic population with this
being their only access to major activities. Once routes are removed, it is difficult to bring
them back. He referenced a letter from the BUCU around the need for this service. Many of
the residents of this district are service employees who do not work the standard 9-5 shift.
We will be starting a vicious cycle and cutting off the most underserviced class who can least
afford this change.
Mark Hoffart, Westwood Association spoke about the heavy dependence on the route 4.
This not only affects mobility but cuts into the community trust with RTD. This affects
access to jobs, community and opportunities to improve quality of life. We should be
expanding service, not cutting.
Jason Bentley from Littleton advocated to leave the route 401 intact.
Jerome Rodarte of Brighton spoke about the Brighton access-r-ride services. This route will
be eliminated based on changes to our fixed services. He works on weekends and has
already talked to about 25 other people who will picket should this service be eliminated.
D. Curtis Willoughby, National Federation of the Blind in Denver, suggested the Board was
not ready to vote on the S route. There does not appear enough data to fully understand
impacts and he suggests a delay in voting.
Rich McClintock, Executive Director of Transportation Solutions, thanked RTD and the Board
for listening. He called out General Manager Washington, Assistant General Manager Abel in
particular. He shared an example of the DD route and stated that Colorado Boulevard is one
of the busiest roads in Colorado. We need to look at how we can drive less in this
community and that starts with good and accessible public transit. W need to look at future
ridership. One of the attractions for businesses coming into the community is transit options.
It makes sense not to cut bus service while expanding FasTracks.
Doris Willoughby provided an explanation as to why the assumption that call-n-ride is a
reasonable alternative to fixed service is a poor assumption. These are not equivalent. The
training that Colorado School for the Blind provides to their citizens on how to use public
transportation in general and the skills they acquire help across other cities as well.
David Hall, National Federation of the Blind, Colorado Mile Hi Chapter, shared that he has
heard lots of discontent among the community that he represents. He felt they were given
so little time to hear about these changes given the drastic nature of the changes and that

these changes were little advertised.
Adriana Magana with the office of City Councilman Paul Lopez read a letter regarding the
desire to rescind the decision on route 4.
Robert Alvarado referenced a signed petition opposing the cuts in Longmont. He expressed
concern that a large number of people are on the verge of losing their jobs if they do not have
adequate transportation. The call-n-ride service offered is useless. The users are feeling they
really have no viable options. This represents a 20% cut to the constituents in Longmont
and they cannot afford this drastic cut.
Robert Dyson of Littleton made an observation that the service offered to suburbia does not
compare with the service offered in the city. He wanted to know what the guidelines are.
We need a policy that is understandable and fair.
John Batron with the Colorado Center of the Blind stated he came out here from Maine
where the services were not worth a dime so that he could achieve his independence. This
economy will lose lots of money coming into this community if we cannot provide adequate
public transit services that will continue to attract people.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director Daly made several grammatical corrections which have been updated on these
reports.

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley reported that the committee had met earlier today to review the
General Manager’s 2011 goals. The next meeting is November 8 at 4:00 p.m. They will
continue the process for the next 2 months leading to the General Manager’s 2011
performance evaluation. The Committee also had a brief discussion on the 3rd quarter
online survey results of which there were 12 Board members who responded.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF SEPTEMBER 20, 2011
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the September
20, 2011 Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor (Bagley,
Cohen, Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 0
against. Director Anderson was absent and Director Riley had
resigned from the Board.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF OCTOBER 18, 2011
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the October 18,
2011 Special Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor (Anderson,
Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer and Tobiassen) and 0 against. Directors Bagley, Cohen,
and James abstained since they were out of town. Director
Anderson was absent and Director Riley had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp reported on Board member’s attendance at APTA annual and expo,
Railvolution conference and DUS tour with the state legislators. He offered other
Directors the opportunity to comment. Due to the concerns around time, he will continue
his report at a later time.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 General Manager Washington reported that he spoke at the Constructors and
Designers Alliance 2011 Fall Social to a group of architects and planners.
 General Manager Washington reported that he spoke to the South Metro C-470
Transportation Summit to a growing coalition of concerned citizens on the issue of
traffic congestion. He thanked Director O’Boyle for bringing this opportunity to his
attention.
 General Manager Washington indicated Secretary LaHood had recommended to a
group of Detroit Delegation including the Governor and Mayor that they travel to
Denver to hear about the success RTD has experienced with the regional community
and stakeholders. Phil Washington will be presenting to this group and they have
notified the Colorado governor’s and Mayor’s office.
 General Manager Washington shared that he has received an email from the State of
Georgia that they have created a taskforce to study a regional authority. RTD will
testify before this Taskforce.

XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to
approve the unanimous consent agenda,

items A through G.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Anderson was absent from this
meeting and Director Riley has resigned.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

A. Free Rides for Members of the Military
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that free rides on RTD
for active duty members of the United States Military should be extended from the presently
approved date of December 31, 2011 to December 31, 2012. Utilization has been relatively
low to date and this extension will have minimal financial impact on RTD.
.

B. Kiosk Systems Support Contractor
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to award both option years (years 4 and 5) for a kiosk systems support contractor to Counter
Trade Products. The contract (18DJ022) is being brought to the Board because this is a
Personal Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
C. Amendment of MV Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract (17-DH-007) for the
provision of “South Jeffco Call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing ADA
paratransit services contract with MV Transit (17-DH-007) for the provision of the “South
Jeffco Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the duration of the
existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $613,000. This cost includes an estimate for
fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The service is scheduled to begin
January 8, 2012 and run through the end of the current ADA Paratransit Services
contract, December 31, 2012.
D. 2012 Salaried Benefit Plans
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
approves the 2012 Plan Year Salaried Insured Benefits Budget and authorizes the General
Manager to enter into an agreement with the Insurance Carriers.

E. Drug and Alcohol Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the revised Drug and Alcohol Policy mandated by the Federal Transit
Administration of the United States Department of Transportation.

F. Proposed 2012 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors accept the modifications to the Fiscal Policy Statement for 2012.
G. Budget Transfer for MOW Facility at Rio Court
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the transfer of $2,426,451for the Maintenance of Way facility at Rio
Court, Denver. The source of funds includes the 16th Street Mall Paver expense project and
the District Shops CNG (Compressed Natural Gas) capital project. The transfer will provide
funding for the award of a construction contract to rehabilitate the recently acquired Rio
Court facility.

XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Prior to the introduction of item H for voting, Service Optimization/January 2012 Service
Changes, Chair Kemp requested the General Manager to provide some background
information around the process leading to these service change proposals. General Manager
Washington introduced the team of Assistant General Manager Bruce Abel, CFO Terry
Howerter and Service Manager, Jesse Carter and asked them to join him at the table.
General Manager Washington indicated that in August, 2010, the Board created the Fiscal
Sustainability Taskforce consisting of public and civic leaders as well as Board members and
senior leadership staff. This committee met approximately 11 times and provided a
recommendation to the Board in June, 2011. These recommendations focused on three
primary aspects:
 Fiscal Policy
 Revenue Enhancement
 Expense Reduction
Optimizing service or rightsizing service was one of the recommendations under expense
reduction to help create a sustainable level of service. Staff presented the SBP plan to the
Board sometime around April which showed a severe budget challenge in light of decreased
sales tax revenue and the national economic crisis. The Board approved staff moving ahead
on the SBP to affect a $12M reduction in service cost and provide long term stability. In
August, 2011, staff presented these ideas to the Board. From mid-August through midSeptember, staff conducted a series of public hearings, again with lots of Board members
involvement. A statement was made by one of our public speakers that no information had
been posted on the website. The reason is because at the last Board meeting on September
20 when he spoke, one of the action items was to seek Board’s approval to go out for public
hearings and no information could be posted until the Board approved that process. The
Board approved going out for public hearings in September and aggressively scheduled 24
hearings with approximately 1000 riders in attendance, not including all the letters and emails
that were received from our constituents and municipalities across the regional area. The
original target was to reduce the service charges by $12M but after the public hearings, staff
revised that service plan to $10M or a reduction of $2M from the original goal. These
changes are scheduled to go into effect in January and any delay would have a negative
impact for the January run Board and the 2012 budget. The decision needs to be made to
meet the January runboard if we are going to achieve any of the SBP objectives. RTD has
taken a serious look at all these proposed cuts and changes and have taken a surgical
approach in these recommendations. We have tried to provide alternatives such as call-n-ride
in areas that we know will be more heavily impacted and we believe these options are
doable.

This proposal, though it is heart wrenching and one of the largest cuts we have made at one
time, can create a sustainable operation for the next six years. This is the first
recommendation coming from the fiscal sustainability taskforce and we need to stay on
schedule with this decision. We are also looking at priorities for such time as the economy
improves and our available revenues can support expansion or enhancement. These priorities
will undoubtedly include routes such as the 401, 4, etc.

H. Service Optimization/January 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the January 8, 2012 Service Change package as revised and summarized
in Attachment A resulting in annualized cost savings of approximately $10,307,470 and,
further, to authorize the General Manager, or his designee to execute contract amendments
as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
service optimization/January 2012 Service
Change.

PRIMARY MOTION:

Director James seconded the motion.
AMENDMENT:

Director Tobiassen made an amendment to
approve the service optimization/January 2012
service change but to use an additional $2M
from the “rainy day” fund to maintain some of
these other critical services such as restoring
route 401 to its fullest.
Director McMullen initially seconded this
amendment but after extensive discussion,
withdrew his second.

DISCUSSION:

Bruce Abel commented that we have already made a
$1.3 adjustment to the budget and asked clarification of
Director Tobiassen’s amendment if it was an additional
$2 million or $700K for a total of $2M. Director
Tobiassen responded it is an additional $2M.
Terry Howerter, CFO, explained the discussion around
the “rainy day” fund. RTD has a fund balance and
operating reserve of around $19M that it is required to
maintain to keep its bond ratings so that it can secure
additional funding, etc. His recommendation is the Board
needs to keep this fund. The $1.3M came from the
unrestricted fund balance. The $12M projected service
cuts would help to sustain the $19M which would give
us enough fund balance to move forward.
Director Tobiassen inquired how much we are growing
this fund. CFO Howerter responded, we are not really
growing this fund in 2012, 2013, or 2014. We have
had the 19M for the last three years and this is all we

have for operating the business and retaining our ratings
so we can borrow. We are drawing down at a rate of
approximately $11M a year of the unrestricted fund
balances.
Director McMullen inquired how much it would cost to
keep the route 401 on its regular schedule. Staff
responded approximately $201K. Director McMullen
stated the Board simply has to figure this out in terms of
what is important to them—we are an elected Board.
Chair Kemp stated that staff and the Board members
have worked with the public and their constituents
through endless meetings trying to figure out options.
We have already made some significant adjustments
from the original proposal. This is a very hard decision
and one that none of the Board members or staff wants
to make. We must have a sustainable budget and we
have looked at every option we can think of to get
there. It is not beneficial at this point to start nitpicking
at the budget. No one wins.
After some consideration from this discussion, Director
McMullen withdrew his second to the amendment.
Chair Kemp asked if anyone wants to second this
amendment.
The Amendment died for lack of a second.
SECONDARY
AMENDMENT:

Director McMullen made an amendment to the primary
motion to add the route 401 back in its entirety.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Daly shared his agony in this whole issue.
Route 401 is in his district as are a number of the other
routes being changed or eliminated. He and Director
Bagley fought hard to get some peak level service for
route 401. In exchange, he had to give up some of the
other routes. One of the alternates they considered is
the call-n-ride with Flex route services. While this is not
ideal, he petitioned staff to launch a major educational
effort with the users on call-n-ride services. He will be
watching this carefully but feel if properly implemented
and marketed, call-n-ride is a viable option. He is willing
to give the call-n-ride a try.
Director Hoy asked for a clarification on the change to
route 401 and Bruce Abel explained that peak hour
service on the 401 will be retained but there will be no
weekend service.

Director James commented that these are major league
changes but the process worked. As painful as it is in
his district for the route 2, he is confident that staff did
a very in-depth, thorough job on the analysis and he will
support the primary motion.
Chair Kemp restated the difficulty of the decision that
everyone had to make but we need to offer a
sustainable amount of service. We will also prioritize
how to re-establish service. He will support the primary
motion.
Director Deadwyler asked if the Board will be sitting
here next year contemplating cutting services. CFO
Howerter stated he has no crystal ball but with sales
taxes down and the volatility we are experiencing, he
cannot say no with 100% surety. General Manager
Washington responded RTD has a history of putting
services back. For our service changes, we implement
enhancements, reduction or maintenance and putting
services back would fall under enhancements. He
reminded the Board that the SBP is a snapshot in time
and things can change (positively or negatively).
Director Deadwyler stated her concern that we have not
turned over every stone before cutting services. She
cited a question of are we spending base dollars for
FasTracks and are we getting appropriately reimbursed
on the base operations. Her recommendation is can we
postpone some of these projects/activities until we see
an economical turnaround-we need to separate out the
need-to-have from the nice-to-have. We need to look
internally for cost reduction opportunities.
Director Bagley echoes some of the concerns expressed
by Director Daly.
60% of the speakers tonight
expressed concerns on the route 401. He personally
has spent in excess of 20 hours on this route 401 issue.
He is aware of the severe impact on our visually
impaired clients. The biggest challenge is trying to get
commuters to jobs and he noted that 82% of the
reserved parking revenue is coming from the Southwest
line. He has worked hard for the commuter rail and the
Colorado School for the Blind. He is also optimistic that
the call-n-ride option will work for them.
Director McMullen asked the Board to consider
extension of route 401 for at least a year. We are
yanking their freedom away for the Colorado Center for
the Blind.
Director Cohen expressed he is conflicted on all sides.
This discussion underscores the national issue of
funding transportation-the volatile revenue stream, etc.
He is concerned that if we do not make the tough
decision now, the financial gap issue will grow
exponentially.
He will reluctantly support this

recommendation.
Director Walker thanked the public for their attendance
and support. Obviously this is a critical issue facing
public transportation. He asked if we have a priority list
if sales revenue increases. Bruce Abel responded yes,
we are developing one. Director Walker stated that one
of his long term goals is to make sure we have better
land use that is more productive and accessible to mass
transit.
Director Daly expressed that to keep the 401, he had to
sacrifice the route 67. The visually impaired community
uses all the routes.
Director Tobiassen expressed that he is struggling with
how to help the blind community. The Colorado Center
for the Blind does a yeoman’s job in travel training and
this is a model he wants to emulate for other ADA type
improvements. He is troubled however by the fact that
we are taking their fixed route service which forms the
base of their travel training model used to teach
independence.
Director Tayer stated that as a public agency, we need
to be responsive to the public. Staff has been diligent in
pursuing options that will help RTD to be more
sustainable. The Board will continue to drive fiscal
sustainability. We have to note that staff has done their
homework in this analysis and doing this surgical cut.
Frankly, our hands are tied.
The goal of fiscal
sustainability is to get us out of the conundrum of either
raising fares or cutting services. He will be riding staff
on other elements of the fiscal sustainability
recommendations to try to get us where we need to be.
In spite of losing services in his area on the Bolt, 203,
etc, he will reluctantly support the staff’s
recommendation.
Director Malpiede thanked the staff and everyone for
sticking in here for this long and agonizing decision. She
echoes the comments from her colleagues and stated
she does not take the decision lightly. In all the
districts, all the Board members have spent long hours
and have lost services. With a heavy heart she will
support the staff’s recommendation.
VOTE ON
SECONDARY AMENDMENT:

An electronic vote on the secondary
motion to add route 401 back in its
entirety which would have a total impact
from the changes of $1.5M versus the
recommended $1.3M from staff.
The vote was 4 in favor (McMullen,
Bagley, Deadwyler and Tobiassen) and 9

against (Daly, Cohen, Hoy, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, and
Walker). Director Anderson was absent
and Director Riley had resigned.
Chair Kemp declared the motion FAILED.
VOTE ON PRIMARY
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken on the
primary motion to approve the January
8, 2012 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in annualized cost savings of
approximately $10,307,470 and, further,
to authorize the General Manager, or his
designee
to
execute
contract
amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by
these changes. The vote was 12 in
favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer and Walker) and 1 against
(Tobiassen). Director Anderson was
absent and Director Riley had resigned.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

I. Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution
Plan – 2012
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors certifies a 2012 contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined
Contribution Plan of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to
approve the certification of contribution
rate for the RTD Defined Contribution
Plan.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Anderson was absent from this
meeting and Director Riley has resigned.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

J. FasTracks Computer Support Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award
both option years (years 4 and 5) for IT desktop support services (Contract # 10DY001) to
Technology Integration Group (TIG). The contract is being brought to the Board because this
is a personal services contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.
MOTION:
Director Bagley made the motion to
authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents
necessary to award both option years for
IT
desktop support services to
Technology Integration Group.
Director James seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Anderson was absent from this
meeting and Director Riley has resigned.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

K. Authorization to Award the Design Build Contract for the Sheridan Parking Structure
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to enter
into a Design/Build contract with Swinerton Builders not to exceed $12,600,000. This
contract is for the design and construction of the RTD FasTracks West Rail Line Sheridan
Parking Structure. Funding for this project is included in the 2011 FasTracks budget for the
West Rail Line Parking Garages, and was provided through the Certificates of Participation
(COP) issued in 2010.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $ 900,059
from the Light Rail Maintenance Facility project to the West Rail Line Parking Garages project
to fund project elements that are not eligible to be funded through the COP.
MOTION:
Director Malpiede made the motion to
authorize the design build contract for the
Sheridan Parking Structure.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13

votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Anderson was absent from this
meeting and Director Riley has resigned.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

L. Request for Approval of the North Metro Project Utility Relocation Construction
Expenditures
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to (1) execute work orders under the RTD
North Metro Project Utility Relocation Agreements (URAs) in order to proceed with the
design of North Metro Project dry utility relocations in an amount not to exceed a total
RTD financial responsibility of $1,500,000; (2) to delegate signature authority to execute
any such construction work orders to the General Manager.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the use of funds from the
North Metro budget in the amount of $1,500,000 included in the 2011 Adopted Budget.
MOTION:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve
the North Metro Project Utility Relocation
Construction expenditures.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker) and 0 against.
Director Anderson was absent from this
meeting and Director Riley has resigned.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Kemp noted that an Executive Session would not be held at this meeting.
XIII.

OLD BUSINESS
There was no old or unfinished business.

motion

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Deadwyler wanted to publicly acknowledge the Board staff and all their hard work in
putting the Board packets together. She recognized they had to work extremely hard this
week to include all the packet of information with all the last minute service changes and still
deliver a very professional packet to the Board.
Director McMullen shared he had taken a personal tour of the Civic Center Station. He
commented on the state of the restrooms and also the photo wall of the early struggle to get
access-a-ride service. He asked staff what would be the priority in fixing the facility.
General Manager Washington indicated the springs.

XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 9:50 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, October 25, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District N
District B
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Lorraine Anderson

District L

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Narciso Garcia
Bill Bell
David Genova
Shirley Bennett
Mike Gil
Larry Buter
Gary Googins
Jessie Carter
Carl Hall
Rick Clarke
Terry Howerter
Carolyn Conover
Austin Jenkins
Libby Cox
Larry Kiel
Robert Dennis
Marla Lien
Jane Donovan
Barbara McManus
Phil Eberl
Brian Matthews

Doug MacLeod
Anthony Menendez
Doug Monroe
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Chris Quinn
Scott Reed
Jeanette Scarpino
Daria Serna
Cal Shankster

John Shonsey
Cherie Sprague
Kevin Steele
Walt Stringer
John Tarbert
Bill Van Meter
Del Walker
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Beth Allred, Robert Alvarado, Kenny Anderson, Tom Anderson, Josh Andrews, Lilly Asadullina, John
Barton, Shae Bethea, Jason Bentley, Christopher Blaire, Brad Boland, Mr. & Mrs. Borsik, Shayne
Brady – Capitol Hill United Neighborhood, William Brayshaw, Debbie Brinkman – Mayor Pro Tem City
of Littleton, Paul Brown, Helen Bushnell, Karen Bushre, Karey Carbaugh, Julie Deden, Peter DeHaas,
Susie Drum, Robert Dyson, Dave Evans, John Ferry, Abraham Fisher, Sally Friedman, Stacy Goss –
DPD, Ricky Green, Phil Greenwald – City of Longmont, Sean Griffith, Stan Gronek – ATU 1001,
Nehemiah Hall, Reem Hamd, Andrew Harmon, Randy Harrison, Dan Hawbaker, Russell Heath,
Howard Hemke, Mark Hoffart, Kirk Hunger, Jesse James, Chip Johnson, Stacy Johnson, Barb Keto,
Daryl Kinton, Christopher Kinuit, Tami Knopping, Duncan Larson, Scott LeBarre – National Federation
of the Blind, Jeff Leib – Denver Post, John Leyba – Denver Post, Scott McCarey, Rich McClintock,
Jen McKinney, Antonio Madera, Adriana Magana – Councilman Lopez’s Office, Wes Majerus,
Melanie Marrone, Wayne Marshall, Bob Marusin, Diane McGeorge, Monique Melton, Eric Miller,
Jabari Moran, Beth Moyski – Town of Superior, Andrew Murray – Metro State, Tracie Newton –
Lockheed Martin, David Nietfeld, Maureen Nietfeld, Jesus Orranthia – Office of Councilman Lopez,
Steve Patten, Nicole Pelham, Jim Pilkington, Zhanna Ramirez, Jen Rebecca, Julie Reiskin – Colorado
Cross Disability Coalition, Mike Reiser, Justin Reynolds, Curtis Robinson, Jerome Rodarte, Martha
Roskowski, Antonio Rozier, Dawn Russell, Dolores Sanchez, Thane Sanzo, Michelle Schoen –

Westwood Residents, John Scholl, Jan Scott, Barbara Smith, Jesse Soto, Dishon Spears, Carol
Sprague, John Stockwell, Abby Swatek, Chris Taylor – Spectrum AV, Rolando Terrazas, Janet
Triplett, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Heather Williams, D. Curtis Willoughby – National Federation of
the Blind, Doris Willoughby, and Barbara Yamrick.

