Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Tuesday, April 4, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
Chaired by Judy Lubow

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Lubow called the meeting to order at 6:15 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
6:14 PM
6:20 PM
6:10 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Present

6:13 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:16 PM
6:15 PM

Judy Lubow

Committee Chair

Present

6:16 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

6:10 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

6:10 PM
6:09 PM
6:15 PM
6:15 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:14 PM
6:15 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Andrew Bates, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett,
Garrett Christnacht, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Kevin
Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Rick Fahlstedt, David
Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory Granrud, Ali Imansepahi, Russ Larson,
Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, Heather McKillop,
Mike Meader, Brian Middleton, Scott Reed, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark
Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Ken Claussen, Saundra Dowling, William Gross,
Tina McDonald, Joanna Morsicato, Roger Sherman, Vivian Stovall,
John Thompson, Joe Tripplett, Richard Valenty, Gary Van Dorn,
Megan Wagner, Tim Walker, Darcy Wilson

B. CAC

• Citizens Advisory Committee
Ken Claussen, Citizen’s Advisory Committee (CAC) Co-Chair, asked for all of
the CAC to raise their hands to be recognized. He stated that the CAC
concluded their meetings with Board members last week. He said that it
was too soon to compile a comprehensive report; but stated that the CAC
would provide a complete written summary to RTD after their meeting in
April. He emphasized that this report will include common themes and
takeaways from all the meetings. Mr. Cluassen said most of the Board
members see value in the CAC but some Board members had a lack of
clarity to what the CAC’s role is. He said that there were a lot of
discussions regarding who is responsible for engaging the committee. He
stated that the consensus is that the Administration is responsible for
identifying ways that the CAC can assist the agency. Mr. Claussen affirmed
that General Manager Genova would be attending the CAC April work
session.
He closed by saying that there some positive first steps were made from the
meetings.
Director Solano asked if he could address a Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition (CCDC) concern that he had. Committee Chair Lubow asked if he
could please present his concern during the Other Matters portion of the
agenda.

C. Recommended Actions

• Approval of Wagon Road Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza Improvements
Contract
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to execute all documents necessary to execute the contract for Wagon Road

Park-n-Ride Pavilion and Plaza Improvements with T-Bone Construction, Inc.,
in the dollar amount of $1,270,874.94. Funding of this action is included in
the 2017 Adopted Budget.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 18, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, introduced Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
for Capital Programs, and Cory Granrud, Manager of Park -nRide Design.
Ms. Vishwakarma described the Wagon Road Park -n- Ride as
one of the oldest in the District. She said her team wants to
rehab the development all at one time with a minimal
inconvenience to RTD passengers.
She stated that, for this particular project, her division worked
with other RTD departments to lay out a very careful phasing
plan and the minimal use of parking space during the project.
She stated that the design has been done in-house and she
recognized them. She said the construction is planned to last
approximately 180 days and that the bid they received is
lower than the internal cost estimates. Ms. Vishwakarma
asked Mr. Granrud to give an overview of the project.
Mr. Granrud stated that the design engineers have been
working on the plans for the face lift for a couple of years. He
said remodel will include refurbishing the pavilion, installing
new benches, upgrading the lighting and screening, and as
well as ADA upgrades which will make it easier to maneuver
through the complex. He stated that there will be some
realignment to the Kiss -n- Ride area to make it better. He
said the contractor will be installing conduit for future fiber
optic connectivity to link Wagon Road’s Park -n- Ride’s
electronic devices to RTD’s network at District Shops through
CDOT’s backbone along I-25. He went on to say that RTD
received three bids and they were all competitive, but our
preference is T-Bone Construction. He said that T-Bone
Construction has done work for RTD in the past and the team
is requesting the bid get awarded to them.
Director Archuleta asked where the Park -n- Ride is located.

Mr. Granrud stated that it is in the vicinity of 120th and I-25.
Director Broom asked whether they looked at making changes
to the driver relief area, did the RTD team considered putting
in public restrooms.
Mr. Stopplecamp replied that RTD’s current policy does not
allow for public restrooms if the facility is not manned. He also
said that the original driver’s kiosk is not in good condition and
needs to be demolished and that a new facility needs to be
built for RTD drivers.
Director Broom stated that he would like the Board to look at
the bathroom policy in the future to see if it makes sense to
provide more public restrooms.
Chair Hoy said he uses this facility all the time. He stated that
he noticed that the pedestrian navigation is not the best. He
spoke of how people are making their own pathways to get
from point A to point B easier. Chair Hoy stressed that he can
only imagine that people with disabilities have a hard time
walking through there. He said he is hoping that the planning
team will look closely at the pedestrian usage.
Mr. Granrud said his team can look at the traffic patterns to
see what the pedestrians are doing. Mr. Stopplecamp echoed
Mr. Granrud and stated that they will look at the patterns. He
said the biggest challenge is that people like to take short
cuts, which RTD does not encourage because of safety issues.
Chair Hoy offered to meet the team at the Park -n- Ride to
discuss his concerns.
Chair Hoy offered the team at the Park -n- Ride to discuss the
issues he has concerns with.
Director Folska asked Mr. Stopplecamp why RTD does not
have any public restrooms that are unmanned.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that there are two concerns with public
restrooms, one being security and the other is maintenance.
He stated that Denver Union Station and Civic Center are both
manned and have security along with janitorial services. He
said it takes a lot of resources to keep the restrooms available
to the public.

He said the Board and senior management have decided in the
past not to offer public restrooms. He stated that the deciding
factor is whether or not to continuously staff restrooms.
General Manager Genova stated that public restrooms relies on
management and maintenance of the facilities.
Director Folska asked about the pedestrian-orientated
developments, which includes the Park -n- Ride facilities.
Director Folska said that Chair Hoy is correct about the ease of
walkways at the Park -n- Ride facilities. She stated that it
would be helpful if the planning committee would try and walk
through projects blindfolded to get a sense of the layout; and
offered to assist.
Director Mahalik asked what the construction time span is for
the Wagon Road project.
Mr. Granrud said the project will last 180 days.
Director Solano asked if this project would create more parking
spaces.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that at the Wagon Road property has
no room to expand. He said by making the facility more
pedestrian friendly they are losing some parking spots.
Director Lubow stated that six months is a long time; and
asked how disruptions would be minimized.
Mr. Granrud replied that their team has designed three
different phases of the project with a plan to shuffle the buses
around to minimize any safety issues.
Director Lubow asked if some parking spaces will be
unavailable during the construction.
Mr. Granrud stated that there are some ADA parking spots are
near the Park -n- Ride that may be shifted but will still be
available.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained that most of the work will take
place on the plaza sidewalks and at the drivers kiosk rather
than the parking facility.

Director Williams asked if the Park -n- Ride was across from
the Cracker Barrel and asked what was being built behind the
Park -n- Ride.
A member of the audience stated the new structure is the
Adams County Human Service building.
Director Folska asked if there were plans for putting in plants,
trees.
Ms. Vishwakarma confirmed that they are putting in
landscaping.
Director Folska said that it would be great to reach out to
communities where new projects are being developed and plan
a tree planting event.
Director Solano asked whether there is a height restriction on
building up.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that there is no height restrictions.
Director Menten asked if any of the rehabilitation projects to
the Park -n- Ride are considered art.
Mr. Granrud stated that no art elements are being added, and
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that only basic RTD staples are being
added during this rehabilitation.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Hoy, Lubow,
Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair Lubow declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

• Free MetroRide Travel Time and Reliability Improvements
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, introduced Lacy Bell,
Manager of Corridor Planning, to present on an update of the Free MetroRide
program and to provide information on some future requests.

Ms. Bell stated that she was the Manager of the Free Ride program from
2012-2014. She said that her team is currently working with the City and
County of Denver to improve the travel time and reliability of the program.
Ms. Bell provided the following update.
History
• 2004: FasTracks plan included a circulator for downtown to
complement and relieve peak period demands on the mall shuttle
• 2005: Denver’s Downtown Multimodal Access Plan defined the
18th/19th Street Alignment and recommended transit priority
measures (dedicated lanes)
• 2006 – 2014: Further planning and design to define the route, stop
locations and transit priority measures (separate stops, bus bulbs,
shared HOV lane)
• 2014: Free MetroRide opens providing weekday peak period service
every 6-9 minutes between DUS and Civic Center
• 2016: DRCOG grant funded an expansion of service allowing for
extended peak periods and 4-6 minute headways
Current Operations
• Fare-free service with multiple door boarding
• Uniquely branded 60 foot low – floor articulated buses
• Shared bus/bike/HOV lane on 19th Street
• Bus bulbs on 18th Street between Curtis and Wynkoop
• Dedicated and enhanced stops
• Simple, frequent service – no schedule required
• Service: Monday – Friday: 5:00am – 9:00am; 2:30pm – 6:30pm
• Headways: 4-6 minutes
• 3,000 boardings a day
Need for Improvement
• Goal of the Free MetroRide is to provide faster service through
downtown than the Free MallRide
• With increased congestion, the Free MetroRide is often no faster or
more reliable than Free MallRide especially during the PM peak
• With 2 additional FasTracks commuter rail lines coming on board by
2018 (G Line and N Line), even greater need to circulate those
passengers and relieve pressure from the mall shuttle
Funding
• The capital project was completed significantly under budget due to
cost savings from the bus purchase
• $1.5 million of the initial project funding has been reserved in the
FasTracks APE for future improvements

Potential Improvements
• Bus Priority Signal and Queue Jump Analysis for the entire route
o Implement where feasible
• Traffic Signal Optimization study for the entire route
o Implement where feasible
• Transit-Only Lane on Broadway
o Will provide benefits for other RTD routes as well
Anticipated Outcomes
• The potential for additional dedicated space allows buses to operate
more reliably – not as constrained by congestion. This also decreases
bus travel time.
• Potential signal improvements prioritize buses – decreased travel time
and increased reliability.
• Potential separation of bike/bus facilities allow for both to operate
more efficiently/safely.
• Potential stop improvements decrease dwell time – decreasing overall
travel time.
Process/Schedule
• All potential improvements include modifications to Denver streets
and/or traffic signals
o More efficient to have the City lead the study and
implementation of these type of improvements
• RTD will provide $1.5 million to CCD to fund:
o Feasibility analysis AND
o Implementation of feasible improvements
• Spring/Summer 2017: Finalize IGA including RTD Board approval
• Fall 2017: Feasibility Analysis and Design
• 2018-2019: Additional Design and Implementation
Director Broom asked how long the DRCOG grant will cover the expansion
of services.
Ms. Bell stated that the grant is for three years and after that time RTD has
it budgeted to continue at those service levels.
Director Folska asked if the plan is to give the City and County of Denver
(CCD) $1.5 Million dollars and they would conduct the study of the lights.
Ms. Lacy stated that the 1.5 million would go towards the feasibility study
and to any improvements that RTD approves that would be beneficial to the
agency.
Director Folska asked if we are going to give them money to hire an outside
consultant will conduct a feasibility study.

Ms. Lacy stated that most of the study will be conducted by City and
County of Denver’s in-house traffic staff.
Director Anderson stated that she received some complaints about the
construction taking place west of Union Station.
Ms. Lacy stated that the construction detour is hindering the ridership of the
Free Metro Ride.
Director Francone asked the amount of capital savings and where the
savings were placed.
Mr. Van Meter did not have the exact figure and said the remaining balance
went into the FasTracks general fund.
Director Francone asked if the $1.5 million would cover the study and
whatever improvements are agreed upon.
Mr. Van Meter confirmed that it would cover the study and only
improvements agreed upon.
Director Francone asked whether RTD could use the Denver Moves study
that came out last year to assist with any feasibility issues.
Mr. Van Meter said that he knew about the study; but stated it offered a
higher level look at transit. He said the new study is a more defined look at
the Free MetroRide, 15 and 15L, Flatiron Flyer, and other routes that use
Broadway and Civic Center.
Director Tisdale explained that he understands that the $1.5 million proposal
will cover the feasibility analysis conducted in-house and that it will be
based off a great amount of work that RTD has already conducted. He
stated the only expenses that can be incurred are ones that have been
agreed upon.
Director Lubow asked Ms. Bell how much money RTD and O&M will put
towards the Free MetroRide once the DRCOG monies have been exhausted.
Ms. Lacy said she will follow up with a correct figure.
Director Lubow asked if Denver has put any money into this study and if
other municipalities have put money into similar feasibility studies.
Mr. Van Meter stated that Denver and other municipalities offer a great
amount of staff time to assist with projects. He stated that Denver is

committed to making transit a priority over roadways. He also stated that
the City of Boulder offers the same type of assistance and investment into
these projects.
Director Lubow is looking very carefully at FasTracks funding because she
wants to fund the uncomplete corridors. She stated that she believes that
this is best for the district. She stressed that she will be voting yes on this
recommendation action.
Director Folska encourages staff to develop a working relationship with the
University of Colorado both in Denver and Boulder when conducting studies.

• FasTracks Program Management Update
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that he wanted to bring the Board up to speed on
how his department is managing the FasTracks program. He stated that he
wants to come back to the Board next month to request funding to extend
some current contracts. He said that funding is already built into the annual
program evaluation. He gave an overview of the projects scheduled through
2019.
Mr. Stopplecamp explained the FasTracks program employed nearly 300
people at its peak; 80 were employed by RTD and the other 200 were
consultants. He said the people who work on FasTracks brought different
skill sets to the table and that the consultants transitioned from one
FasTrack program to another. He said that every year the project managers
plan out what support they need for their projects and then they meet with
the partners to see what they can do to accommodate RTD’s needs. He
said the consultants are based off projects, on a year-to-year basis. The
level and nature of assignments change each year depending on the work to
be done in that year.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that the FasTrack consultants assist with different
facets of the program. There are FasTrack employees working on senior
management and overall program oversight, construction and planning
project managers, and core staff with different disciplines. He stated that
RTD also hires for short term roles, on an interim basis. Mr. Stopplecamp
gave an overview of the three consulting firms working on FasTracks.
Jacobs Engineering
• Program Support Consultant
• Roles filled
o Mapping, survey and ROW management
o DBE support
o Project controls support
o Specialized planning and environmental support
o TOD support

Specialized engineering support
Project management and construction support on specific
corridors
Contract Status: Expires on June 30, 2017
o Contract initially approved by the Board in May 2005
o Six-year contract effective July 1, 2005
o Six-year option exercised in November 2010
o Annual approval of scope for following year
Future needs
o Continuation of support for mapping, survey and ROW
management
o Continuation of support from specific individuals with
institutional knowledge needed for project closeout or potential
future litigation
o Future needs for other roles to be filled by the Construction
Management Services Consultant
o
o

•

•

Triunity-Hill
• Construction Management Services Consultant
• Roles filled
o Construction support for North Metro and Southeast Rail
Extension
o DBE support
o Project controls support
o Specialized planning and environmental support
o TOD support
o Specialized engineering support
o Quality management support
o Contract Status: Initial contract funding covers authorized
scope through year-end 2017
o Contract initially approved by the Board in May 2014
 Fixed dollar amount cap
 Contract term from 2014 to 2020
• Future needs
o Additional funding authorization for continuing support needed
from 2018-2020
 Completion and closeout of North Metro and Southeast Rail Extension
projects
 Other specialized support as needed
Front Range Systems Consultants
• Systems Engineering Consultant
• Roles filled
o Systems design and support for all ongoing projects
o Traction electrification systems
o Overhead contact systems

Traction power substations
Train control, communication, and central control system
Corrosion control
System wide electrical
Rail vehicle specifications
Operations planning support
Contract Status: Contract funded through June 30, 2017,
Contract expires December 31, 2017
o Contract initially approved by the Board in September 2005
Six-year contract effective January 1, 2006, with an additional sixyear option
Six-year option exercised in November 2011
Funding increases approved as needed
Future needs
o Additional funding authorization for continuing support needed
through the end of 2017
o Continuation of support from specific individuals with
institutional knowledge needed for completion of ongoing
projects
o Future needs for other roles to be filled through a new on-call
contract to be issued later in 2017
o
o
o
o
o
o
o






Delcan
• Quality Management Services Consultant
• Roles filled
o Quality oversight of contracted work for the FasTracks
program
o Quality audits of RTD’s internal business processes and project
management of FasTracks
o Contract Status: Contract expires on July 31, 2017
o Contract initially approved by the Board in June 2005
• Six-year contract effective August 1, 2005
• Six-year option exercised in November 2010
• Annual approval of scope for following year
• Future needs
o Future needs to be filled through the Construction
Management Services Consultant contract
Next Steps
• Staff to finalize program management needs through 2020 project
closeout
• Board Approval of Consultant Contract Amendments – May or June
2017
o Jacobs
– Specific continued support after June 30, 2017
o Triunity – Hill

o

– Additional funding for 2018-2020
Front Range Systems Consultants
– Additional funding through December 2017
– Specific continued support after 2017

Director Menten asked how many employees work in the FasTracks
department.
Mr. Stopplecamp replied that there are 85 dedicated RTD employees and
100 full time equivalent positions shared among 200 consultants.
Director Lubow asked, if any of the unfinished corridors get funded, how
they would fit in to the scheme of the other projects.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that RTD cannot start building any projects until a
the environmental process and design is completed, at which point the
agency can transition into construction. He stated Triunity Hill is on
contract to augment our staff. He explained that Mr. Van Meter’s staff
would work on the planning side, Ms. Vishwakarma would lead on the
engineering and construction side of the project and any gaps in between,
and RTD would rely on Triunity Hill to assist.

E. Other Matters
Director Solano asked Barbara McManus to pass out a map of the bus alterations
that were made to accommodate a request by the Colorado Cross-Disability
Coalition (CCDC). Director Solano said that he met with a CCDC advocate, who
stated an alteration was a good idea but still does not accommodate two wheel
chairs. Director Solano said that the advocate was concerned the configuration
was a safety issue, because the driver would not be able to get through the aisle in
an emergency. Director Solano also mentioned that the advocate for CCDC said
that her group was invited to give feedback on the changes but none of them were
implemented.
Director Lubow replied by saying that Director Solano’s concern would be better
answered by someone from Bus Operations.
Director Anderson said that she was the Chair the Operations and Customer
Service Committee and she would be happy to answer Director Solano’s question.
She stated that the Operations Committee would discuss the issue during their next
meeting.
General Manager Genova gave an update on his meeting in Washington D.C. on
April 3, 2017.
He said that his team had provided updates to the Federal Railroad Administration
(FDA) on the A and B Lines and there was a lot of progress to report. He reminded

the Board that last year the FRA approved a five-part implementation plan and was
happy to report that the majority of the five-part plan has been implemented. He
stated that his team was able to demonstrate the progress for the at-grade crossing
design warning times and constant warning times. He said that those two things
were the primary topic of the meeting. General Manager Genova stated that RTD
has been working on a methodology where they are looking at the calculations of
that design warning time and the calculations towards adding some buffer time. He
said that the FRA is in agreement with the methodology that was presented and
over the next couple weeks they will be finalizing implementation. He stated that
after much talk about the progress made they talked about the status of the waiver
set to expire April 30, 2017.
General Manager Genova explained that their last meeting with the FRA,
approximately a month ago, RTD indicated that the process of adding buffer time
and how RTD may have to go back to the Public Utilities Commission (PUC) and
amend the application. He said that last month his team reported back to FRA that
RTD would not be able to finish that process by April 30, 2017. He stated that
this week RTD will be filing three petitions with the FRA. He stated that the first
petition is to extend the date to the University of Colorado A Line waiver to more
indefinite timeline until the PUC process. He said the second petition would be a
request to remove the B Line from the waiver altogether and that the third petition
would allow RTD to get limited waiver to do testing on the G Line. He stated that
he feels positive in moving forward.
Mr. Stopplecamp said that RTD has a lot of work to back up its claims and requests
for the waivers.
General Manager Genova stated that RTD needs to work closely with the PUC to
ensure their confidence with this approach and allow the Agency to move forward
with an amended application.
Director Folska offered kudos to General Manager Genova and his staff for
continually nurturing RTD’s relationship with the FRA. Director Folska asked an
update on the five-part plan.
Mr. Stopplecamp stated that phases 1-4 are 90% done and phase 5 still needs to
be completed.
Director Anderson asked if the information General Manager Genova is sharing is
for public consumption.
General Manager Genova stated that the information is public. He asked the Board
to consider that there is still some time before final completion but he wanted to
demonstrate that progress has been made.

Henry Stopplecamp stressed that RTD still needs to meet with PUC first, he
suggested that the Board wait to share information until they can provide a
complete update at the next committee meeting.
Chair Hoy reminded the Board that there is not a completion date.
General Manager Genova informed the Board that while Mr. Stopplecamp, Mr.
Straight, and he were in Washington, DC they had a legislative conference where
they discussed the Eagle P3 project; and met with the Senate banking and
Commerce Committees. He stated that those meetings went well.
Director Lubow asked if General Manager Genova had a PowerPoint presentation he
could share with the Board and when they could expect a lessons learned
presentation.
General Manager Genova stated that his team is still working on that document and
that it will cover the design, build, and commissioning phase. He said he will give
the Board an executive summary soon.

F. Next Meeting Date - May 2, 2017
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Lubow adjourned the meeting at 7:43 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

