Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 17, 2019 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - January 29, 2019
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Richard E. Davis – Bus Operator – 28 years
David Goens – Bus Operator – 24 years
Edno Gonzalez – Bus Operator – 24 years
Leonard J. Grant – Lead Street Supervisor – 34 years
Pete Nagy – General Repair Mechanic – 21 years
Alejandro Perez – Bus Operator – 22 years
Dale Plummer – General Repair Mechanic – 34 years
Leroy Sarno – Parts Clerk – 26 years
Kevin F. Smith – Quality Control Inspector – 18 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Chair Pro Tem Walker
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Chair Pro Tem Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of December 16, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Contract Amendment Authority for MCCi (Laserfiche Value Added Reseller)

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his Designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary to amend Contract No. 17DO02, MCCi Laserfiche
VAR Services and Support, to increase the contract amount from a current total of
$499,850 by $890,000 to a new total not-to-exceed amount of $1,389,850
(subject to further Board action by budget authorization for budget years 2020
through 2022), in order to support RTD’s operations, maintenance and project
development based on Laserfiche software through 2022.
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV.

Old Business

XV.

New Business

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

January 9, 2019

Subject:

Contract Amendment Authority
(Laserfiche Value Added Reseller)

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: January 9, 2019
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: January 29, 2019

for

MCCi

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his Designee to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to
amend Contract No. 17DO02, MCCi Laserfiche VAR Services and Support, to increase the contract
amount from a current total of $499,850 by $890,000 to a new total not-to-exceed amount of
$1,389,850 (subject to further Board action by budget authorization for budget years 2020 through
2022), in order to support RTD’s operations, maintenance and project development based on Laserfiche
software through 2022.
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
BACKGROUND
In early 2017, RTD chose the Laserfiche software system as the backbone of RTD’s improved enterprise
content management efforts. RTD had used Laserfiche for many years for storage of certain RTD
records. Instead of buying a completely new enterprise content management (ECM) system, based on
extensive review and cost analysis by RTD subject matter experts and our consulting ECM expert, RTD’s
ECM Steering Committee concluded that Laserfiche was the most cost effective way for RTD to manage
its unstructured information (i.e., information not already managed in place by software such as Oracle).
Laserfiche is now being steadily implemented District-wide as the repository for most unstructured
records. (Some records are being managed in place where their remaining retention periods would not
justify conversion.)
RTD’s Information Governance and Management (IGM) Division has completed many successful
information governance projects with the upgraded version of Laserfiche in collaboration with RTD’s
existing Value Added Reseller (VAR): MCCi, under contract with RTD since 2017. First, in 2018, IGM,
MCCi and RTD’s Safety Division developed and implemented the Safety Management System (SMS)
using Laserfiche. The SMS program is an FTA required program in which RTD must demonstrate it has a
formalized, data driven safety reporting program that complies with the requirements set forth by the
FTA. RTD was awarded the 2018 Laserfiche Excellence Award for the most innovative implemented
project using Laserfiche.
Additionally, IGM, MCCi and RTD’s Human Resources Division completed Phase I of the HR Digitization
project. IGM was able to scan over 3,000 current and former employee files and place them in our
secure Laserfiche repository. Security and access controls have been applied to each employee file to
ensure confidentiality and retention has been applied to ensure RTD adheres to our retention schedule.
Employee files are now available digitally to approved managers and supervisors, thus saving money on
paper copies and space by eliminating extensive shelving in HR.

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A

Third, IGM and HR were able to help RTD save thousands of dollars by automating the yearly decal
distribution using Laserfiche forms. Employees signed for their decals via digital signature and a record
of who received what decal number is kept. This process saved money by eliminating the cost of two
temporary employees and paper.
These are only a few examples of how continued and expanded use of Laserfiche is not only supporting
better information management, but is already saving the District time and money.
DISCUSSION
RTD moved to Laserfiche’s latest enterprise level version, called Laserfiche RIO, in late 2017. This past
year has been a learning curve for the IGM team in terms of new system functionality. The IGM team is
committed to learning as much as possible from the MCCi consulting team so that RTD staff can
become self-reliant in administration and development of future Laserfiche projects; however,
professional services from MCCi will continue to be needed to fully employ Laserfiche RIO in our ECM
efforts. In 2019/2020 IGM will be undertaking some large projects which will require significant support
from our VAR. The requested $890,000 funding increase will allow IGM to pay for up to three more
years (2020-2022 – 2019 is already paid) of annual software support at an estimated $110,000 per
year (total $330,000), and for up to four more years (2019-2022) of professional services on specific
projects selected by RTD at an estimated $140,000 per year (total $560,000), for a total of
$1,389,850. Projects already anticipated for Laserfiche starting in 2019 include:
 North Metro Operations Document Control
 Phase II of the H.R. Digitation project – *There
*This project will require a significant amount
are two pieces of detailed work that will require
of support from MCCi for IGM and collaboration
a significant amount of support from MCCi.
with RTD I.T. in order to meet FRA regulation
Rail Ops file clean up and department template
requirements.
consolidation
 SMS - Safety Management System Phase II

 PDP - Professional Development Plan electronic
form

 GIS Map for Capital Programs Engineering tying  Access-a-Ride streamline business process and
project documentation to a geographical map
create electronic forms
 Accident/Incident – Bus/Rail Ops Electronic  LRV Tech Portal – Providing technical
Reporting to reduce paper and support the SMS
documentation available via weblink to Rail Ops
program
MOW and technical teams
 Customer complaint electronic forms

 Board Office electronic forms

 Laserfiche upkeep and administration fees

 Easter Seals rider verification project

RTD’s initial contract with MCCi was for $400,850. Based on higher than originally anticipated use of
Laserfiche licenses and MCCi project support, RTD amended the contract to add $99,000 for a new NTE
of $499,850. RTD continues to identify additional projects for 2019 and future years to take advantage
of Laserfiche’s benefits as our ECM backbone as our information governance efforts continue to mature.
Granting this Board authority now will allow RTD staff to further amend the contract in stages to allow
for additional MCCi support through this budget year. Importantly, funding for these types of services
was already included in the 2019 IGM Division budget. Board authority will allow RTD staff not to have
to go back to the Board to further amend the contract for 2020, 2021 and 2022 (including option
years), but amendments for 2020-2022 will not occur unless these services continue to be authorized in
the RTD budget, and unless RTD staff determines that exercise of the option years is in RTD’s best

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

interest. For professional services, the amounts sought are on a not to exceed basis, and RTD staff will
determine whether and to what extent projects justify use of MCCi resources or can be handled
internally.
Laserfiche has proven effective and popular, justifying our consultant’s recommendation of it as a highly
cost effective alternative to going outside for an entirely new, multi-million-dollar ECM system. Our IGM
team believes that this requested amount will provide the funds needed to ensure adequate Laserfiche
licenses, technical support, and professional services through 2022 to help us develop the above and
additional projects to take advantage of Laserfiche. While RTD’s IGM team is highly capable in
Laserfiche, support from MCCi will continue to be needed to help our staff succeed with such projects.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The amount of the contract amendment sought is $890,000, bringing the not to exceed total authorized
contract amount to $1,389,850 (subject to Board authorization through the budget process for years
2020-2022).
SBE PARTICIPATION
The RTD Small Business Opportunity Office established a 0% SBE participation goal for this project.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the recommended action by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his Designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to amend Contract No. 17DO02, MCCi Laserfiche VAR Services and
Support, to increase the contract amount from a current total of $499,850 by $890,000 to a
new total not-to-exceed amount of $1,389,850 (subject to further Board action by budget
authorization for budget years 2020 through 2022), in order to support RTD’s operations,
maintenance and project development based on Laserfiche software through 2022.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. This alternative is not recommended, because
constraining Laserfiche services would have a substantial detrimental impact on, and increased
costs to, RTD, impeding development of present and future projects which are imperative to
RTD’s record management and document control needs. RTD would need to stop using
Laserfiche at the end of this year and immediately start the procurement process for a substitute
software system.
3. Authorize a smaller amount only to cover 2019, and require staff to return to the Board for
further authorization for 2020-2022. This is not recommended because there is already a
contract with MCCi with option years in place through 2022, and because funding and
amendments for 2020-2022 will already be subject to Board oversight through the budget
process.

Prepared by:
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel
Lisa Dorrance, Manager, FasTracks Document Control
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.A

Packet Pg. 7

