May 12, 2020
RTD Ops & CS Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. Welcome to the Operations and Customer Service Committee
Meeting, chaired by me. That's Director Kate Williams. The committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 5:30, not in Daylight time. I would respectfully ask that everyone connected
to this call mute your phones and set your ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current conditions, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors
are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this time, the
meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recording, along with the unofficial minutes
of the meeting, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website. You can visit rtddenver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link, the Board of Directors Page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceeding, please announce your name and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. We have a lot of people on the phone tonight, and speaking out of turn causes
confusion both to the record and to the proceedings. Please also note that at the appropriate time
during our discussion and in the voting processes later, I will call on each Director in turn. So
know that your time to speak will come, and if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
At RTD, safety is one of our core values. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.
Even though we've all heard and heeded this advice, many times since the beginning of the
COVID-19 pandemic, information bears repeating if we are to stay vigilant in the weeks and
months to come. We are not out of the woods just yet. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth
with unwashed hands. Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, and throw that tissue in the trash.
If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into your upper sleeve or elbow and not into your hand.
Stay home when you're feeling sick. Self-monitor for flu-like symptoms, and consult with your
doctor's office by phone as necessary.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces, both at work, if you're there, and at home. When
soap and water are not available, use a hand sanitizer with a concentration of at least 60% alcohol.
Wearing a mask has also been shown to reduce the spread of the virus. RTD patrons are encouraged
to wear masks when using public transportation. For RTD employees, please refer to the signage
at your work area as well as the recent letter from our Chief Safety Officer, Mike Meader, on the
topic of mask use in the workplace.
And finally, please continue to limit close exposure to those outside of your household to the
greatest extent possible. This includes practicing social distancing on buses and trains and around
station stops and platforms. We thank you for your adherence to these concepts.
We have three recommended actions on the agenda tonight. Our first recommend action is
Agreement with Denver at I-25 and Broadway Station to Facilitate Denver's Transportation
Project. I'm going to read it and will offer a motion.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents,
including Intergovernmental Agreements, that are necessary to effectuate Denver's transportation
project, which includes transit infrastructure improvements and the disposition and acquisition of
real property at I-25 and Broadway Station to and from, respectively, the City and County of
Denver.
This action addresses the following General Manager's goals for 2020-- core goal number three,
strong financial management. Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with
state, local, and federal reporting, and the development of financing plans for future projects; and
task goal number one, strengthen transparent public communication and collaboration. Do I have
a motion.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Ooh, I think I heard.
BOB BROOM: Bob Broom.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore? Bob Broom, OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Chair Malpiede. Chair Malpiede.
KATE WILLIAMS: And the second. Thank you both. I believe that we have some staff members
here to speak to us about that if there is any pertinent information. And I would like to note that
the information was included in the packet. The Directors have had a chance to ask questions
offline. Whoever is speaking, please state your name for the record. And I assume that, Chessy,
you're not going to be doing any screen sharing.
CHESSY BRADY: That's correct, Director Williams. This is Chessy Brady, TOD Manager for
RTD. So we provided an update on this project three months ago and appreciated all of your
feedback. One key point I want to elaborate on from the Board report, in case any of you have
concerns, is the number of parking spaces. So I and other RTD planners have gone out there to
count the parking spaces in the dirt lot. Denver has gone out and counted. And we've agreed on
200 spaces as the minimum that Denver will provide in the improved park-and-ride.
And we're aware that as the design of the park-and-ride is completed and striping and curbs and
walkways are added, that can affect the square footage that's available for parking spaces. And we
believe that what we may lose in quantity, a handful of spaces here and there, we're sure we're
gaining in quality, and specifically in safety. So we will be monitoring that closely. And, again,
we've set that 200 space minimum, and we're very comfortable with that number.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Ms. Brady-- Mrs. Brady. I'm going to call on the Directors in
alphabetical order to see if there's discussion. Please have all of your questions ready. Once we've
cycled through all the Directors, I will call for a roll call vote. And again I'll call on each Director
in alphabetical order. I'll begin now. Director Broom, do you have any questions?

BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: How's that baby? I have a question for you. Oops, never mind. Director Cook,
do you have any questions?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions, Madam Chair. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Nothing for me. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I actually do have a few questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Finally.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I recall when you came, the last time you provided this update
to us, you said you would provide to us the value of the land via an appraisal. And I didn't see that
in our packet. And I just wondered what that might be.
CHESSY BRADY: Well, so the city of Denver has done a preliminary appraisal, kind of a quick
check on the square footage of the land. We have yet to determine exactly the square feet that will
be exchanged back and forth. But we understand that to be a difference of about 4,000 square feet,
so fairly nominal. So RTD will be losing approximately 4,000 square feet. And the values there
are, especially in the current situation, unclear, and also some under highways.
But the appraiser put them anywhere from $4 to $10 a square foot. And so depending on where
exactly we end up, we're talking about something around $40,000 in difference. And that is then
countered by the value or the cost of the construction of the park-and-ride, which we expect to be
in the millions.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. And I'm wondering how, as we bring these proposals forward- and I know we've talked about this previously-- how we're considering the impacts of COVID.

And particularly as people are telecommuting, how are we thinking about projects in consideration
with COVID-19 and the pandemic?
CHESSY BRADY: That's a big question. I think Denver is set on moving forward with this project.
There's no question there. The funding is available, and it's been in the works for decades. And the
effects on RTD don't really change based on our ridership or our other needs because the land in
question is under highways or runs right along Broadway. It's not land that is a value of immense
value now or would be a change in the future due to the COVID pandemic.
I think for other projects we're certainly taking the pandemic into consideration and making sure
we think through how this is really going to change, specifically real property questions and transitoriented development. But in this case, this is really a highway project, and Denver's committed
to completing it.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much. That's all the questions I have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I have one clarification that I would like. I just wanted to make sure
that RTD has its original park-and-ride of 1,000 spaces, and then there will be an additional 200
given to us. Am I reading that right?
CHESSY BRADY: This is Chessy Brady again. No, that's not quite right. They are replacing our
existing 200. So we have already 200 plus 800, so a total of 1,000 in the whole park-and-ride at I25 and Broadway. 200 of those are located under the highway directly adjacent to Broadway. And
the wedge ramp will encircle those and in the process disrupt them and then replace them. So we
will have the same number of spaces before and after.
JUDY LUBOW: I see. Thank you very much for that clarification. That's all for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions for me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale. Director Tisdale? I think we have a
technology issue there. I'll go on down the line and see if he comes back to us. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. No questions. Just that I ride the 0. I know this will affect the 0, and I
believe it will affect it positively. So I'm looking forward to the completion in 2025. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: No questions, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Doug Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Here you are, sir. Thank you. Do you have any questions?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. No questions, and I apologize. My phone, for whatever
reason, spontaneously threw me off. In any event, no questions, and I thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. We're glad to have you back with us. I have no questions
myself. Chessy Brady, I appreciate your report. And at this time we're going to run through a quick
vote on the recommended action. I'll call your name, you can say yea or-- you know, let's make
this simple. Is there anybody who objects to this recommended action? Please speak at your will.
Hearing nothing, I'm going to take that as a unanimous vote. With 15 ayes, no nos, no abstentions.
The motion passes. There were no no votes. Thank you all for your cooperation.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Williams, I'm a no vote. This is Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So let us amend the record. There are 14 ayes, one no vote, and no
abstentions. The no vote was Director Lewis, and the motion passes.
The next recommended action is the Contract Option Award for the Purchase of 48 Cutaway
Buses. I'm going to read the motion.
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to exercise the option of Contract
25FK006 with Master's Transportation for the purchase of 48 Goshen cutaway buses to be used
for the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services at a price not to exceed $3,616,009.
Costs for the sub-fleets are as follows-- 37 Access-a-Ride vehicles at $74,957 each for a total of
$2,773,409; and 11 FlexRide vehicles at $76,600 each for a total of $842,600. This-DOUG TISDALE: Hello?
KATE WILLIAMS: --recommended action-- yeah? Director Tisdale, we hear you. He's having
technological difficulties. This recommended action supports the following General Manager's
goal. Core goal number one-- Successful Delivery of Transit Services. Director Tisdale? You
hanging in with us? OK. Do I have a motion, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: I hear Director--

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: OK I hear Chairs Malpiede and Whitmore. At this time, I want to ask staff to
present any information they might have. Please also note for the record that the information was
included in the Directors' packet, and the Directors have had time to ask questions of staff offline.
Directors and members of staff, please remember to state your name for the record every time you
speak. Who wants to speak to this?
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen AGM of Bus Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. You have the floor.
FRED WORTHEN: OK. So I'll be very brief. We're requesting for approval of the Board to
exercise our final contract options with Master's Transportation for 48 Goshen cutaway buses.
These buses will replace aging fleets for Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services as well as provide
four expansion buses for Wagon Road and Platte Road FlexRide services. These vehicles are well
past their useful life, their FTA administration service life span, and they're becoming very
extensive and intensive maintenance to keep them in service, so they've become very expensive to
operate.
I would note that since is our final year, we actually have a price locked on these vehicles. But as
of next year when we go out for bid, we expect the price of these vehicles to go up substantially.
Master's has already told us that as of next year the price per vehicle will go up at least $11,000
per vehicle. So that is a good part of the reason why we're moving forward with this recommended
action at this point. At this point, I'd be happy to take any questions you have, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I would like to point out that I did ask earlier where the old
buses go. And Mr. Worthen did inform me that they do go for auction, and he is willing to provide
that information to all of the Directors if anybody knows of someone who is interested in bidding
on these vehicles. I think for the record they are all between six and seven years old, and they all
have a minimum of 160,000 miles on them. Is that correct, Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. That is correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you, sir. I'll see if any of the Directors require more information.
I'm going to go through the roll call alphabetically. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank, you. Sir Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, ma'am. Here just quickly, I know our General Manager has alluded
to in the past some type of sanitizing light that can be affixed inside of buses. I wonder if these
buses can have that kind of an attachment, and if it was considered. Thanks.

FRED WORTHEN: We can definitely investigate that if it is an available option for these type of
vehicles.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. I think we should be considering this on all of our vehicles.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, sir. On the fixed-route around side, we will definitely move forward with
that from this point forward.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Fred.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, gentlemen. Director Buzek, you good?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm good. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm just curious since the Access-a-Ride vehicles appear to have more features
than the FlexRide vehicles, why then are the FlexRide vehicles more costly than the Access-aRide vehicles?
FRED WORTHEN: It has to do with the interior-- Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. It has
to do with the interior configuration of the coaches. They actually have different configurations.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. It just seems to me that there are more features for the Access-a-Ride
vehicles, and that just seemed counterintuitive to me. But that's all. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I would second Director Buzek's suggestion
and point out that for the Access-a-Ride vehicles also, or in particular, they are by their nature
transporting people who may have underlying conditions and make them more susceptible to a
virus or some other infection. So I wanted to just urge that we take a hard look at that. And I would
say even for the FlexRide vehicles, because they often pick up the slack for folks who are Accessa-Ride qualified but are not taking that particular mode for a given trip. So thank you, Madam
Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. I'm going to be a no for this particular round and maybe
even for the final discussion of this. I think considering the circumstances that we're under and our
financial situation at RTD, and even in the state, I think it's inappropriate. And frankly, you know,
for the company to say that they're going to increase it $11,000 per vehicle after this expires, you
know, they might be hard-pressed to get people to buy anything right now, because everybody is

really struggling. And so if we're going to be taking a hit financially, then I think it's really time to
sort of really tighten our belts. And I know we're going to have more conversation about that later.
But even if we were to move forward, I wouldn't vote for it unless we were confident that we were
going to have something like what Director Buzek and Director Cook have commented on, because
most of the folks who ride those vehicles are having some kind of immune suppression system.
Maybe their immune system is suppressed in many cases. And frankly, that goes for our regular
fixed-route vehicles, too, since everybody rides those. So I think that just has to be absolutely
something that is required moving forward. Even when the pandemic is maybe under control, even
when there's a vaccine, I think that that is a new feature that we should be implementing, full stop.
That's all I have. Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just I agree with the others about having the air system. And I think
Director Folska makes a good argument about watching our costs. I don't know that I'll vote against
this. I may still vote for it. But it is something to think about. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a few questions and just want to
express my support for what Director Buzek said and add to that. I did have an inquiry about
plexiglass. I know we talked about putting some protections in place for our operators, and this
seemed like a great opportunity to do that. And I was curious if you, Fred, have had any discussion
about how that might be possible.
FRED WORTHEN: We have not looked at Plexiglas barriers in the paratransit vehicles yet. We
are looking at the possibility of providing some type of a polycarbonate barrier in our fixed-route
services right now. Plexiglass is really not a good alternative because it cracks and breaks very
easily. We are looking at options for barriers across the fleet, and we will definitely look at this for
our paratransit operations, too.
The other thing I should comment on with regard to the ultraviolet system, the paratransit systems
have a significantly different HVAC system than our fixed-route services do. So we'll have to look
at options for that. But I will definitely explore that option for these types of vehicles.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I do appreciate that. And I shouldn't have said plexiglass glass. So that's
my mistake. I was really just referring to a barrier. And it leads me to my next-- and really around
protecting our workers. But it leads me to my next question, how we're thinking about-- when we
make purchases of this magnitude, how we're doing that during a pandemic. And to Director
Buzek's point about sanitizing our buses and providing protection for our operators, I'm just
curious how you all have had discussions and dialogues about that, because we're right in the
middle of this. And it seems like an opportunity to not just deliberate but to maybe move towards
some action.

FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. We are actually exploring with the buses that are in production
right now on the fixed-route side to have plexiglass-- or not plexiglass, polycarbonate barriers
installed at the factory itself. We're in discussions with Gillig right now with regard to that. And
we can explore options with regard to Master's and see if there are similar options available with
them.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you. I do appreciate that. And I know that there has been
some discussion around how air flows within the buses. And again, just really thinking about our
operators and our riders on these. I just really hope we're considering the full scope of this
pandemic and are being proactive in our approach when we are purchasing buses.
And to Director Folska's point, the price tag does make me a bit nervous, considering the
conversations I've had with Mr. Ballard, that he really wants to focus on reductions. And it just
makes me nervous. But I'll let you go to the next Director.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Mr. Ballard. You have the floor.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, ma'am. I have some additional information that may help on this.
Number one, the buses that are currently on the production line at the Gillig plant in California
will have the polycarbonate shields installed on them. We just made that adjustment. And they've
agreed to install those as part of the order. They also, as two or three of the Directors mentioned-they also are installing the negative ion system that pulls viruses and those things out of the air.
That should be something that we continue to order on our buses in the future. It's not something,
to my knowledge, that has been adapted for these small vehicles that tend to carry one or two
people at a time, but we will research that and see if that is available.
Also, tomorrow I will be out looking at a mockup of a polycarbonate shield that Fred and his folks
have put together so that we can see if it's appropriate for retrofitting our current fleet. So that is
in progress.
And then the last point, in talking about buying these buses or these cutaways, the big challenge
with not buying them is that the cost of maintaining the older equipment will far exceed what we're
currently paying. In the long run, it'll be far more expensive to RTD to maintain that elderly
equipment as they wear out. It's more maintenance time, it's more parts, and this is a very, very
good price for these vehicles. And this contract was probably negotiated three to five years ago.
And so these prices are three to five years old, and we should not pass up the opportunity to replace
these vehicles at these prices and to also keep our preventive maintenance expenses in check.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. I'd also like everybody to consider that we are talking
about Access-a-Ride, which is a service that we provide to some people, many of whom are solely
dependent on RTD. And it behooves us to keep our service levels reasonable instead of having
older vehicles that break down. Thanks. I'll go on down the list. Director Lewis, are you finished?

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I did have one more question for Fred about the life of a bus. I'm just
curious.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sure, go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. What were you curious about?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Oh, I'm sorry. I thought you heard my question. About how long we expect
our fleet to last before we replace it.
FRED WORTHEN: So we have different specifications for light-duty vehicles versus heavy-duty
vehicles. These are considered light-duty vehicles, and they're expected to last five years or
150,000 miles, whichever comes first. Our heavy-duty vehicles are expected to last 12 years, and
we've extended the funding out on both of these types of vehicles well beyond their lives. We have
Access-a-Ride vehicles right now we are extending out to seven, and one year, we actually have
them at eight years old. Our fixed-route, we actually have some vehicles that are being extended
out to 16 and 17 years of age.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. And thank you, Mr. Worthen. Let's see who else
is ready. Director Lubow, do you have questions?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I did want to say that I'm very happy that we are analyzing issues
of greater safety on all of our fleet. That is terrific. And I'm very pleased. I'm also wanting to
reiterate Director Folska's concern about being incredibly cost-conscious, because nobody knows
at this point how long this recession is going to last. And it's taking a real hit on us financially. So
these are not ordinary times. I just wanted to reiterate that.
And not to be a spoiler, but I feel like every time that we are asked to approve a non-electric or
non-hydrogen vehicle purchase, I am going to be raising, have we evaluated the possibility of
having a low-carbon vehicle instead of these vehicles? And why aren't we choosing it? Because I
think that we're not only in a time of a pandemic. We still are in a time of global warming, even
though that's taken the backseat. But climate change has not stopped just because of the pandemic.
So I would ask Fred if he's got any response to why we're not doing a low-carbon vehicle.
FRED WORTHEN: First off, there are very limited options with regard to low-carbon vehicles
and particularly on the smaller vehicles. But there is also a substantial cost and infrastructure cost
when it comes to trying to do electric vehicles itself. And these are contracted services where the
contract awards are short in duration, and we do not own the properties that these services are
being provided from.
So doing a retrofit on a property that we do not own is problematic. The length of the contract is
problematic. The cost of the infrastructure is very expensive, and the vehicles are also much more
expensive than regular diesel and gasoline vehicles.

JUDY LUBOW: Well, thank you for that. And I just want to say that I'll be asking this question
any time we are ordering not a low-carbon vehicle. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I have two questions because of comments that came up that were-- I
don't think they were in the packet. The first is, it does state that we pay an adjusted price for these
vehicles with inflation based on producer's price index. So in light of the discussion that if we don't
capture these now, there's going to be what's roughly an almost 15% increase. Has the
manufacturer stated why they expect a nearly 15% increase next year?
FRED WORTHEN: They are actually-- and, of course, that's just the manufacturer that we're
dealing with right now. We would have to put these out to bid, and it could actually even come out
more than that. We just know what Master's is planning on raising their prices to next year. And
that has to do with changes to the chassis itself that they are making and modifications to the
engines.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So they're doing some engineering changes? Is that what you meant?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am.
NATALIE MENTEN: Changes in the line? OK. Which also means the gear trains and everything
else is changing. OK. Just a next question, trying to support local economy, are there any local
manufacturers that build buses like this? Meaning local in Colorado.
FRED WORTHEN: I'd have to get back with you on an answer on that one, ma'am. oK
NATALIE MENTEN: If you could let me know that, I would be interested in knowing if we do
have any. There's been expansion of enterprise zones within Colorado, which have certain benefits
and encourages manufacturing. And there is a large swath just created and out in Jeff Co. And if
you could let me know that, I would be very interested in knowing that. And that is all of my
questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Just an observation. It does seem like a reasonable price based on what a sprinter
van or something like that might cost. Granted, we're buying nearly 50 of them, but it does seem
like a reasonable price in comparison to other, much less capable vehicles. Less custom vehicles,
even. So that's it for me. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Sensitive to the comments made by the other
Directors but understanding the very useful and helpful information provided by General Manager
Ballard, I will be in support of the proposal, and I thank you, ma'am. That's all.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I appreciate all my colleagues' input and comments. So I have nothing more
to add. I'll be in support.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I really also appreciate all
the comments of my colleagues. I think they bring up a lot of really great information. This is a
$3.6 million-plus expenditure. But when I think about it and I think about the services that we are
providing to the community, I feel like it is a good investment in terms of, we will be able to utilize
an extended sized wheelchair lift, which will be great for exceeding ADA requirements. It has a
DBE component at the FDA's approval plan. So I think that that is good.
And, you know, I've also been looking at the whole thing about plexiglass and the safety and
security for not just our bus drivers but for our patrons who will be riding in these buses to make
sure that they are safe. I think that this is a good investment for the agency. I do think, though, that
we have to really take a deep dive look at where we are expending dollars in light of what's
happening in the country and the role of mass transit. But we're going to need more buses if we're
going to have less people in these vehicles. And so I will be supporting this this evening. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I just have one comment. I myself was
recently looking for quotes on similar body-on-chassis vehicles here from a local vendor. And the
quote-- of course, I'm not buying 50. I was looking to buy one. But it was considerably more than
this price. So I think these are not bad prices. And I think that we need to not have vehicles that
are broken or irreparable. And if these can be fitted with some equipment that helps us with the
pandemic situation, I think it's great.
So I'm going to go through and call for the vote. And this time I'll go through by name, one at a
time. Thank you, Mr. Worthen. I appreciate your time. Director Broom, your vote, please. Oh, do
I need to wait? No. I did-- do I need to say the first and the second? We have that already. That's
Chair Malpiede and Director Whitmore. And now we're going to go through and call for the vote.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: One yes. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I am a yes myself. That leaves the vote with 13 ayes, or yeses-that's right. And two nos. The no votes are Director Folska and Director Menten. Thank you all
for that. We have another recommended action. This recommended action is the Broomfield
CMAQ Agreement. I will read the action.
It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to enter
into an agreement with the City and County of Broomfield to provide the expanded Broomfield
FlexRide service. This service will be funded through the grant and the local match. No RTD
money is required. This agreement is for the period 2019 through 2023. Federal funding years,
2020 to 2023.
This recommended actions supports the following General Manager's goals-- core goal number
one, successful delivery of transit services, and core goal number three, strong financial
management. Do I have a motion?
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, and so moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I heard.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek, second.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Buzek second. And who was the first, please?
VINCE BUZEK: Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow. Thank you both for that. I'm going to ask staff to present
any pertinent information regarding the action. Please state your name for the record each time
you speak. Anyone up?
FRED WORTHEN: Good eve-- good evening, Madam Chair. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus
Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello again, Mr. Worthen. Speak to us.
FRED WORTHEN: All right. So very briefly, in 2001, RTD began operating a single vehicle
FlexRide service which was previously called Call-n-Ride service back that primarily served the
City of Broomfield and some portions of Broomfield County. In 2015, the City and County of
Broomfield applied for a grant to extend the services of the FlexRide to cover the entire City and
County of Broomfield. And that grant was approved for funding, and the city and county
contributed their entire local match. They actually applied for a renewal of this grant in 2019, and
it was re-approved for continuation. So we're asking for authority to move forward with the

execution of all documents necessary to enter into the agreement with the City and County of
Broomfield for this FlexRide service. I'll be happy to answer any questions you have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. I'll go through the Directors individually. Whoop. You ready?
Director Broom, you're up.
BOB BROOM: I will be supporting this, and I don't have any questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I have one question, just to clarify. Mr. Ballard said that as we were
looking at ramping up services that we would do that based on ridership. And so I'm trying to
understand how this recommendation interfaces with the pandemic plan.
FRED WORTHEN: So this is just a renewal of existing services. This is a renewal of funding for
services that exist already.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Oh, OK. OK. So I might be confused, then. So this is talking about a dollar
amount and not necessarily about providing the service?
FRED WORTHEN: This is about how the funding for the services that we're providing will be
allocated.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You good, Director Lewis?

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah. I might still be a bit confused, but it should be OK. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd be happy to talk to you about it at any time. Or you can talk to Mr.
Worthen. I can see how it could be a little off. But if you're OK, we're going to move on. Director
Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. It's in my district. I'm very much in favor. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. Just one question. So is that service operating right now at this moment
under the COVID plan?
FRED WORTHEN: I have to check and make sure. I believe it is. But let me check and make sure
that it's still operational right now.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. As I see, it does not have any Saturday service.
FRED WORTHEN: That's correct. It's weekday service only.
NATALIE MENTEN: So care, may I ask, if one of the Board Directors that has Broomfield in
their area, do they know if that service is operating right now?
JUDY LUBOW: It's in my area, and I do not. I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome. OK. Thank you for the question. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No questions, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions. I will be supporting this.
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no questions either, Mr. Worthen. So now we're going to go to a vote.
And I think we'll do this one the easy way. I know that the mover was Director Lubow, and the
second was Director Buzek. And so I'm going to ask anybody who has a no vote to please say so
now.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No for Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Anybody else have a no vote? Hearing nothing, we will take this as 14
yeses, one no, the no vote being Director Lewis, and this motion passes. That is the end of our
recommended actions for the evening. Let's see if I can get to where we are now.
We are on to our updates for this committee meeting. And the first-- actually, we don't have any
updates. We have Information Items, and the information item, next update-- I'm scrolling through
my notes here. Information items are included in the agenda packet. They're also published on the
meeting portal. Please contact the appropriate staff after this meeting if you have additional
questions or comments.
Our information items are Service Availability for April 2020. Is there anybody from the staff that
wants to speak to that at the moment? Yes? I'm sorry?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. No, we don't have anything to report. The information,
as you mentioned, is in the packet. We are currently not mandating anybody in rail or bus at this
point. Those reports won't reflect that because the pandemic plan didn't go to effect until April 19,
last month.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So the reports that we have still show some of those hours because they
are from ahead of that period, or before that period, correct?
MICHAEL FORD: Correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm just going to see if there are any Directors who have any questions
on the information that was provided prior to the meeting. OK.
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Director Menten, go ahead. And then I heard Director Lubow next.
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So I do hear that we are not mandating. Can I confirm, does that mean
that we have no overtime being paid out?
FRED WORTHEN: Director Williams, this is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.

KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead, Fred.
FRED WORTHEN: So we do have overtime that we are paying that is built in to our runs
themselves. There are times where it is more efficient to build in overtime into the run rather than
breaking the work up itself. So we do have some overtime that's being paid, but it's very limited.
We are not paying unscheduled overtime at this point, though.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: So this will tie a little bit into our finance discussion later in the evening,
but under the previous discussions, I believe the figure was we were paying out per month
somewhere between 1 to 1.3 million a month in overtime. Is there a way to say [INTERPOSING
VOICES] percentage wise what we are still paying out?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Please go ahead, Miss McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So actually, we're paying out a little over-- right around-- a million.
Somebody's not muted.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. Heather, you're really broken up. You want to try again?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I think somebody is not muted. Yeah, so we're paying just about
between $950,000 and $1 million a month between bus and light rail. I think I do want to point out
that on light rail it is a slightly different situation. We are still getting volunteers for overtime
instead of mandating because they're still short operators, even for the pandemic plan. And in
addition, we're paying quite a bit of overtime out for training because of the class size and the
amount of training that's had to be spread out due to the COVID issues and social distancing.
So there is quite a bit of overtime that's still being paid out, but it's not mandated overtime. And
again, I did send out-- I don't know if that went out to everybody, but we'll talk about it in a meeting
later. I sent out responses to Director Cook's question about the overtime issue. And I don't know
if that went out to everybody or not, but I can address it later also.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. Because I was not clear, did you actually say we're still
paying out $950,000 to $1 million each month?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. I said that's what it was prior. We're paying out something less, but
we're still paying out quite a bit of overtime.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK, if we could-- I don't recall seeing the response to Director Cook. But
if we could go over that in the finance later, I am interested in that as I read through the adjustments,
both plus and minus. I'll be happy to take that into the finance meeting. Thank you. That's all.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Uh-huh.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Thank you, Heather. Director Lubow, I believe
I heard you.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. But I retract that. No longer have my question. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you for that. Are there any other Directors who have questions at
this moment? OK. Hearing none, we're going to go to Other Matters. Are there any Other Matters
that any of the Directors or any of the staff want to bring up at this point?
SHELLEY COOK: Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Cook. Yes, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I hadn't planned to bring this up. I actually sent an email to Mr.
Ballard, and he called back promptly. But we didn't connect. And since we've been meeting, I've
had a text from one of the rider who takes the 31 from 92nd and Federal down to Clear Creek
Federal Station to catch the G line downtown, rides the 0 down to Bayott.
And he reports to me fairly often about ridership and so forth. And I had an email this morning
from another person. Another resident out in West Arvada. But just now He said there were, on
that run out of 92nd and Federal on the 31-- he had 16 people and then 17 people on the 0.
And then my own experience this past Friday, it adds to my concern that we, in fact, are being
crowding. I know that we're monitoring that. But I wonder if we can't have the data provided to us
about our average loads, when we're providing backup, when we plan to add service. I would
suggest sooner than later on those frequent routes. I'd say the 0, the 16, the 15, the 48, and the 31,
if you wouldn't mind adding that, because it consistently seems pretty busy.
OK. I don't know if the General Manager has any comment. We're going to talk about it later. But
I'm actually very concerned about this issue and just want to make sure we're getting ahead of the
demand. The second question is the 16th Street Mall, and are we adding that in, as people begin to
think about going back to work? Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, Director. Mr. Ballard, do you want to speak to that now?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, I will. Paul Ballard, General Manager, and CEP. First, as far as the 16th
Street Mall goes, we're monitoring that. And there's really no one on the mall right now. There just
aren't any people. The offices are not filling up, and there's just no one down there. So we're
monitoring that to keep track of that.

And as far as the first issue, we need bus numbers and times of day, and we'll follow up on those
issues. Just random reports really aren't helpful to us. We need to know a bus number and time of
day and route, and we can certainly look into it. But if we're talking 16 to 17 people, the bus drivers
don't have eyes in the back of their heads. And, you know, they make a rough estimate of what's
there and 15, 16, 17-- I mean, they all look about the same. But give us bus numbers and times of
day, and we'll follow up. We'll check the cameras, and then we'll follow up with the individual bus
operators.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, go ahead, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just to underscore the second request, can you get data, please, for at least the
limited routes where we know we're busier? You had already talked about four or five of them.
Can we see-- you indicate you're monitoring and you have multiple means of getting that data. But
can you actually provide some of that to us, please, so we can see? And along with it, you're
thinking about when-- if we're trying to get ahead of the demand so that we're not waiting until we
consistently see overcrowding, I would think we would. But let me know what your standard is
for thinking about that threshold. Thank you so much.
PUAL BALLARD: Well, what we're doing right now is we have backup buses for all the routes,
and we're plugging them in. We're blessed with an extra board and enough buses, so we're simply
plugging them in when we see them. And that's pretty much what we're doing. I'll see what data
we have, but I know the Operation Supervisor is just plugging in buses. We do have ridership on
those vehicles, so we'll see what we can find.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Thank you, Mr. Ballard.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Madam Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Madam Chair, thank you. Do you mind?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, no. Go ahead.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK. I appreciate Director Cook raising that. And to Mr. Ballard's point
about our operators not having eyes in the back of their heads, what I've heard from operators is
because folks are getting on the rear, they don't always have-- they don't always know how many
folks are on the back of-- are always on their buses. And so to Director Cook's point, I think it
would be helpful to have that ridership data, because I know some routes have been surprising
about the number of riders that we are seeing on our services. And it would just provide us an
opportunity to be proactive with the social distancing. So I just wanted to underscore that and raise
Director Cook's point. That is all.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Anybody else?
JUDY LUBOW: Madam Chair. Judy Lubow. Judy Lubow
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I wanted to support Director Cook's and Lewis's request. I think it
makes a lot of sense to be as proactive as possible so that we actually know when overcrowding
has happened as much as possible, not just assume that maybe it's not happening. I think we should
do the opposite. Maybe on the crowded routes assume it is happening. Figure out how we can
show that it's not happening, because I'm just concerned that it's kind of running away with us.
Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I have Mr. For and Mr. Worthen. You guys can duke it out, who's
going to go first.
MICHAEL FORD: I just wanted to add that we do monitor the routes, we do have additional
resources out there, and we have historical data as well as participant observation from our
supervisors, from our security officers, from our operators, and from our automatic passenger
counts. So we do try to utilize all that information on a day-to-day basis so we can put the necessary
resources out there. We don't wait, but we are trying to be proactive in the approach.
As far as the data is concerned, we will look to see what we can provide you. But I want let you
know this is in motion. It's a fluid process. And we're on this issue every single day to make sure
that we're providing the necessary services that we need to our passengers. So I just wanted to add
that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I appreciate your feedback. Anybody else?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I hear Fred first. And then I'm not sure who else was trying to speak.
FRED WORTHEN: This is Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Worthen. Go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, if I can, I'd like to add on to what Mr. Ford was saying. We have been
monitoring the routes. And we definitely know what routes are getting larger loads on them. There
is actually no real pattern, though, on when these loads are occurring. So what we've been doing

is building what we call special service orders, where we are actually plugging in buses in between
trips on routes like the 15, the 15L, and the 16 where we've been getting a larger load. And we're
doing that on a daily basis. We also have standby buses out in the field, and when we get reports
that we don't have something directly behind them, we're dispatching those buses to help the loads.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Thank you, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know, I think that we are on such uncharted
waters currently that we really need to be thinking outside of the box. And I'm wondering how
feasible it would be for us to take out every other bus bench-- I mean, every other seat-- so that it
would create social distancing, so there wouldn't be so many seats on the bus as well. And I'd like
Mr. Worthen to see if that's even a possibility.
FRED WORTHEN: It would be very difficult to be removing seats and be very labor intensive.
And it would be very difficult to do that. We could do things like mark seats and close seats. But
that, again, is something that is difficult to enforce unless you physically create a barrier around
the seat where they can't sit there. But we have put together plans where we could close seats.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thank you Mr. Worthen. Anybody else?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, Madam Chair. This is Lynn Geisinger.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just when the first policy was put in place about social distancing and
maximum of 15, I was talking with Mike Meader quite a bit. And I think the important piece is
that the drivers need to be watching for social distancing. 15 is the max, and I think that's great.
But there are situations, as the chair's question suggests, where 15 may be not enough to be social
distancing. And in my opinion, that should be the standard for sending out a second bus.
And I think it was. I think that's what Mike Meader was agreeing with. And I guess I would also
just mention that in my town hall-- excuse me-- the other night, I was astonished at how many
questions I had where people were asking why aren't we requiring masks. And I think we may be
now. I'm not real sure. And I understand there's a real balance between requiring masks and putting
our drivers into an enforcement position. But there seems to me to be value in making the
requirement, even if the driver doesn't take action to enforce it. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger.

MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford. Michael Ford, I just wanted to comment on the other.
We have signage on our vehicles, both bus and rail, requiring or asking people to wear masks. We
can't enforce it. We don't want our drivers to be in that situation. We also have automatic counts
or automatic announcements that are also relaying that message to educate our public. And when
we can, we utilized law enforcement to help with the enforcement aspects once we see issues
where people are utilizing masks. But each municipality is a little bit different in how they are
addressing this issue.
But again, we don't want our drivers to be at the forefront of this, and we're doing everything we
can from a marketing and communication standpoint-- the signage, the automatic announcement
information that plays constantly on our vehicles-- to help the passenger adhere to what we're
asking them to do. Everybody really needs to do their part. And that's what we're asking them to
do as far as riding our vehicles. So I just wanted to offer that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I think the important thing is that what matters is face coverings. It
doesn't have to be a mask. Pull up their t-shirt or something, you know. But I do think as we start
to have people coming back, it will make a big difference in getting our riders back if we can keep
people wearing their masks. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Director Williams, just one more quick point. I will say-- this is Director
Lewis-- I'm really excited to hear Directors really talking about these things openly and some
opportunities to protect our riders and to protect our operators. I think this is great.
To your point, Director Guissinger, I think we've also heard that from our operators, that they
would love for us to require some kind of face covering of some sort. I will shamelessly put a plug
in for the petition that is circulating, because a lot of the things that we're talking about with the
social distancing and the mask and things of that nature-- and what I've heard from operators is
within that petition. And so happy to resend that to any of you all. But I do think that's the direction
we should be going in. Really excited to hear this conversation happening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Anybody else. OK.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. Who is that, Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, it is. A minor issue, but related. It sounds like Mr. Ford and Mr. Ballard
and others will be looking at a prototype of a driver shield tomorrow. And when the time is
appropriate, it'd be great if you'd share a photo or two with us. This topic comes up a lot. And I
know it came up in Director Lubow's town hall last night. It didn't in mine, but we hear it a lot
from operators and the public. So if and when the time's appropriate, if you would share that with
us, I think it would be very interesting and informative. Thank you, Chair.

KATE WILLIAMS: You're welcome, sir. Good observation. OK. I'm going to wrap this up. We've
had lots of good discussion, some good ideas. I think that that is it for this committee for this
month. Our next meeting is June 9, 2020. We will be meeting at the same location probably-which is our living room or dining room-- at the same time, and on the same number, for those
who want to dial in. I am calling the meeting to adjourn, and we're going to have a five-minute
nature break between this and the next committee meeting. Thank you all so much.

