Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, July 12, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 8:37 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
8:41 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Chair

Absent
Present

8:36 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:37 PM
8:36 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Absent

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

8:39 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

8:36 PM
8:36 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present
Present

8:36 PM
8:36 PM
8:46 PM
8:37 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

8:37 PM

Director Hoy was absent. Directors Anderson and Bagley left before the meeting began.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Jesse Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn
Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, David Genova,
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin Klaas, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod,
Barbara McManus, Ed Neuberg, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin Parker, Scott
Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter

Public Present:

Aaron Epstein, Nadia Garas, Ann Herzenberg, Brandon Mattie, Scott
McCarey, Petro Ramos, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Dace West

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee Updates
RTD Triennial DBE Goal and Methodology
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, shared that her team had been
going through the Triennial DBE Goal evaluation. There was a public
announcement of the proposed goal on Thursday, June 9, with Chair
Tobiassen and General Manager Genova in attendance. The overall DBE
Goal of 24% was submitted to the FTA for approval with comments from
the public due by August 1st. She said in addition to the public
announcement, staff has also been conducting a Community Engagement
Consultation Series with our various chambers that represent the DBE/SBE
community.
Director Menten asked how the public could submit comments. Zamy Silva
indicated the proposed goal was published on the Civil Rights page of the
RTD website where comments could be submitted. She said comments
could also be submitted directly to the FTA as well.
Director Francone asked if the chambers that staff met with only
represented the Denver area or if they served the entire District. Zamy Silva
stated the chambers served DBE/SBEs that were throughout the entire RTD
District. She noted it is a federal requirement to meet with these companies
one-on-one if RTD plans to have a project within their area.
National ADA Symposium
Ed Neuberg, ADA Manager, reminded the Board that this year RTD was a
major sponsor for the ADA Symposium. He said this event has been taking
place for 15 years but this is the first time a transit agency has been a

sponsor. He shared that this was a well attended event with over 800
attendees representing all 50 states and even some international attendees.
He thanked General Manager Genova, Scott Reed, Assistant General
Manager of Communications, and Steve Reilly, Manager of Marketing
Communications, for their efforts in securing guest passes for all attendees.
The guest passes were a huge hit. He said every time someone found out
he was with RTD they thanked him for the pass. The attendees really
thought it was great that a transit agency was so supportive of the
Symposium. He thanked everyone for their support as he believes it shows
the magnitude of support at RTD for the disabled community.
Director Folska requested that Mr. Neuberg remember to introduce himself
each time he presented to the Board so those that cannot see him will know
who is speaking.
Chair Tobiassen congratulated staff on the Symposium. He said he did not
get to attend all of it but what he did was really outstanding. Chair
Tobiassen shared that the head of the Great Plains ADA Center, which runs
the Symposium, told him that RTD really set the new standard for the
Symposium in the future. He reiterated that all he heard from the attendees
was praise for the efforts from the RTD staff.
Committee Chair Deadwyler shared that she too attended the Symposium.
She thought it was a great event and was amazed at how much she learned.
She said she was surprised to learn that the Symposium was actually geared
toward ADA consultants and how they can help make life better for those
with disabilities. She noted she met one woman who worked with a prison
in Washington, D.C. and it was very interesting to learn about the
accommodations made for prisoners with disabilities.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska noted that last time Ed Neuberg presented to the Board she asked
him for a history of ADA in Denver. She thinks with this being an election year it
will be very important to have for any new Board members as part of the
onboarding training. She thinks it will be important for ADA to be integrated
throughout the entire training process.
Director Folska shared that she would love to see an initiative from the ADA office
to address how to change attitudes and beliefs about people with disabilities.
Zamy Silva stated staff is working on a number of ADA initiatives but they are all in
the development stages.

E. Next Meeting Date - To be determined
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 8:53 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

