1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Larry Hoy, District J
Bill James, District A

William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Tom Tobiassen, District F
Jeff Walker, District D
Kathi Williams, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 27, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
John Robert Pung, Manager of Market Research, 26 years
Dennis R. Redell, Bus Operator, 27 years

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Directors Anderson, Hoy & Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 21, 2012

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

A.

Amendment to Lease Agreement for Office Space at Civic Center Plaza – 1560
Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000 and 1075
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to amend and extend the lease agreement by and between the Regional
Transportation District and CCP/MS SSIII Denver Post Tower Property Owner, LLC for office
space in Suites 510, 605, 610 and 700 on the 5 th, 6th and 7th floors of the building
commonly known as Civic Center Plaza. This is for the co-location of Planning and Capital
Programs personnel and program management consulting services related to the planning and
implementation of the FasTracks program as wells as Capital Programs, Planning and IT
personnel and Suites 1000 and 1075 on the 10th floor for the housing of Paratransit Services
and Competitive Services, Transportation Contracts for a period of seven (7) years, expiring
October 31, 2019. Base rent of $16.50 per sq. ft. will increase annually by $0.50
concluding with an annual base rent in the final year of November 1, 2018 through October
31, 2019 of $19.50 per sq. ft.
B. Office Space Lease Agreement – Civic Center Plaza
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Lease Agreement for 7,780 square feet of office space on the 10 th
floor, Suite 1099, of the Civic Center Plaza located at 1560 Broadway for a minimum period
of five years. Base rent of $16.00 per sq. ft. will increase annually by $0.50 concluding
with an annual base rent in the final year 2017 of $18.00 per sq. ft.

C. Commit $750,000 for I-25 North Managed Lanes Extension
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve a commitment of $250,000 per year for three years toward the local
match for CDOT’s I-25 North Managed Lanes Extension. This will be funded in future
base system budgets through RTD operational savings that would accrue as a result of
the project

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
D. Grant of Permanent Easement for Roof Overhang over RTD light rail tracks at the
intersection of 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City and County of Denver,
Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
convey a permanent easement allowing for the roof overhang of the adjacent DaVita Building
containing approximately 462 square feet to encroach into property owned by RTD near the
intersection over the light rail tracks at 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City
and County of Denver, Colorado.
E. Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building Improvements
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General Manager
enter into a contract with the Union Station Alliance (USA) for $5 million for the purposes

of designing and constructing renovations to the Denver Union Station (DUS) historic
building in advance of RTD and USA signing a lease. The purpose of this early work
agreement is to ensure that Amtrak is relocated back into DUS to coincide with the
opening of the new commuter rail terminal and termination of the lease at Amtrak’s
temporary facility. The source of funds for the $5 million is a Colorado Department of
Transportation FASTER grant and RTD's associated local match to the grant which was
awarded to RTD in early 2011.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
authorize a transfer of $5 million from unrestricted net assets to fund this contract. The
unrestricted net assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended Budget by the
proceeds of the FASTER grant.

F. 2012 Annual Program Evaluation – Decision on Northwest Corridor Implementation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a hybrid of the options previously presented for the Northwest Corridor,
which incorporates, and is in collaboration with stakeholder feedback, input and elements
from the other options. Approval of this option by the RTD Board of Directors will allow
staff to include these assumptions in the 2012 financial plan that will then be submitted to
DRCOG for review as part of the SB 208 process. The RTD Board of Directors does not
have the authority to unilaterally change the use of the tax and debt authorized for the
FasTracks plan that was approved by the voters in 2004. If the RTD Board of Directors
chooses to proceed with a sales and use tax election in 2012, an amended plan will be
referenced as part of the ballot question. Approval of the ballot measure will include
approval of the plan amendment. If the ballot measure fails, the 2004 plan will remain
unchanged.
The recommended option assumes a successful sales and use tax election in 2012, and
would include the following:

No schedule or cost impacts for any other partially-funded corridor projects as
compared to the 2011 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)

Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its entirety from Church Ranch
to Longmont as funding becomes available from the original 0.4% sales and use tax. Also,
with the full understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue all alternate sources of funding
and corridor savings to complete the rail vision as soon as possible. Funding is anticipated to
be available to initiate construction and begin revenue service during the period of 2028 –
2034
o

This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for Northwest Rail, inflating the
cost to year-of-expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing the financial model to
determine when RTD has the financial capacity to expend the funds needed to
complete the rail line


A combination of an incremental segment of diesel-multiple unit (DMU) commuter rail
in the Northwest Corridor Area with revenue service commencing at a point between 2020 2022 and a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020, as depicted in Figure 1 below, that will
provide comprehensive, immediate relief/mobility improvements for the region

o

Including funding for an Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact
Statement that will be required prior to finalizing an exact BRT alignment.


Extension of the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver Union Station (DUS) to
the Church Ranch Station to provide bi-directional peak period service for commuters
connecting to/from DUS. Extending rail to Church Ranch would provide approximately 12 of
the 41 miles of commuter rail for the Northwest Corridor (30% of the complete corridor
length), and will allow RTD to continue moving forward with our ultimate vision of building
rail to Longmont


Based on conservative estimates of cost, it is currently anticipated that funding would
be available to complete this rail segment with revenue service commencing at a point
between 2020 - 2022


RTD’s remaining financial commitment to Phase 2 of the US 36 Corridor BRT project,
$82 million (YOE), would be available in 2014 and 2015

In addition to the $82 million (YOE) remaining for the US 36 Corridor BRT project,
$894.6 million (YOE) would be provided to expand the BRT system in the Northwest Corridor
area by 2020. This financial cap (including prior expenditures) was based on last year’s
Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and was chosen to reflect the level of capital funding
available to complete the FasTracks program by 2020

Consistent BRT service levels, as identified through the SB 208 process and
subsequent environmental analyses, until five years after opening of the full BRT system –
after which time all routes would be required to meet service standards. RTD will also
increase service during or after this five year period, according to service criteria, if ridership
levels increase to such levels where they dictate more BRT service in the corridor.
G. 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption and Approval of 2011 Annual Report to
DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize a financial plan that assumes an election in November, 2012
with a new sales and use tax increase of 0.4% commencing in January, 2013. Th is
financial plan incorporates all of the assumptions of the “hybrid” option presented
to the RTD Board of Directors on March 5, 2012, and updated on March 20, 2012,
including:
 Extending the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver Union Station (DUS) to the
Church Ranch Station with revenue service commencing at a point between 2020 - 2022
to provide bi-directional peak service for commuters connecting to/from DUS;
 Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its entirety from Church Ranch
to Longmont as funding becomes available from the original 0.4% sales and use tax.
Also, with the full understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue all alternate
sources of funding and corridor savings to complete the rail vision as soon as
possible. Funding is anticipated to be available to initiate construction and begin
revenue service during the period of 2028 – 2034;


This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for Northwest Rail,
inflating the cost to year-of-expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing the

financial model to determine when RTD has the financial capacity to
expend the funds needed to complete the rail line;
 Building a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020 that will provide cost effective,
immediate relief/mobility improvements for the Northwest Corridor.
The opening day (2022) cost for the FasTracks program under this staff
recommendation is $7.4 billion.
It is further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors approve submittal of the
RTD 2011 Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes
to the FasTracks Plan, including financing and alignment, which have been approved by
the Board during the last year.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the Board of
Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it preserves the capability
for the RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential scenarios for
completion of the FasTracks program.

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION

XIII.

OLD BUSINESS

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS

XV.

ADJOURN

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

