1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kathi Williams, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
March 27, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board Members were present at roll call. Director Cohen arrived after roll call
and Director Hoy was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Scott Reed presented John Robert Pung, Manager of Market Research who has been an
RTD employee for 26 years. John has performed a number of functions over the years
including development of the EcoPass program. He performs a number of customer
interface surveys including customer satisfaction. He will be missed.
John responded by stating he will never forget his 26 years at RTD.
Chair Kemp acknowledged Dennis Redell, bus operator with 27 years of experience at
RTD. Dennis was not present to receive his award but was recognized by the Board for
his contributions.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Jonathan Singer, State House Representative for District 11 which includes Longmont.
shared feedback that he has received from constituents in his district. There are several
concerns expressed about the Hybrid option such as what will the process look like moving
forward, is pulling out of the RTD district an option, and that they have been thrown under
the bus. The Hybrid option divides the haves from the have-nots. He had actively
campaigned for FasTracks in 2004 and had envisioned equitable distribution on all corridors.
The FasTracks plan has the potential to create hundreds of jobs. Their hope is that Longmont
will get “railroaded” and this will be the beginning of the line for commuter rail, not the end of
the line.

Ed Slattery, Denver, asked to have the following read into the records. “I’ve talked with
some of you before, but for these comments, please let it be known that, for want of
more formal backing, I am the spouse of a long-term aide to the late Laura Hershey, the
national advocate for the handicapped who, with others, obtained the installation of
wheelchair lifts on Denver buses. I am wanting to comment on the policy change
permitting the placement of advertising mesh completely covering the passenger windows
of RTD trains and consequently interfering with the sight of landmarks, station signs, and
people who might or might not be awaiting them with various intentions on station
platforms, by persons with partial sight who are nevertheless legally blind.
I am respectfully requesting that this change in policy be withdrawn permanently.
Although I am somewhat confident that you'll take an ethical line on this issue, for those
who prefer a political carrot to what might unfortunately seem to be a litigious stick in
making their decision as to whether to favor this withdrawal or not, I'd like to point out
that painting the exteriors of the trains like boxcars, and blocking half the outside light
from reaching their interiors, might not be the best run-up to your attempt to get adequate
funding before the remoteness of the West Line's downtown platforms from most retail
and office locations loses you "yes" votes from the southwestern quarter of metro
Denver.
Those "yes" votes are, as you know, ultimately important in adding property-tax revenue
to the central city, just as they may be essential in getting the benefits of rapid transit to
the areas whose service by it remains effectively unfunded.
Thank you for your attention to my comments.”
Ira Schreiber, Aurora, identified himself as a former RTD employee. He has stated his
message before but feels it merits repeating for the third time, “BRT as proposed is a fraud.”
It is an enhanced bus service. Money will be wasted. When rail arrives, BRT will go away
and become feeder service. The BNSF costs have been stated as the primary reason for the
cost increase, but BNSF is less than 1/3 of the $1.7B cost. Rail provides a degree of
permanency. He has heard several undertones of anti-sales tax sentiment because of these
decisions. The Board needs to postpone any decision and go back to the drawing board on
this issue.
Gene Putnam, Transportation Manager for the City of Thornton, expressed that people want
FasTracks and sooner, not later. In a citizen survey, approximately 60% of the people want
FasTracks. They are also tired of not getting what has been promised. A few years ago, he
authored a cartoon around the indecisiveness of the Board to go to the ballot. Will that
indecisiveness continue in 2011? There are a lot of people waiting to see the fruition of the
vision, not only Northwest rail but I-225, addressing of park-n-ride issues,. etc. The public
needs the Board to move forward with the promise to make FasTracks accessible to all.
Debra Wilcox and Dave Lewis, Co-Chairs for CAC provided a copy of their SB 208 letter. A
copy of this letter is available in the Board Minutes located in the Board office. They also
shared that they had a good meeting in Longmont and encouraged RTD to keep the dialog
open with the constituents.
Rich McClintock, Executive director for the TMA representing the SE Metro area, thanked
RTD for being a sponsor for the Road Ahead forum. He expressed a strong support from the
business and civic leaders which now includes the I-225 service area. They are committed to
the full build out and believe n the political viability of going to the polls in 2012. They are in
favor of action item G.

Kenny Shepard, downtown Denver, expressed concerns over several issues including LED
signs on buses burn out, coach buses have passenger clearance heights that are too low,
RTD should have completed FasTracks by now, he wants a rail spur in the Smoky Hill
area of E470 and older coach buses don’t have side boxes in the rear but the newer ones
do. Chair Kemp requested the General Manager’s staff to address these issues with Mr.
Shepard.
Nick Wolfrun, City of Longmont, thanked RTD for speaking to the City Council on Monday
night. He stated the council had voted unanimously to support the letter from the MCC
dated March 16, 2012.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director Daly indicated a misspelling of Henry Stopplecamp’s name in the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee minutes. This has been corrected.

VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley reported that progress is being made. Next Tuesday, April 3 will
be a meeting of the GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee. He has had
a chance to speak to about 10 of the Board members. They will continue to utilize the
buddy system for sharing of information.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF FEBRUARY 21, 2012
MOTION:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve minutes from the regular Board
meeting of February 21, 2012.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly,
Deadwyler,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against. Director Hoy was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

VIII.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp spoke about the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington DC which was
attended by thirteen Board members. This conference was very productive and they had
a chance to advocate for RTD with members of the Congressional leadership or their
staff.
Director Malpiede was a member of the Denver Police Department Commander selection
committee which reviewed 29 candidates for the Commander position.
Director Malpiede will participate on a panel at the Inaugural National Health Impact
Assessment meeting in Washington DC on April 3-4, 2012. She will speak to the impact
of public transportation on health and accessibility.
Several Board members plan to attend the IMA groundbreaking ceremony of the Union
Station North Wing Building on April 11. 2012.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
General Manager Washington shared that he had begun another round of employee focus
group meetings in the division. These meetings are very productive and allow him to get up
close and personal with the employees.
RTD recently complete the Federal Transit Administration DBE compliance review.
Preliminary results were extremely positive and show RTD has a very robust program to
promote equity. They expect the formal results in about 45 days.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
approve the unanimous consent agenda,
items A through C.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly,
Deadwyler,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against. Director Hoy was absent.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

A.

declared

the

motion

Amendment to Lease Agreement for Office Space at Civic Center Plaza – 1560

Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000 and 1075
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to amend and extend the lease agreement by and between the Regional
Transportation District and CCP/MS SSIII Denver Post Tower Property Owner, LLC for office
space in Suites 510, 605, 610 and 700 on the 5 th, 6th and 7th floors of the building
commonly known as Civic Center Plaza. This is for the co-location of Planning and Capital
Programs personnel and program management consulting services related to the planning and
implementation of the FasTracks program as wells as Capital Programs, Planning and IT
personnel and Suites 1000 and 1075 on the 10th floor for the housing of Paratransit Services
and Competitive Services, Transportation Contracts for a period of seven (7) years, expiring
October 31, 2019. Base rent of $16.50 per sq. ft. will increase annually by $0.50
concluding with an annual base rent in the final year of November 1, 2018 through October
31, 2019 of $19.50 per sq. ft.
B. Office Space Lease Agreement – Civic Center Plaza
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Lease Agreement for 7,780 square feet of office space on the 10 th
floor, Suite 1099, of the Civic Center Plaza located at 1560 Broadway for a minimum period
of five years. Base rent of $16.00 per sq. ft. will increase annually by $0.50 concluding
with an annual base rent in the final year 2017 of $18.00 per sq. ft.

C. Commit $750,000 for I-25 North Managed Lanes Extension
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve a commitment of $250,000 per year for three years toward the local
match for CDOT’s I-25 North Managed Lanes Extension. This will be funded in future
base system budgets through RTD operational savings that would accrue as a result of
the project
XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
D. Grant of Permanent Easement for Roof Overhang over RTD light rail tracks at the
intersection of 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City and County of Denver,
Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
convey a permanent easement allowing for the roof overhang of the adjacent DaVita Building
containing approximately 462 square feet to encroach into property owned by RTD near the
intersection over the light rail tracks at 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City
and County of Denver, Colorado.
MOTION:
Director Anderson made the motion to
approve the grant of permanent
easement for roof overhang over RTD
light rail tracks at the intersection of 16th
street and the consolidated freight main
line, City and County of Denver.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

Director O’Boyle indicated that responses
to
his
questions
pertaining
to

indemnification of RTD, easement
including only roof overhang and limited
to life of the building had not been
addressed. Susan Altes responded yes
to indemnification, and that the easement
was only limited to the roof overhang and
to the life of the building.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly,
Deadwyler,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against. Director Hoy was absent.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

E. Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building Improvements
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General Manager
enter into a contract with the Union Station Alliance (USA) for $5 million for the purposes
of designing and constructing renovations to the Denver Union Station (DUS) historic
building in advance of RTD and USA signing a lease. The purpose of this early work
agreement is to ensure that Amtrak is relocated back into DUS to coincide with the
opening of the new commuter rail terminal and termination of the lease at Amtrak’s
temporary facility. The source of funds for the $5 million is a Colorado Department of
Transportation FASTER grant and RTD's associated local match to the grant which was
awarded to RTD in early 2011.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board
authorize a transfer of $5 million from unrestricted net assets to fund this contract. The
unrestricted net assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended Budget by the
proceeds of the FASTER grant.
MOTION:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve the contract award for Union
Station Alliance for DUS Building
Improvements.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director James indicated he would
abstain for a perceived conflict of
interest.

An electronic vote was taken with 13
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,

Daly, Deadwyler, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen,
Walker and Williams) and 1 abstain
(James). Director Hoy was absent.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

Director Bagley read the following memorandum into record as it pertains to items F&G
below:
MEMORANDUM
TO:

Lee Kemp, RTD Board Chairman
Phil Washington, RTD General Manager

FROM: Kent Bagley, RTD Director, District H
DATE:

March 27, 2012

SUBJECT:

2012 FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation and Financial Plan Adoption

This memorandum is prepared based upon my perceptions and feelings regarding the 2012
Annual Program Evaluation and Financial Plan Adoption, both of which I support.
Vision: RTD has had an insightful vision regarding enhanced mobility for citizens of the
Region, which was adopted in 2004 through the support of the FasTracks vote. Since 2004
the world economic climate has changed drastically. Sales tax revenue has been reduced
dramatically from estimates made then and we recognize this. Also, costs have increased
based upon changes in raw material inputs and ROW acquisition costs that were not fully
understood then but are now quantified. With these changes it is critical to look at the reset
to the economy and recognize that 13 of the present Board of Directors were not on the
Board in 2004 and a total of 11 have been in place for less than four years. Understanding
these issues the present Board is still committed to the vision.
Leadership: Under the leadership of Phil Washington, General Manager since early 2010 and
Lee Kemp, Board Chairman for the last five years, significant efforts have been made to fulfill
the vision of FasTracks. Everything possible has been done to assure that the mission of
completing FasTracks will become a reality. The entire staff and Board have moved forward
to use every resource available to effectuate the FasTracks plan given the significant
constraints, many of which have been externally imposed.
Context: The FasTracks plan was endorsed and committed to by all of the communities
within the District by support from all of the individual Mayors in 2004. The local
communities have amended their Comprehensive Land Use Plans to embrace transportation
and the opportunities of economic development through the implementation of transited
oriented development.
Accomplishments: There have been many accomplishments in the last three years with the
FasTracks program, which need to be recognized.









All FasTracks corridors except the northern portions of the Northwest Corridor have had
complete environmental assessments and 30% engineering completed.
The west corridor is on budget and schedule for revenue service in May of 2013.
The East, Gold and southern segment of the Northwest Corridors are under construction
and due to be completed as part of the Eagle P-3 project in early 2016.
Denver Union Station as the hub of the entire FasTracks program is well under way and it
is being completed on time and on schedule with innovative financing from the Federal
Government as evidenced by the utilization of TIFIA and RRIF loans.
The Federal Government has committed over One Billion Dollars of Federal money for the
completion of the Eagle P-3 project.
With the efforts to have the Eagle P-3 project be so successful because of the private
sector bid coming in below estimates there is major work on three other corridors
including the North Metro, I-225 and US-36 BRT, as well as investments in other
corridors.

These accomplishments demonstrate the diligence of the RTD staff and Board to carry
forward the vision.
Commitment: There has always been a commitment on the part of the RTD staff and Board
to build as much as we can as fast as we can of the FasTracks project to bring about the
vision of enhanced mobility for the entire region. However, it must be understood by all
parties and partners that there are external factors, many related to the changes in the
international, national and regional economies that impact projects of the bold breadth and
scope of multi year infrastructure projects such as FasTracks, which is the largest of its kind
in the nation. Given this background it is important to recognize and demonstrate the need to
work with all the partners within the region to interpret the environment and move forward
as is best possible to ensure the vision of enhanced mobility for the entire region is
recognized.
Based upon the foregoing, I as a member of the RTD Board of Directors am committed to
providing my complete support to get the program completed as various conditions
determine it is most appropriate.

Several of the Directors dittoed his statement and made additional
comments/observations:
Director Anderson stated she was totally in agreement with these statements. She has
worked over 25 years and is committed to completing FasTracks as promised to all the
people. This is not just a NW issue. This is a whole region issue which affects each of
every citizen in this region. She is solidly behind moving forward on this issue. In order
to complete FasTracks in a timely fashion, we need a sales tax increase. Our staff is
extremely hard working and they are extremely competent as demonstrated by the
number of awards that we have received and in the $1B grant from FTA. We need to get
on with this and move forward.
Director James indicated his commitment as well for items F&G. He thanked RTD for all
their hard work and stand behind our mantra to build as much as we can as fast as we
can. FasTracks will service the full metro area. Due to economic downturns and other
factors beyond RTD control, costs have increased and we must ask for a sales tax
increase. Whether this is NW, Central, South, or East Denver, we are all in this together
and need to unite behind the Hybrid option.

Director Daly complimented Bagley on his memorandum and for being so succinct.
Director McMullen indicated his statements apply to items F&G. He thanked the RTD
regional community that spans from Longmont to Parker. We are all in this together. We
will continue to move forward and as we do so, we provide jobs for our future. There is
a ripple effect of economic development which includes having property values sustain
during this period of economic crisis. Lots of people are asking about the cost. He
believes we should look at the cost if we do not go forward. We must continue to go
forward. It has truly been his pleasure to serve on the RTD Board for the past 8 years.
Director Tayer stated he will be voting to move this action forward and that we need to
continue the process and dialog to move toward regional consensus. He wants to be very
clear. BRT is not an adjunct thought that came later but has always been an integral part
of the FasTracks plan. How much and the final character of the BRT is still to be
determined. He will support and his preference will be sooner than later. As a matter of
fact, he has requested staff to look at what it would take to complete FasTracks in 10
years. He needs a clear plan for the NW corridor and a clear commitment before going to
the ballot for a sales tax increase. This is a step in the process that keeps the process
and dialogs moving forward.
Director O’Boyle stated that he remains steadfast to the FasTracks program as promised.
This is good for all the communities in this region, north and south. He is looking
forward to NexTracks. We need to provide a better service to the Northwest community
and continue to move forward. Go FasTracks!
Director Cohen echoed Director Tayer’s comments and will also support items F&G. He
supports the process which is presenting a plan and financial analysis for DRCOG’s
review. This provides an ongoing opportunity for continuing the dialog. He encourages
discussions on options, viability, and modality with a focus on enhanced mobility for this
region. He is committed to get the project done as soon as possible.
Director Walker indicated that a number of e-mails that he has received are in favor of the
full build out of FasTracks. He noted that not all parts of this area will be built the same
but that all of the region will be served. The Hybrid presents the most realistic option at
this point.
Director Malpiede thanked everyone who had participated in the dialog because truly
FasTracks belong to all of us. This reminds her of when she became a part of CAC in
2005. This is “Community” FasTracks. This is good for our future, for our children and
grandchildren. She will support moving forward.
Director Tobiassen thanked staff and everyone who participated in the process. He
commented that his constituents were thankful for the communications outreach and in
providing streaming video which allowed them to participate along with the meeting.
Chair Kemp thanked the Board for their diligence and for their commitment to move ahead
on building FasTracks for this total region. He thanked General Manager Washington and
his team for bringing forth this tough issue. He reflected on Jeff Lieb, former
transportation news reporter and others in the audience like Debra Basher who has been
engaged since Guide the ride. We have got to complete the system for the future of
Colorado. We need to make Colorado a place where people want to come. Let’s move

this process forward and work collaboratively to get it done. Thanks to this community,
stakeholders, elected officials and everyone for their willingness to get it done.
Director Williams shared this is an issue of credibility. She recalls the adage “action
speaks so loudly I cannot hear what you are saying.” She indicated our action will support
what we have been saying and that the full FasTracks program will be delivered.

F. 2012 Annual Program Evaluation – Decision on Northwest Corridor Implementation
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve a hybrid of the options previously presented for the Northwest Corridor,
which incorporates, and is in collaboration with stakeholder feedback, input and elements
from the other options. Approval of this option by the RTD Board of Directors will allow
staff to include these assumptions in the 2012 financial plan that will then be submitted to
DRCOG for review as part of the SB 208 process. The RTD Board of Directors does not
have the authority to unilaterally change the use of the tax and debt authorized for the
FasTracks plan that was approved by the voters in 2004. If the RTD Board of Directors
chooses to proceed with a sales and use tax election in 2012, an amended plan will be
referenced as part of the ballot question. Approval of the ballot measure will include
approval of the plan amendment. If the ballot measure fails, the 2004 plan will remain
unchanged.
The recommended option assumes a successful sales and use tax election in 2012, and
would include the following:

No schedule or cost impacts for any other partially-funded corridor projects as
compared to the 2011 Annual Program Evaluation (APE)

Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its entirety from Church Ranch
to Longmont as funding becomes available from the original 0.4% sales and use tax. Also,
with the full understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue all alternate sources of funding
and corridor savings to complete the rail vision as soon as possible. Funding is anticipated to
be available to initiate construction and begin revenue service during the period of 2028 –
2034
o

This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for Northwest Rail, inflating the
cost to year-of-expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing the financial model to
determine when RTD has the financial capacity to expend the funds needed to
complete the rail line


A combination of an incremental segment of diesel-multiple unit (DMU) commuter rail
in the Northwest Corridor Area with revenue service commencing at a point between 2020 2022 and a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020, as depicted in Figure 1 below, that will
provide comprehensive, immediate relief/mobility improvements for the region
o

Including funding for an Environmental Assessment or Environmental Impact
Statement that will be required prior to finalizing an exact BRT alignment.


Extension of the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver Union Station (DUS) to
the Church Ranch Station to provide bi-directional peak period service for commuters

connecting to/from DUS. Extending rail to Church Ranch would provide approximately 12 of
the 41 miles of commuter rail for the Northwest Corridor (30% of the complete corridor
length), and will allow RTD to continue moving forward with our ultimate vision of building
rail to Longmont


Based on conservative estimates of cost, it is currently anticipated that funding would
be available to complete this rail segment with revenue service commencing at a point
between 2020 - 2022


RTD’s remaining financial commitment to Phase 2 of the US 36 Corridor BRT project,
$82 million (YOE), would be available in 2014 and 2015

In addition to the $82 million (YOE) remaining for the US 36 Corridor BRT project,
$894.6 million (YOE) would be provided to expand the BRT system in the Northwest Corridor
area by 2020. This financial cap (including prior expenditures) was based on last year’s
Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and was chosen to reflect the level of capital funding
available to complete the FasTracks program by 2020

Consistent BRT service levels, as identified through the SB 208 process and
subsequent environmental analyses, until five years after opening of the full BRT system –
after which time all routes would be required to meet service standards. RTD will also
increase service during or after this five year period, according to service criteria, if ridership
levels increase to such levels where they dictate more BRT service in the corridor.
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the
motion to approve THE 2012
Annual
Program
EvaluationDecision on Northwest Corridor
Implementation.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with
14 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede,
McMullen,
O’Boyle,
Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams)
and 0 against. Director Hoy was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

G. 2012 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption and Approval of 2011 Annual Report to
DRCOG on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize a financial plan that assumes an election in November, 2012

with a new sales and use tax increase of 0.4% commencing in January, 2013. This
financial plan incorporates all of the assumptions of the “hybrid” optio n presented
to the RTD Board of Directors on March 5, 2012, and updated on March 20, 2012,
including:
 Extending the Northwest Commuter Rail Line from Denver Union Station (DUS) to the
Church Ranch Station with revenue service commencing at a point between 2020 - 2022
to provide bi-directional peak service for commuters connecting to/from DUS;
 Completing the Northwest Rail Line incrementally or in its entirety from Church Ranch
to Longmont as funding becomes available from the original 0.4% sales and use tax.
Also, with the full understanding that RTD will aggressively pursue all alternate
sources of funding and corridor savings to complete the rail vision as soon as
possible. Funding is anticipated to be available to initiate construction and begin
revenue service during the period of 2028 – 2034;


This timeframe is based on taking the remaining cost for Northwest Rail,
inflating the cost to year-of-expenditure (YOE) dollars, and testing the
financial model to determine when RTD has the financial capacity to
expend the funds needed to complete the rail line;

 Building a Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) system by 2020 that will provide cost effective,
immediate relief/mobility improvements for the Northwest Corridor.
The opening day (2022) cost for the FasTracks program under this staff
recommendation is $7.4 billion.
It is further recommended that the RTD Board of Directors approve submittal of the
RTD 2011 Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report summarizes the changes
to the FasTracks Plan, including financing and alignment, which have been approved by
the Board during the last year.
This action does not represent a decision or commitment at this time by the Board of
Directors to place a sales and use tax increase on the ballot, but it preserves the capability
for the RTD Board of Directors to continue consideration of all potential scenarios for
completion of the FasTracks program.
MOTION:
Director Cohen made the motion
to approve THE 2012 FasTracks
Financial Plan Adoption and
Approval of 2011 Annual report
to DRCOG on FasTracks.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with
14 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede,
McMullen,
O’Boyle,
Tayer,

Tobiassen, Walker and Williams)
and 0 against. Director Hoy was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.
General Manager Washington thanked the Board for their courage in making this tough
decision to approve the process to move this issue forward. He especially thanked our
partners BNSF, Chambers of Commerce, Metro Mayors, consultants and local liaisons.
XII.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director McMullen commented that he is disturbed by the challenge of others on the
transparency of RTD. This has been a very transparent process and RTD has done a number
of innovative things including the PPP. He is proud of the work that we have accomplished
and the staff that is competent, thorough and insightful. He appreciates the input from all
the public officials.
Director Anderson reiterated how proud she was of the RTD Board and staff for doing the
right thing. She is proud to serve on the RTD Board of Directors.
Director Daly asked for a correction in the study session minutes which referred to Senator
Brandon without his complete name and title. This oversight has been corrected in the
minutes and the Honorable Brandon Shaffer, Colorado State Senate President is formally
acknowledged.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Daly provided a status report of the attendance at the APTA Legislative meeting in
Washington D.C. Although the House was out of session, they were able to meet with some
of the members of Congress and staffers. This was a very productive meeting. Additionally,
he thanked Director Tobiassen for setting up a meeting with Richard Devylder at US DOT
who shared his mobility challenges as a paratransit customer. He also stated the Board
members had a chance to engage in good one-on-one conversations.
Director Cohen added it was good meeting with Senators Bennet and Udall. The APTA
conference was also valuable with connecting with colleagues from other transit agencies
around the country. He closed his comments by thanking the Board members who had voted
for his son as the number 1 sports story for youths on Channel 9. He announced that his
son was a 2- time state Champion.
Chair Kemp shared that at the SWTA breakfast in Washington DC, Senator Bennet was
awarded Champion of the SW region.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
There was no executive session.

XV.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING

Tuesday, March 27, 2012

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams

District I
District O
District H
District M
District C
District L
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Larry Hoy

District J

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Susan Altes
Michelle Brier
L. Skip Brown
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Lee Cryer
ZJ Czupor
Jane Donovan
Sherry Ellebracht

Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Dale Honor
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Nadine Lee
Marla Lien
Doug MacLeod

Jerry Nery
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
John Perry
John Pung
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Teresa Sedmak
Julie Skeen

Bill Sirois
Pauletta Tonilas
Del Walker
Phil Washington
Brian Welch
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT: Matt Alexander – Stantec,, Gretchen Adams – Systems Consulting, LLC., Debra Basket,
Mac Callison – City of Aurora, Greg Campbell, Chuck Croh, Audrey DeBarros, Joni Goheen , Sherman
Hamilton, Erika Kampe – Transportation Solutions, Judith Kelly – Spectrum, Dave Migoya – Post, Rich
McClintock – Transportation Solutions, Mike Newman - 1st Southwest Company, Gene Putman – City of
Thornton, Ira Schrieber – Colorail, Kenny Shepard, Roger Sherman – CRC, Jeanne Shreve – Adams County,
Marta Sipeki, Jonathan Singer – State House Rep Dist 11, Ed Slattery, Hugo S., Clark Upton, Debra Wilcox –
CAC, R. Paul Williamson, Bob Wilson, Linda Wilson – DTP, Nick Wolfrum – City of Longmont

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

