Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 20, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
April 20, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call. Directors James and Tayer arrived after
roll call. Chair Kemp and Director O’Boyle were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present. Director Daly acknowledged Bill Porter, Manager of Service
Planning and Scheduling, for his 31 years of contribution to service scheduling and planning.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Doug Connor, Denver, spoke to the need for additional stop on the eastbound side of Sheridan
and Colfax. He stated he has spoken to Walgreen and 7-Eleven who are both amicable to stops
as long as it does not block the driveways into their businesses. He is working with Mike Gil’s
team and the General Manager.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the Committee reports.

VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Director Busck shared feedback from the Metro Mayors’ Task Force meeting that he attended
that morning. He provided information to the Metro Mayors on the special Board meeting of
April 13th when the Board voted to not go to the ballot in 2010 but passed a resolution on the
forward path for the Board. He shared information on the process that included a public
hearing. He also discussed the Board Advance Planning session that will be part of an annual
process and will focus on the top 4 priorities for this agency in 2010.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF March 23, 2010 AND THE SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF April 13, 2010.
MOTION:

Director Bagley moved for the adoption of the March 23, 2010
regular board meeting minutes and the special board meeting
minutes of April 13, 2010
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Directors Daly abstained from voting on the March 23 meeting
minutes since he was absent.

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor, 0 against
and 1 abstain. Director Daly abstained and Director James and
Tayer had not arrived. Chair Kemp and Director O’Boyle were
absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Congressional Testimony 4/14/10
On Wednesday, April 14, 2010, Phil Washington, General Manager, had the
opportunity to testify before the US House Transportation and Infrastructure
Subcommittee on Highways and Transit—along with Chris Bertram, Assistant Secretary
for the USDOT; Gene Conti, Secretary of Transportation, North Carolina; Art Leahy,
General Manager, Los Angeles County Metro; and Jeffrey Parker, independent advisor
on PPPs. Although the main topic was “Using Innovative Financing to Deliver Highway
and Transit Projects,” General Manager Washington had the chance to highlight
various aspects of the FasTracks plan, the Penta-P process, the Eagle P3 project
(including workforce development as part of the livability model), as well as giving input
on important elements to be included in the reauthorization of SAFETEA-LU. The focus
of this testimony was on innovative financial practices and service transportation
options. Theresa Sedmak, Brian Middleton, Marla Lien, Bill VanMeter and others had
prepared the written report related to these practices. The testimony was open to
Q&A and also webcast. Congressman DeFazio, Chair of the subcommittee on
Highways and Transit, asked the question “Why is PPP working so well in Denver and
not elsewhere?” General Manager Washington’s response was to credit his staff, the
working relationship with FTA, community leaders and the diligence in getting this
done. His purpose was to encourage Congress to extend innovation to other funding
sources as well as establish more sustainable options which perhaps can make other
FasTracks corridors eligible for funding.










Receipt of Eagle P3 Concessionaire Teams’ Technical Proposals
RTD received the technical proposals from the two teams on 4/14/10 as scheduled.
The proposals are massive and the RTD evaluation team has begun the process to
painstakingly review these proposals. They plan to brief the Board at the April 27,
2010 Executive Session as well as in the May 18, 2010 public presentation at the
Paramount.
Eagle P3 Final Decision Approval
RTD received today the final decision approval which is next to the last step in the Full
Funding Grant Agreement process. RTD is on target with the schedule and the
process.
Workforce Sustainability Initiative
The RTD team met with the concessionaires on April 19, 2010 and a group of
community based, faith based organizations to discuss work opportunities for members
in the local community who are participating in a work training effort. The
concessionaires made a commitment to do so.
Meeting with District Shop Salaried Employees
General Manager Phil Washington continues his process of meeting regularly with the
employees. This meeting was well attended with approximately 100 employees,
Meeting with City of Westminster Officials—
General Manager Phil Washington and Director Christopher met with the Mayor, City

and Deputy City Managers to discuss the NW Rail line and working with the City of
Westminster. This was a good meeting.
 Sonoma Rapid Transit in California
RTD was asked by the Sonoma Rapid Transit to piggyback on an order for DMU’s.
This is a no committal request but would allow RTD to benefit from lower pricing of the
vehicles, possibly saving millions of dollars.
 AGM Recruitment Efforts
General Manager Phil Washington continues his recruitment effort for permanent AGM
positions. The positions closed March 30th and he anticipates completing the interview
stage by mid-May.
Director Daly inquired about the public hearing for the Eagle P3 presentation and was
responded to as this is part of our efforts to be more transparent, open and receptive to
stakeholders and community input. The expectation is there will be a huge audience, not only
from the local community but from others who are interested in knowing how the PPP is
tracking. This is of local, regional and national interest.
IX.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through E.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken for items A through
E with 13 votes in favor and 0 against. Chair Kemp and
Director O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED
unanimously.

A.

Contract Award to Aconex for Construction Management Software as a Service
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a three-year contract in the amount of $560,000, with four oneyear options in the amount of $600,000 for a total of $1,160,000 to Aconex for
Construction Management Software as a Service. Funding for this contract in 2010 is
included in the 2010 Adopted Budget, and future year funding will be appropriated on
an annual basis.

B.

IT Contingency Work Order Contract Fourth and Final Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
award Booz Allen Hamilton (Booz Allen) the fourth and final-option year to a current
contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK004). This contract
was originally awarded in 2006 to Booz Allen through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial-year plus four (4) one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. Execution of the third-option year extended the
period of performance but did into increase the contract not-to-exceed limit of
$1,000,000. The initial one-year contract was not-to-exceed $250,000. With
increased needs for Booz Allen Services, IT requested the final-option year be exercised
and the annual not-to-exceed was increased by $500,000 to a contract amount of
$1,500,000. The final-option year is to begin on September 15, 2010 and remain in
effect for one year until September 14, 2011 and increases the contract amount to
$1,500,000.

C.

Resolution No. __, expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain
expenses relating to two structured parking facilities on the District’s West Corridor
light rail line prior to the time the facilities are financed
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. __, (the “Reimbursement Resolution”)
expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to two
structured parking facilities on the District’s West Corridor light rail line prior to the time
the facilities are financed.

D.

Adoption of 2011 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the 2011 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.

E.

Recommendation for Authorization of RTD-DUSPA TIFIA and RRIF Loan Agreements for
Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to enter into
loan agreements with the Transportation Infrastructure Finance and Innovation Act
(TIFIA) and Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing (RRIF) offices of the US
Department of Transportation and the Federal Railroad Administration respectively for
the funding of Denver Union Station (DUS). RTD will not be named as a borrower and
will not have any direct funding obligation to TIFIA or RRIF under either agreement.

X.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
There was no recommended action.

XI.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director Cohen reminded everyone of the shut down this weekend of 6 Avenue as part of the
installation of the West Corridor signature bridge.
Director Christopher thanked Marla Lien for taking the time to explain the complex financing of
DUSPA-TIFIA and RRIF Loan.
Director Bagley added that as the Board representative on DUSPA, he is learning how intricate
the DUSPA project is. He and Director James spent time with Frank Cannon and Tom Dijon
discussing such things as the PNRS. It is important that the Board stay engaged in this
process.

XII.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 6:05 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, April 20, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair Pro-Tem
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
William McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Lisa Alvarado
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Shannon Duty
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
OTHERS PRESENT:
Tom Welch – Spectrum AV
Bob Wilson
Doug Connor
Doug Rubinch (Aconex)
Robert Hudson

District B
District K
District H
District O
District D
District J
District M
District N
District A
District C
District E
District L
District F

Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Paula Perdue
Trent Ratcliff
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak

Daria Serna
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Sean Vonfeldt
Phil Washington

