Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 7, 2010
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

September 14, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 7, 2010 at 5:05 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Christopher, Vice-Chair Bagley, Directors Brohl, Busck, Cohen,
Daly, James, Kemp, Malpiede, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam,
Tayer and Tobiassen.
None

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Anthony Menendez, Jerry
Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Scott Reed, Julie Skeen, Bill Sirois, Jim
Starling, John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike
Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, and Phil Washington

Others Present:

Robin Kneich (FRESC), Bob Wilson, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bill
Mitchell (MEG), Lorraine Anderson, Melinda Pollack – Enterprise, Bill
Mosher – TCC/DUSPA.
****

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Christopher called the meeting at 5:32 p.m.

Recommended Action
Chair Christopher informed the Board and Staff that Planning & Development will go
first this evening.
Chair Christopher thanked Bill Sirois and others who participated in the TOD Policy
revisions.
TOD Policy Adoption
Bill Sirois briefly discussed the TOD resolution which adopts the Strategic Plan. The
plan accomplishes three things, 1) reflects Federal emphasis on livability, 2) secondly

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 7, 2010
Page 2 of 3

addresses mixed income housing, and 3) reflects new emphasis on Transit Oriented
Communities.
Comments received from the draft that was sent out earlier are reflected in the mixed
income housing language and community involvement piece. This sets the stage for
moving forward in developing a pilot program with three or four projects that staff will
come back to the Board with in December.
Several Board Members expressed their thanks and gratitude to Bill Sirois, RTD Staff
and others involve.
Chair Christopher thanked Robin and Melinda for their help, they were a great
resource. He concluded that this is the right thing to do at the right time, regardless
of the Feds involvement.
Resolution No.___, Series of 2010 (Revised Strategic Plan for Transit Oriented
Development)
MOTION:

Director McMullen made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
September 21, 2010 Board Meeting.

SECOND:

Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

II. Updates
FASTER and TIP
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, shared with the Board that
every three years DRCOG updates their TIP program; they made their solicitation in
August and responses are due back in October. RTD is looking at guidelines, scoring
policies and project eligibility.
Over a four year period, $205 million in Federal funds are available. DRCOG has made
a policy commitment to RTD and the FasTracks Program that about $44 million over
four year period will go towards the FasTracks Program.
Local Governments, CDOT and RTD have the capability to apply through competitive
program for additional funds. RTD is working on prioritizing a list from projects
previously submitted, looking to identify the best priority projects for eligibility.
The State has the FASTER program which provides $5 million per year for local transit
grants through CDOT. The funds are only for Capital expenses and require a local
minimum match of 20%. We expect that the project for applying for these funds will
become clearer. We are hopeful that both FasTracks and base system projects would

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
September 7, 2010
Page 3 of 3

be eligible for funding out of FASTER assuming they meet the criteria that are set.
The FASTER program could be affected by 101, likely it would wipe out most of the
revenues.
III. Other Matters
General Manager, Phil Washington discussed the e-mail he sent out to the Board the
announcement from the White House on funding opportunities and also discussed the
First Region Report. It allows RTD to share with stakeholders, community and elected
officials what we are doing.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for October
12, 2010.
V. Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Hearing no objections, Committee Chair Christopher adjourned the Planning &
Development Committee meeting at 6:03 p.m.

