2021-09-21
Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Good afternoon. I would like to call to order the September 21st special
Board meeting on Reimagine. Ms. McManus, if we could do the roll call, please.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good afternoon. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams, I see your hand up. Is that supposed to be
up?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. I'll put it down.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Well, good evening, everyone. I'd like to take this
opportunity to turn the agenda over to our capable staff's hands. So is it Mr. Van Meter who would like to
take this?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Indeed, it is, Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Board of Directors. This is Bill Van
Meter, Assistant General Manager for planning at RTD. And the plan tonight is to take a deeper dive into
Reimagine RTD, with a specific and particular focus on the System Optimization Plan, its current status,
progress to date, and next steps on that.
And so we shared a presentation, which I am now preparing to share again. Select a window application
I'd like to share. That would be the PowerPoint. Bear with me for a moment while I pull up tonight's
presentation.
So I want to walk you through this, give you a good feel as to where we are on Reimagine, as I noted,
particularly focused on the System Optimization Plan. And I want to leave you with some key takeaways.

And I'll tell you upfront what those key takeaways are and then try to cycle back once you've heard the
detail supporting this.
So one, we want to make sure that the Board and others are listening in and our stakeholders as we
move forward have a rigorous understanding of the System Optimization Plan and that the team is
working toward providing clarity around opportunities for system optimization. We also want to manage
expectations for rebuilding service through the pandemic and post-pandemic. So those are the key
takeaways that we're looking to leave you with.
Just a quick reminder regarding the Board adopted back in April of this year Guiding Principles for
Reimagine. We've been keeping these principles front and center in our work as we progressed forward.
So System Optimization Plan. Why are we conducting a System Optimization Plan, a few highlights. Prepandemic, there were trends, both at RTD and nationally, of ridership loss of many of our peer agencies,
as well as at RTD. So we embarked on this with the intent of reversing and mitigating those trends and
adapting to the new travel markets and new opportunities for travel and partnership opportunities, as well.
A key piece, of course, is ensuring fiscal sustainability. We were at what we recognized to be
unsustainable levels of service pre-pandemic. And with the impacts to our budget midst pandemic and
moving forward, we still have some real fiscal constraints at the Board, as well. And our travel market and
travel demand is changing.
So the System Optimization Plan is progressing through a four-step process. The first step was
conducting a comprehensive assessment of services, looking at detailed performance metrics, and
compiling a comparison of RTD to six transit agencies and looking at route-by-route performance
assessment.
So some key findings. Local routes at RTD are generally the most productive. Our growth in boardings
over time has not kept up with regional population growth. And you can see that compared with our
industry peers, we provide more service per resident. We have more boardings per revenue hour on the
plus sides. Generally, our cost per revenue hour are higher than many of our peers. And we have the
lowest population density, not a surprise to Board members.
The second step was to try to figure out where our market is and where it will be in the future. And so this
location-based services data, 2018 data, from the full year from pings on mobile devices, gaining a really
good understanding of when and where people are traveling throughout the metro area. We found, to no
one's surprise, downtown Denver captures the highest transit market share.
Most trips are home-based and ended either work or school. Equity groups are more likely to travel
midday and are less likely to travel to downtown Denver. They travel shorter distances, as well. So that
led us to the identification of some opportunities to explore new markets and service and new service
delivery methods.

In terms of financial capacity-- the Board has heard this previously-- pre-pandemic, our operating
expenditures exceeded revenues. And we have some real challenges with state of good repair and asset
management priorities, which you just heard about recently. The federal pandemic relief funds have
provided a significant lifeline through the pandemic, but not enough to keep RTD services at prepandemic levels, as well as addressing our state of good repair needs. Pre-pandemic, we were predicting
the need to reduce service by about 8% over-- compared with pre-pandemic levels. More on that in a
moment.
Step four was really having a discussion and conversations with stakeholders and with the community
through an input instrument, a community survey input instrument, looking at those trade offs we've talked
with the Board about before, between social equity, service quality, geographic coverage, and cost
efficiency. The tensions in trying to achieve those sometimes competing but very worthy and laudable
goals, in terms of resource allocation and scenarios.
So I wanted to summarize some of the feedback and input that we have received from the community
and from those stakeholders, including the Board, including the Technical Working Group and Advisory
Committee, and others as outlined on the previous slide.
So these key findings are focused on both modeling and our technical work. For example, high-quality
service results in the highest ridership and the lowest cost for boarding. It has broad stakeholder support.
That's more of a qualitative measure as opposed to the more quantitative modeling type input that we've
received. There's broad stakeholder support, both for high-quality service and equity populations.
We've also heard strong support from Board members and from many stakeholders throughout the
district regarding maintaining a level of broader geographic coverage, even if it is resulting in somewhat
lower ridership and higher cost for boarding, some of those tensions that we've been tracking since we
kicked this project off. And some of that broad geographic coverage dialogue really is centered around
the idea that not all equity populations are centered just in the core of the metro area, but they're
dispersed throughout the region. And so geographic coverage and services, even to equity populations,
needs to be considered from a geographic perspective, as well as a service quality, and focus on specific
equity population neighborhoods.
So those are the four steps that we've gone through to inform the system optimization plan,
recommendations that are in development, and that after we talk about COVID impacts, we'll review in a
little bit more detail.
So this chart shows for each of the run board starting in August 2019, well pre-pandemic, through the
June 2021 run board, what our average weekday ridership was by hour on the system. You can see the
black line, August 2019, depicting two camel back humps, if you will, the AM peak commute and PM peak
commute period. Underneath that is a January 2020 run board, which was impacted by the shutdown
orders in March. So you can see the same peaking, but lower ridership numbers as our ridership
plummeted with stay at home orders in March of 2020.

Through the pandemic, and even through June 2021, you can see that ridership has been growing. The
June 2021 line is the highest of the pandemic run board average weekday numbers. But you don't see
that stark contrast and focus on the AM and PM commute. Our market has markedly changed midst
pandemic. And we believe that some of those impacts will be long per term, based on telework and other
changes in our customer base.
Another way that we've looked at and talked about pandemic ridership is looking at our route structure
and network, looking at which routes retained the highest amount of ridership overlaid on low income and
minority zones, so zones with higher low-income and/or minority populations. And you can see a strong
visual correlation there.
The green and blue routes retain significant amounts of ridership, up to 70%. The routes in brown and
red, orange, yellow lost more ridership, if you will, during the pandemic. And that's based on our March
2021 weekday ridership. So we served the essential workers. We served the equity populations, those
who have relied on RTD's services throughout the pandemic as a lifeline.
One more way to look at ridership and our customer base and comparing that to our service levels is
depicted on this slide. So the two red lines relate to the scale on the y-axis on the right, which is hours of
scheduled platform hours provided for each run board pre-pandemic and then through the pandemic. The
blue lines depict a similar starting point, in terms of weekday and weekend boardings.
And you can see that a key piece for me in this story is that RTD has been able to retain and provide
more service than our customer demand would maybe warrant. Maybe that's not quite the right way to
discuss it, but certainly compared to a similar baseline pre-pandemic. So RTD service levels are higher
than our supporting ridership. We have continued to provide strong service. And you can see the upward
trends on the service lines, the red lines, through June 2021, and through that, see that we are continuing
to restore service.
Financial analysis. I talked about how pre-pandemic, we were projecting the need to cut service by about
8% in order to have a sustainable level of service that allowed us to keep the system in a state of good
repair and have a balanced budget.
Two ways to look at this graph. Thanks to the federal relief funds, our revenues look pretty strong in 2020
and 2021 to 2022. You can see our revenues in gray, projected expenditures in red. And we're
forecasting the ability to increase service by 20%, 25% over current levels by the year 2026.
That's a glass half full perspective. We have real capacity to continue service increases in coming years
at a sustainable level, allowing us to juggle and address our various needs. The glass is half empty
perspective would be that resultant level of service is only about 85% of pre-pandemic levels of service.
So moving into where those four steps in the System Optimization Plan, analysis, supporting information,
and the COVID impacts are leading us, in terms of this System Optimization Plan recommendations. One,
a key informing factor for us are those system design principles, four of them, on the left side. Those are
our guiding principles-- design principles for the System Optimization Plan. And then we have identified

how they support the strategic priorities in the Board-adopted strategic plan for 2021 through 2026. So
you can see a key focus on employee ownership, community value, customer excellence, and financial
success through all of that.
So in terms of the System Optimization Plan recommendations as it relates to system structure, one of
the things that we're recommending is that we modify RTD's family of services into four travel marketbased service categories-- more on that in the next slide-- that we support well-defined transit transfer
hubs, or mobility hubs, and that we maintain consistent service spans and clock-based headways.
So this is a working draft of those market-based service categories. We're not completely sold on the
names. The categorizations, though, that you see make a lot of sense to us in terms of how we can group
and categorize and analyze and provide service to our customers and to our riders. And so that gives you
a good feel as to where we're going in terms of service categorization and potential changes and
recommendations as it relates to our service standards, as well.
Design objectives-- simplification, consistency, and reliability for our bus network. That's another key
focus. Under reliability, you see elimination of long routes. Long routes have a tendency to-- for the
operations to get off of schedule. And elimination is probably too strong a word, but more-- stated another
way, maybe more resources should be-- and in fact, our recommendations are that more resources
should be focused on shorter routes where we can achieve a higher degree of schedule, reliability, and
service to our passengers.
That's a little preview on some of coming attractions regarding our bus design objectives. We want to dive
a little bit deeper into our light rail patterns. This graphic depicts our light rail patterns in 2019 prepandemic.
A challenge for RTD through the years has been operations between Broadway I-25 in the Central Platte
Valley and through downtown on the Stout and California loop. Five different lines operating between
Broadway and I-25 and the Central Platte Valley junction with 20 trains per hour in the peak period in that
very congested corridor. It had a real tendency to pose operational challenges on a regular ongoing basis
for RTD, and that resulted in train delays, both the volume plus the multiple patterns that we were
operating.
So the recommendation for May 2022 rail service is to have a much simplified operation with the D line,
the E line, with the H and R lines, only three lines operating between Broadway I-25 and the Central
Platte Valley junction, fewer trains in downtown, much higher degree of operational and schedule
reliability. Select recommendations from this concept that you're looking at right here have already been
approved and implemented by you as part of the January 2021 run board and presaging these changes.
One thing I'd like to note, that footnote says it clearly, C and F patterns are still available. And we have
used them for special events.

A couple other things to note, our ridership really starts to drop off on light rail in the fringe periods, early
morning, late night. We also are dealing with some train congestion issues at the end of line on the
Southeast corridor, RidgeGate Parkway. And all of that is leading to a few other things.
We need windows for overnight maintenance of the track and infrastructure and the right of way. And
longer maintenance windows also helps us achieve and maintain higher reliability. So one of the
modifications we're looking at and evaluating to improve those maintenance windows is to start service a
little bit later, by 30 to 60 minutes in the morning, and a slight reduction on weekend late W line services,
based on ridership and the need for those maintenance windows.
That's looking at our recommendations and a sneak preview of our May 2022 recommendations.
Ultimately, we do expect and anticipate and see the need for improving service frequencies on some of
the core route patterns that are in our light rail network. So this is the ultimate service concept. The key
differences you see here, still that route simplification and increased reliability that stems from that. But
you can see that for the weekday peak and midday periods, recommendations of moving from 15 minute
headways on some of those light rail patterns to 10 minute headways so there will would be more
frequent service.
So we're trying to manage expectations for rebuilding service. You've heard me mention more than once
that we cannot restore our services or rebuild our services to pre-pandemic 2019 levels. It's not financially
sustainable.
It's also a challenge given our current workforce issues. And our current service levels are aligned with
workforce availability, but we will need to continue to align our service levels with workforce availability
moving forward. So it's not just a financial consideration. It's also valuing our employees health, safety,
and well-being.
Equity is a priority. We've heard that clearly from you and from our stakeholders, using Title VI to guide
service and their decisions.
And addressing our asset management backlog, our customer base and ridership needs have changed.
Less AM and PM peak period service looks to be a new norm. Gives us opportunities for more midday
service and new or different services throughout the region. So we want to provide that thought and
perspective, as well.
Why are the AM and PM peak trips gone? Because of the impact of telework, COVID, and related
ridership trend predictors. So again, not all pre-pandemic routes can or will be restored. The system
optimization is looking at how do we rebuild services better, and to meet those changed customer
demands and needs, and to match and align with our fiscal capacity and our workforce. Our workforce
considerations as well, looking at the new family of services that I've talked about, updating our service
standards, and assuring network-- transit network integrity.
So moving forward, we continue to work on that draft 2026 System Optimization Plan. We anticipate
through the fall our planning on ongoing Board engagement, engagement with you, as we reveal more

information and share more information and get that information with you, with the Technical Working
Group, with the Advisory Committee, solicit public input, working to finalize a System Optimization Plan
and Implementation Phasing Plan for your consideration in early 2022.
That's where we are, where we're heading on the System Optimization Plan. A real brief touch base on
the mobility plan for the future, we're also working on that concurrently. Recall, our overarching goals are
to meet the demands of both population and transit ridership projected growth. How do we increase
ridership is certainly a goal. And we're working to develop a really comprehensive approach to guide
these investments.
One thing I should say is as we've talked with stakeholders, the Technical Working Group and Advisory
Committee level, we have certainly heard some strong voices saying, because of greenhouse gas goals
from the state, because of climate change concerns, because we're a key piece of the puzzle to changing
people's travel behavior, that these targets of a 70% increase in transit ridership may not be enough. And
we should not use that as a limiting factor or as a goal, but as, maybe, a basement at best, in terms of our
work for the future.
So concurrently, through the summer and into the fall, we have been working on a targeted outreach and
engagement implementation plan and approach. We've had online engagements and individual meetings
and a number of other avenues to get input on the information that I've just been talking with you about-at least, pieces of it.
And moving forward into winter and early 2022, as we have even more specifics on the draft strategies
and System Optimization Plan recommendations, we plan to have a robust customer outreach, public
meetings, Telephone Town Halls, online engagement approach to really share the recommendations and
get valuable feedback for your consideration as you're making some trade off decisions and some
recommendations for the future of service at RTD.
So I said the key takeaways were that you would have a more rigorous understanding of the System
Optimization Plan. Hopefully, you feel you have some of that from this presentation. That the team is
working on providing clarity around those opportunities and some of the current constraints as well,
frankly. And that we need to be managing expectations with our stakeholders, with our customers and
others regarding the realities of rebuilding service, the constraints of the financial, our workforce, and the
changing customer demand throughout the district.
So that, Chair Rivera-Malpiede and Board, concludes the formal presentation. I see hands going up
already. I was going to suggest that we might now want to turn it over to dialogue and questions and my
best attempts at answers.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, Mr. Van Meter. Let me see if I can pull up my gallery. Could
you take the slides off, please?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah. Stop share. There we go.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. All right. Mr Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you for that presentation, Bill.
A couple of questions. So why did you choose 2050 as the year? That's almost 30 years from now. And
why didn't you choose something a bit more recent, say 2030 or something a little bit more immediate?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, if I may, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM planning. Don't know how formal and
how many times I need to repeat that this evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You don't. You don't need to do it any further. Thank you.
WILLIAM VAN METER: There you go. We're at a study session, not a formal Board meeting.
Director Rosenthal, so the 2050 horizon was chosen specifically because that's also the Denver Regional
Council of Governments planning horizon. So they have a lot of demographic projections, transit network,
roadway network, and other projections established for the year 2050. It's also federally required that they
look out at least 25 years. We wanted our plans to directly align with DRCOG's plans.
I will note that we are also looking at interim years for the System Optimization Plan, a 2026-ish time
frame. And we're also trying to take a look at an interim year on the order of 2030 for some of the key
measures at least.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. That's the kind of information I think that would also be helpful for this
Board.
And then my other question is regards to community engagement. And you mentioned online feedback,
and I'm wondering, could we do, potentially, advertising, where people can just click on an ad saying-engage in, now, do you take the bus? Do you take the train? Do you want to take more? Do you want to
offer feedback? And then advertise that on broad range of social media, so LinkedIn, Snapchat, Twitter,
Facebook, Instagram. Some of those social media platforms would be really good to advertise that would
not, from my gathering, be too terribly expensive, but actually would engage people where they are.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thanks for that question. I'm not the expert in that. I can talk your ears off about
the AM and PM peak commute markets, but in terms of that sort of question, I don't have a direct answer.
But we can look into it and get an answer back. Thanks. I like the idea.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you very much, appreciate it. And that's all my questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Dishell?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, sorry to interrupt. I see Bill Sirois, who is a little bit more of an expert in
that area than I am. He just popped up with his hand up. I suspect it's in response to Director Rosenthal's
query.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course. Mr. Sirois, please.
WILLIAM SIROIS: Thanks, Chair. Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. Director Rosenthal, I think that's a great point. What we have been focused on recently is
more I would say localized engagement. We do plan to do a much more intensive engagement. And we
are working with our communications group to get more social media outreach, just like you said. We will
be focused on that much more as we get towards the end of the year and early next year.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell, you're up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Buzek may have been before me if he wants to go,
but I am happy to go. All right, I'll just jump in. A few questions. One is, we talk about the shorter trips. To
me, from an operational standpoint, that implies a higher frequency. Is that an incorrect assumption?
WILLIAM VAN METER: That's a potentially correct assumption. So on those routes where a higher
frequency is warranted, that also improves reliability and customer confidence. And that would be one of
the potential trade offs that-- it's not a universal. That's why I'm hedging my bets in terms of my response.
But it can lead to, given the same amount of resources, that sort of result in situations where it's
warranted.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. And also, for the shorter trips, are we looking at different types of vehicles?
So for example, vehicles that are more like vans or cutaways that are bigger buses, just because in my
mind at least, again, it's a shorter trip and people aren't going as far. You don't need as big of a vehicle
necessarily.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Potentially. We always try to size our fleet and our vehicles based on the peak
demand along the route that's experienced on a regular basis And having fewer types of vehicles, 40 foot
coaches, RTICs, certainly makes some of our operations interlining and those sorts of considerations
easier.
But on the other hand, we are trying to be more nimble and reflective of opportunities for partnerships
with local jurisdictions, partnerships with the private sector, and other opportunities that might lend
themselves to variations on FlexRide services or others that require or warrant different types of vehicles.
BOBBY DISHELL: All righty. And I have two and a half more questions. This one's the one and a half. I
heard a few times you mentioned about managing stakeholder expectations, making sure we were
properly managing expectations. Can you give us some feedback on ways that the Board can support in
managing expectations? And then also perhaps some examples of ways that Board members may be
doing more harm than good in the way that we might be talking or doing different activities that is not the
job of managing expectations?

WILLIAM VAN METER: OK. That's an off the top of my head answer and then either a lifeline. I'll note
that there are a few others on this call, like Bill Sirois, and Brian Welch, and Jessie Carter, who I've given
a heads up. I might need to throw a lifeline to them.
Three of the key messages from my point I've iterated a couple of times in this discussion, and that is
making it clear that we don't have the financial capacity and resources to restore all of the services the
way they used to be. That's the glass is half empty perspective.
The glass is half full perspective is it's giving us opportunities to make sure that our core markets,
essential workers, equity populations, are still being well served. It's allowing us to focus our resources on
the higher productivity routes. It's requiring us to look carefully at making sure that we do have a level of
geographic coverage, letting them know that our-- letting the public know that our customer base has
changed, that our traditional AM and PM commute market is fundamentally different than it was prepandemic. And we don't anticipate it coming back.
It's not all gloom and doom. We have the capacity to increase service by about 25% over where it is
today. So as ridership demand comes back, we have already demonstrated that we're capable of doing
that. And we're doing that, restoring service, as fast in higher amounts than ridership warrants.
So these are the kind of messages that I really think help communicate and certainly resonate with me,
but I'm a technical geek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director-- Mr. Sirois, you have your hand up. Did you want to add
to that?
WILLIAM SIROIS: Yeah. And I just want to add-- because I think Bill forgot, but I know he probably just
forgot-- which is the operator issue is a huge issue for us. And I think the Board has had a fair amount of
discussion on it. And I think reiterating that because it really is-- it goes well beyond transit.
I think there's issues in the trucking industry, there's issues with public schools and school bus drivers. I
mean, it's all over the place. And I think that is really a big driver of our ability to provide service in the
future.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thanks very much. I promise this is my last one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
BOBBY DISHELL: Which is that I know we have a lot of different-- we have the Reimagine priorities and
we have four priorities that we saw. And then we have a strategic plan that we just approved. And I know
this was sort of lightly-- lightly sprinkled into the presentation.
But as we come back and continue to get presentations, is there any way we can see how these plans
really fit into our strategic plan, how we're really furthering that strategic plan that we set? I can draw the
line somewhere, but really making sure that we are aligned and all throwing in the same direction. And

maybe not super explicit, but people who are [INAUDIBLE] so that we just picture, as a Board, where
we're able to tic that off from a strategic standpoint, as well.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Appreciate that. And I will take that to heart. It certainly aligns with my boss's
direction to me and her boss's directions to her, so I like that. We made an attempt in this presentation to
start drawing those ties from the Board-adopted strategic plan to these efforts. But it's clear that it could
be stronger and more integrally articulated, so thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And I also want to lend support for what Director Rosenthal brought up, in
thinking about social and ways in which we can be really forward thinking and continue to change
messaging that we're seeing lately-- or maybe I'll just pay closer attention-- to continue those campaigns
across. And now I'm really finished. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I'll lower my hand before I forget. OK.
So I've got three things, actually. So the first two steps in doing the System Optimization Plan, the
comprehensive assessment of services and review existing travel patterns against service, involved a lot
of data collection and analysis, upon which we made presumptions and assumptions that we based all
these outcomes on. They were all done prior to the pandemic.
So my concern is that the data may no longer be relevant. I mean, you said yourself, and I think we all
realize, that transit may have changed forever in a dramatic fashion. So part of me thinks we've got data
that may no longer be relevant, upon which we based a lot of our assumptions.
Maybe you'll tell me that we can still use that old data, but part of me thinks we ought to redo some of that
analysis. And if you say we shouldn't, then it makes me wonder whether we even needed the data in the
first place if it's no longer relevant and we're going to use it anyway. So help clarify that for me, if you
could.
WILLIAM VAN METER: I would like to call on a lifeline, and that's Brian Welch. I have the basics of the
answer, but I think he can provide a more complete response. Brian?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. Good evening, Chair and members of the Board. Thanks for the opportunity.
That's a very good question. The location-based services data, which is the 50 million records that we
referred to, its primary purpose was to identify things that are geographically based on the ground. So
what you were identifying, our travel markets that are predicated on the location of residences,
businesses, major generators within our district, the campuses, the Denver Tech Center, all those things,
Boulder, they haven't moved since the pandemic occurred, of course.
And the data that we collected primarily identified what overall travel markets are in the Denver region.
And it's not just transit trips, so it's all trips. And we know that while telework has occurred, the location of

the major places within our region has not shifted. Now, if we did go out and redo some of that data
collection, I'm sure what we would find is that there's been a shift, perhaps, in volume, but not in the
overall pattern.
So what you're going to find in the System Optimization Plan is a couple of things, and this will unfold
over the next few weeks with the Board and our stakeholders. The light rail patterns, for example, that
was something that the location-based services data helped with, but there's nothing that's really changed
post-pandemic that would change our conclusions on those patterns. Now, with bus, what we did find is
that RTD has potentially some new travel markets that are important to us that we'll be presenting to you.
But those are still important because they were predicated on parts of the geographic location of our
region that have not changed.
I hope that answers the question. So it's more an understanding of where we might need more service.
And that is consistent even-- we believe that has not changed after the pandemic. Think, if you look at
what's happened in travel, vehicle miles traveled, we know in the Denver Metro area is right back to
where it was before the pandemic. Our ridership is not, so we believe that that cell phone-based data is
still a reliable source for the purposes of which we're going to bring it to the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Mr. Sirois, I see your hand up.
WILLIAM SIROIS: Yeah, this is again Bill Sirois. One thing to add Brian's comment is I also think some of
the peer information that we'd looked at is still relevant. And one thing that we have done since we did all
the data collection at the front end of the project is we have done recent data collection of how different
agencies are responding in COVID. And so I think we're using that information, the base information that
we had related to how we relate to our peers, but now we've updated it saying, how are they responding
to COVID? And how does that relate to how we are responding, as well?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Secretary Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. So Mr. Welch, thanks for the update on that. And as long as your belief
that the changes are to volume not pattern are fact-based and not anecdotally-based, I'm happy with that
analysis, as well.
Next question has to do with the SOP bus design objectives and the reliability heading the elimination of
long routes. And of course, the bulk of the Directors on the Board represent suburban areas, in which live
long routes. So I'm sure a lot of us that have long routes would be concerned about that.
So I understand focusing on shorter routes increases reliability. But to answer the unreliability issue on a
longer route by simply eliminating the route, I don't think I like the sound of that. Perhaps maybe there's
something in between.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, that's partly why I tried to re-word it in my presentation. Jessie Carter will
provide more information. But it's not necessarily elimination and not replacing with some sort of
substitute.

And so that was an incomplete thought. A shorter substitute is one possibility to assure that we are not
eliminating service to significant portions of the region. That's my start at an attempt to answer. And with
Mr. Carter's hand up, I'd be happy to ask him to amplify.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. I'm going to remember to lower my hand, which is something hard for me to
remember. This is Jessie Carter, acting Senior Manager of Service Development.
Director Buzek, that was a really good question. And I can understand where you would get the idea that
we were looking at eliminating parts of routes, and that's not the case. So let me give an actual example
of something that we should look at.
So when we look at the Route 12-- Route 12, which goes all the way South into the Inglewood area, but
also exists as far North-- North and Thornton in the Thornton area-- that's a very long route. It extends
beyond a couple of Board districts, for sure.
So when we look at that, that was actually a route that was made up of two routes in what I would
consider the recent past. They were the Route 7 and the Route 12 on South Downing that we combined.
And I want to say that was probably 12 years ago when we combined those two routes to become one
route.
So when we look at the actual ridership patterns that are on a service like the 12, now, we still see that
there are still two distinct routes and possibly three or four different patterns on that service. So we want
to do a better job of segmenting those travel patterns and provide that reliable service that Bill was talking
about. So a shorter route is easier to maintain.
But what will remain is not a short route by industry standards, but definitely a shorter route than what we
currently provide on the route. So we'll be back to the Route 7 used to be, from downtown up to Thornton.
And then looking at the Route 12 from Central Denver down to Inglewood. So nothing gets eliminated, but
the structure changes. And I hope that answers your question.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, so you've got a 12 A, B, and C now. You've broken that off in two.
JESSIE CARTER: Exactly, exactly.
VINCE BUZEK: Bad word choice, Bill. Thanks, Jessie. I appreciate that.
And last question or comment, so it has to do with rebuilding service and current service levels being
aligned with our workforce availability. And there's I think two ways you look at that. One is you pick a
service level and you hire staff to get there. The other way is hire as much staff as you can, and wherever
you end up is your service level. So which way are we going?
WILLIAM VAN METER: I would need to defer on that because I'm not in our HR or operations
department, so I can't-- Michael Ford just popped on the screen. Perhaps-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ford, would you like to answer that?

MICHAEL FORD: Yeah. Thank you very much. I'm Michael Ford, COO.
Obviously, we're looking to match what we can deliver. Obviously, there is a lot to trying to hire people
and get them on. At this point in time, we're just trying to match what we can deliver based on hiring
opportunities that we are faced with right now.
So I don't know if that's answering your question directly. But we're trying to match the service with what
we have in terms of resources, understanding that we have an attrition rate. We have people that are
leaving, they're retiring. We're trying to replenish that, so we have to strike a balance. And we continue to
monitor that very rigorously so we can ensure that we're providing what we can afford to put out there
without mandating, as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Then I guess my question was more of the long term perspective. If you're looking at
2026 at 85% of pre-pandemic service, then I guess-- well, I guess our financial structure is going to
determine when we get there, really. OK. I guess that answers it.
I appreciate all the time. I'm sorry I've taken too much of it. Thanks. That's all I have.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity. I have three
questions or comments I'd like to make.
The first question is do we know what was the original motivation for the C and the F lines? And how has
that motivation changed over time to justify, in effect, losing those lines now? The F was the only train to
the Central Business District from the Bellevue station and all of the stations South of Bellevue. And the C
was the only train to Union Station from the Southwest Line. And the Southeast line and the Southwest
line are the East-West borders of my district, so I'm concerned about that.
And I suppose there must be-- but I'd like to have confirmation-- that there will be a close coordination of
connections at the Broadway Station. Because if someone from the Southwest is intending to travel to
Union Station, they really can't do that by virtue of the elimination of the C line, because the D goes to
downtown and the C went to Central Platte Valley.
The same thing with people on the Southeast line, the F being that only train there, there are no-- to the
Central Business District-- they're no longer going to have that opportunity. So they'd have to be
connecting at Broadway Station, presumably, or 10th and Osage, or whatever it might be before the
trains turn. Are we looking at coordinating those connections at the Broadway Station so that a person
can still have at least a two-seat ride, apparently, but at least have a two-seat ride in order to accomplish
their purposes?
WILLIAM VAN METER: So I'll take a stab at setting a little bit of the historical context and then look to a
couple of lifelines that have popped on the screen to amplify on the answer and prospective plans. When
we had the central corridor on Stout and California and the Central Platte Valley and the Southwest

Corridor, it made a lot of sense at the time for us to provide service from all points on the Southwest
corridor to both Denver Union Station through the Central Platte Valley and to Downtown Denver via
Stout and California.
We then added the Southeast Corridor. And so logically, we thought, well, if everyone on the Southwest
Corridor has a choice and a chance to go to and from every place in a one-seat ride, we should do the
same. Then we built the West Corridor and citizens on the West Corridor said, we want the opportunity to
go from everywhere to everywhere.
It started complicating the system more and more. We were not able to accommodate that interest on the
West Corridor. All West Corridor trains originate and terminate via the Central Platte Valley and Denver
Union Station. So we backed into a very complex route network and structure based on that precedent
that was set on the Southwest Corridor. And it's been something that has been a sticking point, in terms
of reliability and service, since the Southeast Corridor opened and as we've attempted to improve and
increase service.
The trade offs and the advantages of reliability and being able to improve services on the core Southeast
and Southwest services to eventually 10 minute headways provides a higher level of service and
reliability than we're able to achieve on five route patterns through the Central Platte Valley. That's a start
at the answer. And I saw both Brian and Jessie popping on the screen. I don't know if either of them
would like to provide more insight than I was able to provide there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Gentlemen, which would like to start?
BRIAN WELCH: Let's let Jessie go first.
JESSIE CARTER: I was going to say let Brian go first.
[LAUGHTER]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We'll go alphabetical, Carter first.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, OK, no problem, will do. So the only thing that I would add-- and Bill, that was a
good comprehensive answer to it in looking at demand. The only thing that I would add is that there's a
saying on operations planners, and that is frequency covers a multitude of sins.
So when we look to try to make for a better connecting system, we look to frequency to being that primary
tool. And so as we look forward in the future with the ultimate system, we're looking at that 10 minute
frequency to allow for folks to make that transfer between the different branches in a very convenient
manner. And given a 10 minute frequency, you're looking at wait times less than around the 5 minute time
frame. So that built a very reliable system where connections can be made.
We see that in our system today. I believe, when you look at our current system as it's performing now,
though we get requests for the C line, people do make the connections between the D and the E. And if

you were to measure the actual ridership of those lines, and you compare the F to the E, it's really clear
the E line has superseded the F line in ridership. And if you look at the trends going back to 2006, that
has been the case, where the E line has been performing a lot better than the F line.
And I guess I'll leave it to the other folks in the systems planning just to speak about the future and growth
trends in the downtown area. So with that, that's all I have at this point.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, I'll-- just really quickly to supplement Bill-- and Jessie added just a couple of things
to Director Tisdale's inquiry-- when the System Optimization Plan consultant looked at our light rail, they
said, wow. This is a really, really complicated, extensive system. How do you pull this off? And they
looked at the choke points, they looked at the overlaps and the frequencies.
And where we're headed-- directly to Director Tisdale's question-- one of the things we're doing right now,
for example, when the-- to facilitate transfers better-- I saw this happen today because they took away my
F train, which I've been whining about over and over. But now, what they do is the D line, the D line pulls
up, and it holds. And it waits for the E train to show up just so we can facilitate those transfers in a
manner much better than-- perhaps, in some ways, it could work out even better for passengers, I think,
in the future. But as we optimize, we're going to do more of that, I'm sure.
And the people in system development, they're going to make sure that all these types of trips that
previously occurred-- because FTA, they've always been impressed with the level of transfers that RTD
pulls off, particularly at I-25 Broadway. I mean, if you remember what it was like when people were
streaming off our trains and getting on buses, we see that in the future. That is going to come back, and
it's going to come back throughout our district. And we've got some strategies that you'll be hearing about
down the road that I believe are going to mitigate a lot of the people's well-placed concerns about the
patterns changing and the manner that's been proposed to the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, I thank you for that. I think those are all very helpful bits of information. And I do
look forward to enhanced coordinated connections at I-25 and Broadway, because I think that really is the
central point for creating connectivity for everyone who lives in the southern part of the RTD.
My second question, then, is perhaps just more of a brain teaser or a trivia question even. Looking at the
trend line graph that you had for travel, it reflects that travel is consistent no matter what conditions we're
operating under, pre-pandemic, mid-pandemic, post-pandemic. Invariably, the afternoon rush hour
boardings are always much higher than the morning rush hour boardings. And I guess my question is,
how did those people get to work? They're all coming back on the train, but how did they get there in the
first instance since we have fewer riders in the morning than we have in the afternoon?
WILLIAM VAN METER: So part of the answer resides in the concept that the AM peak is substantially-or, was at least substantially-- people commuting to and from work. The PM peak is that market returning
home, plus students who went to school in the afternoon at the University, plus people who went
shopping or on a social errand or something else early afternoon, mid-afternoon, and know that to get
home, the services are more robust at that time. And it works well in terms of getting home, preparing

dinner, and having an evening at home. And so there are additional markets, travel markets, that build
through the midday that are all looking for a ride home in the afternoon.
DOUG TISDALE: In the afternoon. All right, well, that makes sense. And I appreciate that.
My third and final comment is just that, it's a comment. I couldn't let the evening go by without wishing a
very happy birthday to Director Troy L. Whitmore this day. Thank you, Madam Chair. That's all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin? You're muted. Oh, OK, there you go.
PEGGY CATLIN: Can you hear me now? OK. First of all, staff, the answers to these questions have been
really helpful for me, and I very much appreciate it. Some of the questions I had were already asked by
Directors Tisdale and Director Buzek, also Director Dishell.
Look at the plan for the future, and it talks about a suite or a family of services. And I know that there has
been some discussion about perhaps expanding FlexRide in those areas where services have been
diminished. Although it might result in a reduced ride, it could take riders over to hubs or other transit
facilities. And if that's something that you're going to be looking at-- because I know I've had some
inquiries about that in my area, recognizing that these long trips and it's-- but the answer I get from the
Special Services Group is that we already have an area that's too big. So would there be a possibility of
maybe dividing those into a couple of different Flex area?
WILLIAM VAN METER: The short answer is yes. Brian has a-- Brian Welch, I believe, has a more
comprehensive answer than I can provide.
BRIAN WELCH: Hi. Thank you, Director Catlin, for asking that question. I was hoping somebody would.
One of the things that's exciting about Reimagine RTD that's going to grow out of the System
Optimization Plan, in fact, and is-- I believe the connection between the two is that what we found when
the consultant and our team have looked at optimizing our system. They've said, have you really thought
through just as the same way light rail evolved over time, the way that FlexRide, Access-a-Cab, Accessa-Ride, how they have also evolved over time? And isn't it time to take a step back, and in the family of
services, look at FlexRide maybe differently than you had before?
Because what-- and I'm giving you a real preview here, because I want to get some energy and
excitement about what's coming. They've said, you know, we're looking at your FlexRides, and some of
them, they look like you have overlap with fixed-route bus. How did that happen? And some of them look
like they have overlap with paratransit and other things that maybe you should rethink this.
So what I think you're going to see in this family of services is us proposing to the Board rethinking the
way we look at FlexRide as mainly people thinking of it only as first-mile, last-mile. In other words, only
thinking that as a way to get to a park and ride. But could we look at it differently? Could we look at it as a
substitute for some of the services that the System Optimization Plan says these aren't maybe the best
way that you're providing service to this geographic area? Have you thought about this?

And I've seen some draft maps, and it's really exciting what we're going to be showing to you about what
they think we should maybe consider with our FlexRides and how that could reallocate our resources.
Our own staff also, in service development, they have looked at-- they've been thinking about this a lot,
too. And they're aligning very well with where the consultants are.
So I hope I answered that question correctly. But the answer is yes. Yes, you're going to see some-you're going to see some very cool ideas coming forth. And it relates back to an earlier Director's
question, which says, well, if these trips are a long way away, you're not going to take them away are
you? No, no. I mean, we have some different ideas, though, about how to do coverage that we think are
going to be very compelling and provide hope where otherwise you might think there isn't as much that
we could do.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Brian. The answer to Director Buzek's question and the example of the 7
and the 12 was-- that made a lot of sense. And also, the response to Director Tisdale's question about the
line-- was that the F line? That made a lot of sense, too. And it sounds like you're planning for light rail
service based on the precedent set by the Southwest Corridor that we were trying to be all things to all
people.
And so I really appreciated that discussion and the fact that the more frequent service will allow better
opportunities for transfer. I know most people don't like a two-seat ride, but I think that's inevitable, even if
you change it tomorrow. So I really appreciate your direct answers. And I remain cautiously optimistic
about family of services discussion. So thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know what? Since its Director Whitmore's birthday, he
actually was on the list to speak next and then put his hand down. So because it's your birthday, did you
want to speak?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you Director Tisdale for that recognition. I had most of my thoughts addressed
by Director Buzek and Director Dishell. I really appreciated the comment about tying this to our strategic
plan that we all have our fingerprints on. I'm sure that's something that will happen, so I appreciate that
from Director Dishell. My other questions were answered. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Happy birthday. Director Broom, your hand was up for a long
time and then down. Did you want to speak, sir?
BOB BROOM: What I was going to ask about was already covered. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook, you're up next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. I have three, maybe three and a half questions. And first of all, I
want to build on the question that Director Buzek had about the timing and in particular talking about
timing of the data that we took this spring that relates more to our recovery and future trends after the
pandemic.

So if you looked forward to just two or three months in June-- and I'll talk about the G line because I follow
it closely-- that the ridership in June was pushing or at 50% of what it was on average, from what I can tell
in 2019. 2019 was the first year or so that was only a part year. And that was with half the service,
because we've halved the interval throughout the day, 12 hours of the day.
So my concern is that we're forming some thoughts and recommendations based upon data that's rapidly
changing, the pandemic related stuff. So that's my first question for you all. Are you able to-- are you
feeding that back through the process, or are you cutting off at March 2021?
WILLIAM VAN METER: I would like to call on a lifeline. Brian?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. We're-- Thank you for that question, Director Cook. We are monitoring and
making our-- preparing our recommendations based on yesterday. We're continuing to do it. And we will
do this, right up until we bring this to the Board at the end of this year. We're going to-- we have the
ability, with all of our automated passenger counters, as you all know, to stay on top of this. And I bet you
what'll happen is that we're going to take advantage of the data from November, if we can, in order to
ascertain.
Now, we do need to bring to you for your decision making-- and we spoke about this-- the May 2022 run
board, which will be before you, I anticipate, in January. So we will get to that point where we have to
start saying, OK, it's time to put our pencils down and make the recommendations to the Board of
Directors. But no, we did not stop in March, in any way, shape, or form. And we'll keep tracking.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Thank you. That's good to hear. I really appreciate that part.
Secondly, on the travel markets, can you distinguish between what regionally-focused local bus and rail
routes are and under commuter regional bus and rail routes, what's the difference between those two?
And what are the service implications regarding that we might see in the future, service differences,
approach to service delivery changes, that we might see for some of these working draft categories?
BRIAN WELCH: I'll jump in but, Jessie, please supplement. The notion would be is that the Board would
consider these four different categories. And you would also be simultaneously looking at different service
standards that would be appropriate for those four differentiated categories.
So if you can think of the way it works now where we have the geographic-based service standards that
differentiate based on that, now you would be looking at grouping these services together. And they
would have a different approach, perhaps. Because if you're looking at a family of services and saying
that, explicitly, that community services, for example, have a completely different purpose and target in
the first place, in terms of maybe they don't even have the same metric that you would use for the
University of Colorado A line. Maybe it's not subsidy per boarding. Maybe it's something totally different
because now the industry has said that that's not how to count this.
Now, I didn't really answer your specific question. I think Jessie could weigh in a little bit more on the
differentiation between those two shades in the family of services. Jessie?

JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thanks, Brian. I guess the only way that I know how to provide an answer to that
question would be to give an example of types of services that we can speak to.
So you mentioned first the regional type of service, or core regional type of service. As a local route, that
would be a Route 15, to give you an example, the largest single local service that we have, in terms of
ridership. To give you an example of a commuter type service, might be in the future, if we're looking at
something that was an express or regional type service. I could give you an example. Not the 120X, per
se, because it has a midday component, but perhaps the 122X, as an example. That would be something
that operates primarily during the peak.
The assumptions made about the different categories lead to things like when the services start, the span
of the services, and the frequency of those services. So when we're looking at commuter services, they're
offered during what's likely considered the traditional peak period. And when we're talking about
something that's a more of a regional core type of route, it has all day, daily type. So it would have
weekday, weekend service.
So I know this bears a lot more detailed explanation of each one of those categories. But I'm hoping that
gives you an idea of the way that we're looking at things at this point.
SHELLEY COOK: It does. And as a follow up to that, commuter rail isn't shown on any of the maps.
What's your plan? What's the intent regarding commuter rail, and where does it fall in these categories, et
cetera, the A, B, G, and N?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Does anyone want me to start with that one, or-BRIAN WELCH: Go ahead, Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, fine. So in looking at the different categories, you mentioned one right away, the A
Line. The A Line has some really great characteristics. One, it has two major ridership generators. I have
both at each end. You have the Denver Airport and you have Downtown Denver. Its ridership
characteristics today show high ridership throughout the day and on weekends. So that would be
considered core. OK? Hopefully that tracks.
Then, when you look at ridership characteristics, let's say, let's take the next letter in the alphabet and you
look at the B. The B might be described better as a commuter type. Even though it's-- and its commuter
rail, but it might be better described in terms of its performance, its ridership performance. And the service
that would be offered would be more of a commuter-type service.
I've got to ask the question with the head nod. Does that kind of answer your question?
SHELLEY COOK: G and N?
JESSIE CARTER: So A and B. Oh, you want me to answer about G and N?
SHELLEY COOK: Mhm.

JESSIE CARTER: OK. G, the way the ridership stands right now, it looks like-- and this is something-and again, I have to applaud Brian's answer, in that we are still learning about our ridership. But right
now, I think the G is right around 2,500 boardings per day. If that's correct, and I know Director Cook,
you've been looking at those numbers pretty closely.
So with that type of performance, it may fall into either category, either a core or commuter route. If it
continues with added service back in seeing ridership in to 70 boardings per hour, that would speak to it
being commuter. If it starts to see really strong midday and weekend ridership, that would push it more
towards core.
SHELLEY COOK: So Jessie, are you calculating by the service hour? Because we are comparing apples
to oranges in some ways, since the prior service had been every 15 minutes on the G line and been more
frequent at peak times for the B line. And plus, we have a concessionaire agreement that specifies-- and I
think our availability payments are predicated upon that 15 minutes.
Those things-- so I want to make sure we're calculating it in a way that's fair, taking into account the fact
that it was only a part year that we're using as our base. And then understand, too, that the light rail lines
have had, in some cases, a couple of decades to build their ridership and see the associated land use.
So I don't want to see a huge, hundreds of millions of dollars of investment and not allow that come to the
fruition that we planned for when we had FasTracks first envisioned when we first built this system.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood. And please know that we like both commuter rail and light rail alike. And
we would hope that their performance would reflect that high investment. So the metric of passengers per
hour is what we use universally, be it bus, rail, commuter rail, or light rail. So that is a good and fair
measure of the effectiveness of an hour of service provided. And we will continue to look at it in that way.
However, I will say also when you asked about the G and the N, when we're looking at the ridership, it's
not as bad as it could be. In terms of ridership, I think both the G and the N are seeing about 2,500
boardings per day and are above the 50 boardings per hour ridership level. So that to me has been
somewhat positive.
However, we would-- we'd love to see all things get back to triple digits when it comes down to rail, based
on the fact that we've got those large investments that were made to create those services. We would like
to see them certainly perform better than many of our bus lines.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And then the Board Office arranged for me to visit via in San Antonio in
September of 2019. It was a really interesting visit. And they had been carrying out studies on their own
system as to what happens when you increase frequencies.
And they found that when you increase headways from already very frequent, like 15 minutes to 12
minutes, they saw a big increase, like 15% to 20% gains. But when they increased from say 60 to 30
minute headways, in other words, they doubled the headways but it was still pretty infrequent, there they
only saw single digits, 5% changes. So I hope that our service planning can take that into account,
especially for the routes that were meant to be high frequency.

So I just-- first of all, I haven't seen any of the numbers reported on a per service hour basis. What I tend
to see, and what you've talked about here, is per day. And since we're-- the service hours are like 1/2 to
2/3 of what they were, I think it's fair to look at those numbers, and I hope we can see them.
My very last thing, Madam Chair, is there a-- we talk about the 2050 time frame. And what we see
mapped out ahead of us is through 2026, able we think to have or to sustain about 85% of pre-pandemic
service levels. Are we-- is it-- do we identify the path between that point and 2050 when we think we're
going to be taking 70% more people along on our routes?
I mean, is that path identified? Are we somehow getting from 85% to something above what we had
previously done, and do we know how that will be? So I'm just wondering about the 2050 time frame and
how much we know about getting to that 70% increase in ridership from 2020-- or, excuse me, 2030
beyond.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Mr. Van Meter?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah. We're working on answering those sorts of questions. And trying to also
think about that question regarding what would it take to exceed those expectations, exceed that 70%
goal.
So what sort of service increases on existing fixed-guide way and fixed-route services would be
necessary to support it? What's a financial projection in terms of cost? Also, what opportunities are there
from our regional bus rapid transit study, many elements of which have been adopted into the DRCOG
plan. What opportunities do we have for a Colfax, a state highway 119, a flat iron flyer-type service
increases to support those goals? And what sort of capital investment and ongoing O&M investments will
it take to achieve those goals?
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And just to wrap it up completely, I hope that we can be-- I'm worried that we're
saying, boy, there's all these circumstances. We're trying to get our arms around it, but generally want to
tamp down on expectations. I'm hoping that we can be a little bit more proactive in the way that we
address those challenges and do more what Ben Buzek said in the first instance, which is set our target
and then figure out the ways we can get there, versus build to the extent we can and then adjust our
expectations to what seems possible. I hope we can be just a bit scrappier and more proactive for this
near term. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. First Vice Chair Guissinger, you're up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. And thank you all of you for the presentation.
I am thinking about some of the same issues a couple of people have raised, that we are managing
expectations. And we're often putting this defensive position of we have workforce issues and financial
issues and this backlog and all of those things. And I'm hoping-- and I guess this is a question-- with the
SOP that you're coming out with and moving forward, it seems to me like one of the solutions is-- and
you've mentioned this-- is partnerships.

But I guess I'm wondering, do we have a plan for really developing those, a program, a structure to move
those forward in a way? Because I think we talk about partnerships, but it's going to take money. I think it
can help fix some of our workforce issues if there are others out there who are able to do those or come
up with different plans.
And I think there's a way to-- I think that as we invest money with partnerships, we are also developing
supporters, people who share our concerns and are sharing our job, and potentially, another route to
better financial stability if we're looking at a taper election. Or, as I think Bob Broom or others may have
mentioned, some sort of other approach to creating financial independence.
And I think at the same time, the state has a very aggressive greenhouse gas program. And the costbenefit analysis that goes along with it has very aggressive transit projections. And as you mentioned,
Bill, and I think all of us share our concerns about that.
And so I think-- I'd like to see us getting out of a defensive posture. And I don't mean to characterize it too
much, but I'm wondering, are we setting up some structures to answer some of these issues, the
workforce and the money? And the one that comes to mind is partnerships, but you may have others.
WILLIAM VAN METER: I'll let Brian in a moment expound upon particularly the partnerships aspect. But
yeah, that is one of my key hopes and intents with Reimagine RTD. And that is that we get into an
opportunity mindset where we're able to let stakeholders and leaders and citizens in the community know
that we have a plan, and that if we're entrusted with more resources, we have a path forward. And the
path is these opportunities, these investments, these new services. That's what we can deliver.
And here's the return on the investment, in terms of ridership, in terms of impacts on the community,
positive impacts and that we have that research and documentation that allows us to communicate from
that more positive perspective. We can increase services 25% over where we are today. We need to get
to a much higher level of service to hit 70% increase over the next 28 years or beyond.
And here are the investments that we've identified that can bring us there in an equitable fashion and a
cost-effective manner and that serves as many people in the district as-- I was going to say, humanly-- as
agents legally possible. But Brian, you want to build a little bit more on the partnership answer and
construct there?
BRIAN WELCH: Yes, certainly. So there's two parts to the answer, Director Guissinger. The first part is
Reimagine RTD has an important component that we'll present to the Board. Remember, we talked about
moving from just a transit agency to a mobility integrator. So you're going to get a very tangible idea. Well,
what does that mean at RTD? How is that different than what we're doing right now?
But perhaps even more immediate, as the General Manager has directed staff to do exactly what you just
said. Hey, let's formalize the front door to RTD. When somebody wants to do a pilot, a service buy up, a
fare buy up, any of these things where they're coming to us-- we obviously get those all the time, whether
it's in Lyons or in Lone Tree, and we want to find a way to say yes.

To make these things happen, you all know the regulatory environment that we work in. They're all there
for a good reason, but when you deal with ADA and civil rights and federal money, and you know how this
all can get you in a lot of circles. We're going to find a way to do exactly what you said.
If you come to RTD, here's who you talk to. Here are the ways that we'll move forward with these projects.
And here's a way that we can have success. We've been doing it, but not in the most perhaps cohesive,
organized, documented way, and that's where we're headed right now. Does that help?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger? Are you frozen?
KATE WILLIAMS: She looks frozen to me. She's pretty frozen looking.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, frozen. OK. I'm going to go to Director Bouquet, and then you can
unfreeze and we'll bring you back, OK? Director Bouquet, you're next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. And Thank you, staff for quite a great conversation
tonight. So two questions and one comment.
First question is especially with the suburban roots going to this idea of longer routes, suburban roots,
has it been brought up into consideration for less stops for these routes, but the routes still existing?
Specifically, why I think about that, I come from a suburban district where people have access to a vehicle
and they choose to park their vehicle in that suburban district to get to the downtown region. Has that
been in consideration?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Well, it certainly has from the perspective of more of our express services and
those that serve park and rides. We have also had a stop consolidation program. And Jessie could speak
to that better than I. If I could call on the lifeline to give a more robust answer than I can.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thanks, Bill. Yeah, bus stop consolidation, we're using as a tool. And we're
continuing to use it as a tool, because it does speak to how attractive a bus route can be. Because the
bottom line is, when a person decides to use transit, they're using the same rationale that they do when
they're choosing to drive their car. They want to get to their destination as quickly as possible.
And trying to reduce the total number of stops on even our local services helps in making those services
more attractive. And then has the added benefit of increasing our on-time performance, as well. So those
are things that we are considering, currently and going into the future.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. I just think of it riding the E line coming down from the Southeast Corridor
going up North. I mean, anecdotally, you see people that just don't ever get off, or get on stops at certain
hours.
And especially, when constituents ask, it's like, can you have basically a light rail service that has x
amount of stops where they're most popular. For instance, I think of Lone Tree, which has, what, four or
five stops, and people could just use the Lincoln Station, the park there, especially as we notice that our

peak service hours are going down. It makes sense when we have our peak service hours where people
are getting on and off at almost every stop. But as we live in a brand new world, I think that's just
something to consider, which, obviously, you guys already have.
Next one is just my comment. I will be fully transparent that the operator shortage does make me very
nervous going into the future. And for me personally-- and you do not have to comment on this at all, this
is just my comment-- I personally think that to combat that, I think an increase in wages or increase-COMPUTER: Recording in progress.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Guissinger is back. OK. So that would be the end of my comment.
I think, in my opinion, that operator shortage is I think gearing towards that. Because from my
understanding, it's routes of the past, or prior to the pandemic, could be extinct. But it also seems like we
are moving forward where there potentially could be new routes, but that's not going to be happening if
we have still this operator shortage. And so again, in my opinion, I think increase in wage or an increase
in pay is a good incentive.
The last question, I just kind of-- and then I'm done with my time-- and I'm free to rephrase this question,
is basically, how do we get kind of ahead of the game when it comes to adapting to new potential travel
markets? At RTD, I know we have-- we're here to listen, but I kind of say, we're here to listen, but we're
also here to act.
And this might be a broader question, might be a harder one to answer, but going forward into the future,
instead of us collecting information and all this feedback, and someone going to a listening session in
June and not seeing that feedback put into action until months down the line, how can we be adaptable to
creating those new travel markets, potentially? Especially when you have competitors in the private
sector who potentially could eat away our potential riders. And I'm free to clarify that question, too.
WILLIAM VAN METER: And I think I follow the gist of it. So I'll take an initial stab, and maybe Brian would
have something to add. But part of it would be through those very same sort of, particularly, private sector
partnerships that we hope and look to take advantage of. If the private sector sees a market, well, then
there may be an opportunity for us to partner with them or to, frankly, compete with them in providing
services to those markets.
So following where the bikes and the scooters are going and partnering with those companies and finding
that information in real time, at least. It's a little tougher prospectively without a crystal ball, but learning
and working to be more proactive based on what we see as rapidly as possible. And that's difficult for
RTD. Brian, do you want to add a little to that?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, just really quickly. It's a great question, because the pandemic occurred, but
people didn't quit. I mean, people are still working, right?

So what we-- we're doing an aggressive amount of saturating our outreach to-- at least in the employment
sector side, particularly, as well as the educational side and other major employers and others that use
our services, the hospitals and all those. We are aggressively trying to figure out, hey, what are your
plans? What percentage of your workforce do you think is going to go to some sort of a hybrid work
schedule?
Everything seems to be still a little bit too iffy. I think by 2022 January, we're going to be able to answer
that question a lot better, because I hope that we'll see things settling in. But in terms of how we're going
to do it and anticipating where we're going, that's really what we do.
We're going to meet with TMAs, TMOs, the chambers, everything we can possibly do. Because they've
got a good pulse, and we've had good feedback in our initial meetings with them. Downtown Denver,
Boulder, they're tracking what's going on and who's coming back. And we want to know that ahead of
time.
And we're also going to run some services. We started up the P. We started up the zero limited. We'll see
what happens. I mean, those were ones that are good indicators of perhaps trends, and we'll have to
watch them over time. But that's an excellent point.
And we'll do direct outreach. I mean, what's happened to our people? They're still here. Come back.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Yeah, and I always use the analogy when it comes to RTD, one of the
criticisms are it's-- to try to move or have the perspective of change at RTD, moving it as an agency feels
like moving a tanker ship. And how do we get towards more the perspective of we're here to listen, we're
here to act in a timely manner. And how do we become a tanker ship into a speedboat, for lack of a better
analogy.
So thank you all for your time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Williams, before I call on you, I see Director Guissinger.
Director Guissinger, did you-- were you finished with your comments or questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Basically. I apologize for that. But thank you. And thanks for the response about the
partnerships.
And Brian, I'm glad to hear that we're moving towards a formal sort of system. And I hope that as tight as
finances are, that we can put some money toward that and recognize that that's what it's going to take to
build those partnerships and really start to make that a focus. Thanks so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Director Williams, you have the floor.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I'm going to be one of those people who puts my hand down now so that I don't
forget when I'm finished. I don't really have any questions, but I have a couple comments that I want to

make. And I want to thank Mr. Van Meter and the staff for this presentation, for the work that they're
doing.
I'm happy to see us look at morphing, morphing our service with the changes that are happening in transit
and in travel patterns. And we also have to make changes to mitigate the climate concerns. And I haven't
had that come up in this discussion, but it's something we have to pay attention to.
Shorter routes and alternative energy sources and partnerships are happening already. There's a new
Montbello circulator that has been brought forth by the Montbello community in the City and County of
Denver. The Sustainable Advisory-- Sustainability Advisory Council, which is Downtown Denver, is
looking at standing up some transit routes. So I think we're going to find that we will have partners that
allow us to continue to provide a caliber of service.
The buzzword is transfer. Nobody wants to transfer. Nobody likes to transfer. Train riders, I feel like
traditionally feel like they should get on the train and go from one point to another point.
But in District A-- maybe only in District A-- we really have a phenomenal grid. You have to transfer, but
you can get all over the place. We recently heard from a rider who was unhappy because it took her over
an hour to get from the West side of Lakewood to the airport. I think that's phenomenal that somebody
can do that.
And I know that it takes time and you have to transfer and you have to maybe stand on a corner and wait,
but what I hear in this discussion is that we are trying to mitigate the time amount involved in transfer. I
love that, "enhanced coordinated connections." That's where we're going. And so I think that we should all
be proud of the work that we are trying to put forward in an environment that's changing so rapidly.
I just got a notice today that a developmental pathway, who is a big employer in Arapahoe County, is
moving to a smaller space in Aurora because they don't need the big building that they have had for
years. That's a travel pattern change. It's a big change from where they are in the backside of Inglewood
to where they're going to be on the East side of Aurora.
And those changes are going on everywhere around us. So I think it's great that our staff is doing the best
that we can do at the moment to keep up with them and to keep people riding. So thank you for letting me
say my two cents worth.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions, and so I hope you all will bear with
me. One second here. So on packet page 17, Mr. Van Meter, you mentioned a need to increase service
by 8%. Did I understand that correctly?
WILLIAM VAN METER: The-SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to know what that meant. Sorry.

WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, I'm trying to find that page. What I was referencing was in 2019, before the
pandemic, in order to achieve a sustainable-- from a financial perspective-- a sustainable level of service
into the future, we were projecting the need to cut service by 8%.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. I see. From a budgetary standpoint?
WILLIAM VAN METER: From a budgetary, from a financial standpoint. That has all changed as a result of
financial impacts from the pandemic, but we were looking at the stark reality even pre-pandemic that we
had an unsustainable level of service and were looking at approximately an 8% cut in service at that time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: But no-- we're no longer looking at that?
WILLIAM VAN METER: We're now looking at something on the order of a 15% cut compared to the levels
of service that we had pre-pandemic. So actually, a larger cut, even with federal COVID relief funds
helping support our mission and operations. That's the sustainable level forecast by our finance
department.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's very helpful. And I didn't understand it in that way. Thank you so much.
Packet page 21, from the system structure's travel market-based service categories, in community, it says
community-focused local routes. Can you just provide me with an example of what that would be?
WILLIAM VAN METER: I'd prefer one of my lifelines to give one of those specific examples.
BRIAN WELCH: It's a good one for Jessie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. An actual example of a community route, and I'll take your district into mine. Route
42, Route 45, those two services would represent a community type of service that we currently operate.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Jessie, don't go away, because I had to follow up from Director Buzek's-- I think it was
Director Buzek's question in the example you gave on the 12 and the 7. And I was curious, in the
engagement piece of that, will you also be inquiring with folks about going from a one-seat ride to a twoseat ride or maybe even a three-seat ride in terms of their input?
JESSIE CARTER: Absolutely. That's what the public process is for. And that's where we will hear-invariably, whenever you make a major change to a route, you're going to have someone who uses it in
an abnormal way.
So whereas the majority of folks may travel through a certain pathway, and your patterns work for the
majority, there's still going to be those few folks who were using the service in a very unusual way. In
other words, there's that one person who wants to go from Thornton to Inglewood on a local route with all
stops. So there are not very many of them, but there still is that one. But the public process gives them a

voice and opportunity to share with us and an opportunity for us also to share with them the alternatives
and to give them an itinerary that replaces what they used to do.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Really appreciate that. In the same packet page 12 around the community
and agency goals and values, I did have a few suggest-- I'm quite out of order, because this is how I take
notes-- I did have a few suggestions around is there an opportunity to maybe engage folks via text? I
really appreciated Director Rosenthal's example-- or, suggestion-- around social media, and I agree with
that. But I also wonder if there's opportunity to engage people via text. I get texts all the time from polls
and stuff.
WILLIAM VAN METER: I don't know. I presume there is, but I don't know our capacity to implement it.
And so I'm looking at Bill Sirois who unmuted. Another lifeline?
WILLIAM SIROIS: Yeah. Thank you. Thank you for the question, Director Lewis.
What I would say is I think we have the opportunity to look at that. I think one of the other things-- I think
Director Williams, I know, has brought up to us about some things we can do with Telephone Town Halls
and use those as a vehicle to enhance our participation at public meetings. So I do think the new virtual
world of communication has changed the way we need to communicate. And I think we can certainly look
at that. But I do think that we can talk maybe more offline in terms of if you have any specific ideas, and I
can work with our team and with our communications team as well to see what is possible.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. The only one I'll continue to reiterate is translation interpretation, Spanish
at the very least. Thank you so much.
Jessie, did you have-- on page 23, we talked about light rail patterns, and again on page 25 with the
concept. And I was curious if we had the ridership by line in the-- and what those changes might have
been. That's the first half of the question. And is that second slide on packet page 25 based on those
declines or something else?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. I have to apologize. I do not have the packet in front of me at this point. But I will
get back to you on whether or not they're relative to the changes in ridership. And yes, we do measure
ridership by line, and of course, we can pull that data.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sorry. I should have been more clear. Are the-- is the concept based on the
changes in ridership from the pandemic, or is this pulling from a different set of data?
JESSIE CARTER: OK, I am going to actually ask for a lifeline at this point. So I'm going to reach out to
Bill and Brian and Bill Sirois, as well. Are you talking about the way that the proposal sets up the different
light rail lines? Is that-- OK. So the schema for that? OK.
In looking at it, it does take into consideration some of the ridership information. But it really tries to take a
holistic approach of looking at both the idea of providing a reliable level of service and providing a good
transfer opportunity which promotes mobility. So there's always more than one way to skin a cat, not that I

have anything against cats or anything like that. But they're-- by the way what's being proposed provides
a good deal of mobility and transfer opportunity with the lines that are the strongest of the services as
we've experienced them, if that helps to answer your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, and I really appreciate it. One more question, and this might be a conversation
that you all may or may not be having, but an inquiry I've had since we've been in this pandemic is if
there's any opportunity-- is there any discussion, rather, to relook at our service standards as we are
seeing travel patterns, how people are utilizing our services change a bit. Thank you.
WILLIAM VAN METER: The answer to that is yes. So as part of looking at the family of services and the
new classifications that we've talked about, also recognizing the impact of the pandemic and that service
standards from a few years ago need to be revisited, we will be taking a look at those service standards
and potentially making some recommendations on changes, enhancements, and modifications based on
our experience in the pandemic and going forward. It's a living document-SHONTEL LEWIS: Great.
WILLIAM VAN METER: --and it uses statistics and metrics that are industry standard for the most part,
but unique and specific to RTD.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. Thank you so much. And then on packet page 30, it says meet mobility
demands of population growth, 31% increase by 2050. The 31% increase by 2050 is from what today?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, so that's population growth. That's between 2020 and 2050. And so that's
population growth. And the 2020 population of our district was about 3.1 million. So 31% on top of that,
rough math is another million people in that 30 year period.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right. Cool. Ambitious. OK. Thank you very much.
And then package page 32, in terms of the customer outreach, it says tabling at high traffic stations,
bueno, love it. And I was just suggest that we do it in each of the districts and do it more than once. And I
was going to say before we had this conversation during the peak, but that doesn't make any sense
anymore. So whenever you all think that it makes sense, you go out and talk to the people, and I
appreciate you for doing so.
And then finally, I wonder if you all have had any discussion around-- we have a really large service area.
And if there's any opportunity to maybe decrease that service area for greater efficiency.
WILLIAM VAN METER: So I'll turn to the lifeline, Brian. I have the answer, but I think he'll do a good job
working on-- or responding to that question.
BRIAN WELCH: Director Lewis, what we're working on right now is to give the Board two prototypes
based on real-world requests from-- one was from Director Broom and one was from one of our
constituent, I believe, mayors. We're going to present to the Board what it would look like from a fiscal

financial service point of view to increase the size of the district-- I know, now I'm saying increase-- to
match the current city boundaries of Aurora.
So in other words, that was something that Director Broom was interested in. Hey, as we grow, could the
district grow? Now, your question has also come up because one of the parts of the district has said we're
going to try and get out, and it's Parker. So we're going to also present to the Board what it would look like
if part of our district left.
Now, we won't get into the legislative parts of it, because there's some complications with that, obviously.
However, we will give you a picture of what it would look like for your decision making if the district grew
or if it shrank. We did start to think about expanding it further, but it got so complicated and complex that
we thought presenting you with one of each type of scenario would give you a taste of what those
consequences would be.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. I really appreciate that. To Director Williams' point around the circular in
Montbello, I wonder where the opportunity might be in terms of our partnerships to say what it would take
if we were to string like what [INAUDIBLE] the other folks, because people still have to travel. They still
have to go to work. You don't have to answer that, I'm just talking.
All right, that's it. Y'all go home. Have a good night.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thanks, Director Lewis. We're gone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I don't see any other Directors in the queue. I know that Director
Whitmore is anxious to start his party for his birthday. I want to take this opportunity to thank the staff for
coming forward and doing this amazing presentation for all of us.
And oh-- hold on. We have a few here. OK, Mr. Meter, I see your hand up.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah, Chair, I just wanted to say thank you to the Board. That was really
engaging and informative discussion and questions that you had. I also wanted to just give a quick thank
you to my lifelines. I call-- I used Brian, Bill, Jessie, frequently Michael Ford, thank you. And Doug Monroe
on my team was also standing by in case I needed that lifeline. So I just wanted to say thanks for that
engaging conversation and thanks to my team.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Brian?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah. I just have a really quick, 30 second summary. We know that the System
Optimization Plan that's going to come before the Board, it's not what we wanted to do originally. Some
agencies across the United States did a system redesign and they added more service. We're not in that
position.

But I don't-- I want to leave you with this. This is a generational project for RTD. We haven't done
anything like this in 50 years. And let's not lose sight of the fact that the major challenges that face our
nation and our world, social equity, climate change, public health, we are part of the solution.
So the exciting part that's coming after you get through System Optimization is the Mobility Plan for the
Future. You're going to have a fiscally constrained plan. But here's the cool thing, you're also going to
have an unconstrained plan that says, hey, if we have more resources, look at what this district can do.
Look at how we're going to make a difference for the Denver metro area.
So between now and the next time we get together, hold on to that thought. Because as a 15 member
Board, you're going to have some really exciting things coming before you, as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Mr. Sirois?
WILLIAM SIROIS: I just wanted to say thank you to the Board, as well. And just say there is going to be a
lot of opportunity for input and engagement over the next few months going into early next year. We do
plan-- I know that many of you know that on your calendar you have some Telephone Town Halls that are
going to be starting in October. And we're going to be leading those into some additional outreach and
then public meetings probably early next year. So I just want to give everybody a heads up on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Before you resign-- or adjourn, I do have another matter I'd like
to bring up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Well, let me just conclude with my remarks. I wanted to
thank the staff. This was an outstanding dialogue and presentation. I really appreciate it.
In listening to everybody speak and sitting in on all of the meetings that I sit in, there were three major
components I think that are really crucial. One is-- the big one for me is communication, because I think
that that's going to be where we make or break this, in terms of people hearing what we're saying, our
words and what they mean, and going to places that people gather organically. And by that, I mean in
buses, at bus stops, where they go and buy their passes or pick them up. I just think we need to be so
very-- outreaching to places where we've never thought of before.
And as a Latina, for sure, Spanish is huge, but we are so multi-linguistic in the Denver metropolitan area.
And I know that in my district, we translate in five languages. And I think that is something we need to
hold on to, because we have members of our community who really want to participate and give us their
point of view and don't have the ability to do that.
But the third piece that I've heard consistently is just tell us what it is we're dealing with. And so I put that
under communication again. So if I'm talking to a constituent and they want a bus line to come in, I know
it's not going to be able to be there. I want to be able to say that and to say and here are the reasons why.

And I think that's one of the big issues for me is in terms of communication is being truthful and laying it
out there for the reasons why that it can't be done. I think that's what starts true collaboration, partnership,
and innovation. So thank you for that.
OK. Mr. Brown, other matters, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'd just like to get an update at some point on the construction of
a pedestrian bridge across Parker Road at the Nine Mile Station. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I will bring that forward to the General Manager. First Vice Chair
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Tomorrow is Bike to Work Day.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yup. Yeah, I know our TMA/TMO partners are working on that. If you go online, if
you haven't done it yet, you can register at DRCOG Bike to Work Day Denver. And even if you're working
at home, they're encouraging people to find your local breakfast station and take a ride. And so let's get
out and support our micromobility friends.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you for saying that Director Guissinger. I will be on 29th and
Syracuse at 5:30 tomorrow morning with bagels for anyone who wants them. All right.
Are there any other matters to come before the Board for this special Board meeting-- or, special
session? OK, seeing none, I'll call for adjournment at 7:33 PM. Thank you ladies and gentlemen. Have a
good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.

