2023-07-11
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening, and welcome. I'm now calling to order the Tuesday, July 11 meeting of
the RTD Finance and Planning Committee. And I ask that you all come to order. We are convened as of
5:30 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I would respectfully ask everyone who is attending or participating in
this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. We thank you all for joining us this
evening for this meeting.
We want to note that the committee meetings as opposed to the full Board meetings, the committee
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will continue for a while to be held remotely via Zoom. And they
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting proceedings along with the unofficial minutes of these
meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the board's website just visit rtd-denver.com to find
those materials.
In addition, a live stream of this meeting is available via RTD'S YouTube page. Directors and members of
the staff for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I
would ask you please to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before speaking. Directors
and staff who are participating by telephone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would
like to speak.
And they simply have to press star nine to bring that to our attention. And to toggle your mute setting on
your phones, you press star six. So I'll begin by calling the roll for the committee members Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Bobby Dishell, Director Dishell has indicated that he will be late for the meeting but is
intending to be here at some point. Lynn Guissinger Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. And Vice Chair of the committee, Eric Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr Vice Chair. And I am present. I am the Chair Doug Tisdale. And let us
also now make note of the other Directors of the RTD Board who are present but who are not members of
this committee. I see Director Ruscha. And she appears to be the only other member of the Board who is
present. Have I missed anyone, any other Director who is not a member of the committee but who is
present?
All right, thank you. I did receive a note from Director Marjorie Sloan that she anticipates joining the
meeting later on after a Golden City council meeting that she has. I would now like to open up to public
comment in this meeting for anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic that is
listed in our published meeting agenda either for this month or for the month of June.
If you wish to speak on any of those published agenda items, and if you haven't already done this, please
either raise your virtual hand or press star nine on your phone. And before I give you some other
information, let me ask first whether staff sees anyone who has indicated a desire to speak by pressing
star nine on their phone.
JILLIAN KNAPP RHODES: I do not see any hands at this time.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, then I will forego the other comments that we usually make at this time
regarding public comments and that we don't respond to things and so forth and how to proceed in the
public comments because we have no one here who is making a public comment. And that having been
said, I will now close the public comment period for this meeting.
Our next item on the agenda, we call information from external entities. Staff has advised me that there is
no information that has been received from external entities this month. Let me confirm with staff is that
still the case?
JILLIAN KNAPP RHODES: Yes it is.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you very much. Then we proceed now to our recommended actions. We
have five recommended actions on the agenda this evening. And some of these are very, very exciting to
see. So I'm looking forward to a lively conversation and good results. The first recommended action that
we have is for the certificates of participation series 2013A, refunding. That's not returning, that's
refunding.
And this resolution is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached resolution number blank referred to
as the COP resolution series of 2023 authorizing the refinancing of certificate of participation series
2013A for interest savings to be earned from that refunding. Do we have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Vice Chair Davidson has the movement, and the second is.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: As Chair Lynn Guissinger, OK. So we turn now to the consideration of this matter. I
would like to ask Brenden Morgan, whom I see is present on the screen who's the Senior Manager of
Debt and Investments to present this item to the committee. Mr Morgan, the floor is yours, sir.

BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you very much, Mr Chair. I'm going to share my screen and walk through a
quick PowerPoint presentation, just a few quick slides, will look very similar to the slides that we shared
with the Finance Committee in June as a preview of this proposed transaction. Let's make sure I get the
right one up here. Here it is. All right, can everybody see this? Let me put this in presentation mode here.
There we go. Can everybody see these slides?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, we can. Thank you, Mr Morgan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, fantastic. So yes, in June Doug MacLeod and I spoke to the Committee about a
proposed certificate of participation refunding or refinancing for interest expense savings into the future.
I'm going to step through this PowerPoint smartly here. We'll start with a transaction overview that talks
about the proposed transaction. We'll talk about the current opportunity with some updated numbers from
about a week ago and current market conditions and talk quickly about next steps for this potential
recommended transaction.
And just a reminder, this time, we're talking about certificates of participation. Shortly this evening, I
expect to be talking about sales tax bonds. But for right now, it is certificates of participation that we are
discussing. So this resolution, this recommended resolution here proposes that RTD issue a new series
2023A, certificates of participation that would be issued to refund the currently outstanding series 2013A
certificates of participation to lower RTD'S future debt service obligations.
The transaction would fund costs of issuance. It would release the debts, the related debt service reserve
fund. And that's a very important point that we'll get into in a little more detail on the next slide. These new
certificates would be issued as tax exempt and have a fixed rate of interest and would not require a
reserve fund. There would be no extension of the final maturity date, which is currently scheduled for
June 1 of 2027.
And the Srenior Manager for this transaction is RBC Capital Markets with Stifel and Wells Fargo as comanagers. Last month, staff heard some concerns about some of the banks involved. And we certainly
heard the Board's concerns. RTD does maintain a pool of investment banks that are competitively
solicited and selected approximately every five years. So we are scheduled in 2024 to refresh that pool of
banks.
And we look forward to an in-depth conversation with the Board about the participants in that pool and the
responses we get once we issue that solicitation to refresh the pool. Onto the current opportunities, so
currently the 2013A certificates of participation have an outstanding principal amount of $69.7 million.
This transaction would reduce the outstanding debt of RTD by approximately $23.4 million.
And that is due to our ability to use the existing 2013A debt service reserve fund, which is a fund required
by the 2013A certificates. It was required as a liquidity device so that if RTD ever struggled to make its
principal and interest payments, there was a pool of cash available that could be used to pay the
investors in the certificates.
Current market conditions do not require the investment banks we're working with tell us we will not be
required one. And that is largely has to do with recent transactions that have been done by Colorado
issuers. Colorado is a highly rated state in general. And the size of the transaction also being under $100
million is also another factor that benefits RTD right now in our ability to avoid the use of a debt service
reserve fund. So we can pull the cash out of this existing reserve and use it to pay down existing debt
essentially to pay off the 2013 certificates.

So the gross debt service savings that we would expect to achieve in current market conditions would be
approximately $28.2 million. And that money would be saved during the years 2023 through 2027, so
very large amount of money over just the next couple of years. If you prefer to look at that number
through a net present value lens and pull out that debt service reserve fund, on a net present value basis,
we'd be looking at approximately $1.7 million or 2.5% net present value.
Typically in the past, as you may recall, the net present value numbers, especially that percentage, the
2.5% net present value, the ones that I bring to the Board and recommend to the Board are typically
higher. However, that has a large part to do with the time left, typically the refinancings that we do are in
excess of 10 years. And in this case, we're looking at a very short 3 and 1/2 years. So that function of
time is not available to increase savings. But the good news is we'd be paying this debt off in the near
future, so still very meaningful numbers for the District.
As far as next steps go here, July 25, of course being the Board meeting where I would hope that the
Board will consider adopting the attached resolution here for the certificates. The resolution authorizes
the General Manager and CEO along with the Chief Financial Officer to go ahead and execute this
transaction within certain parameters of course. The parameters include things like the principal amount
of debt to be issued would not exceed $51 million.
The maximum annual debt service would not exceed $19 million. And the final repayment would not
exceed or not be beyond June 1 of 2027. So these are just sort of guardrails that are in place to give the
Board confidence that this transaction, if it should move forward, will be beneficial to the district.
Assuming the Board approves and adopts this resolution in the July Board meeting, and RTD would
move to price, the certificates of participation in September, early September and have the transaction
closed by the end of September of 2023. So with that, that's all I have I'd be happy to answer any
questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the presentation, Mr Morgan. And again, as you indicated, we
talked about this at length at our last meeting. So I think a lot of the informational items have been already
digested by the Board. But now, I would like to ask any Directors, first, I'll begin with members of the
Committee. And then we'll go to any other Directors. But if you have any questions, or if you wish to
speak or comment on this, please raise your virtual hand, and I will call upon you in turn.
And remember, if you're participating by telephone, then you need to press star nine on your telephone in
order to indicate that you wish to speak. So let me look for hands first. And I see Vice Chair Davidson's
hand up. Yes sir you are recognized.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And thank you, Mr Chair. I'll be very brief. I just once again wanted to say thank you to
Mr Morgan, really appreciate the creativity you're putting to work to find all the opportunities we can here,
and not only chipping away at savings, but chipping away at the debt service that we've had. It's been a
sizable portion of our budget. So really appreciate the creativity and the continued energy going into this.
That's awesome. Thank you, appreciate it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for your comments, Mr Vice Chair, and I'm confident that all of us join in
those remarks. Any other member of the Committee who would wish to speak at this time? I see no
hands raised. Are there any other Directors who are not members of the committee who would like to
speak at this time? If so, please indicate by raising your hand, or if you're on a telephone by pressing star
nine.

I have paused to allow people to indicate they wish to speak. No one has. So at this point in time, having
concluded our discussion, it is appropriate to proceed with the vote. This is a motion that was made by
Vice Chair Davidson and was seconded by Board Chair Guissinger. Are there any no votes on this item?
Seeing no indication of any no votes, it passes unanimously with the committee members present.
And there are no abstentions. And therefore it proceeds to the full Board as a recommended action to go
forward on the unanimous consent agenda. The second action that we have for this evening as a
recommended action is the FasTracks bonds series 2019A and 2021A refunding or refinancing.
And this is a motion for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached resolution number blank, referred to
as the bond resolution series of 2023 authorizing the refunding of and tender offer for FasTracks sales tax
bonds series 2019A and 2021A for debt service savings. May I have a motion, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved I have Director Catlin as the movement. Is there a second? I have Director
Harwick as the second. And at this time, then I would like to ask Mr Morgan to again speak to us. Unmute
yourself, Mr Senior Manager of Debt and Investments and please present this item to the committee.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Fantastic. Thank you. Again, to pull up this PowerPoint for the Committee, here we
go. There we go. OK, thank you very much. As I start this presentation, I'd like to point out that with us
this evening also we have Mr Michael Newman, who's RTD'S Financial Advisor or as the Securities and
Exchange Commission refers to him as our Municipal Advisor, so he's also available to answer any
questions that the committee may have.
So this presentation is in response to as Director Tisdale mentioned, in response to the bond resolution
here, the proposed bond resolution. We did discuss this potential transaction in June. And we now have
nailed down the details and brought this resolution forward for the Board to consider later this month. This
involves a tender offer to buy back some FasTracks bonds and then issue new FasTracks bonds to
refinance them for future debt service savings.
So I'll walk through a quick transaction overview, talk about current opportunities, and potential savings,
which will include a tweak that we made since the June Board meeting, and potential next steps for this
transaction. So again, we're discussing now, I'm discussing now sales tax revenue bonds as opposed to
the certificates of participation that I just walked through a few moments ago.
So this transaction involves a tender offer to buy back FasTracks series 2019A and series 2021A, taxable
sales tax revenue refunding bonds. These new bonds would be issued to fund the purchase of the Series
2019A and series 2021A. It would fund the defeasance of certain bonds that are not tendered. That's the
tweak that I'd mentioned, and I'll go through that in a little more detail in the next slide.
It would also fund the costs of issuance related to this transaction. The new bonds would be issued as tax
exempt and have a fixed rate of interest with no reserve fund required. The Dealer Manager and Senior
Manager for the transaction is Jefferies with Bank of America Securities and Harvestons securities as comanagers. As far as current opportunities go, this transaction has a couple of beneficial opportunities
here, the first being to reduce principal outstanding.
This tender offer to buy the 2019 and 2021 bonds from the current owners is beneficial because RTD sold
these bonds at par back in 2019 and 2021. And since then, interest rates have risen, and the value of
these bonds, as they trade in the market, has gone down. They're now trading at a discount to what we

sold them to a couple of years ago. So our offer to buy them back would be at a price lower than we sold
them at several years ago.
There's benefit number one of the transaction that would translate to a reduced future debt service
payment. They reduce debt service going forward is a function of paying interest on a lower amount of
principal. Through the use of the tender, again, we're buying these bonds back below the price that we
issued them at.
In addition to the tender, which we walked through in detail last month, we've also, Mr Mike Newman
that's on the line with us and along with Jefferies, who's the Senior Manager on the transaction identified
an opportunity to defease certain non-tendered bonds from the 2019 and 2021A a series, we could
defease some of these through a refunding and achieve interest expense savings of up to approximately
$500,000, sort of a little cherry on top of already meaningful transaction.
So this next slide, you will recognize from last month, I talked a lot about the success rate and how
important that is, and I'm going to call it guessing really because estimate feels too strong of a word.
Trying to figure out what our savings could be from this transaction, it really depends on the success rate
of the tender. And on this table here on the bottom of this slide, we see about a dozen transactions that
are similar to this tender transaction that have been done in the municipal bond market over the past
year.
And you'll see in that far right column, the success rate ranges from anywhere from around at the low end
6% for a Pennsylvania Turnpike transaction to the high end for a state of California transaction of about
71% So it's a very broad range. Last time, RTD did a tender, we achieved just over 20% success rate,
meaning how many of the bonds we asked investors to sell to us did they actually sell to us, right?
And so we last time, we got approximately 20%. So if we use that as the number for the success rate and
assume we get approximately a 20% success rate and the tender, potential gross savings, oh, there is a
big typo on this slide, I apologize here. Potential gross savings, that number should be 10.8 million, not
the 74.6 that you see. The 74.6 that you see is assuming a 100% success rate, which we're not assuming
here. So I apologize that typo slipped through.
So the correct number again should be $10.8 million. And that money would be saved between 2023 and
2038. Through a net present value lens, that equates to a $7.4 million or 4.9% net present value. So it's
still very meaningful numbers. I should mention that copies of all of the documents related to this
transaction, the offering statements, and this goes for the certificates of participation that I discussed
earlier as well.
All of the documents related to this transaction can be found on RTD'S website. The link to that exact
page is on packet page 25. If you click on that link, it will take you, and you can peruse all of the
documents. They're almost as thick as a phone book, so feel free to peruse them as you have time. Next
steps here, we've got July 25 again coming up for the RTD Board meeting where the Board will hopefully
consider this transaction, the resolution, excuse me, will consider this resolution.
The resolution authorize the General Manager and CEO as well as the Chief Financial Officer to execute
this transaction within certain parameters again. The parameters for this resolution include the final
maturity shall not be beyond November 1, 2038, that the total repayment and maximum annual payment,
all of those will remain within the original FasTrack vote since these were FasTrack bonds and issued
under that 2004 election authorization.

And we also have a requirement in there, requirement in the resolution that the net present value exceed
a 3% savings. So again, these are just guardrails to ensure that the transaction is successful and
meaningful for the District. Assuming the Board approves this resolution in September, the RTD would
expect to price these bonds and then again have the transaction closed by the end of September. With all
of that said, I'm happy to answer any questions the Committee might have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Morgan. And I do just want to explain for some of our viewers
or attendees, when you made the comment that the documents were as thick as a phone book, I want to
explain you see a phone book is something we used to have that listed names, addresses and telephone
numbers of people. And that's how you found out how you could get in touch with somebody. So that was
that somewhat dated reference to a phone book.
All right, let me go to Director Guzman for your questions or comments, Sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just want to make sure I understand a word that I've never heard
before, defease. Can you please explain to me in layman's terms what the heck that means?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes, that's fantastic question Defease, so that's a word you will only hear in the
bond market. And what it means, essentially, is that these two series of bonds that we're looking to
refinance the 2019 and 2021 bonds, they have terms within those bonds that they cannot be prepaid or
called as they refer to it in the bond market until certain dates in the future. So those would be 2029 and
2031 is when those bonds can be prepaid.
So to defease the bonds simply means that we will raise money today and set it in an account with the
trustee bank, who in this case is the Bank of New York Mellon where the money will be invested in mostly
most likely US Treasury bonds or something called state and local government securities that are meant
for these defeasance, very highly rated, very safe investments where the money will be sit, will be
invested, and will sit until we get to the call date, at which point RTD can exercise its call option to
refinance basically to pay off that existing debt.
So it comes off for financial reporting purposes that debt comes off of our balance sheet. So it comes out
of our financial statements. And it gets reported as no longer outstanding because there's enough money
sitting with the trustee bank to pay off that debt once we get to the call date in the future.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. That's all I had.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guzman. And now, Chair Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thanks so much, Brenden for this great work. Could you go back
one slide, please?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Give me a moment. There we go.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, you mentioned the second bullet point, potential gross savings, you've
corrected that number. Is the bottom bullet under that the $7.4 million, it remains the net present value?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes, good question. Those two, both numbers on that very bottom bullet are
correct, $7.4 million and 4.9%. Those are both correct assuming a 20% success rate.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much. This looks great.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Chair Guissinger? OK, Vice Chair Davidson, you are recognized, Sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr Chair. Once again, thank you Mr Morgan. I may have missed in
your presentation. I just wanted to note because we had the benefit of earlier discussion around what
some of the risks were, and I just wanted to thank the team and then call attention for the sake of the
record that the fees from the parties working on the transaction are on a contingent basis that we meet
those criteria. So thank you for working that, and just wanted to note that for the record. Thank you.
[INAUDIBLE]
DOUG TISDALE: That is an excellent point to add to the record, and Mr Morgan you concur in that,
correct.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I do, that is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. I thought I might have seen a hand pop up
earlier, but it's not up now. Director Ruscha, did you have a question? Oh there's a hand, all right. Director
Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr Chair, and my question is more as a general question, and I put it
down, thinking I could save it for the end but if, and this is for anyone who could answer. Does the Board
have a policy as to where when we do these types of transactions where that savings will go? Or is that
done on a case by case basis in terms of where we would re-appropriate those funds.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Mr Chair, if I may?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I'll ask Mr Morgan if he can address that, you may.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I'd be happy to. So the fiscal policy does not have a requirement for how that
savings should be appropriated in the future. Of course, as the future principal and interest payments go
down, that leaves extra revenue available that can be appropriated by the Board and spent elsewhere in
future years. So that will be appropriated by the Board as the Board sees appropriate in the future.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. In short, there's no prejudgment or predilection as to those funds. It is up to
the Board when it deals with various budget issues. Are there other questions or comments from any
member of the committee or any Director present? Having paused and hearing no response, then we will
proceed with the vote. Let me ask are there any no votes on this recommended action?
I hear no expression of no votes from any member of the Committee. And therefore, we have a
unanimous approval. And for the sake of the record that's six votes of the committee in favor no negative
votes, no abstentions, and one member of the Committee absent as of this time. We then move to our
third recommended action item for tonight. And.
MELANIE SNYDER: Pardon me, Chair this is Melanie Snyder General Counsel.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam, Councilor.

MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. I believe Director Dishell has joined us as well as Director Broom.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, thank you. All right, so let me make note, and let me inquire, and I don't know if
Director Dishell is in a position where he could comment. But Director Dishel, were you in fact present
and part of the vote a moment ago so that we could say that it was seven votes in favor.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, Sir, I was.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I did not note that you had joined. That's one of the problems
with having the display up regarding the item. But thank you for indicating that. And Director Broom,
welcome to the meeting as well. So as I was saying, we had two items that were effectively coupled,
recommended action one and recommended action two, both having to do with refundings or
refinancings.
We now have two other recommended actions that are effectively coupled. The first of these
recommended action item, item three is the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis. And the motion we are looking
for is for the Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis Report for the systemwide Fair
Study and Equity Analysis recommended fare changes in order to comply with federal laws, regulations,
and guidelines related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. So is there a motion for recommended
action item number three?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have Chair Guissinger as the movement. Is there a second?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second Guzman.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have Director Guzman as the second. Relative to this item, just one word of
background, in order to proceed with our next recommended action item regarding the fare structure, we
have to adopt a report that provides the justification for that action. So first, you approve the justification,
then should you choose, you would approve a fare structure change.
And at this point in time, I would like to ask Carl Green Junior who is our Director of the Civil Rights to
present this item to the committee. Mr Green, the floor is yours, Sir.
CARL GREEN JR: Thank you so much, Mr Board Chair. I'll go ahead and share my screen. Is the
presentation up?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Sir, it is.
CARL GREEN JR: Perfect, thank you so much. So good evening Mr Board Chair and fellow Board of
Directors. Again, my name is Carl Green Junior, Director of the Civil Rights Division. It gives me distinct
pleasure to be presenting on the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis as it represents the culmination of the
system wide fair study and equity analysis. And really, this presentation is the icing on the cake.
And what I mean by that is when we think about equity, it has been a major consideration and goal of this
study and by virtue of the Title vi Fare Equity Analysis and the associated recommended fare structure

changes, we can all see that equity is definitely achieved, and it meets the moment across the Board,
especially as it relates to our historically underrepresented customers and populations.
Just to give you an overview of what to expect during this presentation is I will provide the proposed fare
changes summary. I will get into the Federal Transit Administration requirements. From there, I'll give an
overview of the Title VI and Fare Equity Analysis and then distill that down into the associated Title VI
policies. I will get into briefly the methodology and how we carry out the Fare Equity Analysis. And then I'll
provide the results, give an overview of the final public outreach, and then close out with the
recommendation as it relates to the Fare Equity Analysis.
So again, the proposed fare changes summary, so the changes, or the fare structure changes associated
with the Title VI Fair Equity Analysis includes the fare structuring and price reduction, the transit
assistance grant, the bulk purchase program, which is essentially the introduction of a 10% discount, the
semester pass program, fare capping, and the low income fare discount program eligibility expansion.
And I also wanted to make note that the Fare Equity Analysis does not include the Access-a-Ride the
associated access-a-ride fare changes, zero fare for youth pilot, or the expanded MyRide retail
opportunities, and just to give you a little bit more background on why it doesn't include it is one, with
pertaining to Access-a-Ride for the federal regulation or FTA requirements, we are not. It's exempt from
including our Access-a-Ride or paratransit is exempt from a fare equity analysis.
But in the spirit of equity and ensure there was an opportunity to be inclusive in our approach to ensuring
when we look at various customer segments, we wanted to make certain that Access-a-Ride was
included in this overall system like fare study.
And then with respect to the zero fare for youth pilot, as iterated in the Board report and as noted by
Debra's communication to the Board of Directors, we received approval from the FTA on June 22 of this
year approving our request to extend our six month pilot into a one year pilot, which will be for the 2023
2024 school year concluding August 31 of 2024. And just to make this also clear, if we do move in the
direction of making the zero fare for youth permanent, then we would need to carry out a fare Title VI
Fare Equity Analysis prior to making permanent.
And staff in the background have already set up our overall approach to carry that out in the event that we
move in that direction. And then lastly, the expanded MyRide retail opportunities that is currently being
procured as far as next steps to ensure as we think about fare capping or opportunities for folks to load
fare onto their card, that is another opportunity by expanding the MyRide retail opportunities to ensure
that there's access points or points of access points for our customers to be able to load fare and the like.
All right, now, we'll get into FTA fare changes requirement. So based on federal requirements, RTD must
conduct a Fare Equity Analysis and as Chair Tisdale noted, the next agenda item for the recommended
action is the fare structure changes. But by virtue of the FTA requirements, the Board of Directors must
consider, they must be made aware, and they must approve of the fare equity analysis prior to adopting
the recommended structure or fare structure.
So now, getting into Title VI, which sets the authority or the legal precedent is Title VI of the Civil Rights of
1964, and by virtue of this landmark legislation, it provides nondiscrimination requirements for entities
receiving federal financial assistance. And by virtue of the Federal Transit Administration circular, it
provides the directives to ensure that transit agencies are upholding the assurances of Title VI.

And for most of the Board may be well aware dating back to June of last year, y'all adopted the Title VI
program, which establishes the policies, the standards, and the framework for carrying out the work at the
staff level and a key evaluation tool for fare changes is the Fare Equity Analysis, which in turn inherently
it's to prevent inequitable changes from being implemented.
So what this slide here provides an overview or a flow chart of the Title VI equity analysis. This may be
familiar with the service equity analysis. But what's front and center here is specifically looking at fare
changes. So step one is evaluating the type of change. So in this regard, it's by definition of what
constitutes a fare change. And that is either an increase or decrease in fares or changes to fare media,
fare payment type, as well as a fare change, such as the increase, excuse me, the creation or
discontinuance of current fare media.
So if the answer to that question is no, no action is required. But if the answer to that question is yes, then
we move into the evaluation of the possible impacts. So we have to associate policies, which I'll talk a
little bit more in detail in the upcoming slides. But we have the disparate impact policy for minority, and
then the disproportionate burden for low income.
So essentially, at this stage, when we evaluate the impacts, if there is a adverse or negative impact on
minority low income populations, our next step is to change course or address it or look for other
alternatives that will meet the intent and purpose of what the agency is trying to deliver with regards to
recommend fare changes. So, and just to call out, so continuing on with the presentation, I may refer to
minority and low income as equity populations.
But I just wanted to call out for the Board of Directors is that's what I mean by equity populations. And just
to give a more detailed definition of low income as part of our Title VI program, the definition of low
income is at or below 150% of the federal poverty level. So next, I'll be getting into the Title VI policies. As
made note that these policies were set in stone by virtue of the Board of Directors approving the Title VI
program. And the policies can be referred to on pages two and three of the Board report.
So as far as the fare disparate impact and disproportionate burden policy, by definition, again this is
spelled out in the Board report. But by virtue of the definition, it's so RTD'S determination of a fare
disparate impact or disproportionate burden, which I'll refer to as DI or DB is based on the difference in
the impacts experienced by minority and low income persons as a result of any price change or the
average of multiple fare changes compared to the impacts experienced by the overall ridership.
So simply noted, it's comparing minority versus overall customers or minority customers versus overall
customers and then low income versus overall customers. And the established threshold for determining
that adverse impact or negative impact on Title VI populations or equity populations is 5%. So now, I'll be
going over the methodology as it relates to our Fare Equity Analysis. So again, it compares the current
fare to the proposed fare, and then it calculates the absolute change as well as the percent change.
So more or less looking at the Title VI report by virtue of that 123 pages and going to the tail end of that
document, there's a lot of calculation and computation that's being conducted in order to assess the
different fare product types across these different comparator groups in order to understand if there is a
negative impact by virtue of looking at that absolute and absolute and percent change.
So the average fare analysis is utilized to assess the effects of the proposed fare changes on the average
fare paid per boarding by minority and low income customers compared to overall customers as noted.
And the AFA, or the average fare analysis utilizes just thinking about the data that we bring into the mix, it

uses the customer satisfaction survey. And it uses the CSS data for transfer and fare product usage rates
as well as customer demographics while ticket sales and revenue data captures ridership by fare
payment type.
So again, it's a lot of data that's being assessed and looked at in order to make a determination on more
or less looking at who's benefiting or who's receiving more of the burden. And then as far as the RTD
policy threshold, it's used to assess whether these proposed changes have an adverse impact. And
specifically what we're looking at is if minority and low income customers are disproportionately affected
by these changes in relation to all customers.
So for example's sake just to give you a fundamental overview or a visual depiction of how the analysis is
conducted, so essentially, as noted, there's a 5% threshold. And we're looking at the comparator groups.
So if you look at the bar chart on the left, we can see that the percent increase as an example, an
average fare for minority customers is 25% whereas the percent increase for average fare for overall
customers in 19%.
The delta between that is 6%, so it exceeds that 5% threshold. So as an example, this would result in a
disparate impact. Where if you look at the far right for disproportionate burden, the answer would be no
because percent increase in average fare for low end customers, low income customers is 22%
compared to 19% for overall customers. And we could see the delta between that is 3%, which in turn
results in no disproportionate burden.
So I wanted to provide this visual depiction to just give you all background, background as far as I move
on in the presentation and how the calculations with respect to absolute and percent change. So now, I'll
be getting into the Fare Equity Analysis results. So as we can see here by the bullet point, all customers
experience a 25% decrease in the average fare compared to minority customers who experienced a 23%
decrease in their average fare.
So if we take a deeper dive into this table that's presented before you, what's really pertinent to really see
is the change in average fare where you can see for all customers it has number of boardings, current
average fare, and the proposed average fare where we can see for all customers, it's a $1.05 compared
to on the right, the proposed average fare is $0.97 where we can see that the change in average fare for
all customers is 25.4% or decrease in 25.4% compared to 23.1% for minority customers.
And the delta between that is 2.3%. So the result is there is no disparate impact on minority customers.
So moving on similar to the minority results, we can see that the all customers experience a 25%
decrease in the average fare compared to a 22% decrease in the average fare where low income
customers will be experiencing or projected to be experiencing that.
And similar, what's pertinent to really take a look at is the proposed fare change columns where for all
customers it's $1.05 five similar to the other one. And then the proposed average fare is $0.84. And we
can see more or less the change in average fare, it's a decrease of 25.4% for all customers compared to
22% for low income customers, and the difference is at 3.4. Again, this does not exceed the 5%
threshold, so there's no disproportionate burden on low income customers.
So just to give a broad stroke overview of the findings, and it's pretty spelled out in the previous slide, the
equity analysis does not identify any disproportionate impacts on minority or low income customers. But
the findings help identify targeted areas for further improvement. So make note of that is by virtue of the
FTA regulations, as I mentioned in the flow chart, if there's no disparate impact, no actions are required.

But given the as I mentioned equity was a key proponent of this study, we took additional measures, or
the team took additional measures to ensure that we met the moment of equity and built in other items to
really round out the fare structure or the proposed fare structure changes. So as I mentioned before,
expanding access to the MyRide retail opportunities as well as increasing outreach activities to promote
the Live program including partnerships with community based organizations and the like.
And then really, what the average fare analysis denotes is the average fare paid by minority low income
customers remains lower than the system wide average fare. And then lastly, as we think about equity
populations across all fare types, they experience a decrease in their average fare except for low income
customers in the neighborhood pass.
And if I can, just thinking about that last bullet point and the last mentioning of except the low income
customers in the neighborhood EcoPass, so we can see that for the Eco program, folks experience a
22% decrease in the average fare. That is when we're factoring in the airport and regional trips. But as we
think about the overarching the way that we do the analysis, it's minority or low income versus all
customers, all customers also include those four comparator groups, in this case non-low income and low
income.
So inherently, they're also receiving a benefit of that decrease overall. So there's no negative impact as it
relates if you're looking at it in totality. So I just wanted to emphasize that across the board with the fare
equity analysis, there's minimal concerns or no concerns rather with respect to the proposed fare
changes. So really, I just wanted to get into the next, into the final public outreach and engagement
efforts.
One thing that I wanted to just highlight before I give the final overview of the public outreach is there are
certain requirements as it relates to public involvement with respect to either fare equity analysis or
service equity analyses.
And I can say that we exceeded if we're putting a checkbox to would we exceeded that by virtue of the
robust and meaningful public engagement that we carried out throughout this entire study and the
associated measure whether with respect to providing translations or interpretation or even stepping
beyond that having ASL interpreters, that's what really where the rubber meets the road as it relates to
this equity analysis.
Because a lot of it is very data-centric. But equally as important of that data analysis is the community
engagement because that ground truth the data that we're computing in the final report. So I just wanted
to highlight that it met the mark as it relates to the data-centric as well as the public involvement
associated with the Fare Equity Analysis or the System Fare Study and Equity Analysis.
So just to give you an overview, and I know Bill and Chris will be talking a little bit more further about the
overall, but I just wanted to give some highlights of the final public engagement where if you look at the
pictograph or the image that is set before you, you can see the associated measures and the impacts or
the touch points that we had with our customers during this final outreach phase.
So I just wanted to highlight that and let you all just visually see the amount of effort and work that the
RTV team just giving a big hats off to Stuart and his team, as well as the four nines consultant and then
the project management team Chris Bill, and myself. So with that being said, moving into the tail end of
this presentation, the recommendation and it is to approve of the Title VI Fare Equity Analysis for the
proposed fare changes. And with that being said, this concludes the end of my presentation.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Green. I have heard you give the, excuse me, explanation of
the Equity Analysis a number of times over the years, and it is always a pleasure because it
demonstrates what you do to ensure that we are at all times acting in the most responsible manner
possible. So I appreciate that. Let me now open up to any Committee Member who may wish to have a
question or a comment relative to recommended action item number three. Are there any hands raised
from Committee Members? Director Guzman, you are recognized, Sir
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr Carl Green Junior, I know that we have talked about this before. I
just want to make sure I understand, so this is more clarification. You've referred to the Delta. I think when
we talked about it, it was the nexus between what happens with the impact being the 5% rule for
disproportionate burden analysis and disparate impact analysis. I'm trying to keep them straight.
That is the difference between what affects everybody in our system, every rider any race, any gender,
any financial status, and then specifically the difference between that impact to everyone and the impact
that a minority group would have, or if we're dealing with the financial part of it, what would be affected by
that group that is 150% or below the federal poverty level. Is that correct?
CARL GREEN JR: Yes.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That difference, OK, so thank you for the visual on that because that's really hard to
understand and the language doesn't quite make sense if you don't know how to envision it. May I ask a
follow up, Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, indeed, Sir you may, Director.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, last one, in the report that you have given to us to review, on page 16 and 17 of
the report, which is I believe page 60, excuse me, our packet page 89 and 90, it does have some
assumptions about the minority or the ethnicity assumptions for this. And I just want to make sure that I
understand this correctly.
What it says here under 5.1 ethnicity assumptions is that for purposes of the Fare and Equity Analysis,
minority populations are those who have not identified themselves as Caucasian, White, or not of
Hispanic origin, excuse me Caucasian, White dash not of Hispanic origin on the 2019 CSS. The analysis
did not include respondents who refused to respond to the racial or ethnicity questions, so those were just
removed. Those were not calculated in this. I want to make sure I understand, OK?
CARL GREEN JR: Yes, that is correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. That's all of my questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Guzman. We appreciate that. And now Director Catlin,
you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. Mr Green Junior, thank you so much. You know I've been on this
Board for quite a while. And then also exposed to the Title VI program through CDOT. And I think your
thorough analysis is to be commended. And I also would say that your explanation is some of the clearest
explanations I've ever heard. So thank you very much for your hard work and your good job
CARL GREEN JR: Thank you so much, Director Catlin.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: You are muted, Mr Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Any other comments from Committee Members before I open up to other
members of the Board. Any committee members from the Finance and Planning Committee who wish to
comment or question? Seeing none, let me ask are there any other Directors, and I will note for the sake
of the record that Director Sloan has also joined us this evening. And I see Director Ruscha's hand up.
Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr Chair I have five questions. Some are just clarifying. Would you mind
if I go ahead and ask them in order?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, let's just see that, and we'll see how much time expires while you're doing that. Go
on ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I will endeavor to be speedy. Thank you, Sir. So my first question, and this is on page
13 of the PowerPoint. I apologize, I don't remember. That would be page 66 of the packet. I just want to
make sure that a number of boardings we're talking about individual legs of a trip not, the continuous trip.
CARL GREEN JR: Legs of the trip.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, just want to make sure. And then, so this presentation references the
variables used in our math but doesn't list, I think all the data, or I can't find it, like for example, I don't
know how many customers are using which type of fare media. If that is in this packet, would you be able
to direct us? Or is that something that you could follow up via email?
CARL GREEN JR: Yes, and Director Ruscha, it's on page 47. If your question is looking at the number of
boardings per fare payment type, it is listed on that table. But if it doesn't get you the information that you
need, I can definitely follow up with an email response to get you that answer.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, and for the sake of time, I won't flip back to page 47 to check. But just for me, I
am a math person, and a stats person, so I also work well with formulas. And I just, I could see where you
were coming from a high level perspective conceptually. But I couldn't I couldn't really plug in what the
data was. So I will look at that and maybe follow up if I have questions.
The more specific question I had, if you could briefly touch on how the three hour pass factored into this
analysis. That's actually what I'm more specifically interested in. But do we have an assumption that more
low income riders utilize the three hour pass? Is that correct? And did you find that group of users would
be more likely to, I don't want to say have a disparate impact because we've assessed that's not the case
but maybe receive less benefit than other customers?
CARL GREEN JR: That's a great question, Director. So this is also on page 47. But just to communicate it
at this meeting is the difference percent change for all customers compared to low income customers for
the three hour full fare pass is that low income customers will be receiving a benefit, and it's actually a
decrease of 0.8% compared to all customers. So they're actually benefiting if we're just zeroing in on the
three hour pass.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. I'm sorry, what page? maybe I'm looking at the whole consolidated
Committee packet. What page am I looking at?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Page 120.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, thank you, Director Guzman. That would explain. All right, thanks. I will just take
a look at that and just follow up if I have questions. And then finally, I did have a question or comment
about the public engagement process. I know that our code of conduct outreach tracked some of these
meetings as well. But per our code of conduct survey data, that feedback wasn't representative. And so I
worry about a potential discrepancy.
So as it relates to this outreach, do we have a breakdown like by zip code, a heat map? Or can you just
explain, and I know we've gone through this before, but can you explain just for this round and for the
public's knowledge how we track that and how we can be sure that we did do our due diligence in terms
of representing a representative sample.
CARL GREEN JR: Yeah, so as far as the associated public outreach as it relates to the system wide fare
study, especially with this final four and then the code of conduct, there was a list of events that staff
participated in. And by virtue of us having a table, we were able to bifurcate specifically responses and
information directed towards the fare study separate from the code of conduct. So we have a
documentation or report on demographics.
So we also sent out a public comment form where we asked for folks voluntarily to give their name, their
zip code, their optimal demographics, whether race, ethnicity, income status so we have that tallied
separately compared to the code of conduct. So I just wanted to highlight there that although there were
some outreach activities where there was a number of different items or code of conduct or the fare
study, but we're able to separate what the feedback mechanism that we were receiving for each of those
activities, whether it's the code of conduct or the system fair study or the final four of the system fair study
and equity analysis project.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And if I just may briefly, and I'll preface this by saying I don't have any
ideas or anything up my sleeve, but just as a process and legal matter, this will go before the whole
Board. B if the Board wanted to make an amendment to this recommendation, would that potentially
trigger another Title VI analysis process? Or would it just depend on what that our recommendation or
with that amendment would be? And this is a general question. I'm not suggesting that we should. But it's
something I've always been curious about.
CARL GREEN JR: Yes, great question, Director Ruscha. So as I noted earlier in the presentation, there
are associated recommended changes that are inclusive in the Fare Equity Analysis. And then there's
other items of fare structure changes that are not included. So if you're talking about the container of
what's included in the Fare Equity Analysis, in the event that the FTA Fare Equity Analysis is not
approved, or if there's updates to the proposed fare structure changes, then we would need to look at
those changes and then redo the equity analysis for the changes that are associated with the FTA.
But anything that's not in the Title vi analysis, such as the Access-a-Ride, the zero payer for youth, the
expanded MyRide retail network, if there's any Board amendments or changes associated with that, that
would be independent. That would not require a Title VI Fair Equity Analysis to be redone.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. We appreciate your participation. Any other non-members
of the Committee or any members of the Committee prompted by questions asked by Director Ruscha
who has a further comment or question at this time? Having paused and waited for anyone to speak, I will
now proceed with the vote. And I would ask, are there any no votes on this action item?

Having paused and waited for a response, there are no votes that are indicated as being in the negative,
therefore, the Chair finds that the Committee has unanimously passed by a vote of seven in favor of the
recommended action item number three. That brings us now to our fourth recommended action for the
evening, an historic moment, the fare structure recommended action.
And this is a recommended action for the Board of Directors to adopt the fare structure recommendations
from the system wide fare study and equity analysis. Do I have a motion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved, Davidson.
DOUG TISDALE: I have Davidson as the movement. Do I have a second?
BOBBY DISHALL: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have the Dishell as the second on recommended action item number four to
adjust the fare structure. And at this point in time, I would like to ask Mr Bill Seroy, our Senior Manager of
Transit Oriented Communities and Mr Chris Quinn, our Planning Project Manager to present this item.
Gentlemen, the floor is yours.
BILL SIROIS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale, and thank you for the introduction. And like the Chair said, this is
an exciting moment, I think, for the agency kind of a first for the agency in terms of looking at a fare study
and proposing a reduction in fares and quite a focus on customer and community engagement that I think
Mr Green reflected in his conversation about the fare study, the equity analysis for the fare study.
So with that, I will go ahead and share my screen to bring up the PowerPoint here. And let me get, there
we go. OK is that all, looks good on everybody's screen?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Sir.
BILL SIROIS: OK, so tonight, Chris and myself will be both sharing in the slides and going over the slides.
We will be covering and reminding the Board of the study goals and the process that we've been through,
an extensive process if I may edit that over the last 14 to 15 months, also really focus on the outreach
that Carl referenced. We had a process where we went out an extensive amount of outreach in April and
May, and we'll go over those feedback that we received there.
And then Chris will talk about some of the final recommendations, which is again, is a repeat of
information that we've shared with the Board previously. And then I'll finish up with kind of implementation
and next steps. So study goals, as Carl said, I mean, the focus of this effort and kind of the leading goal
that we had throughout this process was equity and focusing on those who are transit reliant and really
are financially burdened customers.
I mean, that was evident throughout. It's evident in the title of the study. And again, we were very much
focused on that. For the next two goals, again, these were goals. I think we heard very explicitly
throughout the process, particularly at the beginning about wanting our fares to be more affordable and
wanting our fares to be easier to understand. And so those again, high level goals that think that we do.
And again, the one thing I'll point out that we don't have on here that we have traditionally had on here is
a fare revenue target, which again, is something new for the agency. And again, excited about kind of the
direction and the results of this effort as a result. So here is just an overview of the process and the steps
that we've been going through dating back to the spring of last year.

We are at the point right now, obviously, an exciting point of having the Board decision. We've had a very
extensive process going through three rounds of customer and community feedback with this latest round
actually a fourth round this round with the latest round being kind of the most extensive of the feedback
processes that we've gone through thus far.
So in terms of summarizing the outreach, we collected feedback from kind of the mid April through
towards the end of May, had extensive interactions. We had community partners and community based
organizations that we worked with that reached over 9,000 individuals in terms of their reach. We
conducted six public hearings. And for the first time in the process, we conducted two in-person public
hearings, which was new because of the COVID restrictions that we had with the agency.
We did not do that until this point, but we did at this point. And so those meetings were conducted in both
English and Spanish. And we had good participation on both fronts. We had a number of events that we
participated in, both from a community standpoint as well as from kind of a customer focused or RTD
focused standpoint, some of our major bus and rail stations.
As a result, we engaged over 2,600 people and got over 731 comments. And those comments, in case
you want to read them all, are actually in and attached to Carl's Board report under the Title VI Equity
Analysis. And I believe there is well over, if I'm right, 20 pages of comments if you want to read through all
of them. But I'll go over some of the major themes that we heard.
And lastly, and very importantly, again, throughout this process and throughout this particular phase,
language assistance measures were made available so that we could make sure that our safe harbor
languages within the district were appropriately covered and available for those who needed that
assistance. So in terms of the themes, most of the comments that we did receive in this latest round were
very much focused on support.
And there was a lot of feedback on the simplification, combining the local and regional fare was a big hit.
Also, the monthly fare decrease again in particular, was very highly supported. We did hear from some of
the non-profits in their support for some of the programs within the recommendations. Zero fare for youth
again, was a very, very popular program, again and very much supported throughout our process.
And then, lastly, we did hear from people about the transit assistance grant program and particularly nonprofits supporting that idea and bringing back some of those kind of ideas that we had in previous fare
efforts that we had done. On the suggestion side, again, these weren't negative, but again, ways to
maybe improve the recommendations. There was some thought of doing a single fare to make it
completely simple so you just had one fare.
There were also proposals to make a further decrease than what we had proposed. And then lastly, a
major theme was trying to round to the nearest dollar just to make it simple for everybody to understand
and easy for them to pay. And then kind of this last slide, it's similar to the one that Carl presented in his
presentation, but this covers the entire extent of the study process. So you can see, this, in my view, in
my tenure as a professional planner is probably the most extensive outreach process I've ever
participated in.
We had just pulling out some of these stats, we had 25,000 email surprises. We had over 7,000
comments that we received on the various surveys and other instruments that we use to get information
from people get input from people. We had thousands of hits on the email. And so again, we really felt
that we, like Carl said, met the mark on this effort and really trying to really focus on the customer and

getting their feedback throughout the process. So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Chris, who is going
to talk about the fare study recommendations.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you. Again, Chris Quinn with RTD Planning, next slide, please, Bill. I know you've
the Board has seen this slide before, but a couple of points that we do want to point out here, first being
the current fares are shown on the left side of the table. The proposed fares are shown on the right side.
As you see, and as Bill mentioned, the proposal does include the consolidation of the local and the
regional fare into a single fare, which we would refer to as the standard fare.
We would retain the airport fare. However, in the case of a customer using a monthly pass, the monthly
pass would allow travel anywhere in the district with the purchase of a monthly pass. Furthermore, with
the discount fares for those seniors, disabled Medicare recipients, and customers enrolled in LIVE, the
monthly pass would be as low as $27. And again, that would take the customer anywhere within the
district for that price.
Next slide, please then in the case of Access-a-Ride, the big thing to focus on here is not only would all of
the fares be reduced, but the big thing is the LIVE discount or customers that are enrolled in the LIVE
program would now be eligible for lower fares within the Access-a-Ride,. Program. Next slide, please.
And then in the case of the LIVE program itself, not only would the discount for live customers be
increased from 40% to 50%, but the income threshold would also be increased.
So that would go from 185% to 250% of the federal poverty level. In the Board report that's provided as
part of the packet, we do have a table in there which shows what that income would be for various
household sizes. But just as a real quick example, in the case of an individual, they could be making up to
$36,000 and be eligible for the LIVE discount. And in the case of a family of four, that number would be
$75,000.
Next slide, please. And then in the case of the past programs particularly the Eco, NECO, and
CollegePasses, we're proposing simplification to those. Currently, those agencies, organizations that
participate in it have to, there's a new contract that comes out every year. It's very, we heard in our
outreach that it's very hard for them to plan from a budget standpoint what that's going to cost.
So now, we would be establishing two year contracts with fixed pricing for two years and then also
lowering the contract minimums so that smaller organizations and agencies can participate as well. And
then lastly, there's a matrix that's used to determine the pricing based on business or agency location as
well as the agency size. We've greatly simplified that down. So it should make the whole pricing a lot
easier than it has been, easier to understand and easier to use than it has been in the past.
Next slide, please. And then the big thing, and as Bill did note, we received strong public support for this
part of the proposal, and that would be the establishment of the zero fare for youth. As Carl noted in his
presentation, we did receive permission from the FTA so that while typically, a pilot program should only
run six months, we do have approval from them to run that for a full year. We'll talk a little bit more about
this, but also want to emphasize, though that after the one year is up, we would look to an outside funding
partner to help us to continue to keep that program moving forward.
Next slide, please. Also, we'd like to propose the creation of a semester pass in our outreach. We found
that while a lot of the big colleges and universities in the area like CU, University of Denver have had very
good success with the CollegePass program, we've realized that there were a lot of smaller institutions,
community colleges, technical universities, or technical schools that because of either the nontraditional

students that they serve, or maybe they are in a less transit rich location, the CollegePass just wouldn't
work for them.
But they do recognize, and we recognize the need for those students to have some type of program. So
with the introduction of the Semester Pass, those institutions that choose to participate, students could
then get a pass for the semester, which would come out to be approximately $88 per month. Next slide,
please. And along with that, we would like to propose the creation of a grant fund, a pot of money for
those agencies and service organizations that have immediate needs.
So they may have a client population that would be eligible for the LIVE program, but their need is right
now. They don't have time to apply for the program. So that would be where they could apply for a
discount then provide their clientele with fare media so that they could use our services immediately. And
then related to that would be the introduction of a bulk discount program, which would provide a 10%
discount for those participating in that.
Next slide, please. Now, in this part, this table shows what the revenue and the ridership, how they would
be affected with the proposed fare structure. Couple of things we want to note here are first, we show the
ridership change as well as the revenue change. Big takeaway here is with the proposed fare structure,
we would see an increase in ridership from 60, excuse me, but I'm looking at that wrong.
Oh, from 65 million, sorry, up to 73, 74 million. Revenue however would decrease. And even with the
increase in ridership, that wouldn't be enough to offset the decrease in ridership. Couple of things,
though, that we do want to note, and our CFO Doug MacLeod was not able to be here. He is on vacation,
well-deserved vacation.
But he did provide us with a few speaking points and notes that he wanted us to emphasize when going
over this slide, one being that Finance Department has in fact reviewed and participated in the ridership
modeling as well as the revenue assumptions and is essentially fine with where they're going. But he also
wanted to note that the farebox recovery ratio, which is currently at approximately 6% to 7%. With the
proposal, that would be reduced to about 5%.
And now while he would expect that while that's a relatively small decrease, he would expect that within
RTD'S $1.1 billion in revenues, that in the short term, we do, as an agency have enough excess revenue
to cover that loss. However, for fiscal sustainability reasons, RTD will be seeking, in the long term
revenue diversification to offset reduced revenue that we would be facing from the lower fares.
And then lastly, in the preparation of the upcoming strategic budget plan, excuse me, Mitch would change
the name of that a few times, I'm sorry, the mid-term financial plan, the new numbers, as part of the fare
study will be taken into consideration when that's brought before the Board coming up later this summer
and early this fall. Next slide. Oh, and with this, I'm handing it back to Bill to go over the implementation
and the next steps.
BILL SIRAIS: Thanks, Chris. And so like Chris said, we do have some financial impacts, but working with
Doug and his team it's really been great that to know that we can particularly in the short term that we can
cover kind of some of our expected kind of reductions in revenue. And over the long term, we're looking at
different kinds of solutions. But there are just in terms of implementation, there's a couple of things I
wanted to say because there's a couple of pieces that still need a little bit of work in terms developing
some of the details.

A zero fare for youth, I think like you heard and we presented to the Board, I think it was in April, kind of
some of the outstanding questions. We did like you said, we did get the go ahead from FTA for extending
the pilot to a year. We have reached out to school districts and other youth organizations over the last few
weeks and have been getting points of contact for them, and as Carl described, will be working through
those points of contact to develop data as we potentially move forward with this pilot to kind of collect how
people are using it, how that could be reviewed in any potential future Title VI analysis.
Also, on the Transit Assistance Grant Program, we'll need to be sit down with some non-profits to kind of
look at the criteria for the program and define things like what is an immediate need and how we can get
some of those details together. And then lastly, on the LIVE program, we are expecting to do some more
outreach. In particular, there was a lot of input about not knowing a lot about the program, so we are
going to focus on outreach.
And then we also have to work with the state and their peak system. Again that's a primary vehicle for us
to do means testing, and we'll be working with them for that to make sure that those adjustments could be
made as we move forward with implementation.
So in terms of kind of broad terms like I said, the Board action this month to hopefully approve the
recommendations from the fare study, and then the first thing is that we would implement the zero fair for
youth pilot the beginning of September as we roll out of the zero fare for better air so that there would
kind of be a seamless introduction for schools and other youth organizations that are taking advantage of
the zero fair for better air over this month and next month.
And then the full implementation of the recommendations would is still scheduled for Q1 of next year. And
again we're working on our best to try to get some of those items implemented as soon as we can. But
again, right now, kind of our focus is on Q1, and that's what we expect within that window that we will get
most of the full extent of the recommendations to be implemented. So with that, that ends the
presentation, and I think we'll open it up for questions. And I'll invite Carl Green also to join as well as
others to answer any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Sirais and Mr Quinn, excellent presentation. And the
materials you provided in the Board packet were extremely helpful. Let me now ask first if there are any
Committee members who have questions. And I'll turn to you first, and then I will turn to the other
Directors. Let's begin with Director Catlin. You have the floor, ma'am.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. Excuse me. Thank you, Mr Chair. I think this was a great presentation. I have
some words of caution, though. Because sometimes when you implement a program, then there
becomes an expectation that it will continue in perpetuity. And my fear is that if we do not get some of the
outside or partnerships and funding sources, and we have to either reduce the benefit or take it away that
we will get some backlash.
And that goes for the pilot program for the zero fare for students as well as the oh, I just lost my train of
thought, but anyway, the two 2 programs where it was hoped that we could get some additional funding
sources. And I know we're working on that. But I just my word of caution is that it's really hard to take
something away once it's put in place for a period of time. Now, I know that we've done zero fare for
better air and are managing those expectations recognizing that it's only a two month program.

But I just worry that something that's a year long that people just might come to expect that. And hopefully
we can cure that and continue it. But I just, I'm a little bit nervous about that. So that's just my comment.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Let's turn to Mr Revenue Diversification, Vice Chair
Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Chair. You know what I'm going to say. [LAUGH] Well, first of all, of
course, thank you to the whole team. I mean, this has been exciting, and it's a really exciting moment for
the agency. And thank you to the team and to our General Manager for really driving this initiative and
doing all the work, particularly all that public outreach. It's a tremendous representation of our strategic
priority to drive customer value.
And I think that one of the things I wanted to note is also a huge thank you to the team on Finance.
Because we've done a lot of work. And even just looking at the actions that this committee approved this
evening, we've been continually working on stabilizing the agency and being more responsible when
we're thinking about our long term debt obligations. And it's those types of moves that enable us to think
this way.
And certainly, also I know, Mr Chair and some of the team we had a chance to speak offline about this.
And I would expect this will come up at our widely more public Board meeting. But we'd certainly be
remiss in not thanking the Federal Transit Administration for the tremendous support through the difficult
times with COVID as well as the support in approving the extension of this pilot program.
I think the time that we're in, although we'd all love it to be more perfect of having the support for transit
has enabled us to take this kind of action. So a lot of these moves you know by the Federal Transit
Administration, by our Finance team, by the entire team here at RTD and driving this has enabled us to
look at opportunities like this. And then of course, this is going to further motivate, I think, looking at
revenue diversification.
Actually, the smaller impact than we might suggest that this would have of lowering the fare revenue is in
large part also calling attention to how dependent we are on that sales and use tax, which in large part is
why the decrease that we're seeing from decreased fare overall in the post COVID world that we live in
hasn't really threatened our bond ratings at RTD in particular the way that it has other agencies.
So good news but also emphasizing the need to not just diversify, but also consider backstop measures
when we face shocks to the system in the future, which I think is a when, not an if it's anything we've
learned from 2008 and from COVID, so long winded way of saying thank you, calls out the need for us to
seek out those types of partners, huge opportunity for those that are listening that could be partners of us
to align with us on transportation and backstop these revenue sources, awesome, awesome work, thank
you, team.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr Vice Chair. Yes, well said and excellent points all. Director Guzman. You
are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Chair. So second what Director Catlin says, it would be really have to
say it like a teenager as best I can, totally uncool to start this program and drop it. So we've really got to
put some thought behind how we're partnering with community to make that more sustainable. And I think
that's a wise squared of caution, so thank you for that.

I have a question about fare capping, and I have a question about have we put any thought behind the
people that are unbanked, people that might not have technology or access to technology, specifically
when we're trying to do this fare reduction, which will most definitely benefit lower income families. But
they may not have access to cellular technology, if there's an issue there, if there's an issue of not having
a credit card, which some of our paratransit users face.
And in fact, I just sent an email today about that very issue trying to figure out how we can resolve an
issue for one of my constituents here and see. And then looking at the map of where that heavy burden
lies and who is going to be impacted by that, I'm just not sure how we as a team of Directors, we as an
agency might be able to figure out a method by which we can still give this great benefit to people who
may not have access to those things.
And I'm thinking about setting up a MyRide account online using a cell phone to do it, that may not be
accessible to everybody. And so I'm a little concerned. But I know that we can figure out a way to do it.
We are smart individuals. So I just want to put that out there. That's my question, but also the challenge.
The other thing that I was concerned about, and I'll just make this quick, because I just don't know.
The Transit Assistance Grant Fund and Bulk Discount Fund, is that $1 million already somewhere in our
budget? Are we appropriating that through the budget process? Are we getting that money from
somebody else? Are we seeking that money from community? Where's that money coming from?
Because I'm a little on my heels about hearing that one, and I just don't know. So if anybody has any
direction for me, that would be great. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe that our General Manager CEO has some words on that. Miss Johnson, you
are recognized
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Tisdale. And before I proceed with responding, I want to
thank the team for their due diligence as it relates to this undertaking. It's been said this agency has not
partaken in a robust Fare Equity Analysis such as one of this caliber. So I intentionally wanted to address
this having participated in programs such as this in the course of my career.
Recognizing some of the comments that you raised Director Guzman are things that we have been
talking about ad nauseam as it relates to fare capping and thinking about those individuals that are
unbanked, this has been a conversation that has been persistent within the transit realm for a myriad of
decades. And further to the point as we talk about fare capping, that's the best element that we have.
Because if I am unbanked, and if I'm using just a couple of dollars day because I don't have that
discretionary or disposable income at the ready, this basically yields a return on the investment that I'm
making so I can optimize on the monies that I've expended for the betterment of transportation purposes.
Secondly, as we look at our future relative to what types of fare media and technology that we anticipate
to utilize especially as we promote a welcoming transit environment, all of these different elements have
to be taken into consideration.
There are mechanisms nowadays where you can have paper, where you have a chip embedded in
paper. I encountered this when I was working at the San Francisco Municipal Transportation Agency.
More so, there's a program at the state level that provides low income cellular phones and things of the
like. So we are not doing this in absentia. We are working in partnership. To the point about the transit
grant, yes, that will be included in the course of our staff development of the budget going forward that will
be presented to the Board for its recommendation.

So what you're seeing before you today are these things that we have done our due diligence with
bringing this forward for your consideration. But quite naturally, we are ensured that we are taking steps
for the betterment of the populations we're serving. Rounding out as well as we talk about the program,
let's keep in mind that we basically were able to overcome a large hurdle by working directly with
headquarters in Washington, DC as it relates to a year long program.
Now, when we talk about taking something away regardless of that fact, we would still have to do a Fare
Equity Analysis, and we have been very transparent with that. I know the agency had previously done
pilot programs, and there could have been greater opportunities to be leveraged as related to managing
people's expectations. And we have done that throughout.
Hence that's why this is proposed, hence that's why it's important to convey that we are working with the
Federal Transit Administration to ensure that we are not violating the FTA circular that provides guidance
on this going forward. So I wanted to say that publicly for everybody's edification because I think it's
critically important. So thank you very much for your interest and for your support with this critical
endeavor. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager CEO, well said, and again, to echo the
appreciation that we all feel to the Federal Transit Administration for their tremendous support as we've
gone through this. Are there any other members of the Committee? Director Guzman, I'll go back to you
for a second bite before I go to Director Ruscha.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It's real simple. I just want to say thank you to everybody. I'm really impressed with
everything I'm seeing. My questions are just that, questions. And so I love getting that answer. Thank you,
Debra. Thank you for leveraging your relationships with folks that you have worked with before, excuse
me, CEO Johnson, I'm really bad at this, I'm so sorry. But I really do appreciate it and all of the work and
the presentations you're doing you know Mr Green jr. Mr Quinn Mr Sirais.
I'm reading through these packets, and there's a lot of reading here. But I'm grateful for it because I have
questions to ask that are representative of my community. And I'll be very clear. The reason that I asked
that question is I live in house district five. In the last congressional session, my representative had to put
forth a bill to make sure that people could pay with cash because of the unbanked issues that this
particular house district in the city of Denver faces.
And so it really came from a community understanding and knowledge of what that feels like to not have
access to those things. So I'm grateful that we are working with all of this. And Thank you for your
answers. I always appreciate them very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. Seeing no other Committee members with their hands
raised, we'll go to other members of the Board. Director Ruscha, you are recognized.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr Chair. I have a couple of questions about the Transit Assistance
Grant Fund. It's to be $1 million. And I was wondering if the Board were to appropriate more dollars or if
staff were to advise that we increase that fund, would that require a Title VI study?
CARL GREEN JR: May I, Board Chair?
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK.

CARL GREEN JR: Yeah, so it would not. It's not necessarily the dollar amount. What the Board is
approving is inherent with just the Transit Assistance Grant Program. Various entities across the nation
have instituted a similar program. And it varies in the range of the pot of money, so to speak in which they
are rolling it out. So based off our assessment and reaching out with community, conservative approach
but more so right in the middle, we landed on $1 million as a good starting point for this Transit
Assistance Grant Program.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Did you have a follow up you wanted, Director Ruscha? Because I see
Director Guissinger has her hand raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I do. I have a follow up to that question, and then I had a few more. So if I may
ask my follow up, I can defer to our Board Chair and then come back. So with the Transit Assistance
Grant Fund, will the staff develop like a matrix like a scoring system? And does that go before the Board,
or is that TBD when we're evaluating who might receive those dollars?
CARL GREEN JR: Mr Board Chairman?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Sir, you may proceed, Mr Green.
CARL GREEN JR: So as Mr Sirais stated, that is a program that's under further development. But as we
look at other transit properties in the way in which they have rolled this out, it could be internal staff, it
could be external entities supporting with the Evaluation Committee so to speak, but essentially, it'll run
similar to our non-profit pass program where folks would apply for a grant, and it's not necessarily dollars,
but it's providing 10 ride ticket books to these entities, and in turn, they could distribute excuse me,
distribute to their clients or their customers.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Green. Let's proceed with the Director Board Chair
Guissinger next. I'm sorry, Ms Johnson, did you have a comment you wanted to add at this time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I did. Thank you, very much, Mr Chair. Just to further elaborate on Mr Green
said, as we look at the implementation, what we're doing is assessing best practices from other transit
agencies that have already leveraged this. And think Mr Green hit the nail on the head recognizing that
there's a myriad of ways in which you can do this. Often, in my experience it has been very prudent to
work in tandem with non-profits and have people representing those entities be involved with the process.
Because as we talked about earlier, it's not about the Title VI Equity Analysis goes hand in hand with the
overarching fare structure, but those monies that are allocated are strictly within the purview of the transit
agency. And what we're doing at the outset is starting with the $1 million, so we can determine the best
path forward to garner a better understanding what might the appetite be for.
And so we can be nimble with that as we go forward, and we will keep the Board apprised as we develop
the steps to implementation upon conferring with some vital participants within the transit realm also with
non-profits that are in the position of providing social service support. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam General Manager CEO. Madam Chair, thank you for your patience.
You are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And actually, I'll take my hand down because that just answered my question. I
think the transit, I'm really happy to see the Transit Assistant Grants coming back, that we had the

program where we offered discounts to non-profits. And then that went away for a while, but I think that's
a really important program. This is all great, Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Now, we return to Director Ruscha. You said you had a couple
of other questions.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr Chair. And I'll just say in advance, I apologize for my ignorance. But
for the Title VI study for youth fares, assuming that will likely happen, does that analysis, because we're
looking at a specific subset of riders, look at all riders or just youth riders in terms of that comparative
analysis?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr Green?
CARL GREEN JR: Yes, that will be specifically on the ages of six to 19 that represents the youth
demographic. That would be inclusive of the Title VI Fair Equity Analysis associated with the zero fare for
youth.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. That answered my question, and I thought that was the answer, but I
just wanted to double check because I had no prior experience with that type of program. It's new to us,
too. And then my other question, and this is about there was a note about we were kind of in the process
of an equity analysis for expanding the locations or places where you can get a MyRide card.
And just briefly, if someone could just touch on kind of what we're looking at when we are doing that kind
of analysis from an equity standpoint.
CARL GREEN JR: Mr Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Mr Green, you may proceed.
CARL GREEN JR: Yes, great question, Director Ruscha. So as we look to expand our retail network, and
looking at where if there, specifically what we're looking at is increasing access. So as you are aware, we
have four sales outlets throughout our service district. But as we look at specifically Title VI populations,
there was a question that was raised with regards to fare capping.
And in order to provide opportunities for folks, specifically equity populations to provide access to those
fare products, the expanded retail network is geared towards meeting that mark with providing different
access points and opportunities for folks to either load fare on their MyRide card and to purchase fare
products. So more or less, we're looking at going through the procurement process, looking at potential
vendors, and what retail networks they can provide.
But we're also putting a map on that, so to speak, an overlay map to see where Title VI high
concentrations of Title VI populations, which include minority low income. And as we look at immigrant
and refugees, we're also looking at languages as well. So we'll be able to more or less hit the nail on the
head to make sure that we are distributed throughout our service district, and in addition to that, targeting
where these populations live to create those access points for these historically underrepresented
populations.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Sir. Anything further, Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: just to wrap it up, Mr Chair, thank you Mr Green. That's what I thought was going into
it. I just wanted to make sure there wasn't a concern. And if I may, have we considered looking at
government partners, for example, city and county, human service departments, DMVs, et cetera in terms
of expanding access at those points in addition to retail vendors? Is that something that we could
theoretically do?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr Green or anyone else who is prepared to answer. Yes, General Manager.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr Chair. Yes, we are exploring all various opportunities having had
experience of working with the Maryland Department of Motor Vehicles, and we are looking at fare
programs, these are all different elements that we are going to pursue recognizing that where we are at
this point in time is bringing this forward for this Board's consideration from an equity assessment vantage
point.
All of these great ideas and suggestions are things that we are contemplating as we go forward. And you
will know the path forward that we're taking through written correspondence as we start with the
implementation process because we have to keep in mind, a lot of these things are basically tied into who
we're working with and the requirements of their program as we go forward.
So we're all eager and open to looking at every single viable option there. So thank you very much,
Director Ruscha for that. And please know that we are committed to looking at all avenues
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That's a great response, General Manager. We appreciate it.
Any other comments from any member of the committee or any other Board member? Hearing none, it's
time for us to turn to the vote. I want to say first, though, this is unprecedented. This has never happened
before. The RTD is looking at reducing fares, not increasing fares. It is monumental in its impact. It is
historical.
Because it is, as I said unprecedented. For that reason, I'm going to proceed and take the liberty of
having a roll call vote so that each of the committee members may be heard expressing their affirmation
or their opposition to the fare structure as proposed, which would reduce fares across the Board. Carolyn
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Yes, sorry my it was muted, and I couldn't unmute total Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, we kind of fooled you on this one, so. Director Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.

DOUG TISDALE: Vice Chair Eric Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: And the Chair Doug Tisdale votes yes. So let the record reflect that at 7:23 PM
Mountain Daylight Time on Tuesday, July 11, 2023, the RTD Finance and Planning Committee voted
unanimously to send to the Board for its consideration with a recommendation of approval for the
reduction of fares across the board. Thank you.
We have one more recommended action, and we have one discussion item. For the sake of the record,
however I note that we have been proceeding for almost two hours. Therefore the Chair is going to call a
recess at this time for 10 minutes. It is approximately almost 7:25 PM. We will reconvene at 7:35 PM,
promptly at 7:35 PM. So please feel free to take a comfort stop at this point, and we will see you back in
10 minutes. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Ladies and gentlemen, we are reconvened in the RTD Finance and Planning
Committee meeting of Tuesday, July 11, 2023. It is now 7:35 PM Mountain Daylight Time as indicated.
Before the recess, we have one recommended action item remaining and one discussion item.
Our recommended action item number five is for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution number blank
series of 2023 to amend and appropriate funds to decrease the 2023 amended budget by $117.2 million
to a revised amount of $2092.9 million, or $2.092 billion. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Catlin is the movement. Do I have a second to that motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from Director Dishell that I heard first and Mr Vice Chair. So based
upon the motion by Director Catlin and the second by Director Dishell, we can proceed with the
presentation relative to the amended budget. And I would like to ask at this time for Todd Nikkel who is
our Senior Manager for the budget to present this item. Mr Nikkel, the floor is yours, Sir.
TODD NIKKEL: Thank you, Mr Chair. So I do have a short slide presentation, and I will share that here.
You can all see that.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes we can, Sir.
TODD NIKKEL: OK, so I'm going to be relatively brief with my presentation as it's simply a summary of
the information you've already received. So we are presenting our 2023 amended budget to you today.
And the purpose, so we'll be going over today is the purpose of the amended budget, what we're
requesting in terms of changes to our adopted budget, a recap of what we're asking in the amendment,
and also just outlining what the remainder of our 2023 budget and forecast timeline is.
So the purpose of the amended budget is to restrict expenditures to authorized uses. As you see in the
Board report, we are only authorized to spend what the Board appropriates for us to spend. So this is our
opportunity to move funds around, to reallocate our funds, to request additional funds and if the case may
be. We also are adjusting for new information. So as things change and needs change, we need to be
able to adjust our budget.

And as I just mentioned, we can only spend what you, as the Board appropriate for us to spend. Some
key changes that we have seen is we as many of you know, we get a sales and use tax forecast from CU
leads in Boulder twice a year. So this incorporates new, their most recent, which was in March forecast
for us. It takes that into account. We are bringing in a updated forecast for fare revenue based on the fare
study.
We're also, as I mentioned already, we're reallocating some of our operating expenses. And we continue
to prioritize state of good repair. Overall, we're increasing our revenue by $57.4 million. The majority of
that is sales tax and grant revenue and offset somewhat by slightly lower fare revenue forecast. We're
increasing our operating expenses by $31.5 million. And that is mainly made up of an increase in
paratransit services of $13.2 million and an increase for security services of $7.6 million.
We have an additional $10.7 million for a number of items, which you can see some detail on page two of
the Board report and then even further detail on attachment a, which outlines by department what the
changes are that we're asking for. We decreased our new capital expenditures by $18.3 million. We
reduced our capital carry forward expenditure by $174.9 million.
And what this is is each year, we carry forward capital projects that we haven't completed in a prior year.
So this is actually decreasing what we, the Board had appropriated and approved for 2023 at the end of
2022. We're increasing our unrestricted fund balance by $34.5 million. And this budget does adhere to all
our fiscal policies. And you can see, one of our fiscal policies is our net revenue coverage and our, OK,
so our net revenue coverage.
The policy is 1.2, and this budget is actually 1.5 ratio. So we do meet that in our fiscal policies. And the
reason we increased the fund balance, the unrestricted fund balance, so we just took the balance of what
was left after we increased our reserves and our expenses and added that to the unrestricted fund
balance you can see many of the numbers that I have pointed out there, we increased our operating
reserve by $10 million to maintain a three month reserve buy policy.
And so that just outlines the increases and decreases to the fund balance. And for our further timeline in
2020 and September, we'll be asking you to approve our midterm financial plan, which is our six year
cash flow plan, which we base our 2024 budget on and. Then in November, we'll be proposing, bringing
our proposed budget for 2024 for the Board to approve. So with that, I will turn it over to you, Mr Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. Let me now ask are there any members of the Committee
who would like to pose questions or make comments at this time. I see in the first instance that Vice Chair
Davidson has raised his hand. You are recognized, Sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Chair. Mr Nikkel, thanks as always for great and clear, simple
presentation of the changes. Thanks for the work on the capital carryforward. I know this is something
we've talked about around budgeting time. And we had the benefit of speaking offline. I just was
wondering if you wouldn't mind, for the sake of the Committee highlighting some of the things we had
discussed with the Chair of the Committee as well about some of the changes happening with capital
carryforward.
I think that the large carryforward budget can be reflective of inaccurate resource planning and strategic
misalignments and so forth. And that was a concerning piece of the budget, I think, several years ago,
and we've really been working at it. And I'd be remiss if I didn't say thank you to CEO and General
Manager Johnson because I know that there's a lot of energy going into really aligning the organization.

And the decrease in that I think is reflective of that just like an increase or a high one is reflective of some
misalignment. But Mr Nikkel, I had the benefit of hearing you speak about some of the types of things that
we're examining and how we're working on that as an agency and wondered if you wouldn't mind just
briefly sharing a few of those highlights with the Committee here.
TODD NIKKEL: Sure, Mr Chair? So yes, so it had been a number of years since we had really looked at
our capital projects as a whole. And we had some very outdated and old capital projects that had had
very little activity for a long time. So it's still a work in progress. We still have more work to do to clean it
up and have a really good working list of capital items that we know that we can deliver that we can
complete and also meet our strategic plan.
But the first big step was we began to, we, about two years ago, we implemented a fiscal policy that
dictates that funds are available for a three year period. So once a capital project begins, we need to see
some substantial progress in that capital project within a three year period, or we're going to reevaluate it,
and we're going to consider whether we need to move that funding, those funds to something else.
So we looked at anything, any capital project that had activity that didn't have any activity within the last
three years. So if anything was had no activity in the last three years, we just closed it. We said we
obviously don't need that as currently. And if it is something that we need, then we'll resurrect it, and we'll
consider it again, but we're not going to just continue to carry forward those funds.
So that was the first big step. And like I said, we're continuing to work through it and reevaluate and look
at all of our capital projects real closely and just make sure that what we fund, we're actually going to get
done and is something that the district needs to do. So it's a long process. And this was the easy part now
was just wiping out a whole bunch of capital projects that had been sitting there a while, and now is the
hard part about making difficult decisions, but we're continuing to work through that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Nikkel. Does that answer your question then, Vice Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: It does. Yes, thank you for expanding on that for the Committee, Mr Nikkel, that's great
work. And once again, thank you to you and our CFO Doug MacLeod and General Manager for working
on this great place to find budget for strategic initiatives we do intend and want to get done. So yeah,
thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that discussion, which we did have in our planning meeting for this meeting
because generally speaking, what we're trying to do is to adhere to generally accepted accounting
principles applicable to public entities consistently applied. And that means that simply carrying forward
an aspirational goal as opposed to a realistic budget picture doesn't do a service to the agency or to
investors, the holders of our bonds and so forth or to the public.
And that was part of the rationale for coming up with this proposal. That having been said, Director
Dishell, you are recognized, Sir
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I noticed no change in the FISA account. Is the FISA account, and I
apologize, invested or is that just sitting on our books?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr Nikkel, yes.
TODD NIKKEL: OK, I'm sorry. All of our cash is invested. So yes, that would be part of our investment
and be generating some investment income at this point in time.

BOBBY DISHELL: OK, thanks. I see a line item like that, which is about the same size as our reserve.
And if it pleases the Chair, I think we undertook a serious strategic planning initiative at $168-ish million
as we look to the fall and we look to the 2024 budget. It really calls into question whether the current use
of this Board created fund furthers our strategic priorities.
It is more than double our annual debt service, which raises a question of could we refinance to free up
more capital to better deliver service? Could we use it to take money to make money, to invest in other
revenue generating opportunities? Could we use it to fund free fares for youth for 40 years plus? There's
a lot that money can do to further our priorities and to further our strategic plan. And really, it would pay
for a new EV facility.
There's a lot of that amount of money can do for this agency and for all of us. And I think to hold it
because of political concerns, I think it at the very least, warrants a discussion of what else can that do
that is aligned with our strategic plan? Because as I see it, it's a really big line item. $168 million isn't even
earning, I read the numbers correctly, $1,000 in interest over six months. I'm not sure that having that
amount of cash sitting out there is worth it.
Could be used to do things related to employee incentives and wages. Workforce is one of our biggest
challenges, and I know that that's going before workforce updates go before operations tomorrow. As
someone who's on the Finance Committee who looks at fiscal policy, I don't just, it really brings into
question whether what was created before still works for us today. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Dishell, telling comments, no doubt. Director Catlin, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr Chair. And Director Dishell, you bring up some really thought provoking
points and questions, and I appreciate that. There are some sacred cows in this agency. And I think that
the taking a look at the capital programs and whittling down that budget is a first step toward addressing
it. Because we all know that engineers like to hold on to their pet project. But if nothing is getting done in
three years or more, then it is really important to pull that back.
And if they want to make a business case for it later on, so be it. But I really applaud you for really
tightening this up and cleaning this up at this point. So just kudos to you all and to the agency and to
some of those people that were holding on tight to some of those capital projects for moving forward with
a tighter, cleaner budget. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Catlin. Vice Chair Davidson, you are recognized
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr Chair. Director Dishell, I think great points. I wanted to address
those directly. I think when we're talking about the FISA, it's no secret while there's other projects that are
undone, the large one were the elephant in the room that we're addressing around is the Northwest Rail
line. And so I did just want to and again, I recognize that there are other unfinished FasTracks projects,
including the enhanced bus service, which I think is important to keep in mind as well.
And so there's just two things I want to encourage, one because Northwest Rail does represent a large
unfunded obligation. I think we can all agree that this Board with the benefit of hindsight, and also I do
think given some of the folks that we do have here would take great issue with the initial planning of the
FasTracks initiative and how that financial model came together.

And but given that it is there, I do think it's important to be mindful of the fact that we have several
initiatives underway on the partnership front as well as on the peak service front to look at what our
options might be. Given that this agency has this obligation, and given that obligation represents a fair
amount of risk to the agency in various forms, I think it behooves of us to make sure we're being
thoughtful about that funding as a source of something we might be looking to, as we're faced with
options in the year or two ahead.
But additionally, I did just want to note, I know I've brought this up before. We also have to be very
mindful of something that I think we also would in the benefit of hindsight, see some significant challenges
and limitations to, which is the fact that we cannot move FasTracks money into the base system, whereas
the opposite is true. And this has created this huge challenge as we face those operational expenses
increasing and FasTracks.
And we could look at saying using FISA to fund some of those operational deficits that we've faced, but
then the challenge is we've had one time savings that we're trying to spend on ongoing expenses, which
really those ongoing operational and maintenance expenses represent the largest problem without even
completing FasTracks so we're really between this rock and a hard place, and I just don't take issue with
anything that you said other than I think we need to be very mindful about how we look at that money and
how we evaluate that.
And it's possible that as we look at some of our long term revenue strategies and as we start to put
together some teams within the agency to look at that, we may want to take another legal look in
understanding of the balance. But I really just wanted to be mindful of we have some ongoing projects,
and we have a risk to the agency that money may be useful for. And additionally, we need to be
thoughtful about that base, too, the FasTracks account transaction as arbitrary as that feels in the world
today and our current budget. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr Vice Chair. And think it's worthy of note that the FISA is a creature that
was created by this Board and can be amended or changed by this Board should it so desire upon a
proper motion being presented. And as we look at the FISA, we did some examination a couple of years
ago when we said OK, the peak rail service plan feasibility can be funded through FISA dollars.
By the same token, speaking of another unfinished project, the SWRE, the Southwest rail extension into
Highlands Ranch. And the idea that we had explored previously and is not off the table is increasing
FlexRide service in Highlands Ranch so as to create at least a stop gap measure or a step toward
implementing what was also promised for the Southwest region. Other comments from Directors who are
either Committee members or non-committee members relative to the amended budget? Director
Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So we just went through our onboarding. I apologize if I sound a little bit behind
everybody else on this one, but with everything that was just said, it was my understanding that the FISA
account, although created by the Board to Director Davidson's point has some strings attached to it
because of what was approved by the voters, which was specific to the FasTracks rail and specific BRT
that the voters approved that money to be used for.
So is it my understanding then that's incorrect? Because I'm looking at my notes from the other day, and
I'm just trying to understand the context of this conversation that even though we created that account,
that account was created with monies that were given by taxpayers, , the 0.4% for FasTracks which was
specifically dedicated money for the FasTracks program, which included both a rail and a bus element to

it. But it was bus rapid transit, our Flatirons Flyer up to Boulder, what you're discussing about the
Southwest lines I would assume would fall under that as well.
But it was really limited in scope. It wasn't a free for all. So I just want to make sure that if we're talking
about using taxpayer dollars that were appropriated for us, that we're using them for the right purpose,
and we're not getting over our skis on what we could potentially be using that money for. And forgive my
ignorance. I'm new here. I just want to make sure I understand what's being said, and I'm not being
ignorant to other issues. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: An excellent observation, Director Guzman. And I'll let others weigh in on this. But just
very briefly, the FISA account does consist of dollars that came from the FasTracks. But that said,
anything that has to do with FasTracks, and that's why, for example, the peak rail service plan was
funded through dollars taken from FISA. But I will let either General Manager CEA should she choose to
or General Counsel Snyder weigh in on that before I go to Director Broom.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr Chair, if I may, I believe in reference to what you have encapsulated, relative to
the FasTracks investment savings account, that was created for the Board. I think there's conflating of
two issues relative to the monies that are being utilized with the point in fact that the Board created the
savings account, that's just what it is to discern what might happen going forward. And so just wanted to
qualify that holistically.
I wasn't a part of the onboarding, so don't know exactly what was said relative to the briefing that I
received from our CFO. But for all intents and purposes, it's up to this Board to decide what happens with
that investment account because that is separate from the discussion relative to what's being paid into the
basis and versus FasTracks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager. Director Broom, let me go to you
next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I wonder if we could get for our information, some statistics on ridership
and fare revenue just prior to the pandemic, say 2019, and compare those with the numbers that are
included in this revised budget if it's approved. I'd kind of like to see where we're going in that regard
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I think that's something that Mr Nikkel and our Chief
Financial Officer Doug MacLeod might be able to provide some information. You're suggesting in effect to
have that available either before the Board meeting or at the Board meeting, I take it. Is that correct,
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes, that would be helpful.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you very much. I appreciate that. Let me turn to Director Dishell.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr Chair, if I may just for a moment.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, I didn't see your hand, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No problem. So I was just going to say relative to the information Director Broom is
asking in our ACFR, and that's contained in our, they changed the acronym, our annual certified financial
reports, relative to what it was prior to. So that information is in the ACFR as we go forward. And also we

contained the year over year comparison in the Board briefing documents relative to ridership and
boardings and those elements.
So what we can do is provide a memo that encapsulates that. Because that is contained already, but if it
would be of ease to other individuals on this Board. We can qualify that, but I just wanted to state for the
record that information is provided to you all on an ongoing basis as we look at our audited financial
reports. Because we use those as the basis relative to our expenditures and things of the like.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and I think we understood that. I think what Director Broom is asking for can
there be more of a targeted presentation? So rather than the entirety of those data, could we have just
this particular element broken out? I think that's the request.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you for the clarification, and we can also send a FISA memorandum as well
with that information contained. All right, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you very much. Director dishell, You are up, Sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, yeah, just wanted to take the beehive or whatever the phrase is just
address some of the comments. I think one is the base system subsidizes FasTracks to an incredible
extent. I don't have the exact numbers off the top of my head, right. So in many ways, it's a money swap,
right? It would be you could use those monies to have the base system and not subsidize FasTracks and
such a large extent.
I think the other thing that I keep in mind is the data we continue to receive, which is the number one thing
people are looking for is service reliability, not new things. That is the number one thing that drives
ridership, that helps us deliver transit, is service reliability. And has been communicated to us, the number
one thing preventing us from doing that is a people power challenge. And so I just want as we keep in
mind, yes, there's political aspects.
Yes, there's, partnerships and things on the horizon absolutely. I think my challenge is right now, we have
a big pot of money that we just carry forward year over year. But in many ways, we're really in a
turnaround situation. And we need to take care of our agency. And we know what some of the capital
costs of these things are. In no world the amount of money we'd have to save in the FISA account year
over year haven't done the math but to get anywhere close to building out any of these FasTracks capital
projects.
I think the world might, I don't think any of us will be alive to get the FasTracks budget up to $1 billion to
cover even a portion of the capital projects that need to be covered. And so that's sort of where the
comments come from, right? It's not to say no, we shouldn't do these partnerships. It's not, but it's to say
let's take a real look in the mirror. Let's look at the data we have. Let's look at what's important to people
today, what's important to our riders today, what's important to our community today.
And we know it's service reliability. We know it's safety. We know we need to diversify our revenue with
the [? Tabor ?] ratchet down coming. And so it's not to say that those other items aren't important, but it is
to say we should probably have a plan for that money more than let's carry it forward for the hope that
one day, we might be able to kick in some money and piece things together to maybe deliver a project
sometime, which a very small portion of the population is asking for relative to the other needs we have
today. I think that's really sort of where I'm coming from when I'm looking at fiscal policy. Thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Dishell. And I don't know whether Governor Polis monitors these
meetings, but, I'm sure he'd be interested in that discussion too. Before I go to Director Ruscha, let me go
to Vice Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair. I'll be brief because I have a question. I just want to direct,
address Director Deshell your comments, completely understand exactly what you're aiming at. I do take
some issue with political. I think this is a community issue, and I'm not concerned about politics here. I'm
concerned about the fact that actually a quite large number, when we look at community value of
constituents that invest in this system have very limited trust in this agency, which is something that is
very important for us to be mindful of.
Again, I completely agree with all of your sentiments. I think the reason we were exploring partnerships at
the same time we were exploring the peak service plan is to look at whether there's a way out or a way
forward from this situation. And so certainly my preference is to see that through. But I do have a specific
question and Ms Johnson, you alluded to potentially a Board memo. And I always hesitate to apologize to
the rabbit trail here, and also, Mr Nikkel, apologies. This was your presentation.
We're off track here, but appreciate Director Dishell you raising the issue. I do have a question with
respect to the FISA because my understanding, and perhaps I'm mistaken is that the money that is
moving into that internal savings account, although it is an internal savings account created by this Board
is being collected and again, fully appreciate Director Dishell your comments about money swap here.
But just an understanding the FISA, we don't need to answer it here today. But it would help me to really
understand how that is accounted for in terms of where the monies come from and how that's accounted
for with respect to this odd situation we have with FasTracks versus base. Because I'm sensing that I,
and I don't want to speak for other Committee members may not have a complete understanding for how
our accounting for that.
And, I suspect that there could be some legal as well as some accounting considerations to take into
consideration as we have a FISA discussion. So hopefully I don't know if General Manager and CEO if
you want to make any comments on that. Please don't feel the need to, but if we are going to have any
type of internal memo, I would certainly appreciate understanding of whether there's any legal
implications with respect to that base versus FasTracks and whether there's any accounting
considerations with respect to how that money is accounted for. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Vice Chair. And the Chair is actually going to call for the orders of the day at
this point what we allowed a discussion to expand a little bit because it was of interest, and it could have
related to the amended budget. But the question before this committee at this time is the amended
budget. And FISA is not impacted by that. So I'm going to respectfully suggest in calling for the orders of
the day that we proceed back to the discussion on the amended budget.
So my question is, are there any Directors, Committee members, or otherwise who have questions or
comments regarding the motion on the recommended action to amend the budget in the specifics as
provided? I'll pause. Seeing no hands and hearing no outbursts, we can proceed to a vote on the motion
for recommended action item number five.
This is a motion by Director Catlin as seconded by Director Dishell to amend the budget and the specifics
as indicated. Are there any no votes on this recommended action? Having paused and waited for any
expression of a no vote, the Chair notes that we have seven votes in favor of the recommended action to

adopt the amended budget and send it forward to the Board for approval. No votes against and no
abstentions, therefore, it will proceed to the unanimous consent agenda. Thank you.
Then we turn lastly to our one discussion item that we have on the agenda this evening. Excuse me, that
is for a presentation on the 2024 2029 mid-term financial plan, sometimes referred to as the MTFP. And I
would once again recognize Mr Nikkel, our Senior Manager of budget to present on this item. Mr Nikkel,
the floor is yours.
TODD NIKKEL: Thank you, Mr Chair. So I have another even briefer, more brief, I guess that would be a
better way to put it presentation. And I'm assuming everybody can see that fine.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Sir.
TODD NIKKEL: OK, thank you. So what I'd like to do very briefly this evening is just introduce and open
for discussion our 2024 2029 mid-term financial plan. As Mr Chair noted, it's often referred to as the
MTFP. An overview of the presentation is we looked at our budget and forecast timeline a little bit ago in
the amended presentation. The purpose of the MTFP, what changes since this was adopted last year and
also the considerations that have gone so far into the development of the MTFP to this point.
So tonight, we're bringing this as a discussion item. And this is just simply to introduce some of our
assumptions and some of the things that we're focused on in our as we develop this cash flow plan. In
September, we'll bring it to the Board, this Committee and the Board for consideration to adopt. And then
in October, as we pass the MTFP, we will start using that to develop our and fine tune our draft budget,
and that will bring to you in October of this year.
And then in November, we would ask you to approve and adopt our proposed budget for next year. So
the purpose of the MTFP is to provide a forecast of both revenue and capital and expenditures for the
next six years. And as I just mentioned, once we develop that, that will provide guidance for developing
our budget for the first year of the MTFP in this case is 2024.
I will just mention that the MTFP is not an appropriation. It's not binding. And those future year, dollars
and projects that are included in the MTFP are not appropriated, they're not budgeted for. It's just a cash
flow plan to make sure that we can accommodate, we can fund the things that we have decided that are
important, meet our strategic plan, and that we have the revenue to accomplish those items.
It's an opportunity for us to plan our resources and how to allocate those resources. And this includes not
only our financial resources but also other resources, so people and so forth. We want to make sure that
this plan for the six years aligns with our strategic priorities and our strategic plan. It also helps us identify
what our fiscal constraints are and then see if we have opportunities that we can maybe do things that we
didn't always didn't think we could.
But yet as we look at our revenues, it may give us maybe in year three or four of the plan, we see that we
have some room to accommodate some other projects or expenses that we may feel are important for the
district. And it's also important to keep in mind that this is a snapshot of the best information that we have.
It certainly is not-- there's things going to be changing, and sometimes they change quickly.
There's often by the time we do our budget, you guys. The Board approves it in November. And by the
time February rolls around, things have already changed. So it's no different here for this cash flow plan.
The MTFP, it's just a snapshot of a point in time. Some of the things that we bring into the MTFP that are
different from last year is we have revenue changes. So as I mentioned earlier, we do have for the

amended budget, we have a new fare projection forecast based on the fare study for the remainder of this
year's budget.
But we also have new fares for the remaining for all six years of the MTFP. And we have higher sales and
use tax. We also did our planning for some investment income, which we have with a higher interest
rates, we have some significant investment income, which we have had a little bit in the past, but not
enough to make plans around. So we're incorporating that into this year's MTFP.
We continue to prioritize maintaining our assets. And those items are brought in without any discussion.
So our asset management team develops the asset management plan, and we bring that into the midterm financial plan. It's no discussion. There's no trading. We do that because we need to maintain what
we have rather than expand or enhance what our current system.
It also gives us the ability to forecast what our reserves are going to look like in the future and get a better
picture of what our financial position will be in the future. Some of the considerations are funding
normalization, so we try to maintain our operating expenses relatively within reason. We need to allow for
some growth, but we do want to normalize those expenditures and the revenue associated with how
we're going to pay for those expenses.
We also make sure that each year in the six years that we maintain, we manage to our fiscal policies and
allow for possibilities to actually enhance our fiscal policies that we currently have. And as I mentioned
before, this is not only an opportunity to determine forecast allocating our financial resources, but also our
people resources, so deciding what can we actually accomplish before we apply funds to those financial
resources to those projects.
And then this also, the MTFP leads into the long range plan, which carries on for a 30 year period, which
is a separate exercise, but this it's just an extension of the mid-term financial plan. And with that, I will turn
it over to you, Mr Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr Nikkel. And so now any Committee members in the first
instance, who have questions for Mr Nikkel regarding the MTFP. Director Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr Nikkel, would you be able to tell us what reports or resources that you're using
for this planning because it is for what, six years, I'm sorry I'm trying to do the math quickly in my head.
But are we looking at just primarily, I know the Board has been given this Committee specifically has
been given a report from the Leeds School of Business.
I just don't know what else we're looking at for information for planning purposes for revenues and
income. And what other resources you might be looking at to compile this plan.
TODD NIKKEL: Mr Chair, may I?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Sir, you may.
TODD NIKKEL: OK, thank you. That's very good question. So for, you mentioned CU leads, that is they
provide our forecast for our sales and use tax. And then Four Nines, who was the consultant for help
develop, do the complete fare study, they also forecasted fare revenue for the next six years for us. In
terms of expenditures, we used the national CPI to forecast most of our expenses realizing that may not
be enough of an escalation factor.

We may be underestimating our budget slightly, but we also know that we typically and historically have
not spent all of our budget. We have significant favorable variances in our expenditures. So we feel like
that is a realistic and sufficient escalation to our expenditures. We do use different rates for salaries and
wages. And I won't say exactly what those are in this meeting. I can certainly provide that information
separately, but that's something that we try to keep somewhat confidential at this point.
And then we have the ability to escalate different costs and different ways if we choose to. But primarily,
we use the CPI to escalate our expenditures. Does that answer your question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman, and Thank you, Mr Nikkel. And I'm sorry, General
Manager, did you want to comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, I just wanted to add on another important part of all of this relative to the
question that was posed by Director Guzman recognizing that this Board did support the system
optimization plan, which is our comprehensive operational analysis. And that's important as we look at
where we're aspiring to be holistically. So that information was taken into consideration as well relative to
how we're forecasting in the future recognizing that spans like a five to seven year period.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for sharing that, General Manager. Any other committee
members with questions or comments regarding the midterm financial plan? Hearing none, let me turn to
Director Ruscha.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you, Chairman. This question is going to sound confrontational, and is not
intended to be. Because I had this in my head prior to Mr Nikkel answering Director Guzman's question. I
actually was wondering how we account for future projections as it relates to wages considering that a
significant part of our workforce is represented. And those are contractual negotiations.
And don't know if that's something that you can touch on. And I certainly respect the concept of keeping
some of that confidential. But as a public body, I'm not sure it's in our best interest to keep that entirely
confidential. So if you could just say to weigh in at all or say anything to that effect. I am curious as to how
we budget for that. We do have a people power problem.
And while our operators and service workers have received significant wage increases in terms of
percent, I think there is a question if that is still a living wage. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Let me go to our General Manager for the first response on this
and see if there's any supplementation. But General Manager, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director, or I should say Mr Chair for the opportunity to
address the question posed by Director Ruscha. Keeping in mind, yes, that we do have a workforce that's
2/3 represented, but when you look overarchingly at a transit agency that is labor intensive. Keeping that
in mind, we want to ensure that we are competitive hence the adjustments we made during the previous
collective bargaining agreement was intentional in that we wanted to be competitive.
And we wanted to lead the market relative to ensuring that people had a livable wage. So when we did
that, we actually looked at it through the lens of a comprehensive analysis leveraging what we know as
the Dash Report and the transit industry so we could look at transit agencies that are represented by a
myriad of different transit based labor units. And so in doing that, we do utilize the Dash Report going

forward, we want to ensure that we're competitive. And also we look at the cost of living, the CPI going
forward.
So as Mr Nikkel pointed out with the onset of his presentation that basically this is a forecasting
document. When we are in the midst of budget preparation, we do take all of that into consideration
relative to ensuring that we're looking at the transit market as a whole, that we're looking at the cost of
living within our, what's the word I'm looking for, our urbanized area being Lakewood, Aurora, and Denver
as relates to the CPI, so those things are critical nature.
But you are right. As we talk about what might we be doing in this public forum, I do not think it would be
advantageous for us to speculate, but recognizing we want to ensure that we're providing an optimal work
environment, and we want to ensure that there's work rules that are benefit, that we are providing an
environment where people can be ultimately successful.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager. I think that's a nice supplement to what you
have already said previously. Are there any other comments or questions from any Director relative to the
mid-term financial plan discussion item? Hearing none, we'll close that discussion, and then turn to other
matters. And I will ask from the Committee members are there any other matters to discuss at this time?
Director Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'll keep it brief. I just want to say thank you to all of the Directors who have
participated in conversation, to all the staff members who've provided answers. I know these questions
can sometimes seem like they're a little off the wall and zany, and our conversations are supposed to be
that we need to have information, and our training and onboarding as new Directors was that this is the
appropriate place to ask those questions and get that information.
And so I hope that for the public, for my fellow Board Directors you hear me when I say thank you for
asking thoughtful, thought provoking and discerning questions because we have done our homework and
come here prepared to do that work. I appreciate it deeply because I am still learning. And the information
provided to us by our wonderful staff who have gone above and beyond in all of these things that they
presented to us tonight, every single time you hit it out of the park.
I just really appreciate it. Because when I go into the boardroom meeting, I'm actually prepared. I have
had time to consider, and I have had time to debate both with myself and my community and bring back
comments or questions that have been answered. And so I just thank you for that. Because this is a really
beneficial use of my time as a Director to get through some of these meaty subjects. And I just want you
all to know that I'm grateful to you for it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Guzman. And that also is why your Chair sometimes lets the
discussion go a little afield from the specific agenda item so that we do have that opportunity to respond
to questions and provide information. , Director Catlin you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to give Director Guzman a little bit of grace the and other new Directors.
Some of us who have been around a little while, we tend to talk in jargon that's kind of inside baseball.
And when you ask those questions, I can guarantee that some of the general public who are listening or
the constituents who are listening have those same questions. So I think that it's entirely appropriate and
Director, or Chair Tisdale, thank you for keeping the meeting on track. I appreciate that as well.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Are there any other matters that any member of the
Committee would like to bring forward at this time? Hearing none, I thank you all very much for your
gracious and kind attention and patience with this meeting. As I indicated earlier, it is an historic meeting.
So don't let that fact escape you. Our next meeting date will be Tuesday, September 12, 2023.
To remind you all, there are no meetings scheduled for the month of August. So the next Finance and
Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, September the 12. Boy, I made it just this far,
didn't I? Seeing no other discussion, the Chair will note that this meeting is now adjourned as of 9:30 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you all very much. Have a good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Goodbye.

