2022-07-26
Special Board Meeting
VINCE BUZEK: And I'll start out by saying to all of those gathered, I want to apologize on behalf of the
Board of Directors for the fact that we're going to have a special Board meeting in advance of our regular
Board meeting. So if you're here to give a report at our regular Board meeting-- I see some of you that are- my apologies. It's going to be a little bit of time. I can't predict how long, but it'll be a little bit of time before
we get to that regular Board meeting.
And with that being said, I will now call the Tuesday, July 26 special Board meeting to order. We're
convened as of 5:32 PM. I respectfully ask everyone remain muted unless you're recognized to speak.
Thanks for joining us this evening. Please note that we are being recorded. So we are also holding our
meetings remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. If you do not wish to be recorded-hang on one second, I got myself off.
We don't have a recording statement. Just one second, my apologies, everybody. Well, I guess we have
eliminated the recording warning. But anyway, we're being recorded. If you don't want your comments
recorded, you're going to have to submit them to the Board Office.
Colleagues being elected as a member of this body imposes an ethical obligation for each of us to enhance
and maintain the public confidence in this agency. As a Board of Directors, it's our collective duty to our
constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our business in an atmosphere of mutual respect,
cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality, the values we all agree upon. As such, I'd encourage each of us
to review the operating guidelines adopted by this Board to act in accordance with those principles, which
are available on the Board of Directors page on the RTD website. Thank you.
Ms. McManus, will you call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: And I'm here too. My apologies, I got ahead of myself with regard to the public participation
and recording. That's coming up. And Director Lewis-DOUG TISDALE: Oh, Mr. Chairman?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, I don't believe I heard my name called, but I'd like the record to reflect that
I am in fact here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry. I thought I did call you. My apologies if I didn't.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Tisdale. We see you, your bright, shiny face, right there. And thank you
for letting us know.
OK. Public comment, public participation period is next. This is open to anyone who would like to address
the Board. If you wish to speak, and have not already done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star

9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in press, star 666 to
toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the Board, or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers
following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin
their remarks by stating their names, and they will have up to 3 minutes for their comments.
Ms. McManus, do we have any people that have indicated a willingness to speak during the special Board
meeting? And you're on mute.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I see some hands, but there were no communications through the Board
Office email.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, and who's our first-BARBARA MCMANUS: So first up is Amanda Mansfield.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms Mansfield, you are recognized, if you just state your name, and you have 3 minutes to
give us your comments.
AMANDA MANSFIELD: Hi. Thank you very much. Can you all hear me OK?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
AMANDA MANSFIELD: Wonderful. Hello, all. My name is Amanda Mansfield. I'm Senior Manager of
Transportation at Boulder Transportation Connections and the Boulder Chamber. Thank you for having me
here tonight. And I'd like to reiterate the comments that the Chamber and BTC, along with other
transportation partners, submitted yesterday to the Board. So I'll be brief and reiterate those comments.
So first, as stated in the letter we submitted, we'd like the Board to consider making the FF4 bidirectional
service going to and from Boulder Junction in the morning and the evening in RTD's next runboard. We'd
also like clarification on when the RTD Depot Square Station at Boulder Junction will reopen to the public.
And finally, we'd like RTD to continue to fulfill the commitments it made in the 2021 RTD Accountability
Committee report to focus its attention on public/private partnerships. A project that we're working on
currently is the Gunbarrel shuttle in Gunbarrel neighborhood in Boulder that fills local transit gaps. It's an
on-demand microtransit shuttle. And it's the result of public/private partnerships, and so we'd love to see
those kinds of projects be able to continue.
And so again, we encourage RTD to continue to partner, as they are on Gunbarrel, to realize these kinds
of wonderful projects that fill those local gaps. Those are the three comments we had in the letter, and that's
the end of my testimony. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. Mansfield. Ms. McManus, who's next?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we have James Flattum.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Flattum, if you'd just state your name for the record, and you'll have 3 minutes to make
your comments. You may begin.
JAMES FLATTUM: Hi there. Yes, this is James Flattum. I am with the organization Greater Denver Transit.
We are a new transit advocacy organization here in Denver. One of the key topics we wanted to check in
on and would appreciate, at the appropriate time in this meeting, if the Board could give us an update on
the progress is regarding the possibility of allowing e-bikes on transit.
Given the huge success that the city of Denver and state has seen so far with the bike and e-bike rebate
program, we see this summer as an essential time that RTD is explicitly supportive of e-bikes. That
combining mobility options, the longer distance that transit offers, with the flexibility of e-bikes as new ebike adopters this summer are kind of building habits around their new e-bikes, we view it as essential that
they build these habits around RTD for RTD to fully build out ridership potential that e-bikes allow.
So thank you again for the opportunity to make a comment, and we would appreciate an update on RTD's
e-bike policy. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Ms. McManus, Do we have another speaker?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we have Naomi Amaha.
VINCE BUZEK: Naomi, please state your name, and then you've got 3 minutes to make your comments.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're muted.
NAOMI AMAHA: OK. Sorry, I'm new to this. Thank you so much. My name, again, is Naomi Amaha. I'm the
Director of Policy and Government Affairs for the Denver Foundation. Good meeting-- good evening to
everyone. Thank you for the opportunity to provide comments in support of the Reimagine RTD system
Optimization Plan.
My organization is a community foundation with a history of funding nonprofits that are working to improve
accessibility and affordability of transportation options in Metro Denver. As an organization, we recognize
all of the work that's transpired between RTD and its stakeholders to better understand transit riders' needs,
while also adapting to the realities facing the organization. This work has informed the service changes
outlined in the SOP to meet the mobility needs of those most reliant on transit and increase overall ridership.
We want to thank RTD staff, leadership, Directors, those on the Reimagine RTD Committee, and
community members for their efforts. And we look forward to engaging with you all and adopting a longterm mobility plan for the future. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Ms. Amaha, for those comments. Ms. McManus, do we have any more
speakers?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, I have two more speakers, starting with Molly McKinley.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. McKinley, state your name, and you have 3 minutes.

MOLLY MCKINLEY: Great. Good evening, Board members, General Manager and CEO Johnson. Thanks
for hosting this public comment period this evening. I have a couple of things to talk with you all about. First,
I will touch on the System Optimization Plan.
So I'm here, like I said, on behalf of the Denver Streets Partnership. We are here to express our support
for the System Optimization Plan. We're a coalition of community organizations advocating for peoplefriendly streets in Denver. Given RTD's current funding and labor limitations, we're glad that RTD has
undertaken this process. And we believe that the Guiding Principles are the right one.
We're committed to advocating for public transit in the Denver area that's equitable, sustainable, supported
by land use policies that foster density, safe, accessible, affordable, reliable, all of the good things. And the
COVID-19 pandemic really highlighted ridership patterns of people who rely most on transit to get where
they need to go. And we're glad to see that y'all are prioritizing transit-dependent riders in the equity policies.
So given RTD's limitations, we believe that this is the right decision-making philosophy and support the
adoption of this plan. . The SOP is about making tough choices with limited resources, and we'd be remiss
not to note that the 2027 service projected in the SOP falls well short of what we really need to serve the
region to meet our air quality, climate, access, and safety goals.
Now more than ever, we need leaders not just within RTD but at the local, state, and federal levels to come
to the table and get public transit back on track and identify additional resources for RTD. I've said before,
it kind of hurts as an advocate to be supporting something that cuts service at a time where we really need
to be increasing service more than ever. But I just want to double down on the fact that we really support
the philosophy behind this and look forward to working with all of you to advocate for ways to increase
service over time.
I'd also like to talk about the e-bike policy. We are also looking forward to hearing an update this evening,
hopefully, and would be very supportive of getting more e-bikes on buses, just creating more opportunities
for folks to be getting around the region without having to rely on a car for the sake of equity, access, air
quality, climate.
And then lastly, we just want to express our excitement for the fare-free month of transit in August. We want
you to know that we're here to support you and get the community excited about the month of free transit.
And we have lots of awesome community members within our network who are excited to create some
positive buzz around that. And we hope to see you all out and about throughout the month, hope to bump
into you on transit. And just want to express support for that. There's definitely a lot of community support
right now. Thanks so much for your time.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mrs. McKinley. Ms. McManus, our next speaker?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, we have a Richard Bamber.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Bamber, please state your name, and you'll have 3 minutes to give us your comments.
Please go ahead.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi there, good evening. It's Richard Bamber. Tonight I'd like to talk about advertising
wrap on buses and trains. So basically, one of the good things about taking transit is you can sit back, look
out the window, admire the scenery of our great state, let somebody else do the driving. You can't really do
that if RTD has chosen to wrap the bus or train you're traveling in an all-over-advertising wrap where you
can barely see out the windows.

There also is an issue if you are, say, struggle to know what to stop to get off, you're visually impaired,
trying to identify where you are, where the bus or the train is in its route. So what I'd like to do is call on the
Board to make a resolution to work with your outdoor advertising agency, Lamar, to update the instructions
in so that some of the designs for advertising on buses and trains don't cover the windows.
Some of the good examples at the moment are on commuter rail cars, like Stranahan's Whiskey, American
Express, and Caesars Sportsbook. So I hope the Board would like to consider updating their either
instructions with the Lamar contract or making a resolution. So that, while I understand that advertising is
a necessary evil, the riders don't feel they're basically second best and the experience isn't cheap. So thank
you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you for your comments, Mr. Bamber. Ms. McManus, do we have any more speakers
in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have no other speakers in the queue, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. With no other participants in the queue, we will close the public participation and
move into our recommended actions. And Ms. Johnson, I've got a question for you. My script does not
show any staff presentations for the recommended actions. Will there be staff presentations?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes sir, there will be staff presentations.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, thanks very much for that clarification. First recommended action is the Access-ARide/FlexRide contract extensions. And I'm looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into three-month contract extensions with MV
Transportation, Via Mobility Services, Transdev, and Transdev On Demand from October 1 through
December 31 2022 for the provision of Access-A-Ride and FlexRide services.
The not-to-exceed amount for the contracted services is $10,728,728. Additionally, the not-to-exceed
amount for fuel is $980,000. The total three month not-to-exceed amount for the contracted services with
fuel is $11,708,728. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
BOB BROOM: Move to approval.
VINCE BUZEK: I've got Williams as the movant and Broom as the second. I'm going to ask for staff
presentation at this time before we have discussion.
MICHAEL FORD: This is a Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer. I'd like to give just a little bit of a context
to this extension. By way of background, the Americans with Disabilities Act, the ADA, requires public
entities operating a fixed route system to also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities
which is comparable to the level of service provided to individuals without disabilities.
RTD's paratransit services are currently provided by four service providers-- MV Transportation, Via Mobility
Services, Transdev, and Transdev On Demand. RTD also operates FlexRide service in 23 service areas
within the district, providing first and last mile connections along with access to essential locations, such as
grocery stores, hospitals, medical facilities, employment sites, and schools. These services are currently
provided by two service providers-- MV transportation and Via Mobility Services.

Currently, approximately 65% of RTD's paratransit customer base are regularly using the agency's service,
and FlexRide ridership has been steadily increasing. A request for proposal for paratransit services is
currently being advertised, with proposals due on August 3rd. The contracts are scheduled to commence
on January 1, 2023.
In conference with procurement and legal staff, it was determined that additional time was needed to allow
potential proposers to identify sufficient garage space in this limited real estate market. The new contracts
will provide continuing service at the end of the three-month contract extension for the current paratransit
service providers. Staff intends to provide the Board with a recommendation at the October 2022 Board
meeting.
By way of discussion and adopting this recommended action, RTD seeks to meet the 2021 through 2026
strategic plan priorities of community values and financial success. In May 2022, RTD requested cost
proposals from current service providers to continue service through December 31, 2022.
Cost analysis and internal financial analysis indicated that the three-month estimated cost for RTD to
provide similar service internally would be 13,616,213, which is $1,907,485 higher than the three-month
cost proposed by the agency's current service providers. The financial impacts, funds for the provisions of
Access-A-Ride and FlexRide service effective October 1 through December 31 2022 are included in the
2022 budget. I'd be happy to answer any questions that the Board may have at this time.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr Ford. I'll go to Board comments and questions next. Great, thanks. I'm
seeing no questions or comments. I will now take the vote. Are there any no votes on this matter? Great.
Seeing none, this passes unanimously 15 to 0.
Next we're going to go on to On Demand Uber Pilot service extension. And I'm looking for a motion for the
Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a five-month
contract extension with Uber for the provision of on-demand services for paratransit customers. The total
five month not-to-exceed amount for the contract services is $887,457. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: I heard Director Whitmore, and I think the second was Director Rivera-Malpiede. Great.
And I'll ask for-- oh, Director Williams, I see your hand raised.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. I'd like to recuse myself from this vote based on my employment. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. And staff presentation is next.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer. By way of background, RTD has
provided on-demand opt-in service through taxi companies branded as Access-A-Cab for Access-A-Ride
customer since 2005. While an affordable alternative to RTD's paratransit customers, the taxi industry has
been unable to consistently provide services within the needed response times, particularly to customers
using wheelchairs.
In November 2020, RTD expanded its on-demand opt-in service offerings through a more responsive
platform by piloting with Uber as their first transportation network known as a TNC. The pilot area included

Southeast Denver and was designed to test customer adoption, response times, and the use of wheelchairaccessible vehicles.
These services have allowed a more convenient same day alternative to traditional paratransit service
which is more affordable to customers-- i.e. Uber is a $2 fare versus a $5 Access-A-Ride fare-- and more
cost-effective for RTD at up to $20 subsidy per trip versus a more than $75 trip cost through RTD's
dedicated Access-A-Ride service.
Piloting Uber as an additional provider of on-demand service has been positive for RTD customers and
was expanded to the entire RTD service area in January 2022 to a parallel Access-A-Ride cab service.
Since the pilot expansion, RTD has seen the customer adoption increase from 12.6% of all paratransit
customer trips to over 21% in June 2022.
As customer demand has returned, on-demand solutions from Metro Transportation, RTD's current AccessA-Cab vendor, and the Uber Pilot have recovered to 60-- excuse me, to 96% of pre-COVID demand,
compared to 66% for Access-A-Ride service. The challenges of the Access-A-Ride providers to increase
their workforce to support customer demand has greatly reduced paratransit service on time performance.
The continuation of the TNC pilot program will aid in the expansion of the on-demand service as well as the
release of a request for qualifications to retain additional on-demand providers, which is currently advertised
with new provider agreements anticipated to be brought to the Board of Directors for consideration in
October of this year.
By way of discussion, RTD seeks to meet the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan priorities of community
values and financial success, as staff anticipates a minimum of two vendors, with the possibility to up to
six, to deliver paratransit services. Additionally, an internal financial analysis indicated that the five-month
estimated cost for RTD to provide similar service internally would be 3,849,075, which is 2,961,618 higher
than the five-month cost proposed by Uber.
Regarding financial impacts, funds for the provisions of the on-demand Uber service effective August 1
through December 31 2022 are included in the 2022 budget. At this time, I'm happy to take any additional
questions.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Ford, thank you for your presentation. Are there any questions or any comments with
regard to this recommended action? Seeing none, I'll call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this matter?
Seeing none, this passes with 14 yes votes, 0 no votes, and 1 recusal/abstention. Thank you, Mr. Ford, for
that report.
We'll move on to our third recommended action, and that is the August 2022 service change. I'm looking
for a motion for the Board of Directors to approve the August 2022 service change package as revised and
summarized in attachment A and to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes. Do
I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Guissinger. Our second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams. Got it. Great. Staff presentation will be next. Who's going to be presenting
on this?
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer. I'd like to provide some background
commensurate with the service change and voting process detailed in the collective bargaining agreement
known as the CBA between RTD and the ATU 1001.
The August 2022 service change proposal facilitates both an opportunity for RTD bus and rail operators to
vote new work assignments and the opportunity for service development staff to make adjustments to the
operations plan for RTD's transit network. The service change process, though contractually required, is an
opportunity for RTD to update its transit service utilizing projected available resources.
As of April 19, 2020, RTD has operated a reduced level of service in response to COVID-19 impacts. As
the region and the country move forward from the various mandates and emergency policies that have
affected commerce and mobility, challenges to workforce availability persists.
Like many service-related entities, the transit industry has seen workforce availability greatly reduced.
Recognizing that RTD's reduced availability of transit operators, mechanics, amongst other positions,
efforts to update RTD's service plan continues to be focused on providing RTD customers with sustainable
and reliable service within the agency's available resources.
The service proposals herein are a combination of scheduled adjustments and restoration of seasonal
service previously suspended for summer. Efforts to increase operator availability through recruitment
strategies and increased employee outreach continues, though current levels do not support a substantial
increase to service at this time. Additionally, the newly adopted CBA is anticipated to have positive impacts
on both employee retention and recruitment.
By way of discussion and alignment with the strategic plan priorities of customer excellence and recognizing
the agency's people power problem, the proposals herein are directed at improving on-time performance,
maintaining CBA compliance, and adjusting service levels to match summer ridership demand.
The Board-adopted guidance for proposed service change continues to be service performance evaluations
based on RTD service standards, the effects of the overall integrity of the transit network and on transitdependent markets, the availability of alternative services to affected ridership, cost-effective distribution
throughout the district and family of services, and the ability to enhance service when possible, Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act-- benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color, or national origin-also disparate effects on low income and minority populations and response to changes in the communities
where services are provided.
In summary of public hearings, there were three virtual public hearings conducted on June 2nd, 2020 at
noon and on June 22 at noon and 5:00 PM. These hearings have been recorded and are available for
review. Comments for this public comment period have been summarized and are listed in Attachment B
in your report.
Additionally, changes to initial recommendations, staff receives input during the public comment process
and continues to conduct additional analysis after the initial service recommendations are communicated
to the Board of Directors. Depending on the outcome of the public comment process and continued
analysis, staff may or may not propose modifications to these initial recommendations.

The following proposals have been added or significantly modified-- Route 49, Commerce City scheduling
adjustments to improve on-time performance, Route 66, Arapahoe road schedule adjustments to improve
bus connections, and Route 88L, Thornton, Commerce City, Central Park schedule adjustments to improve
on-time performance.
There's a summary list of service proposals that are provided in attachment A. And at this time, I would also
call on Jessie Carter, our Senior Manager of Service Planning, to join me at this particular time. And we'd
be happy to answer any of your questions. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thank you for your report. Questions and comments from Directors are next.
Director Dishell, you're first in the queue. Go right ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much for the presentation. I saw online, I believe these are scheduled to
change on August 22nd or 21st. Is that still accurate?
JESSIE CARTER: I'm sorry, if I might.
VINCE BUZEK: Please go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Can everyone hear me? I'm having some issues with my-- OK, Thank you. The
actual runboard itself was supposed to start on Sunday, August 21st.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. I guess my follow-up question is whether there's any flexibility on that start date.
We have a school tripper service. And as I think many of us here know, the students who take public
transportation are often our most vulnerable students. And for those students, the ability to get to school is
not just an education, but it's also, for some of them, psychological services, development services, other
social services.
The school tripper service appears to impact Denver Public Schools, Sheridan Public Schools, as well as
Boulder Valley School District. And it is awesome that, for Denver Public Schools, we are starting on the
21st, which means for kids' first day of class on the 22nd, they are able to take our RTD.
However, the middle school, high school walk in registration is August 11th and 12th in DPS. And again,
those are those students who are often even more marginalized for Sheridan, which is a less affluent school
district. They start school even earlier. And I believe Boulder Valley School District starts on August 17th,
but teachers typically reporting before then.
Do we have any flexibility to push that up so that-- it seems like a missed opportunity to start a school tripper
service after school already started.
JESSIE CARTER: Right. One thing I would say-- and I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of
Service Development. Normally, what we would do if we find that the school year is actually starting before
our runboard dates, because it's one of the reasons why we have the runboard set for September/August
is because of the school trippers and the ramp up of services, we will run what are called special service
orders in which we would put those out prior to the start of the run Board to accommodate those school
trippers. However, I will have to look into whether or not Sheridan is one of those that we quite normally do.
You will also note that, in the CVA, we actually don't have an August service change. We actually have a
September service change. We go early in August to accommodate the school start times. However, as

you've mentioned, there are some schools that are deciding to offer some things a bit earlier. So we can
take a look at offering some additional trippers prior to the start up of the runboard via special service order.
BOBBY DISHELL: And how many of our special service orders are fulfilled usually in a given year?
JESSIE CARTER: We are in very unprecedented time. So normally, I would say-- prior to COVID, I would
have said, by the most part, all of our special service orders are fulfilled. But given that we are short on
staff, I can't actually say that. So you're probably going to hear from me, as a broken record, in this
presentation and others that we do have a resource challenge when it comes down to bus operators and
mechanics at this point.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK, I may be coming back with an amendment to amend our start date there to make
sure our kids can get to school and start the year off right. Because we got a similar report last year, and I
think it's really critical that our students are able to eat and that they're able to get to school and start the
year off strong.
JESSIE CARTER: Understood. I would like a chance to talk with you offline about this subject, if possible.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK, not a problem.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Director.
VINCE BUZEK: Dr. Guissinger, you're next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm happy to go next. But when I see Ms. Johnson raise her hand, I also am happy
to see if she wants to address the last issue.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. I just saw that. GM/CEO Johnson, would you like to make some comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Guissinger and Director
Dishell, for your questions and your concerns relative to service delivery and Mr Carter for his response.
Recognizing that you indicated that you may put forward an Amendment, I do want to qualify, though, we
do have a collective bargaining agreement in that we would have to work in tandem because we collectively
agreed to set agreement.
And so recognizing that the team and I will do everything possible to accommodate relative to the comments
you brought forward, I just wanted to manage the Board's expectations as we go forward. This isn't
unilateral, so we have to work in tandem. So I did not want the opportunity to pass and I not speak to that.
So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those clarifications. First Vice Chair Guissinger, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I think mine might fall into the category of a mistake or typo. I
checked with service planning staff. The skip on Broadway and Boulder, the proposal states, "this proposal
reinstates the fall/winter weekday service frequency 15 minutes that was suspended with the May 2022
service change for fall/winter. No cost impact is anticipated."
To be consistent with the SOP, and what we've always done when school comes back, is the skip goes
back to 10 minutes. And I think that it also was suspended with the May 2022 service change for summer.

I don't want to make a big deal out of it, but I just wanted to make sure the record was here. Do I need to
make an amendment or is that just fixable?
JESSIE CARTER: Actually, I think-- and I'm sorry, this is Jessie Carter, Senior Manager of Service
Development. I believe I would have to make the change to the Board paper so that it reads correctly. And
Yes, I will admit, I did have a conversation with my North Team Lead, Nataly, who pointed out the fact that
it should have said 10 minutes and not 15 minutes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much.
JESSIE CARTER: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Any more questions or comments from Board members? Director Dishell, go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, we can't hear you. It doesn't indicate you're muted, but we can't hear you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ah.
VINCE BUZEK: There you go.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm called in, and I muted my own phone just to be extra sure I wasn't going to get any
errant comments in there. But I'd like to move to amend the recommended action to add the following
sentence after the word changes-- General Manager and CEO and/or her designee shall exercise best
efforts to cooperate with-- well, manger and CEO and/or her designee shall exercise best efforts to adjust
the start date for the August service changes to take effect prior to the affected students' first day of school.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. So Director Dishell has just made a motion to amend with the language he's stated.
Do we have a second?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm happy to second it, Director Dishell.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis will second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Oh, sorry.
VINCE BUZEK: I got Director Bouquet as the second. Is there any discussion on the amendment, Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I have a question. I think it's probably for Jessie Carter. I think most of the
school trippers and the changes that I've seen, at least in my area, are in terms of frequency. Is that the
case for all of them? Are there buses that-- I mean, can the kids get to school, just not-- it just takes-- might
have 15 or 30 minute headways, or is it totally new service in some cases?
JESSIE CARTER: It really depends on the school district and the school. So for instance, as you mentioned,
in Boulder where frequency goes up and it's still the same pattern of service. In other areas, the trippers
actually originate and terminate in different spots. So for example, the Route 65, which goes by GW and
TJ high school in the city of Denver, those trips originate and terminate in different places.

I do want to make sure that the Board understands-- and I have to thank General Manager Johnson for
pointing the fact out-- that any change in this date actually affects the voting process, the pay process, and
availability of the work types for our Union workers. So we work towards these set dates with a very short
period in mind of actually putting together all the information. We would certainly have to contact both payroll
and the Union leadership to make any changes that change the date of this particular runboard. So I just
want to make sure that that's stated.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd just make a comment, I certainly share Director Dishell's concern about getting
kids to school and doing that from day one. At the same time, August is going to be complex because it's
zero-fare month. And I think that we'll will be juggling staff and resources already with some of that. So I'm
a little bit hesitant to change this at the last minute and wonder if maybe it makes more sense to look at this
for next year. I don't know if Ms. Johnson or anyone wants to comment on that.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, would you care to comment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Guissinger. As I
indicated before in my previous remarks, recognizing we do have a collective bargaining unit agreement
with ATU, we do call out three service changes per year. And while those three service changes give us an
opportunity to adjust services, it also gives us the opportunity for individuals to select the work that they do.
So there could be some conversations. I can't speak for the Union whereby we talk about the timeline as
an association, perhaps, with the commencement of the school year. That would give greater flexibility. I
can't make that commitment single-handedly. But there could be some discussions recognizing that, back
in the day, schools would start the Tuesday after Labor Day, at least in my era, and now they've morphed.
So I think it would be quite feasible that we can engage in a discussion and we can apprise the Board
accordingly, because it's a collective effort. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Second Vice Chair Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just for clarification, I was asking for Director Dishell to reread his proposed amendment
and where in the resolution it falls.
VINCE BUZEK: Dr. Dishell, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Sure, not a problem. I will, with fidelity, read it as originally stated, though I'm open to
adjusting the language as always. Director Catlin, the intent is that this would fall after the word changes.
So the recommended action, it would just be an add-on to the last sentence there. So I will read it with
fidelity here, but I also am open to changing it. So it's really just that school tripper service that we care
about starting-- well, with an emphasis on that school tripper service, not the entire runboard starting early.
General Manager and CEO and/or her designee shall exercise best efforts to adjust the start date of the
August service changes to take effect prior to the affected students' first day of school, or said differently-or slightly differently, which I may have to withdraw and resubmit, but General Manager and CEO or her
designee shall exercise best efforts to adjust the start date for the school tripper August service changes
to take effect prior to the affected students' first day of school.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you once again for a third bite at the apple. One other piece of information that
I feel is very important as we talk about our people power and needing to have self-care, this also impacts
bid vacations. Individuals bid on their vacations when they have shift work. So recognizing that people have
been well in advance about what days they would take off. I just needed to manage your expectations
around that people power aspect that doesn't deal with just normal call-outs. So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that clarification. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. I'm curious-- and I'm not asking for an answer, but just sort of an open question- how many school districts are in the RTD area. And it's probably quite a few. And of course, we've got
charter schools, and online learning, and things like that. And then some school districts might have, say,
a high school start before elementary school or ECE. So I guess my concern is that this would be a
Leviathan information gathering effort to try to find out who starts when and then try to make sure that we
have tripper buses allocated accordingly. Sort of an open statement and open question.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, just to quickly respond, right? It's not every student in the district. There are maybe
10 routes that are proposed that are specific to school tripper service. And I've gone ahead and done that
due diligence to realize that these are Denver public schools, Boulder Valley School district, and possibly
Sheridan 12. So it's not, Director Rosenthal, I think, to assuage your concern, saying all school districts, all
service provided, right? But it's really targeted at the service changes we make intentionally for schools to
get those kids to school.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for that. So we've got an amendment. So I'm going to ask, Director Dishell,
for clarification, you proposed an amendment and then a subsequent amendment that had a change in
language, which would you like to go with? And we'll ask your second.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'll go with the school tripper language. So General Manager and CEO and/or her
designee shall exercise best efforts to adjust the start date for the school tripper August service changes
to take effect prior to the affected student's first day of school.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And Director Bouquet, as the second to that, are you OK with that language?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes I am.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. OK, so we're going to take a vote on the amending language at this point in time.
Ms. McManus, can you call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you, Chair. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll go back to Director Rivera-Malpiede. And then to Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm a yes.
So with that, we've got 10 noes, 4 yes votes, one absent that was Director Rivera-Malpiede. I'm not going
to read the yeses and noes, it's part of the record. So the language to amend the motion fails. So let's move
back to the main motion and ask if we have any no votes on the main motion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Tisdale has his hand up.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chairman?

VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale, go right ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: You're on mute, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: You're on mute, Doug.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I appreciate your patience with me. I wanted to go back to
discussion on the main motion in light of the amendment having failed, and just to point out that my no vote
was not associated with disagreeing with the idea. I thought the idea was well taken. And I believe Director
Dishell said that we had had discussion about this last year. And I am concerned that we didn't have the
opportunity to address that more fulsomely in this scheduling change now.
So I would encourage staff to take this into account when we look at the schedule for next year. Director
Dishell has provided some excellent information that I think would be beneficial in responding to this. And
so as I said, the idea was good, but I voted no for the practicalities that were addressed by General
Manager/CEO Johnson. Thank you, sir.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments, and thanks for the clarification. We did not have
discussion on the main motion. So now we're on questions, comments, and discussion on the main motion.
Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Actually, just to echo Director Tisdale, there was just not enough time to
really get that amendment. And I know that's going back on that issue, but otherwise, I think it's a great idea
that Director Dishell had. It's just not enough time, and also the issues that Manager and CEO Johnson
also mentioned, that we were not able to move forward. But in any event, I do support the original motion.
Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks for those comments. Any further discussion on the main motion? Now I'll
take the vote. Are there any no votes on the main motion? Seeing or hearing none, that passes
unanimously.
We're going to move on to the final recommended action, which is the Reimagine RTD System Optimization
Plan. So I'm going to be looking for a motion for the Board of Directors to approve the Reimagine RTD
System Optimization Plan, SOP, as revised and summarized in Attachment B to serve as the service plan
through 2027 and to be implemented in a phased approach at regular service changes as resources are
available through that period. And do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Williams. Is there a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Second, Sloan.
VINCE BUZEK: And Sloan is the second. How about a staff presentation on this?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yes. Thank you, Chair. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for
Planning. And without further ado, I would like to introduce Doug Monroe, Manager of Corridor Planning
Operations and Jessie Carter, who you've heard from previously this evening, Senior Manager of Service

Development. They will be making the staff presentation on the Reimagine RTD System Optimization Plan.
Doug?
DOUG MONROE: Thank you. So the System Optimization Plan was started as part of the Reimagine RTD
effort in 2019, led by the systems planning group with support from the service development group. Early
in the process, we established the Reimagine RTD Guiding Principles with the Board of Directors. And
especially applicable here to the System Optimization Plan are the equity, workforce, mobility, and financial
Guiding Principles that were established.
When we first set out working on the System Optimization Plan, it was known that there were some
constraints as far as financial, at the time especially, and we were initially looking at about 92% of our 2019
service levels as part of the System Optimization Plan.
Through the pandemic and the financial challenges that have arisen from that, along with our workforce
challenges, that number has been revised to 85% of our pre-pandemic service is what is recommended as
part of the System Optimization Plan. So that's 85% of pre-pandemic service, but it is 17% greater than the
service we operate right now.
So in beginning the process for the System Optimization Plan, we looked at travel patterns throughout the
district using information like the location-based services data, other travel data that we could gather, to
best analyze where people were traveling from and to and could best use our services to do that.
As the pandemic hit, the effort for the System Optimization Plan and for Reimagine RTD as a whole was
paused in 2020 and then resumed in 2021. And we were able to take some travel data that was gathered
during the pandemic and use that to release a draft System Optimization Plan, which came out late 2021.
We initially were accepting comments for the System Optimization Plan through February 9th. And after
gathering some feedback from this Board and from some local jurisdictions and from the public as well, that
deadline was actually extended to March 9th. So we got an extra month of comments. And overall, we
received over 1,600 comments from members of the public, from local jurisdictions. And we used that.
Taking those into account, we made a number of changes to the System Optimization Plan that impacted
about a dozen routes that had their initial recommendations changed.
I think big ones on that list that took some more resources to actually address implementing bidirectional
service on the Route FF2 in between Denver and Boulder, adding the Route 122X back into the System
Optimization Plan, and then, with a lot of comments that we heard from the Arvada area, making a
modification to Route 52 and 72 to provide service on Route 52 along Ralston road, as that was their
preference in the Arvada area there.
So going into just some of the metrics that show the System Optimization Plan as an improvement over
what is out there right now and how this plan benefits the district as a whole, and addressing some of those
Guiding Principles as well.
Looking at mobility, the System Optimization Plan increases the population within a quarter mile of bus
stops and within a half mile of rail stops from 54% to 56% of the district population. But it increases the
population that has access to frequent service. And that's service that's defined as every 15 minutes or
better. It increases that population from 13% to 21% of the district population. So improving mobility,
especially with frequent service, for a larger percent of the district population there.

And looking at equity populations in the district, previously it was 69% within a quarter mile of a bus stop
and within half mile of a rail stop. That goes up to 71% with the System Optimization Plan. And then for
those equity populations, that frequent service goes from 18% to 28%.
And then finally, looking at the job-- looking at employment metrics, within a quarter mile and a half mile for
bus stops and rail stops respectively, it goes from 65% to 67%. But with the frequent service, that goes
from 31% to 39%. So overall, an improvement in access for the general population, for equity populations,
and for reaching jobs within the district, all in line with the Guiding Principles that were established by the
Board early in the Reimagine RTD process.
So with that, I will turn it over to Jessie Carter, who is going to talk about the implementation process for
the System Optimization Plan, as well as I think a little bit more-- continuing to hear about the workforce
challenges that we have. So Jessie?
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thanks, Doug. And one thing-- well, there are a couple of things I just want to remind
the Board of. And that is the Systems Optimization Plan is not a service change in and of itself. We will be
following the normal process as we implement between now and 2027 with bringing proposals to the Board
as our resources allow. And I probably have to say that again-- as our resources allow. Again, the number
of operators that we have available will somewhat determine the sequence in which we actually propose
the changes actually implementing the service plan itself.
So with that, I do want to just roughly describe our people power problem when we look at implementing
this plan going to 2027. We have a shortfall of over 300 operators at this point in time, which is sizable. It's
something that we are continuing to work on, but it's something that we have to face in order to make it a
reality in being able to implement this plan. So with that, I want to turn it back to, I believe, Mr. Van Meter.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you. And Chair, Board of Directors, that concludes our presentation. Brian
Welch, Senior Manager of Planning Technical Services, and Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit-Oriented
Communities, are joining us here. And we'll take a team approach, if necessary, to try to answer any
questions and provide any clarifications necessary that the Board might wish to engage in. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And thanks for the presentation and for your work on this over the years-- many,
many years, it seems like. But we've had this coming before so many times, I'm glad we're getting toward
the end. So I'm going to go to Director questions and comments at this time. And I'll start with Second Vice
Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to say for the record that the most recent service
changes resulted in reinstating the 116X down in my area. And that was met with a lot of praise from some
of my constituents because a number of them rely on that route. That has been eliminated in this System
Optimization Plan.
And I've been in contact with some developers along that route right adjacent to our park and ride there
where the 116X passed. And there are several hundred housing units planned, multifamily or higher density
units, right adjacent to that park and ride, and then another fairly large development across the street.
Those are currently going through the zoning process with the planning and zoning with Jefferson County.
And there were some questions asked about transit service and the potential for these developments to
generate ridership. So I guess my question-- and I know the System Optimization Plan goes out for seven
years or whatever, but in the event of some of these higher density developments coming online, would

there be some opportunities to re-examine routes such as the 116X to see if we could reinstate those
routes?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Do we have a response?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah. Chair, this is-VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Please go head, Mr. Van Meter.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you-- Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. So the short and sweet answer is yes.
The System Optimization Plan is exactly that, it's a plan. It's giving us a roadmap. It's based on current
understanding of our environment, our needs, our requirements, our resources.
As Jessie Carter noted, three times a year we'll be coming to the Board through our standard process that
you went through earlier this evening for service changes. If there are changes in where equity populations
live and work and need to travel that make it on to our radar and that warrant changes to serve an equity
population, we need to be aware of that. And we have the tools and intent and resources to be able to
change services to an equity population.
Similarly, where there's new development that may or may not have been anticipated during the land
development, during the development of the System Optimization Plan, we also need to be nimble. We
recognize that. This is a general roadmap. If we need to deviate over time, you, as policymakers, have that
responsibility and capability.
And we, as staff, have that responsibility to track it and relate it and bring to you that information and have
a continuing dialogue with you, with our stakeholders and local jurisdictions, and through our service
councils that we've discussed and that are one of our responses to the Accountability Committee's
recommendations.
So we have a number of tools in the toolbox. And at the core of that is your responsibility as Board members
and our responsibility as staff to track these changes to use the SOP, System Optimization Plan, as a
roadmap but not as an exacting constraint. I don't know if Jessie or-- Jessie put his hand up, so he may
have something to add regarding this.
JESSIE CARTER: Yeah, right Thanks, Bill. And I would like to add-- and again, this is Jessie Carter, Senior
Manager of Service Development-- with routes like the 116X that have relatively weak ridership, we may
want to revisit the area in trying to provide it with some other type of service, rather than to say that it's just
the 116X, that's the answer to that type of service demand.
So we want to leave that open as well. So it's not just a matter of saying, OK, let's explore the 116X, but
perhaps, we can take a look at some other types of services that could serve that new community as it
comes up. So I just wanted to make sure alternatives are mentioned in looking at how our services are
impacted by the SOP.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Mr. Chair, respond?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, please go ahead.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. I've gone through all of the comments. And I want to applaud you all for your efforts
in reaching out and getting the extra feedback that we asked for. And I know that the responses to those
comments were that you would look at what's right. I think that that's probably not quite as specific as the
people commenting on the 116X were asking for. So I think we need to work a little bit more.
But I just wanted to say, Mr. Van Meter, your comments-- they reassured me that it's a guide. It's not hard
and fast. And if circumstances do change, we can take another look at it. And that's really all I was asking.
So I very much appreciate your response, and you, too, Mr. Carter. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Buzek. This is more of a request than it is a question, which is a lot of
times, and increasingly so, we have many folks who say, I want to help be an advocate for RTD, what do
you need? And I think it would be really helpful, certainly for me-- and I'm hoping and guessing for other
members of the Board-- to understand that delta. It's really helpful to hear, we're short approximately 300
full-time employees on the frontline. It would be really helpful to know how many short are we to get to the
2027 number. Is it 600? Is it 1,000?
And then similarly, for budget discussions, what does this cost? What are these increased costs? I know
we can only give estimates now, but as we're trying to build coalitions and get other folks to support us, that
type of information is the information we get asked for. And I think it could help move the needle as folks
advocate more broadly with us and on our behalf. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Ms. Johnson, are you going to tell us that that information is contained in our Board
briefing documents?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you, Director Dishell, for your question.
There are some elements contained in your briefing packet, but it's more specific. And so as we begin our
budget preparation process, I think it's incumbent upon us to paint the full picture to manage expectations.
Because in the course of this dialogue, we always look at the operator, but we also know that there are a
myriad of other positions that are warranted. And we'd be remiss not to look at our attrition rate.
We also have to look at our attrition rate when we look at our training program as well. So while we talk
about these numbers, we have to plan accordingly for people referencing the previous discussion where
we have personnel that go out and they take their well-deserved leaves, right?
So as we look at it, we always, as I've been telling the team, should be in a hiring mode. And we should
have a qualified candidate pool that we could look to to have what it is that we need. So as we go forward,
that is something that I, in conjunction with Doug MacLeod and his staff and with all the members of the
leadership team plan, to have a discussion around that. Because I do know there are peers around the
country that have adjusted how they're providing their service delivery, modifying schedules, off-peak times.
And to the point Director Catlin raised as well, as we go forward, recognizing that this is a plan. It is a guide.
We also have to be cognizant that there's various ways which to deliver transit service. And it just doesn't
mean a 60-foot articulated bus. It doesn't mean a 40-foot bus. It's the needs that are basically in alignment
with the communities in which we're trying to provide mobility options. So that's what this is all about. With
those six Guiding Principles that this body adopted back in April of 2021, we will use that first and foremost
in making decisions and adhering to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director Dishell, anything further? Nope, OK.

BOBBY DISHELL: All set. Yeah, thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Bouquet, you're next.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Chair. I guess-- I originally had two questions. I was going to
wait for this one to be second, but I'm going to start off kind of based on the discussion. Based on the tactics
that we're using as an agency, or the efforts that we're using as an agency-- because, as we all know, it's
the people power problem-- are we using any metrics when it comes down to the efforts that we're using
currently to try to recruit future operators or future employees, as well as attrition?
I guess that's just kind of my first overall question of, do we have a metric guide of are the tactics we're
using right now being effective or not? Because that seems the biggest issue coming down to the people
power problem.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Bouquet. And yes, we do. As we look at our strategic
plan, as we look at the third priority, which is employee engagement, there are scorecards and there are
metrics as we look at this holistically. Because we have to first discern what it is that we're striving for, and
as I talked about, looking at the attrition rate.
So when we talk about how many people we're bringing into classes, we need to know if we are attriting
20% of what we're bringing in, then we need to double that to ensure that we are making up for those
individuals that feel that being an electrical mechanic, being an engineer, or being a engineer being on the
commuter rail operating that consist, or being a light rail operator or a bus operator may not be for them.
So as we look holistically about how we're doing that, we need to manage the expectations because we
invest in training. And perhaps, it's what we've talked about, ensuring that we have an opportunity for people
to understand what a day in the life of this position would entail. So we don't have somebody three weeks
in after we've invested three weeks of training to say, I can't complete the last five.
So yes, those things are in the hopper. It's going to take us some time, quite naturally, as we first establish
the baseline going forward and utilizing various strategies. But I want to be clear when I talk about we can
leverage a myriad of different strategies, but trying to find people in this climate, regardless of what industry,
has been quite challenging. But we're trying to do our best as we move forward. So thank you very much
for the question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: If I may?
VINCE BUZEK: Dr. Bouquet, you bet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. And yes, we're not the only ones having this problem. And that's the hope- do we find other agencies that see how it works or not?
I guess my second question would be regarding the SOP. If I read it as a commuter, I look at it kind of two
perspectives. One route, my own, when it comes down to the Route P and Route 43, and then a route I
believe is in Director Buzek's and Director Whitmore's, which is the 104.
So kind of a two part question. The first one being is, if I'm interpreting it as someone in my district and they
say, oh, the Route P and the Route 43, I should be-- that ride should be protected or should be in service

till 2027. And then kind of the opposite, where I see the 104 is listed as not in service, but based on our
map, we hope it to be in service by 2027.
I guess my question is kind of regarding the first part saying, if I'm reading how the SOP is played out right
now, are these-- could the routes being listed right now be cut at any point till 2027? And then the second
one is, based on our people power problem, what does the rollout look like? And I know, Mr. Carter, I've
asked this question prior. But when it comes down to phases and giving preference to certain routes over
the other, I guess it would be under ridership. But I'm happy to clarify either question too.
VINCE BUZEK: Who wants to handle that?
JESSIE CARTER: I see a couple of folks taking a step back and perhaps someone else staying in place.
I'll take the first stab at it. It was an excellent question, Director. In looking at it, I hate to use the term priority
and more as a-- I'd rather use the term the sequence in which we'll bring back services or maintain services.
Of course, we're going to have to take a very hard look at the system as a whole comprehensively to make
sure that we stay in line with Title VI and making sure that we're not necessarily cutting a service that has
a disparate impact. And at the same time, we have to consider the network of services and how we mesh
everything together, what types of connections are maintained or broken, and at the same time, what type
of operational leverage we have offered by the services that we put out there.
So when you look at a commuter-driven service like the Route P, it is more so in danger of cuts because
of the nature of the services. They are peak-driven. And you as you may know from conversations, our
commuter services are seeing lesser interest because of the CBD not being what it used to be in terms of
population. So it's probably more in danger. And also, the cost to our system in providing that type of
service, since it's primarily peak-only, has an impact as well.
So yeah, I do think there are certain routes that are more vulnerable because of the nature of the service
that they provide and the system requirements. However, when we go to make these service changes,
again, we will be looking at it holistically and looking at the district as a whole to balance everything based
on making sure that we are in compliance both with Title VI and our collective bargaining agreement. I hope
that answers some of your question.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. The big part is what is listed potentially could be cut in that time period? OK,
thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Correct.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And then the other one is just kind of the rollout of services that are on the list. And
then again, as CEO/GM Johnson says, how do we temper, or how do we manage expectations-JESSIE CARTER: Expectations, yeah.
JULIEN BOUQUET: --when it comes down to, hey, I'm reading it and I'm excited about this route coming
back?
JESSIE CARTER: Right. And I will have to say that in Service Development, we're always excited to create
services. And we don't want to necessarily cut services. It's the hardest thing in the world to do. However,
we do have to pay attention to the fact that ridership is different. And although we see an overall increase-

- we're almost to 200,000 a day at this point-- we're still-- we were well above 355,000 a day. So we've got
a long way to go to get back to where we were prior to COVID.
But at the same time, I don't want to say or predict that certain services will forever have a place within a
plan, because we can't say that. There may be a change that occurs that requires us to take a very hard
look at the system and what we're putting out there and make changes.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson, did you have something to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr Carter, for that explanation. And thank you, Director
Bouquet, for the question. And I just wanted to reiterate some statements in which Mr. Carter made. So as
we look at this, this is holistic. And as many of you heard me say before, we are the R in RTD, meaning
we're a Regional transit provider. And we're also a mobility integrator.
So as we look at things holistically, that's what I think is operative as we go forward as we talk about what
is included in the plan currently. As we all know, we wouldn't think we'd be in this position currently having
these discussions. And so there's a myriad of things that come into play as relates to where we are in 2027.
So recognizing that we do have three service changes annually, as agreed upon in our CBA going forward,
we would look at that as well as the elements that Mr. Carter touched upon, not only Title VI but also those
Guiding Principles. So recognizing that people aren't traveling to the Central Business District as they did
previously, there could be a myriad of different reasons that basically cause us to do a shift.
But we would have that discussion because there could be something in which we are partnering, talking
about the partnerships that are such a pivotal point in all of this when we talk about the localized services,
that we could leverage going forward to bridge that gap if there was a need looking at the demand in that
community in which we're serving. So thank you, Mr. Carter, very much for your explanation. And for yourVINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Director-DEBRA JOHNSON: For the question, thanks.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Bouquet, does that take care of your questions? Great.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'd like to offer an amendment. And this is what Director
Tisdale and I circulated a little bit earlier, but I'll go ahead and recap it.
It would be to amend the recommended action to-- at the end of it, delete the period, insert a comma, and
then add the following language-- with such process to be informed and guided by any Board-adopted
Mobility Plan For the Future-- in parentheses MPFF, comma-- which SOP and MPFF are the agency's
comprehensive operations analysis and will together be reviewed and updated with Board approval
periodically on a no less than triennial basis to provide for a consistent and effective coordinated policy and
vision for service. You're muted.

DOUG TISDALE: And I will second.
VINCE BUZEK: Very good.
SHELLEY COOK: And if I may speak to that motion real quick just to explain.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure, Director Cook. Go right ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I don't think it's a big deal. This does three things. First of all, it makes explicit that
the MPFF, the Mobility Plan For the Future, as our long-range vision for service, that comes to the forward.
Secondly, it kind of places the SOP in context with the Mobility Plan For the Future. And in fact, at the
suggestion of GM/CEO Johnson, it makes clear that those two together are the agency's comprehensive
operations analysis.
And then third, it provides for periodic review to just ask or bring it to the Board and say, is this meeting our
needs? Are we deviating from it a lot in the way that would-- as Bill Van Meter responded to Director Catlin's
questions, is it doing it-- are we deviating so much that it, in fact, isn't serving as the guide that we want it
to? Are the partnerships working in the way that they're structured? So anyway, it's those three things. And
I don't know if Director Tisdale wants to speak to that as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I'm going to take Director Tisdale out of turn, if that's OK? Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate that. From the outset, the Reimagine
RTD process has always been a complex and a comprehensive process with two articulated outcomes-- a
System Optimization Plan and a Mobility Plan For the Future.
This Amendment is designed to remind us of this, to keep it in the forefront of our thinking, and to respect
that process. And it should be noted, this amendment does not cast anything in stone. It is flexible, as it is
stated. It does not mean that there has to be a change every three years. But it does mean that at least
every three years, we'll stop, step back and look, and based upon that, determine what is our best action.
So I support the Amendment. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. So we're going to take discussion questions, comments on
the amendment only at this time, and then we'll eventually get back to discussion on the main motion. So
Director Williams, I see you are up next.
KATE WILLIAMS: I would like to speak, but I do not want to speak on the amendment. So I'm going to put
my hand down and wait to come back.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Live from Cambridge, Director Lewis, you're up next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. Just one quick question. I'm curious of the significance of three
years. How did how did you all land on three years for this particular amendment?
VINCE BUZEK: Directors Cook or Tisdale, would you like to-- Director Tisdale, I see you unmute-- well,
you both unmuted. Who wants to take that?
SHELLEY COOK: Actually, I'll refer to-DOUG TISDALE: All right, Mr. Chairman, if I may.

VINCE BUZEK: You may.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, the idea was not to make it something that imposed a burden upon us to do this
on an annual basis, but rather to do it on a periodic basis but to have some context in mind.
And as I said, if we do it on an at least triennial basis, we may conclude at the end of three years, you know
what, we like the SOP the way it reads now. It's still flexible, it's still something we're working toward. We
like the way the as-yet-to-be-approved Mobility Plan For the Future is looking, so we need to take no action.
So it was simply to put in some sense of what is the periodicity with which we would act in reviewing this.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair. So does the three years align with any of the processes
that we have in place? Is there significance to the three years, or could it be one year, could it be two years?
Is there an opportunity for discussion around that?
VINCE BUZEK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. The way the amendment is phrased, it is on a no less than
triennial basis. So yes, the Board would have the flexibility, should it choose to do so as a Board, to look at
it more frequently than that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Might I ask one more question?
VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Are there examples of how long the COAs are typically done that
you all might have found in your research when you were bringing forth this amendment, like what others
might be doing, what that time span might be? And if anybody else might have that information, I'm curious
as well.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Tisdale, Director Cook, or anyone else?
SHELLEY COOK: I did have a chance to talk with GM/CEO Johnson about this. And I'm glad that Director
Tisdale clarified that we're not talking about doing a new CAO, necessarily-- or COA, but rather pausing to
ask. But as I understand it-- and she might weigh in-- you normally would do a new COA every five to seven
years is what I had heard from her. And she can, of course, clarify on that too.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Director Lewis, for the question, and Director Cook for
speaking to the conversation that we had. Yes, customarily in the transit industry when one looks at a
comprehensive operation analysis, its done every five to seven years. So as we look at it from a holistic
vantage point trying to discern whether or not the service levels are adequate in reference to development
to the varying areas in which we're serving and things of the like.
So from what I'm garnering from the conversation that ensued, that it's three years for the Board to say,
OK, here are where we are. And potentially, there could be a need to do another COA to make modifications
in five years, but it's to check in. Would that be accurate?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And I would assume, too, that to the extent we can make tweaks or small revisions
that those would be possible without undertaking a COA. Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may just ask one more question, just so everybody's clear. I think this will go back
to, potentially, what Director Lewis is asking. Recognizing that this is a guiding document that goes in
tandem with our established service change process utilizing the guidelines that are already in existence,
those things can be modified accordingly to the point that was raised by-- I am looking on my screen, there
he is-- Mr. Van Meter. And it was stated earlier-- I didn't see him, I didn't want to-- as relates to what we
would be doing customarily with service changes. Would that be correct, Mr. Van Meter?
WILLIAM VAN METER: It's struggling to get the unmute. Yeah, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning. Yes.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So I just want to make sure we're all clear. So I'm sort of playing devil's advocate,
stating the obvious. So there is agreement, then, collectively about the position I was taking earlier when I
talked about traditionally with the comprehensive operation analysis. And ours have just been branded as
an SOP and Mobility Plan For the Future, but they're one and the same, having a short-term and a longterm visioning document.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. That's all I had.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Director Lewis, thanks. And thanks for those follow-up comments. First Vice Chair
Guissinger, please go right ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. And I think this is an important Amendment in terms of, as Ms.
Johnson just said, the long-term visioning document that's, I think, critical to come to the Board and to look
at these two together.
I may have a couple more comments. But I'm a little confused why we're calling that a comprehensive-- it
was the Mobility Plan For the Future part of the comprehensive operational analysis. I guess when I talked
with you last week, Ms. Johnson, I was thinking-- that helped me clarify what the SOP was. And I'm no
expert on this, but that seems like it doesn't really apply to the Mobility Plan For the Future. It's not
operational in the same sense.
VINCE BUZEK: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair and Director Guissinger. As I was qualifying in
the context of our conversation, this does fall in with the comprehensive operational analysis. As we're
looking to be visionary, aspirational, how you qualified it, we're looking at our current services. So this is
assessing our operations and doing an analysis. The point that I made with Director Cook when she and I
spoke is recognizing that this is a document where the Board is acting on in three years from now. We've
branded it as such.
So if there's different people sitting around the table, what is the Mobility Plan For the Future? A Mobility
Plan for The Future is a comprehensive operations analysis. So that's what that language there is qualifying
and clarifying for those that may not be familiar with what we have indicated as a SOP, because in the
space in which we're most familiar, SOP is a Standard Operating Procedure. But we've qualified it as a
System Optimization Plan. So the COA moniker, the acronym, that is representing a Comprehensive
Operations Analysis provides clarity if none of us are here and have no idea of what it is we are talking
about. Does that make sense?

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Yeah, it doesn't provide clarity for me, but that's probably my problem. It's OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just could see the operational pieces more of the SOP. But I think putting the two
together is important, a plan that looks to 2050 and looks at how we're going to put together our
partnerships, what the greenhouse gas analysis is, and what we may-- our goals may be there, what the
outcome is if we don't get new funding, how we look toward getting new funding. Those are all things that
I do believe are very important for the Board and should be informing our operations, our SOP, and all of
it. So I will be supporting the amendment. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that. Are there any more questions, comments, or discussion with regard to the
proposed amendment? Seeing none, I'm going to call for a roll call vote on the proposed amendment. The
first was by Director Cook, second by Director Tisdale. Ms. McManus, can you call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes. Did we miss somebody? Because I count 14 votes.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I'm a yes too-- Shelley.
[LAUGHTER]

VINCE BUZEK: Great. So the proposed amending language passes by a vote of 13 to 2 no votes. I'm not
going to read out the noes. We used to always read the no votes. It's a matter of record. Anyway-BARBARA MCMANUS: And one absent.
VINCE BUZEK: What's that?
BARBARA MCMANUS: And one absent.
VINCE BUZEK: I count 15 votes, so I don't think anybody's absent.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Great, now we're going to go back to the main motion as amended. And Director
Williams, you were first in the queue so you go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. I just have a couple of quick comments on it. I really would like
to thank Doug, and Brian, and Bill Sirois, and Bill Van Meter, and all of our staff who have been here and
worked on this for some time. And it's really nice to see you all still here, as we are having staffing problems,
and it's nice to have some experts in the house.
And in light of-- and Jessie, I'm not forgetting, and Fred, and Paul, and everybody else who's on the call.
I'd like to thank the RTD staff. And in light of managing expectations, which seems to be what we're talking
about, I'd like to point out that RTD is always attempting to provide 100% of the service that we are able to

provide, and that anybody who mentions a smaller number than that is not speaking for what all of us are
working toward. Thank you, Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. I've thought very hard about this, so I just wanted to make a few
comments this evening. And first of all, I really commend and really thank our staff for taking on a
monumental and difficult challenge here. Travel patterns have changed. And this is a tough time. And
optimizing our needs and resources, when I think we maybe weren't doing that in the past, is no small task
and neither is responding to every single comment we received. So having combed through quite a few of
these, I thank you for taking the time to do that and also to welcome more of those comments and to
encourage them.
So I want to be clear that I fully appreciate where we are here, and likewise, will thank my Board members
in advance here for indulging me here. I want to explain why I'm going to-- have made the decision to vote
no on the System Optimization Plan this evening.
As a Board, it's important that we ensure that our agency achieves its strategic goals holistically in a
comprehensive manner. We're elected, and that comes with some weaknesses and some strengths. A
weakness that we often talk about is that we run the risk of examining issues on a strictly parochial basis.
But I would-- and I think this is important that we call that out from time to time to make sure we're not losing
the forest for the trees.
But there is a beneficial flip side to this, which is, given the large size of our service area which continues,
in my mind, to be one of the significant risks facing not just the agency but the customers we serve, it's
difficult to understand the entire region. And so we as represented officials can work to bring the voice of
our community, particularly the customers that use our service, here to this Board. And if we collectively do
that and listen to one another, then we can collectively understand the needs of the entire district, and in
fact, use that local lens to actually be collective.
So I just wanted to highlight that my vote-- there's no part of me that wants to lobby or convince anybody
to vote no with me. I'm simply bringing the voice of the area that I represent. The System Optimization Plan,
as we've been talking about, has this mid-range comprehensive operations analysis lens, and it's intended
to optimize our resources. So the question I asked myself is very simply, do I believe that the system is
optimized in District I? And I think that it's a hard question to answer, because even within our individual
districts, I'm sure we can all relate, they themselves are very different.
I'm very glad that our plan has increased transit access overall throughout RTD. I would think that means
that we will collectively pass this. I'm glad that we moved from 69% to 71% for those who need the service
most. But this did not happen universally. And we do have areas that are losing access to service, including
people who have moved to the area or lived in the area for quite some time and had access to routes years
ago, in some cases, several routes, that as a result of the SOP will no longer have any access to transit.
Again, my vote here is not actually a lack of confidence in the team. It's actually to highlight and a request
to ask that staff, and more importantly, that this Board really engage on this 2,300 square mile problem that
we have, that by optimizing our resources, both people power and finances across the area, we've really
focused on areas of high density and we've really focused on commuter routes. And there are folks that are
caught in the sprawl. And I think we're all very familiar with the challenge that sprawl brings. I think we all
here, I think, in this group share the interest in smart development that's conducive to transit.

But I just would remind everybody that we are facing a challenge here that while it's easy to look at buses
and say, that's nearly empty, where you see two or three or four or five or even just one person on that bus,
they really, really need it. And they cannot afford to leave or move elsewhere in the area. And some of them
aren't there by choice or by design. And we can't go this alone.
There are areas that are facing this downward spiral of service, a death by 1,000 cuts, as some have
referred to it. Longmont addressed that problem years ago that they were facing by buying up service and
bringing their local dollars to bear to help address this issue. It's very possible, it's very probable that other
areas are going to need to do the same. I think in the Mobility Plan For the Future, we've contemplated this
idea of regional service and where RTD can focus on the R in its name and partner with our cities and
counties to deliver that local and understand that local.
But right now, I don't think we're being deliberate about that. We haven't specifically made hard trade-off
choices in that area. So some areas are adopting that kind of a vision and plan, and some areas aren't.
And I certainly don't think that 40-foot diesel buses running everywhere is the way to address this. Our flex
route services, possibly innovative ones with checkpoints-- I think we heard about the Gunbarrel route this
evening-- I'm sure we need to address the problems of sprawl and the folks who need this with innovative
solutions like that.
So again, I would just emphasize that it's not my job to drill into all the individual routes here. I'm happy to
speak to the examples and the items I'm concerned about. It's tempting to listen to the loudest voices on
commuter routes or elected officials. What I'm most concerned about are folks that I have heard from that,
after years of this downward spiral, are losing access.
It's not our fault at RTD. We're trying to fund this whole thing on a 1% sales tax, and the United States has
decided that roads and cars are more important than transit. Everybody in this room here, I think, is on the
same team that we'd like to see a different future for transportation and our economy and our environment.
I'm simply voting no because a lot of the areas that I do represent, that I can bring the voice to bear, have
not been optimized. People have lost access. And I am asking this team here to not forget that and work
together, and work with me, and work with the whole team, and work with our community to find innovative
and creative ways to solve that.
Thank you for indulging me to speak for quite some time here. And again, thank you very much to the team
for the very hard work, the very hard trade-offs that went into this. I don't envy the seat you've been in and
that you're in right now, even, listening to me ramble on. So appreciate you all very much. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments, Director Davidson. First Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I would second that. Thanks for those very thoughtful comments and some
challenges for us as we move forward. I also want to say thanks to the staff. I will be voting yes. And I
appreciate all the hard work, all of the listening and the changes that were made to respond to the public
comments along the way.
One question for Access-A-Ride. When we pass the SOP, are we making a decision to keep-- I think right
now we're at the 2019 boundaries for Access-A-Ride eligibility. What happens with that?
VINCE BUZEK: Who wants to address that? Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was trying to get my hand up. I'm sorry. [LAUGHS]

VINCE BUZEK: OK. [LAUGHS]
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Guissinger, for that question. Recognizing, back
when there was a special Board meeting that preceded me in March of 2020, this Board collectively decided
that it was not going to impact Access-A-Ride customers. Recognizing, for everybody's edification, that
Access-A-Ride is the Americans with Disabilities Act complimentary paratransit service, and in such, that
that provides services within 3/4 of a fixed route.
And so with that as a backdrop, I believe it's incumbent upon this Board to decide what it wants to do relative
to that. Because while we do have the ADA-mandated paratransit services, the Board could decide that it
wants to offer another type of paratransit service to incorporate that population and to qualify that as such.
So as it relates to where we stand now, that would be something up for the Board's consideration as we go
forward. Because I do know-- and I've had this conversation with Director Davidson, electronically that is-that there's not clear-cut guidance as relates to where we are in relationship to that. And so any other staff
that was here would like to opine-- and I see Bill Sirois' hand is up. I will yield the floor to him. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Sirois?
BILL SIROIS: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. And thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. This issue did come up
during the course of the Reimagine, the SOP process, and what we deferred to is that it is existing Board
policy. We are not looking to change it. So again, this could be up for discussion. But we are not looking to
change the Board policy that adopted it in 2019. So basically, consistent with that, Reimagine will not
propose to change it. It will continue on until the Board-- if the Board decides to change it, that would change
the SOP and Reimagine.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So just to be clear, in 2019 we kept the-- or in, I think, 2021, we kept the-- or 2020,
we kept the 2019 boundaries. Were we just grandfathering people in? Or if they're new people with those
boundaries, can they be qualified for Access-A-Ride?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So that's the point of clarification which I was making reference to because when you
talk about new members, right? Because when I went back to read the transcript, it indicated that we weren't
going to cause any impact to existing customers. And so that's why I qualified, without me being here and
reading the transcript, that would be up to the Board to define the policy. So Mr. Sirois, is that your
understanding? I'm not trying to put you on the spot. But that's my-BILL SIROIS: Yes, that's my understanding too. Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson or Mr. Sirois, I guess I'm interested in knowing about the options for
grandfathering in people with the former boundary and also bringing in new people. But I'm hesitant to make
an amendment tonight or something without more information. Do you have any recommendations on that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would. If I could, Director Guissinger, I would encourage you all to do some due
diligence and not put forth an amendment. As we look at this holistically, I think there's a merit of factors to
take into consideration as you go forward looking at having services. And if in fact that's outside the realm
of the ADA, are we creating our own paratransit services? And what does that entail?
I've had experiences working other places where we had the ADA-mandated paratransit services and then
had another paratransit service that actually existed prior to the ADA coming to fruition. So I think it would
be in this Board's best interest to do some more due diligence to see what might be feasible going forward,

but recognizing right now that staff is working under the guise that this is Board policy because we still are
technically in the midst of a pandemic. That would be my recommendation, since you asked. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That would be my inclination as well, as we need more information. I obviously can't
speak for the Board, but I would be interested in learning more. I guess just a couple more comments. I
have always liked this statement, and I think it overstates it, but Eisenhower said, "Planning is everything,
plans are nothing."
Again, I think he overstates it. But I think the idea is that so much work goes into this-- a lot of due diligence,
a lot of preparation. And I think it's great. But I was also pleased to hear some of the responses tonight from
Mr. Van Meter and others about suggesting that we're moving forward, but also, we're listening to our
service planners. And I assume with our service standards that they're still in place. I guess that's a
question.
And you mentioned, I think, Bill Van Meter, that you'd be looking at changes based on effects on equity
population and new development. There are some pieces that are in progress, I think-- discussions about
the 128 and whether there's a FlexRide there, bidirectional service on the FF4, which I think makes a lot of
sense with inner lining just to make it work, the 122X.
And I guess I'm encouraged with all of that and hope that looking at ridership as well that we'll use this as
a good, solid plan, something people can rely on. And I'm happy to hear we're being flexible. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, First Vice Chair Guissinger. Director Cook, you're next.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks. And thanks for the chance to talk again. I hear Director Davidson's concerns.
And in fact, if you look at big swaths of the district I represent, they don't have any service. There's no hope
for service, except perhaps with the partnerships.
But I'm going to support the motion for a couple of key reasons. And one is the driving need I see right now
is to address our financial situation. And several of the people who spoke at public comment referred to
that. We had been in a structural deficit mode for some time, and we just have to ride that.
And secondly-- and this, again, has been comments we received-- we have to get the service we're
providing right. We have to address workforce issues. We need to improve our ability to maintain our
vehicles so that they're reliable. We need to increase safety and security. And that also is supported by a
smaller service footprint. So I think for the near term, that's the bitter pill we have to swallow.
And again, I'm looking to the partnerships and other components of the Mobility Plan For the Future to help
bring in some creativity and allow us to leverage our funds in order to create some service opportunities in
areas that we're not going to be able to do ourselves. So thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Cook. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'll just share a couple of thoughts. I'm concerned that, as a Board, we
keep piling more expectations for service on the staff that they don't have the resources to deliver. And we
end up delivering service that's less than optimal. An example of that would be, I saw some news article
about 100 people were stuck out at Denver International Airport about 11:30 at night because they didn't
have operators there.

You can't do that very many times to a customer and keep them as a customer. So maybe we need to have
a little more flex in our system and be reliable, as opposed to trying to maximize every last quarter to provide
service in the entire district. We need to spend some time looking at that trade-off, because poor service is
not going to lead us to getting all of our customers back on our system. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Broom. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Thank you for the opportunity to speak again. I promise I'll
be more brief this time. First of all, Director Broom, Director Cook, thank you, though, for those comments.
I'm very happy that we have, as a strategic priority, customer excellence. I couldn't agree more that we
need to get the service right, I think, as Director Cook put it, and part of why I thought very hard about how
to approach this.
I did just want to second the line of thinking around Access-A-Ride that Director Guissinger was asking
about. And thank you for those questions, and thank you from staff for clarification. My understanding of
that discussion in that 2019-- I'm sorry, the 2020 policy to maintain those 2019 levels was with regards to
suspended routes. And given that we do have eliminated routes, at least getting some clarity and looking
forward where there are areas that we're rolling back a little bit, I just wanted to second the-- I'd like for us
to investigate that and dig deeper in the weeks and months ahead. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for those comments. Any other comments or questions? OK, it's my turn. So I seem
to remember in 2019 the kind of subtle kick off of this whole process when we had somebody named Jarrett
Walker come before us and make a presentation. And I even bought his book and read it. And I wasn't
impressed for a number of reasons, because he seemed to indicate that the issue of ridership versus
coverage is a simple one to resolve and boards are just going to always push back. But it's really just
simple, and you put all of your resources where your ridership is and you're good to go.
I'm sure that's probably not all he said, but that was my take on what he said. And it's not that simple, right?
I mean somebody mentioned here tonight, the R in our name is Regional. And if you don't have a whole
system, you don't have any system.
So I disagreed with Mr. Walker, and I expressed my views there. When Reimagine was kicked off, I
participated and made comments kicking and screaming. And like Nikita Khrushchev, I took my shoe off a
couple of times and pounded it on the desk. So I've come kicking and screaming along in this process, but
I think that what the saving grace for me is the fact that it's a work in progress. It's a living document. It's
got some flexibility. And with the amendment of Directors Cook and Tisdale, we'll be assured of looking
back at this and not just forgetting all about it.
I have to go back to some of the problems that this tries to address. And a big one is our financial situation.
And I have to say, Director Broom, I continue to repeat your statement from long ago that RTD needs a
consistent and reliable source of funding. And having this sales tax funding and the roller coaster of income
that it brings in is problematic.
And I refer now to the July 26, 2022 memo from Mr. Van Meter through Ms. Johnson, the Reimagine RTD
June 15, 2022 Board Study Session Follow-up that we received this morning-- fantastic memo. And here's
something to think about-- the Congressional Budget Office recently published data showing that, on a
national level, state government support accounts for 23% of US transit agency operating resources.
Colorado's state government provides less than 1% of annual recurring operating support for RTD.

So there you go. That says a lot. And maybe that's something we need to work on. Maybe that's the first
partnership we need to really try to repair and make better. So in any event, I concur in a lot of what Director
Davidson said. And one of the things that strikes me the most is we look at-- when we talk about Title VI
stuff, we kind of focus on where our equity populations and our transit-dependent populations live. And they
don't live in the same concentrations that they used to before.
And Director Davidson, you brought this up at a meeting recently that development has dispersed a lot of
these populations. And the term you used that I thought was brilliant is they are now sprinkled throughout
the region. And so if you cut back suburban routes and services too much, you're really impacting those
people.
So I know, moving forward, we're going to keep thinking about those people no matter where they're located
and making sure that they have transit. So those are my comments. And at this point, I am going to ask
Ms. McManus to call the role on the main motion as amended.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: A reluctant yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm a yes also. So that passes 14 to 1. Great discussion. Let's keep the discussion going.
This is really important. So good work.
Next is other matters. Are there any other matters to come before the Board in this special Board meeting?
Director Broom, you've still got your hand up. Do you have anything, or is that from before?
BOB BROOM: No, I don't. Sorry about that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, great. Seeing no other discussion, I'm going to entertain a motion-- oh, I'm sorry.
Director Dishell, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I just wanted to make sure to remind folks we have a fantastic-- as we talk about
service and service delivery and getting more folks on buses and opportunities for partnership with the
state, we have a fantastic press conference on Thursday morning that I hope to see folks at, to the extent
people are able to make it. I know that there are some competing events.
But given the importance of our state partnership, I'm hopeful to see some more Directors there to be
supportive of that work that we are all engaged in. And thank you to those of you who were engaged during
the legislative process to get this one across the finish line. It should be great. Without having the exact
details in front of me, I'm not going to state them. But I believe it's 10:30 Thursday morning at Union Station.
And otherwise, it's been well advertised. And I hope to see folks there.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Dishell. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I just want to say that some of us who can't be there are at a sustainability
conference looking at the big picture for the region. And we would love to be at Union Station, but we can't
be in two places at one time, even with great public transportation.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Williams. Any other matters to come before the Board? Seeing none, I
will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved-- Director Williams.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: I have Williams and Tisdale. Are there any no votes? Seeing no no votes, we're adjourned.
10 minutes until the next Board meeting-- 10. So 7:40. Let's call it 740-- 7:40.

