Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held Tuesday, July 23, 2007
Page 1 of 5
Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 23, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on
Monday, July 23, 2007 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T and D

****
Committee
Members Present:

FasTracks Committee Chair Director Chacon, Chair Martinez, Director
Brohl Director Busck, Director Daly, Director McMullen, Director
Quinlan, Director Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick

Members Absent:

Directors Christopher, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave
Genova, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott Reed,
and Phil Washington.
Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Marcia
Fraley, Nadine Lee, Caitlin Magee, Jerry Nery, Scott Roberts, Teresa
Sedmak, Cal Shankster, Bill Sirois, Joe Smith, Henry Stopplecamp,
Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Ashland Vaughn, Susan
Wood

Others Present:

Kevin Flynn, Jeff Leib, Eric Anderson, Tex Elam, Frank Cannon, Don
Ulrich, Joel Noble, Brad Langner, Tom Rocsakis, Bob Kochevar, Jon
Esty, Steve Roberts, Joe Racosky, Joack Roadhouse, Maria GarciaBerry, Roger Sherman, Paul Riker, Amy Riker, Diane Barrett, Peter
Park, David Cook, Debra Perkins-Smith

Call to Order:

Director Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m.

Director Chacon thanked Board members and staff for attending this special FasTracks
session in light of the fact this will be back to back with the Board meeting on 7/24.
I.

Follow up on EMU/DMU

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee/Special Board meeting/Executive Session held Tuesday,
July 23, 2007
Page 2 of 5
Liz Rao indicated that based on a request from the Board in a previous meeting
to receive information on future prices of oil and diesel, they had invited three
guests from the Department of Energy (DOE) to share with the Board on their
projections.
Director Chacon asked for introductions from Paul Holtberg, Demand and
Integration Division Director, whose expertise is in energy demand, and Michael
Schaal, Director of the oil and gas division, DOE, who were participating via
telephone conference call. Also included on the call was Andy Kydes, Senior
Technical Advisor, whose expertise is in modeling and technology
Cal Marsella set the stage by explaining the discussion around cost assumptions
in the model and the Board’s concern on why the DMU costs projections were
so much higher than the EMU. DOE then addressed some of their assumptions
in looking at the future estimates for diesel and electric. Several questions
around methodology and assumptions were asked. While DOE acknowledged
this was an improper science, they were more comfortable with the projections
on electric and the estimate of .085 kilowatt for electric than on diesel. Overall,
DOE was comfortable with the forecast provided by RTD on diesel of 2.52,
though their numbers differed slightly (see page 11 in the Responses to
questions from the RTD Board of Directors.)
Chair Chacon inquired if the Board members were comfortable moving into a
financial analysis of DMU/EMU with this discussion. The discussion then moved
into a cost analysis of all DMU or combination DMU/EMU.
Several questions were asked by the Board members from the Responses to
Questions from the RTD Board of Director presentation dated July 23, 2007
and the updated EMU and DMU Technology Analysis dated July 19, 2007. For
a copy of these presentations, please refer to the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee meeting minutes notebook located in the Board office.
Cal Marsella referred the Board to page 13 & 14 of the Response to Questions
from the RTD Board of Directors dated July 23, 2007, for a comparison of the
O&M costs and capital costs for vehicle technology. Chair Martinez asked a
clarifying question if the $15M difference indicated between the all EMU and
the all DMU comparison is $15M times 30 years. Cal Marsella responded yes.
Director Quinlan shared some skepticism on the reliability of these forecasts
while asking the question “do you cook with gas or electricity?”
After several questions around the cost component of this model and what
happens to the funds if the PPP fails, the PPP advisors provided a financial
explanation of the cash flow model they used in their analysis (see page 5 of
the updated EMU & DMU Technology Analysis). Several Directors expressed
concern or lack of understanding on how the funds can be used if down the
road, the PPPs fail to perform. Cal Marsella and the PPP advisors emphasized
that the PPP addressed only the projected availability of funds. How the funds
or excess financial capacity get used is a Board decision.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee/Special Board meeting/Executive Session held Tuesday,
July 23, 2007
Page 3 of 5
Director Busck requested further clarification on what happens to RTD in the
event that the PPP fail under the financial arrangement that the PPP has with its
bank. The PPP advisors pointed out this would be no different than any other
contractual arrangement but in the end RTD would assume the assets and not
the debt.
Director Tayer requested that as we look at the North Corridor in September and
the Northwest Corridor in October, that the cost analysis should combine both.
Staff responded that the cost analysis could be combined but the EIS process
will identify and drive other factors.
Chair Martinez questioned why the schedule for the Northwest and North was
more aggressive than East and Gold when using the same process. He also
asked if the EIS for North and Northwest would be completed this year. Liz Rao
responded they wanted a recommended on preferred alternative so they could
move expeditiously on the EIS process (see page 4 of the Responses to
Questions from the RTD Board of Directors dated July 23, 2007). Chair
Martinez expressed a concern on selecting a preferred technology before the EIS
process is complete which could create public uproar. Liz Rao explained the EIS
process requires a choice of a technology which includes asking the public if
they are ok with the alternative so we can move through the process.
Chair Martinez indicated we need to be aware that some of the same people
who were involved on the East are also involved on the North and would be
sensitive to these differences in time schedules. Communications will be key to
explaining this to the constituents.
Director Chacon made a request that based on current experience, she feels it is
imperative that we do a better job of providing clarity to the public on the
process we will use in the Northwest and North Corridor.
Director Chacon requested a copy of the presentations be placed on the website
for further review.
Cal Marsella and the Board acknowledged the DOE representatives for staying
late to assist the Board in their understanding of the forecasts and to thank
them for going over and above the call of duty.
II.

DUS Transportation Plan Presentation
Cal Marsella took the lead in the presentation on Denver Union Station dated
July 23, 2007. A copy of this presentation is filed under the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee notebook located in the Board office.
The basic change provided in the revised DUS model now includes some open
air areas above the commuter rail. This change was part of value engineering to
make the plans more workable.
Director Ruchman asked about the benefits and downside of these revisions.
Cal Marsella stated the benefits are in the value engineering cost savings and
perhaps the downside could be in increased security and safety issues.
However, RTD was well positioned to mitigate these risks. There will also be

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee/Special Board meeting/Executive Session held Tuesday,
July 23, 2007
Page 4 of 5
slightly less space for development.
Director Tayer asked the impact on development and if we are still anticipating
significant development. Frank responded there will be approximately 1.5M feet
of space for development and feels that the new design has created a much
better passenger experience.
Several questions on sizes, widths and depths of the proposed area were asked
and responded to by Frank. A major concern by the Board had to do with what
provisions for growth are included in this model. Frank responded that we are
now looking at an 8 track model versus the initial 6 track model. Seven tracks
will be available with rollout and the 8th track platform will be left for future
growth.
Director McMullen requested a model to help him better visualize the impacts.
Frank indicated they will be working on an updated model.
Chair Martinez inquired as to why does the proposed 8 track configuration
include 2 goal lines (inbound and outbound). Frank responded that we must
provide a 7-1/2 headway for the Gold line.
Director Chacon raised the question posed by Director Kinton on what is the
current status of relocating RTD to Union Station and the associated costs. Cal
Marsella explained that this is not a current consideration since the projected
cost delta is an additional $2-2.5M per year using a 30 year financial
assumption.
Marla Lien concurred with Cal’s analysis but indicated there is nothing to
preclude RTD from making the decision later to relocate into the DUS facilities.
A copy of the analysis performed by Marla Lien on this issue is included in these
minutes.
Director Brohl observed that in light of the decision not to relocate the RTD
facilities, an investment is needed in the RTD room to upgrade audio visual
capabilities and sound system for the RTD room in the basement.
Peter Parker, Planning, provided his comments to the DUS project indicating
that this is a complicated project but the focus must be on balancing. The
change enhances the overall passenger experience by creating distance to
enrich activities at the street level. Cal Marsella emphasized that this is a
quintessential city lead investment that balances trust needed with the vision so
that the host (City of Denver) feels comfortable with the proposal.
Director Ruchman asked for some conjecture on what the dispensation of
Denver would be if the site was rezoned. This request was not entertained.
Director Daly expressed continuing concern on capability and if we are planning
for growth. Liz Rao responded the planning horizon is 2030 which does include
the 8-track configuration. This allows a 25% increase in working capacity.
III.

Other Matters
Marla Lien, General Counsel, provided an update on railroad negotiations which

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee/Special Board meeting/Executive Session held Tuesday,
July 23, 2007
Page 5 of 5
will become a regular update feature for the FasTrack meetings. Marla indicated
the negotiations are progressing well and on target. The railroad has engaged a
PR firm to work with the public. They are still working the issues on release for
punitive damage and BN has agreed to put in a letter their PPP assumptions and
the impact of electrifying US 36 corridor. This could create significant cost and
maintenance.
IV.

Adjournment – Director Chacon adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
meeting at 8:00 p.m.

