Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 22, 2016 at 12:00 PM
I.

II.

Call to Order
Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tobiassen, 1st Vice-Chair
Hoy, Treasurer Francone,
Secretary Solano (via phone)

Committee members absent:

2nd Vice-Chair Deadwyler

Others Present:

General Manager Genova, Acting
Executive Director McManus, Erin
Klaas

Bylaws/Procedures Discussion
Barbara McManus reminded the executive committee that they had been provided with an
opportunity to review the Bylaws and Expense Policy and request changes. She said
those edits had been made and provided each executive committee member with an
updated red-lined copy. She shared that before the Bylaws can be brought forward for
approval the full Board must review them for 10 working days. She asked the executive
committee to review the revised Bylaws and provide her with any comments by Thursday,
September 29th. She said once the final approval has been given by Chair Tobiassen she
would send them to the full Board with the plan of bringing the Bylaws forward for
approval at the October 25th Board Meeting. Barbara McManus said this would allow for
changing the FasTracks Monitoring and Planning and Development committee meeting
structure by December, as requested by the committee chairs.

Chair Tobiassen suggested if there were any questions that the Directors should contact
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, or Jennifer Ross-Amato, Acting Deputy General Counsel,
as they can explain any technical aspects of the changes.
III.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Tobiassen provided an overview of the agenda and indicated that overall there were
not many action items.
Director Hoy inquired if it would be appropriate to review the new FasTracks Monitoring
and Planning and Development committee structure during the Committee Reports. Chair
Tobiassen indicated that would really be new business but does not think it should be
presented until the Bylaws are approved.
Director Francone shared that her GM Oversight and Performance Management update
would just be a review of the timeline as General Manager Genova would not be
presenting his Goal Attainment memo until the October 18th GM Oversight and
Performance Management committee meeting.
Director Hoy said that he expected comments from the north regarding the FasTracks
Annual Program Evaluation. He shared that he and General Manager Genova recently
attended a Northwest Area Transportation Association (NATA) meeting. It seemed they
were more receptive to the new scenario prepared by Heather Copp, CFO and Assistant
General Manager of Finance and Administration, but thought they might ask for some little
tweaks.
General Manager Genova explained that NATA was asking RTD to commit any funds we
receive over our projections to the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA). He
commented that RTD will have the revenues we have and if those are over projections the
funds would go into the FasTracks bucket. Director Hoy stated General Manager Genova
hit on a key point. He pointed out that the reason this is an issue is because of how the
funds were classified to begin with. If different wording had been used it might have
looked more palatable to everyone. He suggested this be a lesson learned going forward.
Chair Tobiassen agreed it was more semantics than mathematics.
Chair Tobiassen asked for a motion to move the September Board meeting agenda
forward.
Motion:

Director Francone made the motion to approve
moving the September 27th Board meeting
agenda to the full Board.

Director Hoy seconded the motion.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 4 in favor (Francone,
Hoy, Solano, Tobiassen) and 0 opposed.
Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.


Unanimous Consent
A.

Enter Contract to Purchase Cybersecurity Consulting Services

It is recommended by the Financial, Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter
into contract negotiations with Parsons Corporation to retain this firm for work
order-based cybersecurity consulting services to support RTD’s cybersecurity
program. The estimated cost of the Cybersecurity Services Work Order Contract
of $1,818,700 includes security risk assessment, technical testing, control
design, and control implementation activities and will be funded from the
cybersecurity operations and maintenance budget approved for 2016 forward.
Actual expenditures will be based on work orders constructed and issued by the
cybersecurity project team, but are not to exceed the total budgeted for this
contract.


Recommended Action
B.
Discussion and Action of the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and
Financial Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2016 Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and
Financial Plan as outlined below.
C.

2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
This action item meets policy requirements and the General Manager’s goals of
Fiscal Sustainability/Financial Plan by effecting current and long-range budgeting in
a timely manner.
D.
Budget Transfer for SH 119 Bus Rapid Transit Environmental Clearance and
Basic Engineering
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve a transfer of $3.5 million from the Planning

expense grant project budget to a new capital project for the SH 119 Bus Rapid
Transit (BRT) Corridor, which will permit staff to seek consultant services for
assistance in the preparation of National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) review
and Advanced Basic Engineering services. A total of $1.5 million in funding for
this project was approved in the 2016 Amended Budget in the Planning expense
grant budget, and the remaining funds are planned for 2017 and 2018 in the
2017-2022 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
IV.

Other Matters
Director Solano shared he was speaking with Ashland Vaughn, North Metro Project
Manager, about some issues they were having getting BNSF to agree to some design
changes that need to occur for the North Metro Rail Line. He expressed concern this
might impact the completion date and wondered if legal needed to be involved. General
Manager Genova said he was not aware of the specific issue mentioned by Director Solano
but he would check into it.
Director Solano stated he attended the APTA Annual Conference in L.A. and indicated he
had some reservations about if the money RTD is spending with APTA and on these
conferences it worth it. He believes the Agency needs to do a cost/benefit analysis to see
if what is being spent is a worthwhile investment. He believes the Board members should
be able to attend any conference related to transportation. Director Francone pointed out
that Board members could already do that as long as the Chair of the Board approved their
attendance.
Director Solano inquired how much RTD pays to be a member of APTA. General Manager
Genova said he did not know the exact number but it was around $80-90K. He explained
that it was a tiered approach based on the agency’s size. Director Francone asked what
RTD gets in return for that money. General Manager Genova stated the primary benefit is
the representation APTA does at the Federal level influencing regulations, funding, etc. He
said the other benefits include industry reports, peer reviews, and professional
development programs.
Director Solano believes it would be beneficial to be in contact with people from New York
to learn why they left APTA. General Manager Genova shared that he has heard they will
probably be returning.
Director Solano expressed concern that APTA was not acting as a non-partisan
organization. He feels if they are influencing people in D.C. they are only influencing one
side.

Director Francone shared that she too is questioning the value of the APTA conferences.
She thinks there are other places for Board training that could be better suited for the
Directors; however, she believes APTA is very beneficial for staff development and
professional growth. She stated RTD has training plans for staff but there do not seem to
be any for the Board. Chair Tobiassen suggested having the new Executive Manager do
some research into Board development programs around the metro area.
General Manager Genova expressed that the APTA committees are also incredibly
valuable, not only from a learning perspective but also in influencing APTA leadership.
Director Francone indicated she had signed up for several committees the previous year
and had never heard from anyone. General Manager Genova said he would look into it.
Director Hoy believes if we were to look at other industry associations the cost would be
in line with what RTD is paying to be a member of APTA. He stated what Director Solano
and Francone are talking about really needs to be divided into two issues: (1) what RTD
gets from APTA as an agency and (2) discussing how Directors are spending their own
resources.
Director Francone commented that while the Agency may benefit from APTA
representation on a Federal level, RTD also has our own federal lobbyists. She said it may
be a stronger message with the two advancing our causes but it is important to have a
good, hard look at all RTD’s expenditures since we are asking the Agency to tighten its
belt.
V.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 12:48 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

