05-06-2020
RTD COC Ad Hoc Committee Mtg #1
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is now 8:04 AM Mountain Daylights Times. And I just wanted
to share a few thoughts for the opening. I created this ad hoc committee for two main purposes.
The first is to ensure RTD's code of conduct continues to provide a framework for ensuring safety,
cleanliness, and accessibility of RTD system in a manner that is fair and respectful to our patrons
and to ensure that the code addresses the current public safety of employees and passengers using
the system during the COVID-19 pandemic. A note on the second bullet point, the revisions of the
code of conduct that were recently adopted by the board did not arise as a result of the onset of
COVID-19 pandemic.
Rather, these changes have been in the works for some time. RTD safety and security staff led by
RTD's Chief Safety Officer Mike Meader and RTD's Police Chief Bob Grado have been reviewing
the code for some time and have carefully amended the existing language to be clearer, more
effective, and capable of being applied fairly without any bias. That said, the revisions do help to
clarify the existing provisions of the code in a way that allows RTD to regulate conduct, so that
everyone, passengers and employees alike, are safe during these challenging times.
I want to emphasize that the code of conduct is not new. The current code was first approved in
2016. And RTD security personnel are not enforcing the provisions of the code differently than
they did before April 21st when the board approved the revisions. I also want to point out that
every transit agency in the country utilizes a similar code to govern the behavior of passengers
using their services.
You have my word that this is not a one-sided discussion. I will call upon RTD's staff to share with
the group the reasonings behind the provisions of the code, so that we can come to a better
understanding of how RTD regulates the behavior of passengers on the use of this system without
bias or discrimination. We will listen to each other's thoughts and lean on our collective expertise
to make sure that the code of conduct is a document we can all stand behind. And in the end, my
hope is that we will come out with these committee meetings a stronger understanding of each
other's perspectives and a compelling report to the board. With that, let's begin.
I'd like to start with introductions. And I have a list of the committee members. I'd like to start
there. And then we have several other board members on the Zoom. So let me begin with the RTD
directors that are part of this committee. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, great. Do you want to introduce yourself and your district
please?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Good morning, everyone. My name is Shontel Lewis. I represent District B.
I chair the civil rights committee. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Ken Mihalik. We'll go on.
ROGER SHERMAN: I don't think he's on Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Whitmore.
Morning all. It's good to see some of my colleagues faces. I'm getting old enough that I was trying
to remember what you all looked like. Good to see you, even Shontel briefly there.
TROY WHITMORE: I'm Troy Whitmore. I represent District K, which is about 95% Adams
County. It includes Brighton, Commerce City, a big portion of Thornton, and incorporated Adams
County, in and around Henderson and the Adams County Fairgrounds area. And I've been on the
board two years. And appreciate the opportunity to serve with you all on this committee. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Kate Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good morning. Thank you, Madam Chair. Hello, everybody. Hello. Troy, I'm
with you. It's nice to see people that we usually see once a week, and that we haven't seen for a
while.
I represent District A. That's a big piece of downtown, Cherry Creek, Lowry, Glendale, right
straight through the middle of town. I'm in the donut hole. I don't have any long distance trains. I
have a couple of little trains.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK. Mr. Michael Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Hi. Thank you, Chair. Michael Ford, COO RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Chair. This is Mike Meader. I'm the Chief Safety and Security
Officer for RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Marisela Sandoval. Miss McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Executive Manager Board of Directors. Welcome
all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: Good morning. My name is John McKay. I'm the Board Office Administrator.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Evan Dreyer.
EVAN DREYER: Good morning. Evan Dreyer, Mayor Hancock's Deputy Chief of Staff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hey, Evan. Thanks for being here.
EVAN DREYER: Absolutely. Thanks for inviting me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Paul Pazen.
PAUL PAZEN: Angie, thanks for having us. Paul Pazen, Police Chief for city and county of
Denver.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chief. Britta Fisher.
BRITTA FISHER: Good morning All. I'm Britta Fisher. I'm the Executive Director of the
Department of Housing Stability and the Chief Housing Officer for Denver.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much for coming. Chief Paramedic Gary. I cannot
say your last name.
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: You were going to get bonus credit if you did. It's Gary Bryskiewicz,
Chief Paramedic of Denver Health. And just to share with the group, in addition to the advanced
life support that we provide to the city and county of Denver, we also provide that to the city of
Glendale, Sheraton, Inglewood, and the Skyline Fire Protection District.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Aubrey Hasvold.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Morning all. This is Aubrey Hasvold. I'm the Advocacy Program Director
at the Colorado Coalition for the Homeless. Happy to be here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Denise Maes.
DENISE MAES: Denise Maes, Public Policy Director ACLU.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Hi, Denise.
DENISE MAES: Hi, Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Carleigh Sailon, Bob Dorshimer.
BOB DORSHIMER: Good morning. Bob Dorshimer, Mile High Behavioral Health Care.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Kate Barton.

KATE BARTON: Good morning. Kate Barton, Senior Vice President of the Executive Office and
Special Projects for the Downtown Denver Partnership. Thank you for including us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And I see Director Judy Lubow. Judy, do you want to
introduce yourself?
JUDY LUBOW: Sure. I represent district I, which is the north 287 corridor, Longmont,
Broomfield, Lafayette mostly, and really glad to at least listen into this because it's incredibly
important. So thank you for having this task force.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Doug Tisdale, District H. That's Cherry
Hills Village, Greenwood Village, Centennial, Littleton, Columbine Valley, and Highlands Ranch.
And I too am happy to be able to sit here and monitor these proceedings today. Thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you sir. With that, what I'd like to do is start out by turning
the meeting over to Mr. Meader to go through a presentation for us on the passenger code of
conduct. Mr. Meader, I'm going to turn it over to you.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Chair. And I'd like to just extend my thanks to everybody as
well for joining this very important committee. We really appreciate your time and commitment
to this. All right, I'm going to get my screen shared here hopefully. All right, let me know when
everybody sees a red page there with the RTD symbol and the passenger code of conduct on there.
JUDY LUBOW: Not yet.
MICHAEL MEADER: DO you see that yet?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
ROGER SHERMAN: No. Do you want me to share it?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. Yeah, Roger, why don't you do that? Sometimes my internet
connection is a little finicky.
ROGER SHERMAN: OK.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sorry about that.
ROGER SHERMAN: One second. Here it comes.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yay.

MICHAEL MEADER: All right. Very good. Well, thank you, Roger. What I wanted to do today
was just take you through a brief presentation, talk a little bit about the history of the code of
conduct, why the code of conduct was created, some examples of, or perhaps provide a better
understanding of the way that we enforce the code of conduct, what our intentions are, some of
the training that goes into the different groups that are a part of that. And then we'll go through
some of the changes that we most recently made. I certainly encourage questions at any time. I just
want to make sure everyone has a really, really clear understanding of how we got here and why
we're talking about the code of conduct today. So, Roger, go ahead.
So why a code of conduct? This language comes straight out of the actual purpose or the preamble
of the code. As you can see, we're trying to make sure we meet all of our constituents' present and
future needs for transportation by offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, and accessible, costeffective service throughout the district. The code was really created for the safety, convenience,
and comfort of all the people, all of our passengers. And it basically sets down some specific
expectations. Really, it's just behaviors we'd like to see, so that everybody does have a safe and
pleasant ride on our vehicles and anytime they're in any of our facilities as well. Go ahead.
A little bit of history, this is an example that we have here that really set this in motion. There's a
lot of examples like this. But this is one that we selected. You can see that first bullet.
There was a patron was asked to leave Union Station, the bus concourse that is underground where
the buses pick up. They were sitting on the floor. They had their cell phone plugged into an outlet
on the wall. They had their shoes off and were cutting their toenails.
We approached the individual and just asked them, hey, we'd appreciate it if you didn't cut your
toenails here. And we'd like you to sit on one of the benches until your ride comes. And he said,
well, I don't have any intention of getting on a bus, that he just wanted to sit down there and take
care of a few things.
We told him that those weren't behaviors that we really condoned. The person showed up at Blake
Street at our office and asked for documentation to show him that those were in fact actions that
were not permitted. And we didn't have any document at that time that said you couldn't do the
things that I just described there. Primarily, the concourse is designed for transit use. And we didn't
really have anything written that said, this is how we would expect your behavior to be.
We did some research, found out that as the Chair Rivera-Malpiede said, almost all the public
transportation agencies, with the exception of some small rural ones, have some type of a document
that lists what they consider to be acceptable behaviors or unacceptable behaviors for conduct for
passengers that are using our services. In addition to that, so we took some information from those.
We did some rider etiquette surveys just basically asking, what are some of the bothersome
behaviors? What are the things that don't make you feel safe that are bothersome when you're
riding on the system? And we collected all of those.
With all of that information, we brought the idea of putting together a code of conduct to senior
leadership. And a committee was formed to start to develop a document. So we put together a
committee. And the committee included the following people. The board of directors were part of

the creation, a great deal of internal staff at RTD to include the General Manager and CEO, all of
the senior leadership team, and representatives from all of our different divisions, including civil
rights and EEO.
We also engaged a fair number of external organizations to help us put these together, again, to
just make sure that we're considering everybody, making sure that the code that we put together is
equitable, can be enforced equitably and fairly. And those external organizations included the
Downtown Denver Partnership, Colorado Coalition for the homeless, St. Francis Center, Urban
Peak, the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition, and the ACLU.
After we put together the code and it was approved by the board of directors in 2016, we did some
substantial outreach to the public. We put together a marketing campaign. I don't know if anyone
out here remembers the Don't be a Jimmy Campaign that you saw. Basically, it was just showing
behaviors, modeling behaviors that weren't acceptable from our perspective for transit users.
We also passed out the code of conduct and made sure that all of the Denver news media, television
stations, newspapers, magazines, and all the reporters had access to the code of conduct, were able
to ask questions and make sure that they were able to publicize that for us as well. Placed pamphlets
on all kiosk, front entrance to all facilities. Those pamphlets are still available for people to pick
up. And then there was signage on vehicles and in facilities regarding the code.
OK, I wanted to talk a little bit about enforcement. So who are the people out there enforcing the
code? And sometimes I think there's a little bit of confusion around who the people are, who you
see in uniform out there in the different facilities and on our vehicles. So I wanted to just walk
through that very quickly to make sure everyone understood the distinction.
RTD Transit Police, first of all, we do have a small transit police force. There's 13 members of that
force. All of the transit police officers are Colorado peace officer standards and training. That's the
post-certification. They have full law enforcement authority, just like any other police officer in
the state does.
We also have secondary employment law enforcement officers. And these are officers from the
municipal police departments like Denver, Aurora, Lakewood, Arvada, who basically work for us
on a contract basis when they're not pulling shifts for their municipalities. These officers are also
full law enforcement authority Colorado post-certified police officers.
The last group, and you'll see a lot of them in the gray uniforms, they have an RTD security patch
on their uniform. These are transit security officers. The company is Allied Universal. All of these
officers go through a licensing process with the city of Denver. They receive at Denver merchant
guard license. That license is renewed annually. There's quite a few requirements associated with
that in terms of medical checks, background checks, all of those kinds of things to just ensure that
we're not hiring someone we shouldn't be hiring. They go through FBI and CBI background
checks, and those are reviewed and redone annually.
These officers are not law enforcement officers. They're not post-certified police officers. They do
have citizen arrest authority if they witness a crime in progress. And basically what that means is

they do have the authority to detain people and call law enforcement. So you will see that
happening oftentimes.
They are taught to disengage or de-escalate a situation and call law enforcement. And they're only
to lay hands on people to prevent harm to themselves or others, so in a self-defense situation or if
there is a threat to somebody else because of the behavior of a particular person. So wanted to
make sure that everybody understood the differences there.
As far as the training goes, our transit police officers and our secondary employment law
enforcement receive training on the RTD passenger code of conduct. They also receive training
on our suspension policy, which is listed in the code of conduct. Basically, it shows just how any
kind of violation might be escalated from a warning to a citation to a suspension on our system.
All of the transit security officers also receive that training, so that they have a real full
understanding of the code of conduct, what constitutes a violation, and how it should be applied.
All of our transit security officers also receive additional training in addition to their academy that
they have. They receive two weeks of training that includes customer service, civil rights training,
mental health. That civil rights training just began actually here in the last six months, and we are
working through that. It's very similar to the civil rights training that RTD uses for all of its
employees and police officers and, of course, many of the other police agencies as well. It's
modeled after that.
They receive training on de-escalation. They receive training on use of force. And use of force is
anything described as so much as detaining or placing handcuffs on someone, as I described before,
on all RTD policies. And then they receive one week of on-the-job field training prior to entering
RTD service. And that training is focused on the specific area that the security officer is going to
be initially assigned. As I mentioned before, the transit security officer also taught to de-escalate,
disengage, and call law enforcement.
So the areas for application of the code of conduct, and again, this language is in the preamble of
the code of conduct, all of our buses, light rail vehicles, and commuter rail vehicles, bus stops and
train stations, our six operating divisions or facilities. Those are basically where the buses are
parked and come out of and the trains each day. Two administrative facilities, the free mall ride
shuttles, or free mall ride buses, and Denver Union Station Bus Terminal, the Civic Center Bus
Terminal, and the Boulder Transit and Boulder Junction Bus Terminals as well.
All right, now I wanted to take a little bit of time and just walk through the recent code of conduct
changes, just so everybody fully understands what changes actually were made on April 21st, were
proposed and amended on April 21st. I'm going to go through a list of the ones here on this page
first. And then there's one particular change that was made that did really elicit a lot of discussion,
and we'll take a little bit more time to walk through that.
But first of all, if you've had a chance to read the code of conduct, I believe we sent a red lined
version as well as a final version to every one. So I'll hit on each one of these briefly. The first one
on number three and number four of section three, which is prohibited conduct in the code of

conduct, number three and number four really were changed to include mobile ticketing. We didn't
have the mobile ticketing at the time that the code was introduced.
And it talks about making sure that you have fare when you're riding. Failing to possess or purchase
the requested fare obviously is a violation of the code. So we simply amended that language to
include mobile fare, mobile ticketing, and any kind of validation that would need to be made.
And if there's any questions about any of these, you can certainly stop me as we go through this.
Or we can take questions at the end. Whatever you prefer.
Number 19 was really spoke about making disruptive loud sounds or having any kind of a loud
disturbance that would disrupt transit services. Based upon a case that came up, we decided we
would amend it to include the language that a use of a bullhorn or a similar device, basically
something that amplified sound to willfully disrupt the provision of transit services is a violation.
It's prohibited. And so I wanted to make sure that that was understood. Again, some of this
language was clarified, just clarifying language based upon incidents we had that we understood
we had to clarify and make sure it was more specific.
Number 22 includes language about service animals. We added some language in there basically
to include taking an animal. Originally it was said taking an animal onto a vehicle. We included
that to or amended that to include our indoor facilities as well.
We also added some language in there basically that said that the animal, in our estimation, is in
fact a service animal. And a lot of that has to do with the fact that many animals are brought onto
the vehicles or into the facilities stating that they're service animals. The animals are extremely not
well-behaved at all, sometimes aggressive. Any service animal is going to be very trained to be
behaved and not be aggressive towards others. So we just basically wanted to make sure we
clarified those things. There is some language that says dogs also or service animals have to have
current vaccinations required by local jurisdictions. So we added that language in there as well just
to make sure anyone bringing a service animal into our system understood that.
Number 23, we tried to simplify some language on the use of high block. The high blocks are the
elevated portions or ramps at our train stations that allow people in mobility devices to more easily
board the trains. They don't have to walk up the stairs. And there was some confusing language in
that.
So we changed from the language that really tried to list a lot of different devices that were allowed
or were not allowed. We're not able to necessarily be confident we were all inclusive. So we
streamlined the language from a listing of a lot of those things to just say obstructing disabled
passengers from accessing features necessary to enable disabled passengers to use transit services,
such as ramps, lifts, or high blocks. So the important thing was that these ramps are designed
primarily for people who have some mobility challenges. And we wanted to make sure everyone
understood that was the primary purpose for those ramps.
Number 24 was another one that we changed just some clarifying language. Wanted to make sure
that everyone understood that possessing or transporting articles or baggage or anything that might

restrict the movement of passengers on or around transit vehicles. We wanted to make sure we
specified where we were talking, the area we were talking about in terms of restricting movement.
We also wanted to clarify and say that mobility aids didn't apply here. So if someone was in some
type of a mobility device that was, let's say, temporarily blocking an entrance to an elevator while
they were waiting or something, that person was not going to be in violation of the code. So we
just wanted to clarify that as well.
Moving on to numbers 28 through 33, again, some clarifying language. 28, first of all, started we
just wanted to clarify that the expectation, just like on an airline, was that a person would take up
one seat on a vehicle versus laying across three or four seats, just to make sure that that was clear
in number 28. Number 29, clarifying language as well. The code said that, basically, you couldn't
sit on a floor, platform, or stairway or landing of a vehicle or in a facility blocking that. Language
we added sitting on the floor as well. Originally, it said lying on the floor. The expectation is that
people would utilize the seating. And that way, it made sure that there wasn't any kind of a hazard
on the floor or on a stairway.
Number 30, again, just some basic clarifying language. Number 30 speaks to sleeping or dozing
where such activity could be hazardous to the person or others or may interfere with the operation.
There was some language in RTD's opinion that was added, just again making sure that people
weren't, number one, blocking seats or blocking everybody.
But also, for the purpose of safety, we often would see in the bus concourse people sleeping, laying
in different areas. And it typically elicited a welfare check. We wanted to check and make sure the
person was OK. So that allowed us the ability more to do those welfare checks to say, hey, are you
OK? Is there any kind of service or any kind of need that you have?
Then we went on to number 31. And this basically spoke about impairment, people who were
either impaired because of alcohol or drugs. Originally, it said RTD property, and we specified,
added vehicles as well, just so there wasn't any kind of confusion around facilities and vehicles.
Number 32 was camping without a permit. We added camping is not allowed in any of the facilities
or on any of the vehicles. However, there is some activity that occurs, oftentimes, if it's approved
with permits. So we added the language without a permit, just to make sure that that was clear.
Also in 33, storing personal property except in designated areas, such as bike lockers, racks, or
using transit. Again, there is sometimes there are some activities that are approved on our property
with a permit. So we added that language to say that it wasn't allowed without a permit. OK?
OK, then we'll skip over to 36. We're going to come back to 35. 36 was again language talking
about blocking or impeding the movement of another person in aisle, an elevator, an escalator, a
stairway, or some area on the vehicle. We amended that to include except a mobility aid or device
again if someone was moving throughout the location on a mobility device that could temporarily
be some of that.

OK, all right, continuing on, number 44. I'm sorry, Roger, can you jump back? There's just a couple
more I want to cover. Thank you. Number 44, we amended that. Originally, it talked about bathing
or washing in RTD restrooms, which we see frequently.
We added basically leaving needles as well as prohibited. So you can't bathe, wash, or leave
needles in RTD restrooms. Oftentimes, we see quite a few needles in the restrooms or flushed in
the toilets. And so we wanted to clarify that.
The last one before we go back to 35 was number 45. And there was some clarification needed
here. The original language said that there was a prohibition against walking in a vehicle while
barefoot or being barefoot on any property, vehicle, or facility.
We had some misinterpretation of that rule. People or a particular individual getting on our bus
and jumping or hopping instead of walking barefoot. So we wanted to clarify that rule. Failure to
wear soled footwear, shirts, tops, and pants, shorts, or skirts in an RTD vehicle or facility, subject
to ADA reasonable modification, is prohibited.
So we wanted to walk through those things. And again, that was a lot of mostly clarifying language,
just examples we found where there was some more specific information needed. So I'm going to
go back here to number 35.
And number 35 was the one particular change or amendment that really elicited a lot of
conversation at the board meeting on April 21st. And I thought it was important that we spend
some time to just understand what this amendment was and why it was changed. The original
language on number 35 basically said that there was a prohibition against occupying any facility
for more than two hours in a 24 hour period unless such extended occupancy is due to delay in
transit service.
What we found or we have seen, and as the Chair was mentioning, we were looking at changing
this because what we found were there were a lot of people who would come into the bus concourse
in particular. There was no intent to utilize our services. They would stay there for two hours.
They would be asked to leave if they weren't going to be using transit services. They would walk
outside, come back into the facility, spend two hours there again, again, with no intention to utilize
the transit services. And it became a very large number of people who were doing this, 150 to 200
people every day, every night.
So we were looking at how we could go back to the original plan for the bus concourse at Union
Station, and that it was built and, of course, its intended use is for transit services. So how would
we go back rewording this to make sure that we were able to make that intended purpose better
understood? It just so happened that we had this COVID-19 thing pop up. And based upon the
restrictions for social gatherings and the need to separate people, because of the actual way it was
being used, we temporarily suspended that rule. And we basically said that we didn't want anyone
gathering in large numbers, according to the governor's and the mayor's orders, and we
recommended that people spend no more than about 10 minutes in the facility at a time waiting
for their bus or their train.

And that seemed to work pretty well for a while until again the COVID-19 crisis really ramped
up. And what we found was that when the city and a lot of the shelters had to cut their beds in half,
we saw a lot more of the gathering in the facility. So it just happened to be at the same time we
were presenting this to the board.
So what we wanted to do was change that language and just more in general state that remaining
at a facility after being asked to leave for violation of the code or other applicable rules, those
would be, let's say, government orders, emergency disaster preparedness, or disaster orders, if they
were in there not intending to utilize the services or violating any of the codes, they'd be asked to
leave. The language was further added, as you can see here, that RTD may, at its sole discretion-excuse me-- regulate the movement of individuals to enable the provision of transit services, which
was the intended use. And the facilities are to be used only for travel-related purposes, except
where a permit is otherwise granted. So that passengers can utilize the system in a safe and efficient
manner without inconvenience.
So that language was changed there again. There was a lot of discussion. This particular language
didn't change any application of the code. In fact, this language, very similar language is in section
five of the code under enforcement where it states that if a person is engaged in any of the above
prohibited conduct, they can be warned or ordered to immediately exit the RTD vehicle, facility,
or property by a police officer or a transit security officer.
So it didn't change the application as Chair Rivera-Malpiede said. We haven't been applying or
enforcing this any differently than we have from the very beginning. Excuse me. But this particular
language did create quite a bit of discussion and some consternation. So we wanted to put together
the committee to talk through this and the other language just to make sure everyone was
comfortable with our intent.
The way that this would be enforced, I put a note below that, there is a plan to create-- excuse me- paid fare zone there in the bus concourse. That's listed in the code of conduct. There's an
expectation that with the area being used for transit that if everyone had a fare down there, we
could occasionally do checks for everyone every 30 minutes or so just to go through and check
that everyone had fare. And of course, if they have fare and they're intending to use transit, they
can certainly utilize the bus concourse. All right, Roger.
SPEAKER: Are we permitted to ask any questions at this time?
MICHAEL MEADER: I've got one more slide. And then we'll go around and ask the question,
have the questions asked. OK? Just some final thoughts here.
I want to reiterate you again, in the first slide, we talked about really this code of conduct was put
together to make sure that everyone could safely utilize our system. And I wanted to reiterate
again, safety is RTD's core value. It really is the genesis and the most important thing we do think
about and measure when we decide to take any action. The safety of our employees and passengers
is paramount in everything we do. It really is. And the passenger code of conduct was created as a
way for us to apply this core value of safety.

Again, reiterating, RTD has not changed the way it applies or enforces the code of conduct since
its inception in 2016. And again, the recent amendments to the code of conduct do not change the
enforcement authority of the code of conduct just as it was originally created in 2016. So with that
said, I am certainly happy to entertain any questions anyone has. And I think that Chair RiveraMalpiede will walk through the list.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much, Mr. Meader. Let me start by saying that I'm
going to call on everyone to be able to ask any questions or make any statements. I do want to say
just a couple of things to you.
First of all, thank you again for being here. We do not want to move forward with RTD without
having an inclusive and transparent process. And in fact, I would really like to commend the RTD
board of directors for really delving into this and asking that we really take a deep dive and include
some of our key leaders to help us look at it. So that when we go back to governing over this
agency, we know that we have the voice of the community with us. Collectively, the 15 board
member oversees and represents over 3 million residents in the city and county of Denver in the
whole region.
So with that, what I'd like to do is go ahead and start with the Evan Dreyer. Evan, do you have any
questions or comments?
EVAN DREYER: Thanks, Angie. I guess my questions are focused more on enforcement. It's a
question we always get. How will these measures be enforced? What are the consequences? And
then how are you going to deal with the public fallout if there is any? Those are my questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Meader, do you want to respond, or Chief Grado?
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. I'll start out real quick. And I'll let Chief Grado jump in here. Just as
we stated, we've got a code, I think, that pretty clearly spells out what we consider to be acceptable
or not acceptable behavior.
And typically, when any of these behaviors are noticed, individuals are approached either by the
security officers or the transit police and reminded that we do have a code of conduct. And the
behavior, of course, depending on how egregious it is, is not permitted under the code of conduct.
Typically, it's a discussion, basically a warning, just to say, hey, that's not allowed. We'd appreciate
it if that didn't occur.
Generally speaking, if the reaction is, hey, sorry. I won't continue to do that. And whatever that
prohibited action is that occurred stops, there isn't any kind of continued follow up with that. Again,
depending upon how egregious. I mean, if it's a direct assault on an individual, that's a different
story than just asking them to stop per se.
And then of course, if it continues, they're going to be asked to leave the facility. It can escalate to
being given a warning, a citation, or even suspension of the use of RTD services. But that's
typically how it goes. It's kind of an escalating process. And again, if it's something that requires
law enforcement or security officers, if they have engaged, they're going to try to de-escalate and

then make contact with law enforcement to come over and handle that. So, Chief Grado, do you
want to add anything?
ROBERT GRADO: I think you covered it really well, Mike. The only thing is, and you kind of hit
it on the end, is the security officers can't actually do enforcement on our system. So I look at this
document as the spirit of the law. I keep saying that it's just a tool to help.
So if somebody is violating this policy and our security crew asks them to leave because of it, and
then they refuse, then we can go back and use this document. Then it would be a criminal law
enforcement act for trespassing or assault or whatever else occurred. So I think you pretty much
covered that, Mike.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Evan.
ROBERT GRADO: One other thing I want to throw in, I think you might have mentioned it. But
again, this document has been here since 2016. So we've been utilizing this for the last four years.
So there's really no changes to that.
BRITTA FISHER: Madam Chair, you appear to be on mute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Evan, does that answer your question, or do you have
another?
EVAN DREYER: No. I'm good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Great. Chief Pazen?
PAUL PAZEN: Hi, Angie. Again, I would just like to add or see if there's space for alternatives.
Meaning sometimes de-escalating the situation is connecting people to resources, the city of
Denver Department of Safety, our nonprofit partners have created an application on the phone as
well as different ways to connect folks to mental health, substance abuse challenges that spelling
that out in a code of conduct that a security officer or a transit police officer could utilize as part
of a tool in their toolkit to help them de-escalate the situation and point folks towards solutions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's actually a great idea. Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: Chief Pazen, this is Bob Grado. If I can? Good information. I did not know
there was a phone app available. But just a side note is we do have another committee that's
internal, external staff. Some of you on this call now are part of our homeless outreach task force.
So we do have another committee that's going to look at our enforcement policies and then also
what you're talking about that app and other resources. So we definitely want to get better at having
solutions.
We discovered-- I've been a chief here for a couple of years now. But one thing that's plain to see
is we can't arrest our way out of these situations. So it's always good to have other options.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Pazen, is that your comment?
PAUL PAZEN: That is our comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you send us the link to that app? Or is there a way for us to
access it?
PAUL PAZEN: We certainly will.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Britta.
BRITTA FISHER: I just want to preface my comments by saying I'm a big fan of transit. I'm an
eco pass holder. And I bought my home near transit. So I take my multi-generational family on
the trains and buses frequently. And it's really important to me to have a clean and safe environment
as well. So with that, I do have quite a few questions. So I'm going to go through. But hopefully
they're helpful to others as well.
At the beginning of this, you prefaced by saying that the changes were intended to help reduce
bias and how that is applied. Can you please help me understand what was changed? The version
I have isn't a red line version. What do you feel changed that reduced bias?
MICHAEL MEADER: I think that-- I'm sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. Go ahead, Mr. Meader.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. Yeah, this is Mike Meader. I think some of the clarifying language
that we changed from an ADA perspective is one of the things where we added some clarifying
language to say, of course, we're going to make sure that we are considering any kind of ADA
restrictions that we may have just missed before in terms of use of mobility devices and whatnot.
And I talked about a couple of those kind of clarifying things in there.
The idea here overall, Britta, is that these rules or prohibitions are applied across the board. There
isn't any kind of a focus on a particular group of people or a particular location or any of those
things. Anybody who's on our system is required to abide by these rules. It doesn't matter who that
person is. And again, some of the basic language in there, another example might be of the attire,
just clarifying that this is what's expected of everybody too in terms of what they need to ensure
that they're wearing when they get on any of our trains or buses. So there wasn't a specific group.
We've never viewed it that way that there was a specific group with the exception of some of the
questions about the ADA community that came up, and they felt that there was some bias as a
result of some of the things they needed. But we've always very openly and fairly tried to apply
this to everybody who gets on our system.
BRITTA FISHER: Thinks. And I see that John McKay sent me the red line version. So thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. Good.

BRITTA FISHER: In the chat. Some additional questions, if I may. I put this one in the chat
already. But on rule number eight, it talks about unauthorized access to a any property that's not
open to the public. And at the beginning of your presentation, there was a slide that listed where
all the places where the code applies. Are there any other properties that weren't on that slide that
this rule applies to?
MICHAEL MEADER: No. I don't think so. I think that we could have gotten a little more. And in
the actual purpose of the preamble, it adds a little bit more specificity. So when you get a chance
to look at that, when we talk about facilities, it says, including the bus rail stations, parking
facilities is another one, so our park and rides, bus shelters, specific plazas, areas like by the
commuter rail trains, and those kinds of things where the actual trains, people wait to get on the
trains as well. So there might be some questions about that. But I tried to just in general encompass
all of those areas that would be considered RTD property. OK?
BRITTA FISHER: Thanks. On 29, where it talks about lying or sitting on the floor, you suggested
that that means that people are preferred to take a seat. I've certainly been in plenty of transit
situations where there's delays and there are no seats available. Is the intent that that would not be
enforced when there are not other seats available, or if somebody needs a different
accommodation?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. Primarily, these things are driven towards just having people sitting
across and blocking areas where egress would be required or something like that. Yeah, absolutely.
If there's long delays and there's a large number of people in there, they're kind of sitting off to the
side and whatnot, it's not going to be a big, big problem unless it's just super packed and there's
safety or egress considerations around that.
BRITTA FISHER: Thank you. Similarly on the number 30, the sleeping or dozing. I've spent a lot
of my life on a bus and have been known to doze from time to time. So what does that mean to say
in RTD's opinion may be hazardous?
MICHAEL MEADER: Chief Grado, do you want to take that one?
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah. Sorry. It took me a second to get unmuted. Yeah, we put that in there.
That's there because what happens is sometimes people will get on a bus and they'll sleep for a
long period of time, and then bus operations will call for a welfare check just to make sure that
that person is not having a medical issue.
So it has happened. Quite honestly, we've had people that folks or an operator may think was
sleeping, and they've actually passed away. So in that situation, we always want to have a security
officer or a police officer wake that person. Because sometimes when someone is intoxicated, they
can flare up and attack coming out of a sleep. So did that answer your question?
BRITTA FISHER: I totally understand the need for a welfare check. I was just trying to understand
what it would be to be hazardous to the person. So what I understood you to say is that when you're
doing a welfare check, you want to make sure that you have the right to do that welfare check to
wake someone.

ROBERT PAZEN: Yeah. Again, I'll say it again. This is really the spirit, you know? It just gives
us a tool if we need to do that. I mean, every day, there's people sleeping on our buses and trains.
And nobody bothers them. But if it's been an extended period of time or somebody uses our Transit
Watch app to report it to us, then we will make contact and make sure they're OK and they didn't
miss their destination. Or if they need any assistance, we'll help them out.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. And, Britta, this is Mike Meader. Another example of this would be
on our trains, right? So when our trains reach end of line, let's say you're on. You start down in
Lone Tree. And you're ending up there in Union Station.
We'd have to pull the train into a tail track and turn the train around, right? So we can't have people
on the train when we make that maneuver. So we would be forced to wake someone up who was
sleeping there as well just to make sure we get them off the train, so that we can actually perform
that maneuver. So that might be another example.
BRITTA FISHER: Got it. That helps clarify a lot. Next for me is the number 35, which we will
come back to I'm sure with other people's questions. But part of my question there was, what does
it mean to regulate the movement of individuals?
MICHAEL MEADER: So what we're talking about there is basically to provide for the provision
of transit services. I think this one, in more broad terms and perhaps part of the discussion came
about, is looking at Union Station. And the bus concourse in particular is what we're talking about
here, right?
Union Station, a lot of the areas there are considered to be public areas obviously, public forums,
those kinds of things. The bus concourse in particular was designed for the provision of transit
services, right? So it's not in the same sense that public forum type of area. If we have large groups
of people standing around or sleeping, kind of camping out, sheltering in place in there, and it gets
in the way of our movement of people from the buses to the trains or from bus to bus or those
kinds of things, what it says is we have the right to ask those people to move, so that it doesn't
inhibit the ability for us to provide those transit services, either people coming down getting off
bus leaving the station or coming into the station to get on a bus.
We get a lot of calls into our customer service department from a lot of our riders that are concerned
sometimes when there's very, very large groups of people hanging around that they don't feel safe
to go down and use the bus concourse. Or it's not easy for them to maneuver through the bus
concourse. So this allows us to make sure we're able to apply this, so that we can regulate that
movement of people, make people feel safe, make sure they can get to their buses and trains in a
timely fashion. So we can provide that transit service.
BRITTA FISHER: I guess as a follow up to that, it begs a difficult question to me. So I take my
family down to Union station often. There's pop jet fountains. I believe that's the area that you are
saying is for public forum. How do I know as a rider of your services where it is for only the travelrelated purpose and where public purpose?

MICHAEL MEADER: One of the things we're going to do is better clarify that for the public.
We're kind of putting that information together. But just as a general rule, if there is a train that is
picking people up in that area, i.e, the commuter rail or light rail platforms, that's intended for
transit use. The bus concourse was built and is intended for people to maneuver between buses and
get on their buses and those kinds of things.
It's not necessarily those large areas out in front of Union Station and those kinds of things that
were designed for public transit use. The actual hotel itself, which is leased by Sage Hospitality,
is something that's managed by them. It is not specifically for RTD transit use inside the hotel. So
they have the right to manage that for their actual use as well. So really the bus concourse, it's the
train platforms and areas around those platforms that were designed for transit use. Does that make
sense?
BRITTA FISHER: OK. That's helpful. Moving on, I will go to 40. I have a lot of electronic devices,
as most people do these days. What does it mean to have unauthorized use of an outlet?
MICHAEL MEADER: The outlets in the facility are meant for the purpose of our maintenance
teams and facilities people to utilize if they have to plug in a machine or something to do that.
They're not supposed to be used to plug in personal electrical devices and charge. Similar to the
airport, the airport, you notice had recently or not recently but in the last few years installed specific
areas for people to charge their phones and whatnot because they're sitting around there for a long
period of time. If you go in, there'll be an area with five or six seats and lots of plugs because they
didn't want people sitting on the floor or utilizing a lot of the electrical outlets around the facility
that they use for facilities for charging outlets. So that's kind of the same concept. It's not to be
used for the personal devices but for the use of the facility and maintenance and whatnot.
ROBERT GRADO: Hey, Mike, if I may? This is Bob Grado.
BRITTA FISHER: A hard thing to tell people.
ROBERT GRADO: Just to add a little to that, if I could. We had folks unplugging our ticket
vending machines and things that we need to have plugged in to charge their cell phones. So I
think that's how that came to be.
BRITTA FISHER: Yeah. That's what I was asking. Would it be clear to a person what is
unauthorized versus an empty outlet?
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah.
BRITTA FISHER: And a question with clarification is, do you intend to install additional charging
stations in light of this?
ROBERT GRADO: I'd be 100% in favor of that. So yeah, that may come out of this ad hoc
meeting.

MICHAEL MEADER: That's a good point, Britta. As I was speaking about the airport, I got the
same impression. We need to explore that.
BRITTA FISHER: Because it's clear to me when somebody has a lock on an outlet, which those
are available to be installed, that that's unauthorized. Is it clear to any teenager with a cord that an
open outlet is unauthorized?
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you.
BRITTA FISHER: Yeah. On 41, it talks about wheeling, bikes and scooters and so forth. And I
get off the train frequently at Union Station. Where does again the property for where people need
to be off their scooters, bikes, and so forth end? That's never been really clearly delineated because
there's so many dockless scooters parked around and so forth. So I was just curious what you are
planning to do to make that more clear as to where that's not allowed.
MICHAEL MEADER: We actually have signage out there. And in fact, the city, there's city
ordinance and statutes actually that specify that. So we follow those guidelines. The 16th Street
mall, the plaza around Union Station. Next time you're down there, if you haven't noticed it,
because I know there's lots of signs on things, you'll see signs on some of the lamp poles. And it
basically shows where those are not permitted, shouldn't be used. And so we pretty much follow
those guidelines.
BRITTA FISHER: So beyond the sign is the area where you can be on?
MICHAEL MEADER: That's where they're prohibited. So if you see the signage, it's prohibited
in those areas. Once you get off of that property outside of those signs, then it's not prohibited.
OK?
BRITTA FISHER: OK.
MICHAEL MEADER: So yeah.
BRITTA FISHER: I've just got a few more left.
MICHAEL MEADER: No. Sure. Go ahead.
BRITTA FISHER: I'm almost through. 44, the bathing, washing, and needles. I understand what
bathing is. And I understand needles. The word washing seems pretty problematic to me in light
of our current health crisis. It seems to me that we want people to be washing themselves after use
of a restroom. And in general, we want more people to be washing their hands right now. So can
you tell me more about why that word is there?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. It's not washing hands. It's washing other things. So some people
will come in there to wash other things besides themselves versus just their hands. I mean, the
expected behavior would be, if you use a restroom, you wash your hands after that. But taking
other things in there to wash, bags, suitcases, those kinds of things, which we will frequently see

people doing, is prohibited, not the hands. And maybe we need to just look at that and make sure
that's clearly understood. It's kind of expected that you would wash your hands. And that would
be permitted.
BRITTA FISHER: I would hope so.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah.
BRITTA FISHER: It's in the sanitation section. And it's bathing, washing, and restroom. And so I
would say you might want to look at that.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK. Thank you.
BRITTA FISHER: Then 46, putting feet on a seat.
MICHAEL MEADER: Yes.
BRITTA FISHER: I'm certainly a parent of young children. And I'm always trying to get their feet
off the seat. But I was just kind of wondering, is that necessary just to make sure that people see
the availability of seats? If a toddler is napping on a lap and has their feet up, is that going to be
enforced strictly? What's the idea here?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. We obviously wouldn't go after a toddler. We want to make sure
that, number one, the seats are available. If you do get on the trains, oftentimes, you'll see people
sit on the ones that face each other, put their feet up. That blocks out a couple seats.
Also, muddy, dirty shoes, those kinds of things, it leaves a big mess on the seat for others. It's kind
of the same thing. If you wouldn't do it at your grandmother's house, we would hope you wouldn't
do it on our trains and buses, right? So that kind of thing. But that's the primary reason. Good
manners, availability of seats, and just cleanliness.
BRITTA FISHER: Mm-hmm. Yeah. I just guess between that one and then 45 with soled footwear.
If you're saying you want to apply this to every person regardless and without bias, just be clear
about what that means versus what it means to be person-centered and to look at the situation.
Because otherwise, my baby needs to have shoes on to ride the train. Because if she doesn't have
soled footwear, she shouldn't be on the train. But like you said, nobody wants to go after a toddler
or a baby.
MICHAEL MEADER: Right.
BRITTA FISHER: So I would just be giving the impression that maybe there is a way to be personcentered on some of this as well.
MICHAEL MEADER: Sure. No. That's great. Thank you. Those are very good comments. I
appreciate that.

BRITTA FISHER: I think other than 48, which causing a disruptive odor, I'm curious how you
would determine that. But I think that gives you a lot of the sense of my questions. I think the
specifics end up mattering a bit on how this is interpreted.
MICHAEL MEADER: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Britta. Those were amazing observations and
questions. I really appreciate it. And I also really appreciate your word of person-centered because
the other thing is RTD is a PUC. And we transport in regular life between 350,000 and 360,000
people daily. And even with our reduction from the COVID, we're still transporting about 125,000
people daily. It's a lot of people that we're looking at serving. So thank you for that. OK, Gary,
you're next. Do you have any questions or comments?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Oh, thanks for asking. So no questions. Only comment is I really
appreciate everybody's input. I've heard a little bit of a theme around some of the mental health
issues involved. And I know for us, that's one of the most challenging calls that we run. So just
keeping that in mind as this group moves forward, I think that would be my one piece of input.
But no questions. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Aubrey.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Hi. Yes. Thanks for the opportunity to offer some input. I'd like to agree
with Britta's comments about being person-centered. I think that's critical here. And getting a little
bit more specific and granular on some of these points, I think, is important.
In general, I have some concerns about the disproportionate impact that some of these changes and
some of the existing language has on people experiencing homelessness. And to echo Director
Lewis's comments in the comment section that it could also have some disproportionate impacts
on communities of color. And we need to have a anti-racist lens here.
Many of these prohibited activities have to do more with status or identity rather than behavior or
impact. So when I'm going through this, I'm reading this with an eye towards, what is actually
disrupting the delivery of services? And what is equitable?
Particularly, I pointed out some things in the occupancy and the sanitation sections. And I'll skip
over some of the comments that were similar to Britta's. Of course, I think if somebody is engaging
in threatening or dangerous or truly disruptive or unsanitary behaviors, that shouldn't be permitted,
housed or not. But some of these do have disproportionate aims and impacts.
So first, I'll start with on 32 and 33, it says without a permit. So no camping without a permit or
no storing personal property without a permit. Is there a permitting process?
MICHAEL MEADER: There is a permitting process.
AUBREY HASVOLD: What is that like?

MICHAEL MEADER: I can't answer that question perfectly. I don't if Marisela, can you speak to
that? Marisela Sandovar?
MARISELA SANDOVAR: Hi. Sorry. I was getting off mute.
MICHAEL MEADER: Oh, OK.
MARISELA SANDOVAR: So I think there is a permit process for storing things like bicycles.
And so I believe that's on our website how to do that. There is, I believe, a fee. And then the
camping without a permit, there's not camping as we would normally think of it. It is activities that
you can apply for a permit for to perform on RTD property.
There's also, as you know, the state law is a little in flux about camping and the rights of people
experiencing homelessness in particular. And so that gives us a little bit flexibility to keep our code
of conduct in line with the law. And we're monitoring that and seeing how that evolves. And we'll
obviously adjust this according to what happens in the court of appeals and if there are any further
appeals.
AUBREY HASVOLD: OK. Thank you for that. Now moving to section 44 with regard to needles.
Are there safe needle disposal options in RTD facilities? And if not, is that an option that we could
explore?
MICHAEL MEADER: I'm sorry. There were sharps containers at one point in time. I believe
those, and Chief Grado, you can help me out here. I know that they were sometimes torn off the
walls. So they were being removed by people. I do believe last time I was in there, I saw some
type of a container. Again, Chief Grado, I know there were some concerns of people taking them
and taking the needles out to reuse them. So those were some concerns we had. Have we solved
that, or do you know?
ROBERT GRADO: It is solved, I'll say, mostly. In-house, our machine shop has fabricated some
stronger-- they actually designed a container, if you will. What was happening is people were
either breaking into them, tearing them off the wall, and sometimes looking for residue drugs inside
of those syringes, or they were taking the needles to be reused.
Some agencies, we've looked at this. And I need to follow up on this. I think we may have done
this at Union Station. Some agencies are actually putting drop boxes in the walls with locking
boxes at the bottom because it's a national issue on transit. So the answer is yes. There are places
to dispose. However, it's a constant issue for us for people breaking into those.
And we do get complaints from parents with small children and things like that. They'll go into a
bathroom, and they'll find needles on the floors and things like that. And the bathrooms are checked
regularly. So we try to clean that up quickly.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you.

AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you. It might be helpful to tweak that language a bit and point
towards improper disposal versus just leaving them there because there are those disposal options
in some of these facilities. They're strong and being improved. So thanks for that.
And then also on the bathing and washing piece, I just wonder if we could be a little bit more
specific about the impact there. So rather than talking about that action or that activity but talk
about maybe the leaving a mess behind or something like that. Because I know sometimes after a
long day of travel and you're about to meet somebody, you might want to do a little bit of a bird
bath or something like that when you're done with your travel. So again, just looking at that impact
on the space and on the delivery of services versus the identity and what might lead somebody to
take part in some of those behaviors, if that makes sense.
In general, I understand the desire to leave some room for discretion in responding to changing
concerns. But I think some of these things, and this is just an example of one of those things, that
opens up the door to possibly some subjective or discriminatory enforcement. And then finally,
my last question is just, how often will we plan to revisit this code of conduct in the future? And
will this group get back together after we break in July?
MICHAEL MEADER: Yeah. It certainly is possible for us to do that. I think in the last board
action, the proposal was made to review after this meeting in three months, so that we would take
a look at it on a regular basis.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Great. Thank you. That's all I have now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Denise?
KATE BARTON: Madam Chair, Denise wrote in the chat that she had to drop off. And she put a
comment in there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. If I might, she had a couple of comments. And let me just if
I can get back up to them. Let me read what she has said. She has two comments.
The first one is that she is shocked that the RTD board adopted this code changes with so much
undefined and so much in question. And second, it's pretty clear that there a lot of arbitrariness in
these revisions, which is quite amazing. I think Britta's questions and comments highlighted the
arbitrary. I can't say the word. Sorry. So we'll put that in the record. And, Mr. McKay, if you could
put that in the record too, that would be great.
JOHN MCKAY: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
MICHAEL MEADER: And, Madam Chair, this is Mike. I noticed one other comment she said
that the ACLU has not participated in any of this until now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct.

MICHAEL MEADER: There was a representative. It was sent to the ACLU. I can certainly find
out who that contact was for everybody. They did actually review it in the beginning.
ROBERT GRADO: Hey, Mike. This is Bob Grado again. It was Rolf. I'm looking at notes here.
So I don't know if Marisela can help track that down. But Rolf did have discussions. It says they
didn't actually participate, but they did send comments. That's what I have from Rolf.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Carly. OK. Bob Dorshimer.
BOB DORSHIMER: Good morning. And thank you for having me a part of this ad hoc meeting.
I just basically have two comments. I'll keep them light since they were addressed in other areas.
I think for people living with disabilities, and I have two children that are adult children that use
RTD, the outlets and the electrical use discussions, I think if there could be more charging stations.
My two kids have autism. So they use apps to keep themselves distracted all day. When they're
using RTD but run low on power, so I would say the more charging stations we can have with
people living with disabilities would be amazing or close the boxes off. So that way, it's not
confusing on who can use it and not use it. So I would appreciate more charging stations.
And then as to the needles, and this is my line of work here at Mile High Behavioral Health Care.
And there are some great drop box options built into walls and more secured that you can see in
Philadelphia, New York, and Washington D.C. And would highly encourage more of those needle
dispensing apparatuses installed throughout the system. Those would be my two comments today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, Bob.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Kate. Kate Barton.
KATE BARTON: Hi, Madam Chair. So just I think the comments from the group have been
fantastic. A couple of additional points just to emphasize. I agree that adding something about the
proactive approach for a welfare check and connecting people to services who need them would
help to make sure that this is a bit more explicit in how RTD would help support people who may
be breaking the code of conduct.
I also have a question about how this could have some flexibility, especially as we look at this
post-pandemic world, how people are using spaces, the idea about cleanliness, what sort of
flexibility the board will consider with that moving forward? And then I think the point is well
taken about, how do we ensure that the code of conduct has clear signage about where just to use
the example of plugs, where use is authorized and where it's not and how we're encouraging
positive behaviors such as handwashing in spaces and not allowing less room for interpretation
while still allowing RTD to be able to maintain safety in those spaces? So I think all these points
are really well taken and looking forward to continuing the conversation.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you. I'm going to ask the board if they have
any comment. So let me-- Director Lewis had to get off of the call. But she really did talk about,
she sent a chat about person-centered as well, which I think is one of the big takeaways for me.
That's the first thing.
And that we have to write policies and codes. And we do not view our riders as criminals, first of
all. They are more than just a response. As Chief Pazen pointed out, it appears that we are crafting
this code in response to one example of when someone has, insert behavior here. If the intent is to
be anti-racist, then I would feel much more comfortable about the application. However, this is
not our approach. So I'll read that into the record. Director Mihalik, welcome. Do you have any
comments or questions?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning.
KEN MIHALIK: It's nice to see some familiar faces. I don't have my camera on. And those are
really good discussion. I think we've got a good couple of months in front of us with some more
good stuff. And I do like the-- I was encouraged by the use of or the emphasis on de-escalation
from the law enforcement. I think that's really important.
And then also, the idea of discernment that is built into this, I think is important as well. And as
RTD is a leader in so many areas, I think the protection of civil rights, civil liberties should also
be one of those. And I think we should strive to be the national leader in those two areas when
we're thinking about these concepts. That's it, though. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I don't have anything to add. I just want to say
the input has been extremely valuable. And I look forward to receiving more of that as we move
through this process. So I appreciate the thoughtfulness of all the stakeholders that have joined on
this meeting. And hopefully we'll continue to do so. That's all I've got for now, Angie. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Getting there. I had to turn everything on again. Yeah. I think there's been
good input. That's why we formed this committee to get this kind of feedback. The only problem
I have, I put in the chat that I worry that the farther we drill down, the worse off we get.
It had never occurred to me that feet on the seat would apply to a toddler without shoes. I was
thinking more of an adult sitting in one seat with their feet across and propped up on the other seat.
And so there's so many various interpretations of these items that I wonder if we don't do ourself
a disservice by continuing to narrow the windows. When, in fact, there may be better use for our
riders if we keep them broad. That's just I'm thinking about it still based on what I'm hearing.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow, do you have any comments or
questions?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I do. Thank you. And I also very much appreciated everybody's comments.
I am concerned that there is so much discretion. And what discretion allows, unfortunately, is the
potential for selective enforcement. And I think we have to worry about that.
I like the idea of perhaps a statement that we do not assume that not only our riders but our patrons
are criminals. I mean, that's not where we're coming from. And I would like to say patrons and not
necessarily riders because there are people in our facilities that are passing through that really
aren't there just for riding.
And that brings an issue about people sleeping. I'm just wondering if there is a RTD facility and
somebody-- and it's not crowded, somebody happens to be asleep in a chair, I mean, what happens
then? That is kind of a violation of our code, but they may not be harming anyone. And we have
an awful lot of discretion in what we do under those circumstances. And that concerns me.
The other thing is I think somebody was mentioning the plazas where you have fountains and kids
playing. And clearly, they're not there for transit purposes. And yet, to me, the code applies to that
area too and says that you're really only there for transit purposes. But I don't think that's accurate.
It's too broad. So I think we just have to be careful how we phrase things and how we enforce
them. That's it. That's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to weigh in.
I appreciate the opportunity particularly to hear all the comments from the stakeholders. I think
they were very well formulated. And I appreciate the input that both the Chief and our Assistant
General Manager of Safety and Security. We'll take this back and look at potential other revisions
to this in the future.
Two things I'd like to point out. Number one, I don't think we have any particular of which I am
aware, there's one incident that was a very unfortunate incident with TSOs involving an individual
at Union Station. But I don't think we've had a significant amount of difficulty or problems
associated with the enforcement of our code of conduct in the past. So I think that's something that
should give us all some comfort that we haven't got a runaway police force just randomly
discriminating against people.
Secondly, I think it would probably be very useful if what we could do, because there are out of
the 1,200 or so agencies around the country that are members of APTA, we have access to their
codes of conduct as well. It might be nice for somebody to pull together a compendium of those
codes of conduct, so we can compare. And I think we'll find that we're certainly not somewhere
off on the fringe with what we're doing, but that we really are in the mainstream relative to this.
And in any event, we can always improve it. And that's why I think this was discussed as a
committee that would meet. The board would come back and look at this again in the future and

would continue to monitor it to ensure that it is fairly and in a balanced way being enforced. So
thank you for the opportunity to comment, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. or Director Tisdale. It is now 9:29. And I
promised to get you all off this phone call at 9:30. Let me just extend my deepest gratitude for all
of these amazing comments. I learned a lot.
And I think it really proves that we needed to have this committee come together and have some
really in-depth conversations. Because I think that when you are involved in an issue for so long,
you think about that issue in a different sphere that perhaps someone else might from the outside.
And I think that that has been extraordinarily beneficial.
Our really big thing is coming up next with our goals, objectives, and how do we want to move
forward. I would like to request that we have an additional meeting. I know we've said up to five
meetings. I would like to call for another meeting to, now that we have this kind of thought, is for
us to go back and talk about it. And in our next meeting put together some outcomes from what
this was and how we move forward. With your permission, I'd like to do that.
The other thing is that this Zoom is being recorded. It will be online and available. And all the
comments that I read were from the chat box from people who are part of this committee. So I'm
going to close this meeting at 9:31 and ask that you come back. Mr. McKay, is it next Wednesday
at 8 AM? Or can somebody give me the next day?
ROGER SHERMAN: It's two weeks from today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great.
JOHN MCKAY: May 20th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. May 20th. So I'm going to adjourn this meeting until May
20th at 8 AM. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Angie. Thank you, everyone.
MICHAEL MEADER: Thank you, everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, everybody.
MICHAEL MEADER: Have a great day. Be safe.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Be safe, everybody.

