2020-07-22
GMES-GMOC
PEGGY CATLIN: And hopefully, Chair Rivera-Malpiede will join us momentarily, but I'd like to
call the meeting to order at 8:05. In attendance, committee members are Director Cook, Director
Lewis. Good morning, Director Lewis. I didn't hear you yet-- Director Guissinger, Director
Menten, and Director Walker. And we're waiting for Chair Rivera-Malpiede. So I'm going turn it
over to Gregg to give his thoughts on how we will call this list of, is it 18 candidates, down to a
more manageable number.
Gregg, if you would, please?
GREGG MOSER: Yeah, absolutely. Thank you very much. So what I did was, as you're aware, I
had a conversation with each of you as to your input. A couple of directors provided me their
buddy's feedback, so I separated that out. And I also got Paul Ballard's feedback on his perspective,
so I separated that out.
So I'm going to share my screen. I've got an Excel document where I tallied all the results. And I
think Director Catlin's point, this is not necessarily intended to be an end-all be-all, but instead is
really to help guide us in a conversation about which candidates we want to move forward.
So for those who are not on the computer and can't see this, I will read out the results and the
feedback to walk us through and summarize this.
SHELLEY COOK: Can I interrupt right quick? We're not in executive session. Don't we need to
go into executive session?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Thank you, that was-- I appreciate that, Director Cook. So executive
session, pursuant to 24-6-402 paren 4, paren E, Colorado Revised Statute, Determining Positions
Relative to Matters Subject to Negotiations and Developing Negotiating Strategy and Instructing
Negotiators Regarding GM/CEO Compensation, and pursuant to 24-6-402 paren 4, paren F, paren
L, Colorado Revised Statute, Consideration of Personnel Matters Regarding Initial Review of
GM/CEO Candidate Application Materials. Do I have a motion to go into executive session?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved, Shelley Cook.
NATALIE MENTEN: I have a question. This is Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: I do have a mover, and let me see if we have a second. And then I'll take your
comments, Director Menten.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.

PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Director Guissinger. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm trying to pull the PDF doc open. I had it open. But weren't there a couple
things that we were going to discuss before we went into executive session?
PEGGY CATLIN: The first item, again, is a discussion regarding scoring of applicants. And then
there's the discussion of the interview process, which we can discuss after we come out of
executive session.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just so I'm clear, that there are two out of three things for open discussion,
and you're moving those to later?
PEGGY CATLIN: Just the discussion of the interview process. The scoring of applicants is within
executive session. Director Catlin, this is John McKay speaking.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes?
JOHN MCKAY: So Melanie had advised that in order to make public the entire process, not the
actual nuts and bolts of the discussion of the executive session, but to give the public some sort of
idea as to how the candidates would be voted on. I don't think we've discussed that in a GMES
meeting yet. So maybe if Gregg could just give a quick 30-second rundown on what will be done
that will comply with her with her suggestion.
PEGGY CATLIN: That was agenda item number C, which I since-- we have a move in a second
to go into executive session. But I guess we could postpone that, and postpone the vote on that,
and discuss the interview process. Gregg, go ahead.
JOHN MCKAY: I'm sorry, this is John. This is John again. And so this is just the scoring part of
it, I guess. You could do how to go-- go into the five to seven candidates later on after you've gone
through executive session. And I hate to put words in Melanie's mouth. We might get her on the
phone really quickly, but I'm just throwing that out there.
PEGGY CATLIN: I need to reiterate, and I do see that Chair Rivera-Malpiede has joined.
Welcome, Angie.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So the agenda says, discussion regarding item B is discussion regarding scoring
of applicants, and then discussion of interview process followed by the executive session. So are
you suggesting, John, that we just have an overview of the scoring of the applicants and the
interview-JOHN MCKAY: That was Melanie's-[INTERPOSING VOICES]

PEGGY CATLIN: OK, and then move into executive session?
JOHN MCKAY: Right. That was Melanie's intent, just to make sure that it was on the record
before we move in.
PEGGY CATLIN: So we'll talk about process, not actual scoring-JOHN MCKAY: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: --before we move into executive session. So I'm just going to hold in advance
the move and second to move into executive session until after we've talked about those two items,
if that's OK. Hearing no objection, Gregg, if you would talk about an overview of the process for
scoring applicants, that'd be great.
GREGG MOSER: So I shared with you on Sunday afternoon, as you're aware, on the HoGo doc
system, the resumes of 18 applicants. And this was my screen of resumes. And based on the criteria
of the job description and the minimal qualifications feedback I obtained from you as a Board and
also feedback I obtained from the community, and you had an opportunity to review those.
I spoke with each of you individually on the phone. And this was not a vote or I didn't ask for a
ranking. I just asked for your preferred six. We had set aside time for interviews of six candidates.
I got them from members of the search committee. I also got responses from some other directors
who are not on the search committee, but obviously part of the Board.
So what I've done is I've tallied those, and I've broke them into different categories-- those who
were on the search committee that have a say in this part of the process, those other Board
members' input to share with you so you can see where some of the other Board members' heads
are at as to where their perspective is with regards to candidates. And I've also gotten Paul Ballard's
feedback as to who he found to be interesting to be considered for interviews.
This is not an end-all be-all. I don't think the goal is that we automatically draw a hard line in the
sand, that if someone is below a certain number, they're automatically disqualified. I think this is
a purpose to just have an opportunity to reflect as to where all of the directors are on this committee,
and see where we're at, and who rose to the top, and have a conversation about that. And then
discuss, is there anybody else? Is there a reason why someone who maybe didn't get as much
support should be included in the interview process?
So we have set aside time for one-hour interviews for up to six candidates. Obviously, we can
modify that. That is, again, not set in stone. If we come up with five candidates and we only want
to move forward with five, we could do that. If we ultimately can't come to an agreement of six
and we have a seventh, I think we can talk about that as well. So we just have to make sure
everybody's calendars are available for that, because what we allotted and held as time slots was
for six candidates.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there are there any questions of directors before we vote to go
into executive session? I do not see any hands raised. I'll go to the phone. Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: As long as we've covered those two topics in full, the process, items B and
C, I don't have a question, except I do have one comment. As we have perhaps lessons from this
time where we have gone to fill the general manager's spot, that I understand our need for
confidentiality. But I found it extremely challenging that we, ourselves, tied our hands on the
documents and not even having a PDF that could be highlighted.
I went along with the process. And so I'm just saying, it's part of lessons learned that it was a
challenge with 100 plus pages and not even being able to note the document itself. So that's just
something I did want to share as we note things, especially because from 2015 we had certain
pieces of the process that we could not locate from that time back when Paula Perdue was heading
the office.
So that's my note, and I'm good with going into executive session. I just wanted to make sure that
was on the record. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook, did you have any comments? I know you're on the phone and
not on Teams.
SHELLEY COOK: No. Thank you, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede, are you on the phone or are you on Teams?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm actually on Teams.
PEGGY CATLIN: There you are. Now I can see your smiling face. Did you have any comments
before we go-- on the process before we go into executive session?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. No, I don't. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Prior to you joining the meeting, there was a motion by Director Cook and a
second by Director Guissinger to go into executive session, but I was a little bit premature asking
for that. So then we had a brief discussion or a high-level overview about how we were going to
score the applicants, and then the discussion of the interview process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was actually on the line and heard that discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, OK. Thank you. I guess it didn't show up on my screen yet. Director Lewis,
are you on the phone or are you on Teams right now?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm on Teams.
PEGGY CATLIN: So do you all have the ability, for those of you on Teams, to use the Hand icon
if you want to speak?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't think I do.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I don't have that.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
PEGGY CATLIN: I was going to give you a tutorial, Director Guissinger, on how to log in so that
you have that capability using that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Today, I'll just do this, OK?
PEGGY CATLIN: Do that. I can see. So with that, could I have a vote on going into executive
session?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Can I ask a quick question? You informed me that during this discussion
you all would be discussing whether or not I continue to participate on this committee. And I'm
wondering at what point of the agenda that that would come up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for asking that. I have thought-- and I will ask for either John or
Barbara to chime in. I thought that we could talk about that under other matters.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes, that's fine. Other matters does work.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Lewis, just for the record, as you and I spoke yesterday afternoon,
there are some things that I'm looking into and haven't had time to get the information yet. So we
may have to decide a little bit differently how to proceed. Is there a-- let me get a vote about going
into executive session. I will poll everyone. Director-- oh, you know what, John, I have a question.
Director Buzek is an alternate. And I was inclined to make sure that because he may be
participating in the future that he be allowed to participate in executive session.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, that's up to your discretion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, then I would propose that, unless I hear an objection, since Director
Buzek is an alternate. But I think it's important for him, if he would have to move forward to know
all the deliberations that's been going on.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not clear on this discussion with Lewis and what's going on. And if
there's something with Buzek, I would like to know more before we go into executive session.
What's going on?
PEGGY CATLIN: The charter that the Board approved for this committee states that, if a member
misses three or more than three meetings, that that member will be replaced by an alternate, and

so that's what we are talking about. So we have a really aggressive agenda with the two different
roles that this committee is playing, that being the GMOC as well as the executive search. So there
are a lot of meetings. And we had set-- and we had decided, as a Board, that this committee would
require a commitment and that there needed to be a cutoff point at which we would have an
alternate. So that was the discussion that we've had.
And for a number of reasons, Dr. Lewis has been unable to participate in meetings, and so we were
going to have a discussion about participation going forward in the official composition of the
committee. Does that into question, Director Menten? Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. Did you say the discussion will occur in more depth during the
executive session?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I suggested that we have the discussion during other matters, but I wanted
to let you know this since Director Buzek is listed as the alternate that I would like him to be able
to participate in the executive session.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I think any Board member could participate in the executive session.
I don't know that that's a special action that I know of. But I am concerned, if we're removing
Director Lewis, especially when it's been noted multiple times that during the day there's
challenges, so I'm interested in that discussion more. And I guess I will wait until we get to other
matters to discuss that.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that would be appropriate, thank you. So let me call the members to go
into executive session. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?

JEFF WALKER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Am I missing anyone? I'm a yes. So we are-[AUDIO OUT]
NATALIE MENTEN: Hello, this is Natalie. Who else is here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn.
NATALIE MENTEN: Good, we're in the right room, I hope.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're in the right room. [INTERPOSING VOICES]
PAUL BALLARD: Paul is either in the right room or he's not.
VINCE BUZEK: It's the cool kid's room.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're going to make it the room one way or another. So who dropped the
bomb ticking?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm finally on. I apologize. Believe it or not, there is another Teams meeting
that's open, and I was [AUDIO OUT].
So we are now back in our open meeting of the general manager executive search committee
having come out of executive session. Let's now move on to other matters. Director Buzek, do you
have anything for other matters?
VINCE BUZEK: I don't know, do I?
PEGGY CATLIN: Only you can decide that.
VINCE BUZEK: I don't think so. I thought there was something going to be discussed in other
matters. But I have nothing off the top of my head. Thanks for letting me participate.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for your insight. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I have nothing to add here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Nothing.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a question. Are any revisions or suggestions on questions due to Gregg
today? Did I miss that-PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: --today?
PEGGY CATLIN: That was going to be something I was going to bring up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll leave it to you, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, no, but thank you. I won't have to do that. But, yes, just as a reminder,
any interview questions are due to Gregg today. And I might have Barbara McManus elaborate on
that a little bit. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So if you recall, I forwarded to the group, or actually the full Board, the
interview questions that were reviewed and approved for the interim general manager. And any
additional questions should have been sent to Gregg and copied me. I'm not sure if I was copied
on all of them.
I was copied on at least one of those suggestions. And we'll probably have a discussion in our next
meeting in moving forward with what interview questions we will use based on the candidates that
we discussed earlier. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. To that point, Gregg's going to be adding some suggested questions
to the list that we had used previously for our interim GM search. My thought is that now that we
have a list of seven, we may be able to provide additional questions that would be more relevant
to those particular candidates.
So, if Gregg, you can indulge us to maybe have a few more hours to develop our questions. I know
I, for one, spent-- I see your hand. I, for one, spent most of the last three days going through
resumes and evaluating them. So I need to focus a little bit on the questions. Director Buzek, your
hand was up.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, yeah. And you made an excellent point that I was going to bring up as
well. Now we know these candidates, and we might want to craft some of our questions to cater
to them specifically.
And I'd also love-- I don't know, Paul, if you were involved at all in coming up with some
questions. But I would love to have your insight on maybe some questions as it relates to this slate
of candidates. That would be really, really helpful. Thanks.
PAUL BALLARD: Sure. Yes, I'd be happy to do that. I will tell you, and I think I've said this
before, I was impressed with the questions that were presented at the interim search. I really
thought that collectively they really covered all of the major issues.

So I was pretty impressed. And I think they make a good basis for this next round. But I'll be more
than happy to submit suggestions as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I see that Gregg Moser has his digital hand raised. But I just
wanted to mention that we really would appreciate your adding questions based on your expertise,
or even eliminating those, based on your expertise that we had used earlier. So I look forward to
seeing what you come up with. Gregg, go ahead.
GREGG MOSER: I was just going to say, I think we're going to-- it sounds like we're going to
schedule another meeting-- and I can work with Barbara on that-- to talk about the process for the
first round of interviews and probably talk about these interview questions. If I was a betting man,
I don't think that meeting is going to take place before this Friday. So I was going to offer, Barbara,
if you're OK with this, that maybe by close of business Friday people submit-- Board members
submit interview questions to me.
And I can very quickly put all of that together. That gives you two more days of time, 2 and 1/2
days of time. And then I can work very quickly over the weekend to get those recirculated, so that
by the time we have our next meeting scheduled, you'll have time to review all of the aggregated
questions together.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds good. Yeah, we will have a meeting to talk about the process
moving forward. So are there any other matters?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, this is Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I would ask-- first of all, agree with the extension of time to formulate
some more questions, especially now that we have a narrow group of candidates, somewhat
narrow. And secondly, the way I think the setup was on Hodge-- HoGo doc-- I don't know why I
want to call it Hodgepodge, anyway-- is that that remain accessible. I think it was going to
disappear the end of today.
But since I'm not able to save it to my computer, I just have my manual notes, I would not want to
be blind as I'm looking at the questions and the candidates. So could we discuss that? And is there
any good reason not to have at least the active candidates still there with their resumes?
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, I'll let you answer that, but you bring up a very good point, just as a
refresher.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. So I had set the time to expire this evening for the package you received.
My thought was to take that package and refine it down to what's remaining, take those out that
are no longer part of the discussion, and then repost that document available to you so that it's a
smaller document. It's not 100 plus pages, if that's OK with you, and then make that available at
least through the scheduled round of interviews.

NATALIE MENTEN: That makes me happy.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are we in agreement with that approach? How long would you suggest that we
leave that up?
GREGG MOSER: I'm sorry, it broke up. I didn't hear that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg, how long would you suggest that we leave that open?
GREGG MOSER: I can put that back up probably today with the refinements, and I can leave that
available through that first round of interviews. So it's available to you to look at it and look at in
more detail over the next week and a half or so. And then, again, we'll have another layer of-- well,
at that point, we're going to make our public announcement. So at that point, those documents, the
finalists will be available publicly, we can make those documents public, or that final cut down
publicly.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. I just would suggest that everybody remind
their buddies of that process. I know there were two folks that-- well, I guess one, ultimately-- that
did not get into HoGo to look. They decided that they were going to let the committee do the initial
work. But moving forward, I think it's important that everybody review the decisions so far going
into the interviews.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten, and that's probably my buddy, Broom. And I will make
sure that he gets that communication of where we're at. And I do still have one other matter besides
that clearing up of the-PEGGY CATLIN: Let's finish this matter first, if you don't mind, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: So we will be leaving HoGo, the seven active candidates, as you put it,
available on HoGo for Board members to review. And that includes your buddies, if they so
choose. So two things, as we review these again and also prepare our questions, that will help in
preparing the questions. But also, remind your buddies, that if they have any questions, they should
get them to Gregg and to Barbara by close of business on Friday.
Is that OK? Yes, OK. Director Menten, your other other matter?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So I want to just speak about what I guess has not been spoken. And
what we are ending up here in other matters is there is no change to the committee composition,
the active members. Is that correct? Is that what I'm hearing?

PEGGY CATLIN: That has not been discussed, and we have not decided that yet. So I would like
to actually get some other input from Directors that haven't spoken yet, and that includes Chair
Rivera-Malpiede and Director Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are you asking if we have other matters?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what we're doing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I have no other matters.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No other matters.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No matters, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I'm glad we're not talking about a change of composition to the
committee, but I would suggest that. Vince Buzek has attended all the meetings. It's kind of like
an extra set of eyes, and ears, and thoughts on the process.
And because he's made that investment, and we benefit from it, I wonder if, in talking about our
determinations, our decisions, we don't do just what we did going forward-- include his viewpoint
as well as those who are the first members of the committee. He has become, to me, a de facto
member of the committee by virtue of being willing to attend when not all of us could, and by
investing that time, and thought, and so forth. So that would be my suggestion going forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have a couple of questions and a couple of thoughts. The Board
cast [AUDIO OUT] charter. And I know Vince actually even asked me about this a week or so
ago, how are some of these points established in the committee [AUDIO OUT]. And specifically,
having called into question his participation.
And we established that if you miss more than three meetings that-- and that's why we have a
substitute, that you would forfeit your position on the committee. And that's why Director Lewis
made the comment she did last night that this has been called into question. That said, the Chair,
Director Rivera-Malpiede, has the prerogative of appointing members to this particular committee.
And my question to Barbara McManus is that, we do have a charter, and what would we need to
do to make the sections or to change that charter?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We would have to get full board approval. And doing that in the middle
of the process, I would have to talk to legal about that. I don't know the answer.

PEGGY CATLIN: And there were-- and I did have some questions of you. And we haven't had
time to answer them. And the first is, what kind of precedent has been set for this rule of three, as
I'm going to say?
And then I just wanted some clarification on the number of meetings that Director Lewis has been
absent. And I would also really like to give Director Lewis and Director Buzek the opportunity to
speak. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I do think we have some unanswered questions is my point.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis, can you-[INTERPOSING VOICES].
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm happy to hear from-- I'm happy to hear from Director Buzek. Director
Lynn, you and I spent five minutes right before the Board meeting talking about this, and so I don't
know the issues. I don't know the depth of the discussion or dialogue that you all have had, and so
I'm happy to listen to Director Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek, your thoughts? And thank you, by the way, for your active
participation.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, my pleasure, and it's not been easy all the time. I've had to shuffle a lot of
things to make it happen, but I did. But I will defer to your decision and Chair Rivera-Malpiede's
decision, whatever you decide. I will continue to be involved either as a full member or an
alternate, whatever you decide. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think that I need to do a little bit of work with Barbara McManus.
And I hate to put-- and also with Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And I hate to put Directors Lewis and
Buzek in limbo, but I think we need to do some more investigation into, number one, what's
precedent, what is legal, and what has actually occurred. So Ms. McManus or Mr. Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I'm just waiting to hear from Director Lewis [AUDIO OUT].
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm not really sure what you're waiting to hear from me. I shared that this
was a conversation that came to me five minutes before the Board meeting yesterday. And so
Director Catlin essentially shared with me that you all had looked into my attendance, had
determined that I had missed three either the general manager meetings or the general manager
selection meetings, and that there had been discussion and talk amongst Directors about removing
me from the committee. That is the extent.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I might, Madam Chair, I think that the first thing I'd like to say
is this has been an unusual year. I keep saying that. I'm like a broken record.
But this year, we decided to combine the general managers oversight committee and then the
general manager search committee, if you remember correctly. And at the beginning of the year

when I brought it forward to the Board and it was voted on, that for this year only, we would
combine those two. Because traditionally, we wouldn't have a search committee and the general
managers oversight committee would have a group of people looking at spearheading the
evaluation of our general manager.
So everybody agreed to that. Because those two are combined, then the charter was written that if
somebody missed more than three-- three meetings or more, it wouldn't be advantageous for the
group as a whole, because the workload was going to be so intense. And really, with all due respect,
Director Lewis, when you and I first talked about this committee, I shared with you that this was
going to be an intense group of meetings, and that I was concerned that whoever got on this
committee be able to commit to the time commitment, understanding that we all have full-time
jobs.
I have a full-time job in addition to my role at RTD. And it really doesn't have anything to do with
people talking about people. It is just it has to do with the workload that we have to do before a
specific timeline. And based on that and looking every time we need to make some decisions, it's
just really clear we need to have a continuous body at the table being able to talk these things
through.
So it's not a personal issue. It just is a matter of fact issue about the workload that we have to have.
And based on that, you have missed four meetings. And it's just based on the charter.
I am willing to sit down with Ms. McManus, our attorney, you, and Chair Catlin to talk about it.
But it is clearly [AUDIO OUT] charter, and was agreed upon by everybody who said that they
participate on this committee. And that's all I have to say. Thank you, Madame Chair.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. I'm not sure why you mention this being personal. I didn't say
anything about this being personal. I was simply stating facts.
So the fact of the matter is is that I had a conversation with Director Catlin yesterday. And the
scope of what she shared with me was limited. And so I shared that with each of you.
And so if you feel like you interpreted as this being personal, that is your interpretation of that,
and that was certainly not what I had conveyed. I am totally comfortable with you all following
the bylaws as [INTERPOSING VOICES]. I'm sorry?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No. Thank you for saying that. I heard it being very personal last
night on the call, and that's why I said that to you. Because it was very clear to me the words that
I heard last night, it felt like you were being picked-- not picked on, but that you were being isolated
in this, and it clearly is not the issue. So I just want to make that clear.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: It might be worth you going back to revisit that, because I simply stated
facts, that I had been-- it doesn't matter. So the fact of the matter is is that I did read over the
charter. You all have the authority to do what it is that you'd like to do.

I shared early on in this discussion when we all had these discussions about the scheduling of
meetings that it was really hard for me to commit to hours within my day continuously to meet
these meetings when we were having it in the day. It's not surprising. It's not the first time I've said
this. I've said it on multiple occasions, that I am the sole bread earner of my home, my household.
RTD pays us $1,000. And I don't know about the rest of you, but I cannot live off of that. I am
early in my professional career, unlike many of you all, who I recognize have full-time jobs, but
also have what I've seen as a little more flexibility in their roles, because they are a lot further
along in your professional careers.
And so it's important for me to name that. I'm happy to be on trial for this. I am not going to
advocate to fight to be on this committee, because it doesn't seem necessary. I will also say that
anytime I miss a meeting, I do check in with Director Catlin and let her know.
Hey, I have work things that sometimes cannot be rescheduled, and I am not going to choose a
volunteer position over the thing that brings a roof over my child's head and a roof over my head.
And so I would encourage you all to move in the way that makes the most sense for each of you.
If you believe that I have not served my commitments on this committee, then do as you do.
I do believe I've served my commitments. I check in anytime I can not attend. I check in with my
buddy to let him know what's going on. In fact, I made some concessions and this time with my
buddy about the candidates that I move forward.
And so, again, you all-- whatever it is that you would like to do to move forward, I would
encourage you to do so. And I'd encourage you to continue to have the discussions and dialogue
with legal to figure out what that looks like. And if you would like to replace me with Director
Buzek, again, I would encourage you to do so.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. I would just add, if I might, Madam
Chair, this is not an on trial thing, number one. And I too am the only bread winner for my
household.
So I think we're all struggling. And as elected officials, we're really struggling trying to fit
everything in line. So clearly, it is not meant to be a punishable kind of deal. It's just we have so
much work to get done. And I do appreciate your [INTERPOSING VOICES].
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I appreciate you saying that. I was speaking from my own personal
circumstances. So this is not to say, oh, you all have more going on than I do. I appreciate that.
I have a child at home who I am caring for, and it's difficult for me to miss work. I don't think this
should actually be surprising to anyone, because I've said this on multiple occasions since I've been
on the Board. That when we have these meetings in the middle of the day, when they aren't
consistent, it's hard for me to be able to make my schedule flexible in that regard.
When we had the ad hoc code of committee-- the code of conduct meetings, those were at 8:00
AM every Monday, or every Wednesday, and I didn't miss any of those. But when we have

meetings at 12:00, and then we have them at 2:00, and sometimes we having from 4:00 to 5:00,
and sometimes-- that inconsistency is difficult. And that's what I am naming. Again, I am OK with
you all removing me from the committee if it serves in the best interest of this agency and the work
that you all are trying to perform.
I don't think I've said that-- maybe I haven't stated that clearly enough. So I will say it again. I am
comfortable with you all removing me from this committee in the interests of you all being able to
serve whatever it is you'd like to do. I'm totally OK with it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Let's take that discussion offline. I have a couple people that would like to
make a comment, but I would like to make some clarifying comments first. I sent a text to Director
Lewis. I wanted to do before last night's meeting knowing that it might be long.. I sent it at 5:02,
which was pretty short, and that's because we both had conversations with Gregg Moser.
And I said that it was an uncomfortable thing to bring up, that it had been brought to my attention
that there had been more than three meetings missed. Now, the number for me is still in question.
I'm trying to-- I've had a couple different folks who have told me three and one told me four. So
that's one of the questions I will answer.
And I wanted to talk to Chair Rivera-Malpiede, which I haven't had a chance to do, because it is
her prerogative to make [AUDIO OUT]. And I wanted a have Barbara check with legal. So those
are the questions that I relayed to Director Lewis that I wanted answered. We talked for a few
minutes. It was 5:02 that I sent you the text. And I said it was uncomfortable.
And you said at the time, and I really appreciated this, that you said the same thing, that you were
fine. You didn't have a problem if we decided, based on the bylaws, which is what I want to go
by-- not bylaws, based on the committee charter, whether or not we wanted to replace you with
Director Buzek. So I just want to go by what the Board passed as rules.
And I also conveyed to Director Lewis my sincere apologies at the time that I had committed to
try and work with her on schedule, and I did try and work with-- to try and schedule these at times
that might be more convenient to all of the committee members' schedules. And that's why we
ended up with the meeting times that we had, because I have seven or eight people to try and
juggle. And I regret that it did not work out in Director Lewis's favor.
So that's why I wanted to ask some of these questions just to see how we could move forward. And
I did it out of respect. She did tell me, and I appreciated this, she reiterated the same issue with
having to provide for her family and put her family first. And I understand that.
And she also mentioned that, quite frankly, if she was not on this committee anymore, she's got a
couple of other very, very important issues that this agency is dealing with they are important to
her, and that she could devote laser focus and her time on those issues. So I'm just sharing that
with you. That was our conversation, and it was a very cordial one.
And so we said that we would talk about this at this meeting, and I believe that I still have to get
some answers to some questions and talk to the Chair, and to Barbara, and legal before we come

up with a final decision. And so I hate to put people in limbo, but I just need to have some of those
questions answered. Now, in the meantime, if I could call on Directors Guissinger and then
followed by Director Cook to provide some comment. They had had their hands raised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I'm just wondering, Shontel, what it looks like in the future. We've
got all these interviews coming August 5 and 6, and there's another round, some meetings before
that. And I don't like the idea of a removal here, but it's hard to schedule all of that out of work
hours.
I'm looking forward to working with you on the committee we talked about last night. [AUDIO
OUT] can you make all of those meetings going forward? Is it worth you're considering going off?
I'm not lobbying for anything. I'm just trying to [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you. What makes that easier for me to fit it into the schedule is that
you give us all advance notice. The meetings that I wasn't able to attend, some of those meetings
we didn't even have 24 hour notice for.
And so I told Director Catlin this, that because these interviews have been on my schedule for a
while, I actually had to take-- I was able to take the time off, the vacation time, so that I was able
to come to those. And so I don't have any issues with the two days of the interviews in August, the
first week of August, and then the third week of August as well with those interviews that happen
in the morning, which I told Director Catlin over the phone as well. So I'm glad you asked that
question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. You did mention that, and I appreciate that. And I also wanted to
say that you, along with all of the other committee members, put a great deal of work into this
initial resume review and working with your buddy. So I wanted to thank you. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I lowered my hand. It sounds like we've discussed this pretty thoroughly. And
you're going to be continuing discussions behind the scenes, so thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. Director Walker, you hand is up.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'd like to see the citation where it says three months. And I know you're
looking for that also. I just wanted to back that up.
I appreciate Director Lewis is inside her opinion. Often, it varies from mine, but it's another piece
of information that I get to have. I'm a big stickler for following the rules. It seems that this Board
seems to be sometimes intent on or fine with breaking rules or making up new rules. And that's
OK also, as long as we all agree that we're going to make up some stuff.
Last week, we had a meeting, part of the executive committee meeting, was a discussion on the
amount of time that these meetings take. And here we are eight months after Mr. Genova submitted

his resignation or his retirement announcement, and we're still looking for-- we're looking for a
permanent GM. I understand Ms. Lewis', Director Lewis', predicament.
I'm also the sole breadwinner in my family. I'm a caretaker for somebody else in my family. And
that's not specific to me, but it's just a situation that we all have.
If we find a citation in the bylaws, I'm sorry, the committee charter that says three misses, you're
out, I'm fine with it. If we don't see it, I'd love to have her stick around. Because like I said, even
though we don't agree on a lot of stuff, we agree on enough. She always brings something
interesting to me, as do all of you. So that's all I have to say, just find the citation where it says
three misses.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Walker. Ms. McManus, if you would highlight that. It's
in the committee charter.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: And if you would highlight that and give it to all of the members. But I think
there is, as I mentioned to first thing this morning, there is also some confusion as to which
meetings were missed. So you're going to get back to me on verifying that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: So I just-- whoops. I'm sorry, was I called on? Or did I mishear?
PEGGY CATLIN: You were called on.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I just briefly looked through our calendar from the beginning of the year
through now, and I have my own questions about how many Dr. Lewis has missed. I she made
February 11, April 23, May 14, June 12, June 25. I do see not in attendance per the minute for the
June 30 and 7/16 meeting, so that indicates two per my quick glance.
I would be really strongly-- I'd be really upset if we were removing Shontel or Dr. Lewis from the
committee. Big picture-- I think she's done her homework. She's done the work.
She's done extensive outreach to her buddy, relayed that, adequately shared the buddy's comments.
And then moving forward, looking at our schedule for, again, big picture, when we're looking at
the first round of interviews, which is our seven applicants, and then second round of interviews,
how are we-- the entire Board is going to be participating, I would hope, in these first and second
round of interviews. And so what does it even matter now as to who would technically be a
GMEST committee member?

BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. So the full Board would, yes, participate
in all of the interviews, but the vote to bring things forward would traditionally come from the
committee as a recommendation to the Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. McManus. I see that Directors Walker and Lewis have their
hands raised or digital hands raised. Director Walker does not. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Well, I actually had something similar to Director Menten about the
attendance. As I was able to scroll through the attendance, my expectation or what I found was
similar to Director Menten's, and so I don't have to repeat that. But my expectation was that we
had solidified this before bringing this to the committee. And so I'm kind of surprised that we
would bring this discussion to the committee. And we aren't sure if the number of absences is-- we
haven't solidified the number of absences.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. That's why I said that I had some questions, some
clarification questions, because I've gotten two conflicting numbers. So we need to verify that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. There was one meeting that Director
Lewis was only there for 50% of the meeting, and then she was not in attendance at 5/7, 6/30, and
7/16. So that was the confusion with the fourth, because we listened to the transcript, but Director
Lewis was only there for part of the transcript. So it seemed like she wasn't there, but she was there
for half of the meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So I do see the 5/7. If somebody was only there 50% of the time, we
encountered that this morning. And I'm just not comfortable removing Director Lewis from the
committee.
She has not held up our work. She has participated as much as possible. I too jump in that there's
different jobs, there's different bosses and what you can get away with on still making sure you
can keep your job.
I would just be very, very disappointed if we have behind the scenes conversations and end up
removing Director Lewis. I'll be extremely, extremely upset. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And the questions that I had were really with regard to actual
number of meetings, because I was confused. And I concur, that at this point, if the full Board is
going to be participating in the interviews, then my-- and that Director Lewis has taken the time
to preserve or to reserve her schedule so that she can participate in those, and with the exception
of having at least one more process committee meeting that we can work with her starting now to
schedule so that it's not last minute, I'm taking this into account. And I apologize for the confusion,
but that's why I said that I had to have some questions answered, and that's what I told you
yesterday.

And I think I still see two hands raised, but I don't want if that's a continuation of if that's just that
you haven't been able to get the hands down. Are there any other thoughts from other Directors?
Chair Rivera-Malpiede, since you make your appointments, what is your thought?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that we should just take a deep breath, go back and look at
all of this stuff. Because I do think that one of the things is making sure that we're following exactly
what the charter says, and that's really what I need to look at, I think, in terms of as we move
forward. So that as people look at this and we go back and look at it historically, that we've done
our homework and done our job. So I think this does merit sitting down and taking a deep dive
looking to all of that stuff, and I think we just need to get back to people and let them know what's
happening.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Director Menten, to your comments about backdoor
conversations, I was not meaning to imply that there would be backdoor conversations or
negotiations. I was just wanting to take care of some of these technicalities without troubling the
rest of the committee with this discussion. Although, I think it's been helpful to have this discussion
and clarification.
I would submit that the charter is not clear on 100% of the entire amount of time that one member
participates. As was pointed out even today, we have people coming in [AUDIO OUT]. And I
think it's silent. So I believe that we have some discretion there.
And I understand where the confusion came from, but I do want to, as the Chair suggests, maybe
take a deep breath and look at this from a couple of perspectives. What is the precedent? And have
we ever had this rule of three before? And if so, has it been applied uniformly and fairly?
And number two, from just a process perspective and a Board bylaw perspective in terms of
passing committee charters, like Director Walker said, I'm for following the rules, but it seems that
we have some ambiguity here. So let's do take a deep breath. And if you all have any other
thoughts, please share them with us.
But out of respect for everyone's time, we've now exceeded our allotment by half an hour. And if
it's OK with the rest of the group, that we take a little bit of time to look at the actual facts before
we have this debate again, and then work with Director Lewis and others on scheduling the next
meeting. Thoughts?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: This as Director Lewis. I am comfortable with that. I would really like to
know what the process is according to the bylaws and according to the charter. And I would also
just like to make an observation.
While I took time off here to have a meeting from 8:00 to 11:00. It is now 12:30. And so just to
point out, you know?
PEGGY CATLIN: And I apologize for that.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: That's what I'm talking about.

PEGGY CATLIN: It's a long meeting, but on the other hand, prior to this discussion, I think we
accomplished a lot. So kudos to all of you.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I totally agree. I'm just saying, in terms of availability and flexibility, we
take off the amount of time we think it's going to take. And then a hour and a half later, we're a bit
over.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll take responsibility for letting the meeting drag on. I apologize. We're going
to take a deep breath, have some other-- find out some other facts, and then we'll chat again. Do I
have a motion to adjourn this meeting?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
GREGG MOSER: Yes, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any objections?
GREGG MOSER: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for all your time.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thanks. See you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Gregg.

