Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, April 11, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived
5:29 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Remote
Present

5:22 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:22 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:26 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk

Committee Chair
Director, District H
Director, District O

Present
Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:23 PM
5:31 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:25 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:08 PM

Director Archuleta was absent. Director Folska participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Steven
Butcher, Gina Callahan, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Dough Gragg, Lou, Ha, John Hersey, Ali Imansepahi, Ariane
Le Roy, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather
McKillop, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Mindy McNair, Ray
McNamara, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Ed Neuberg, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, Lindsey
Smith, Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Mark
Tieman, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Enuma Udokwu, Bill Van Meter, Brian
Welch

Public Present:

Kent Bagley, Brian Gebhardt, William Gross, Diane Isler, Bill James,
Brian Lewandowski, Tina McDonald, Robert McHown, Dan
McKeehan, Keith Nobles, Kenta Okuyama, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Susan Spray, Vivian Stovall, John Thompson, Krystin
Trustman, Gary Van Dorn, Rich Wobbekind

B. Recommended Actions

• 2018 Performance Measures Adoption
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopts the attached 2018 Performance
Measures for mission statement goals 1-7. In 2018, there are 41
proposed performance measures to be tracked for the GM, which is the
same number as in 2017.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the April 18,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General
Manager of Finance and Administration, presented the 2018
recommendations for agency performance measures. She
spoke about several specific goals:
 Goal 2.1, regarding prompt responses to graffiti complaints.
She stated the recommendation was to raise the threshold
to fewer than 3 complaints per month. She said that the
current goal of fewer than 1.5 complaints per month was
unreasonably low considering that the linear footage of





graffiti vulnerability has nearly doubled due to the addition
of new rail corridors.
Goal 3.1, regarding system-wide on-time performance. She
said the recommendation was to lower the performance
benchmarks for local on-time bus service from 88% to 86%
and for regional service from 94% to 92%. She stated that
the addition of GPS devices on the buses has enabled the
collection of far more accurate data, with 18,000 points of
electronic data collected daily compared with 240 trips
observed on a daily basis previously. She said the data
shows that local bus service on-time is between 83% and
86% currently. She said that, based on the last two years
collection data, the current goal of 88% on-time service
cannot be met.
6.2, regarding ridership. She said the overall ridership goal
would be established through the 2018 budget process.

Director Francone asked why the goal of 1.5 or fewer graffiti
complaints per month is unreasonably low.
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, said that the agency barely meets the 1.5 or fewer
complaints per month benchmark currently and that RTD
facilities and equipment are subject to several hundred graffiti
hits per week. He said the 1.5 benchmark is very tight,
especially in W Line corridor, and said more will occur along
the I-225 corridor. He said the benchmark was set at 2
complaints or fewer in 2006.
Director Francone said that the doubling of the benchmark
makes sense.
Mr. Stopplecamp noted that the staff has not doubled though
the length of the corridors has.
Director Francone said Bus Operations had previously reported
that an additional $2 million would be needed to meet the 86%
on-time performance benchmark.
Ms. McKillop responded that even with an additional $2 million
the current lack of drivers causes problems for on-time
performance.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, said
that prior to the addition of automatic passenger counters
(APC) to buses, service monitors and street supervisors would

be stationed on street corners, observing buses driving by, in
order to gather on-time performance data. He said that the
GPS-based APCs were added in 2011 and that those devices
report where the buses are and at what time. He said that the
manual counts, which only registered 200 to 300 data points
per day, have been phased out and that measured on-time
performance went from 89% to 83% when the switch was
made to APC-generated data. He stated that the local service
on-time performance did not actually drop by 6%, but rather
the APCs presented a more realistic picture of actual
performance. He said the question is whether an additional $2
million can help the agency reach the 86% local on-time
performance target. He briefly discussed service planning and
presented a scenario in which the agency would have to add
an additional bus to a trip in order to maintain schedule
consistency and rider expectations.
Director Francone said that certain service contractors have
experienced higher levels of complaints than RTD itself. She
asked whether there are sanctions in place for contractors that
are not meeting performance goals or whether the
underperformance of the contractors would be judged against
General Manager Genova’s performance.
Mr. Abel said that the agency is working on the issue. He said
in some cases the higher level reflects additional challenges on
the labor front in terms of lost service from operator shortages,
and in other cases the level is reflective of the routes operated
by the contractor and may be affected by detours on a given
route or a variety of other factors. He said the agency does
have some potential penalties and incentives at its disposal but
stated those have not taken effect because of a lack of
volatility.
Director Francone asked whether sanctions have been issued,
and Mr. Abel responded that some have been issued but noted
the issues are not prevalent.
Director Tisdale, speaking to goal 2.1, noted that risk for
graffiti has increased by 50% in terms of exposed walls, but
that the recommended benchmark has been doubled. He asked
whether there may be a middle number that would be suitable,
because he felt the doubling of the current benchmark seemed
disproportional compared to the increase of risk exposure.

Mr. Stopplecamp said that Director Tisdale hit a good point. He
said the Eagle Project is being completed and additional Park-nRides and other facilities and structures that are subject to
graffiti are being erected. He said that the benchmark could be
set at 2 or whatever number the Board decides.
Director Tisdale said he wanted to make clear that he was not
trying to micromanage but rather wanted to understand the
rationale behind the benchmark increase.
Mr. Stopplecamp said he asked his staff to look at the number
of graffiti incidents and present a reasonable goal. He said the
benchmark has been the same since 2008 and that the agency
has been meeting the goal. He said several hundred graffiti
incidents occur each week that are never reported because
RTD employees quickly take care of them.
Director Tisdale, speaking to goal 3.1 said, said that the
reporting data quality improved by virtue of increasing the data
collection points. He said he would be inclined to set the
benchmark at whatever number staff proposed but stated that
it is the Board who approves the schedules. Speaking to Mr.
Abel’s planning scenario, he asked why the schedule could not
be changed to ensure a 100% on-time performance.
Mr. Abel responded that, from a customer standpoint,
frequency and convenience are two of the major drivers of
ridership. He said that a bus timetable that establishes
departure times at set points during the hour allows riders to
remember their own bus schedules. He said buses are generally
scheduled to depart at a certain time after every hour, but in
the event that traffic increases during the run time of that bus,
the agency is faced with one of two options: change to a onehour, five-minute schedule or try to operate on time but not
quite make it. He said customers appreciates regularity
Director Tisdale asked whether the lowering of the on-time
benchmark had been proposed previously and what the answer
was at that time.
Mr. Abel said that the recommendation had been made three
years earlier, when the agency first gathered meaningful data
from the APCs. He said the Board initially approved the change
but politically the change did not appear to be in the public
interest.

Director Anderson stated there was a cost to meet the
proposed 86% on-time benchmark. She said that, unless the
Board agreed to pay for that level of service, it did not make
sense to set the benchmark at that level.
Mr. Abel said that the estimate was calculated in 2016 and
does incorporate economic adjustments required for staffing to
meet that goal. He said that over the last several years during
service change process the agency has focused on improving
the poorly performing routes.
Director Lubow reiterated that performance has not changed
but that the real level of performance is evident from the
current data collection methods. She asked whether an 83%
on-time performance is typical among other agencies.
Mr. Abel said that reviews among peer agencies in Los
Angeles, Salt Lake City, San Diego, and Dallas show their
average on-time performance was 81.9%.
Director Broom said that the Directors had received a letter
from the Adams County Commissioners requesting an extra
bus stop and asked whether the on-time performance of that
route would be affected by adding the stop they requested.
Mr. Abel said he could not answer the question without looking
at the Route 48 schedule. He said that currently the bus may
take 40 minutes to make one circuit. He said the performance
would not be impacted if the stop adds 5 minutes to the
circuit. He said that, if the circuit were 55 minutes and the
stop took an additional 7 minutes, the on-time and financial
performance would be impacted.
Director Menten said the agency could find the $2 million
needed to pay for the service improvement. She said she was
disappointed that the standard had to be lowered but
recognized that the data collection is more accurate than
before. She said she would vote yes on the action but noted
that meeting agency-established performance goals affects the
General Manager’s performance payout.
Mr. Abel responded that the agency has not yet attained the
86% benchmark and is currently performing at 85.3%. He said
that the benchmark was set at 86% in order to be realistic,
measurable, and attainable.

Director Menten said that the $2 million could come from
money that would otherwise be spent on development and said
the agency spends money outside of its core goals.
Director Anderson pointed out that the performance measures
under discussion are for 2018 and do not impact the 2017
goals for the General Manager.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Bob Broom, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta

• Award of Mobile Ticketing Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the new Mobile
Ticketing System to Masabi LLC, in an amount not to exceed $1,450,000.
This price includes the cost for period of performance of a base two-years
and three one-year options.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 18, 2017
Board Meeting.

Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Ms. McKillop said RTD has been working to provide mobile
ticketing and has, selected a recommended vendor from the
RFP process. She said the vendor will be providing second-tier
support for mobile ticketing, the first tier being RTD Customer
Care. She said that customers will be able to download a
mobile application (app) in order to purchase passes. She said
users of the app will have value stored on an account and will
be able to purchase day passes that will be valid on the day of
their purchase. She said that RTD will not responsible for the
back end of the service and that the vendor will be PCI
compliant, will handle users’ credit card numbers, and will
track the value on the users’ accounts. She said the vendor will
also develop and maintain the app. She stated that the first
media offered via mobile ticketing will be day passes, with the
option to add limited additional media later on if the first phase
of the program goes well. She said the fixed implementation

costs for the program are $47,000, with an additional 2.25%
per transaction in the first year, 2% in the second year, and
lower transaction costs in subsequent years. She estimated
payment processing fees of approximately $120,000 per year,
which would be borne by RTD rather than passing the costs
the customer. She stated the recommended vendor, Masabi,
has been in existence since 2001 and in 2012 deployed the
app used by transit agencies in New Orleans, Boston, New
York, and Las Vegas. She stated that is has come to RTD’s
attention that Masabi and one of the other vendors involved in
the RFP process have become involved in patent litigation but
said that she felt comfortable at this point that RTD would be
protected from the litigation by way of the contracting process
Director Menten asked for the name of the other vendor
involved in the litigation.
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said that the litigation is
between Bytemark and Masabi, which are two of the top halfdozen companies engaged in mobile ticketing.
Director Anderson said that she supports the program and has
spoken with managers of other agencies who have seen
increases in ridership, particularly among younger patrons,
upon the rollout of similar programs. She said she looks
forward to the increased ridership.
Director Broom asked whether there are other offsets from the
program aside from the additional ridership.
Ms. McKillop said that it is unclear what impact the program
will have on current sales of paper tickets and that she
anticipates an increase in day pass sales.
Director Broom asked how the app would compete with the
Smart Card.
Ms. McKillop said that, since the My Ride card has not been
implemented, there is no in-house competition. She said that
staff sees the service as an enhancement.
Director Williams asked if mobile ticketing would allow
someone to buy a ticket once the person has already boarded
the train or bus.

Ms. McKillop said that technologies exist that would prevent
patrons from purchasing tickets after they have boarded the
train.
Tonya Anderson, Manager of Electronic Fare Operations, said
that under the mobile ticketing program passengers could
technically purchase a ticket after boarding and that nothing on
the train or in the app that would prevent that. She said she
anticipated some problems and challenges with that capability
but noted that, for riders found aboard trains without tickets,
fare enforcement agents could force those riders to buy fare
media at that time or face citations. She said RTD is
implementing technology to show when a person purchases a
mobile ticket.
Director Tisdale said that he supports the program and wanted
to express his confidence in RTD legal staff’s ability to draft
language in the contract to protect agency from the ongoing
litigation.
Director Lubow asked whether RTD’s potential involvement in
the litigation would be a practical mess, even if the drafting of
the contract language were perfect.
Mr. Asphaug said that there have been internal discussions on
how to proceed and whether to postpone in instances such as
this. He said that vendors can be sued by patent trolls and that
those people are more likely to sue end users than legitimate
litigants in a dispute. He said the two vendors involved in the
litigation are among the top providers of services in their
industry and that it is unlikely that they would seek remedies
against the end-user. He said vendors would shoot themselves
in the foot by attacking potential clients. He said parties usually
come to an agreement but offered no guarantees that would
happen in this case, which is why protective contract language
would need to be put in place. He said another factor in
determining whether to proceed was that that the initial cash
outlay for the program is only $47,000. He said he felt it
would be appropriate for the Board to proceed and noted that
Masabi has implemented similar services in other large cities.
Director Lubow asked Mr. Asphaug if he could envision the
litigation causing difficulties for RTD.
Mr. Asphaug indicated that an injunction against Masabi could
bar RTD from implementing the program, in which case the

agency would have to wait until the lawsuit is settled before
proceeding.
Director Lubow asked whether such a scenario was taken into
account, and Mr. Asphaug confirmed that it had.
Director Lubow asked how mobile ticketing would interact with
Smart Cards.
Ms. McKillop said the two programs are entirely separate. She
noted that the other option for the mobile ticketing program
would be to do nothing but stated RTD had no intention of
awarding to the bid second vendor or any of the other vendors.
She said that waiting for the litigation to conclude could take
years.
Director Sisk said that the program is exciting and has
experienced similar programs in other cities. He said he
understands the impact of the potential for litigation but said
that the program would never happen if the agency is afraid of
litigation. He said he would like to see more background
information about Masabi.
Director Menten said that an internet search shows that the
Masabi looks like a young company but was founded in 2001
and that their mobile app was released in 2012.
Ms. McKillop noted that the company had implemented
ticketing solutions prior 2012.
Director Francone noted that Ms. McKillop stated Masabi
would be second-tier support for customer questions and
issues. She asked whether RTD Customer Care would provide
first-tier service and asked how the program would impact their
operations.
Tonya Anderson said she did not know how the mobile
ticketing phone menu would work but stated that RTD would
be the first point of contact for service and questions. She said
that Customer Care’s call volume would increase but noted
that a training program would be implemented. She was unsure
how many additional phone calls the program would generate.
Director Francone asked whether the implementation cost for
the program would cover additional types of fare media that
will be sold under the program in addition to day passes.

Ms. McKillop said that the rollout of a limited number of
additional services would cost $300,000 and that the agency
would have to be particular about which services would be
added under the current recommended pricing.
Director Solano said he supported the idea and asked whether
the program would push the agency any closer to offering
customer wi-fi service on buses and trains.
Ms. McKillop stated the mobile ticketing program did not
include wi-fi service.
Director Solano said that he understood but asked, if the
program becomes successful, whether it would be important to
add wi-fi service to allow patrons to purchase tickets using the
mobile app.
Ms. McKillop said that not many people used wi-fi during a
limited test program and instead relied on their own cellular
data. She said that wi-fi would be a good topic for a
presentation and would bring more information back to the
Board.
Director Deadwyler said she likes the program and thinks that
constituents would love it. She asked whether RTD is stuck
with Masabi as a vendor.
Ms. McKillop said that six vendors were reviewed during the
RFP process and that two were shortlisted. She said that
Masabi was best vendor from a technical and financial
standpoint, which is why the company had been recommended
to the Board. She said that from a litigation standpoint it would
make no sense to go to the second vendor, which is also
involved in the suit, and that the other RFP respondees were
judged not capable.
Director Deadwyler said that RTD was involved as a third party
in litigation some years prior and that she would hate to see
the mobile ticketing service stop as a result of the legal
outcome.
Ms. McKillop said that she did not see the patent litigation as
being a risk to RTD and recalled that the litigation Director
Deadwyler referred to was in relation to a bankruptcy.

Director Deadwyler asked whether a local company could
provide the mobile ticketing service and asked where the
vendors were located.
Ms. McKillop said that both Masabi and Bytemark are based in
England.
General Manager Genova said that technology changes rapidly
and that the beauty of the current project proposal is its low
implementation cost. He said that, even if RTD could not use
Masabi’s product in a year, he anticipated another vendor
would come into the market by that point. He said the question
of whether RTD will be implementing mobile ticketing is the
question he receives most.
Director Walker concurred that he is most frequently asked the
same question and asked whether other agencies that have
implemented mobile ticketing have experienced a reduction in
the amount of paper transactions.
Tonya Anderson said that question of reduced paper
transactions did not come up in talks with other agencies but
noted that the other agencies experienced an increase in
ridership and a shift in purchasing.
Director Folska said that a mobile app is something the agency
has envisioned happening but stated that, for the reason
General Manager Genova stated regarding other vendors
coming into the market, it may be best to wait and see. She
said that, because the Smart Card program is not yet stable,
she would feel more comfortable waiting to implement the
mobile ticketing program until after other pieces of RTD’s
technology are firmly grounded. She said she is troubled that
Masabi is based in England because the agency will need to
rely on the company for troubleshooting. She said the agency
has spent a lot of money installing ticketing machines on buses
and validators for trains. She stated that her constituents have
not contacted her about a mobile ticketing app, though she
said she is in support of the concept. She offered that RTD
could sponsor a $25,000 contest to allow local vendors to
compete to provide a mobile ticketing app for the agency to
use.
Director Tisdale stated that the reason Uber and Lyft are so
widely used is they are so easy to use.

Chair Hoy said he is concerned with fraud and envisioned
passengers waiting to see fare enforcement officers before
purchasing fares. He said he would be more comfortable
knowing that someone could not purchase a mobile ticket once
the person’s train is moving.
Ms. McKillop said that Portland, Oregon’s transit agency uses
technology to prevent riders from purchasing tickets after a
train has started moving but noted that such technology is
extremely expensive. She said that Portland’s technology is
part of their fare enforcement. She noted that patrons must
purchase a ticket prior to boarding a bus. She said that the
agency’s perspective is that a person found to have boarded a
train without at ticket would at least be paying when before
they would not have paid. She noted that citation revenue does
not flow back to RTD. As for fraud prevention, she noted the
mobile ticketing app will have security features and that one of
the reasons Masabi was chosen is that the company offers an
enforcement vehicle app for iPhones, which RTD fare
enforcement officers currently use. She said that RTD could
stop ticket purchasing once a train is in movement if the
agency is willing to pay enough for the technology
Chair Hoy asked why the 2.25% transaction fee should not be
collected from customers. He said that the agency currently
charges users a nominal fee for mobile parking.
Ms. McKillop said that the transaction fees could be collected
from customers but said that the thought process behind the
decision not to charge customers was to encourage people to
use the app.
Chair Hoy said the app could be deployed initially with the fee
being charged to customers and said the fee could be absorbed
by RTD if people are not using the app.
Director Francone said that she loves the idea of mobile
ticketing and has faith in the legal department to draft
appropriate language to protect RTD. However, she said that
the prospect of litigation was her sticking point. She said she
would like to discuss the matter with the legal department and
Ms. McKillop and that she would be a no vote that evening.
Director Williams said that people do not choose to avoid all
risk. She stated that she has missed a train by purchasing a
ticket at a kiosk and said she would love to be able to purchase

a ticket after boarding the train. She noted that children would
be able to use a mobile ticketing app without having to carry
money because their parents’ credit cards could be tied to their
accounts.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta

• Approval to Enter into Agreements to Contribute Funding to the Colorado
Department of Transportation for the Mobility Choice Blueprint Technical
Consultant(s)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
enter into any and all agreements required to provide $400,000 in Regional
Transportation District funding in support of the Mobility Choice Blueprint
Study. RTD’s funds are to be used for the technical consultant(s) selected to
conduct the Study, in partnership with the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) and the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG), as articulated in this Board report.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the April 18, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
accompanied by Brian Welch, Senior Manager of Planning
Technical Services, said that the Mobility Choice Blueprint had
been discussed in March and that he would answer any
questions the Board may have.
Chair Hoy said that, with a yes vote on the Mobility Choice
Blueprint, RTD has an opportunity for community commitment.
He stated that it is rare to see commitment among
government. He asked how transportation, technology, and
first last mile solutions will impact the agency in the future. He
said RTD has an opportunity to move the action forward.
Director Solano said that he initially voted no but likes the
changes that have been made to the proposal. He said it is

unclear whether federal funds will be invested in transit and
that the agency must look to future because the presidential
administration can change. He said that a yes vote would yield
a better future.
Director Williams stated the first/last miles lead to RTD and
that the agency is the heart and backbone in the transit
system. She stated that any plan that involves first/last mile
involves RTD.
Director Francone said she spent hours researching the
proposal and thanked those who spent time speaking with her.
She said she voted no in September and remains a firm no
because the study lacks transparency. She said she had
objection to the substance of the study but stated the entire
process was developed in secret and continues to be in secret.
She said the study was not subject to sunshine law or financial
transparency. She said the study is predisposed to leave out
car drivers and that it is that this is probably illegal because of
the use of public funds to promote a ballot initiative. She said
that one of functions of the study is to promote 2018 ballot
initiative and that the organizers did not disclose that fact,
though conversations show that an initiative might still be on
the agenda.
Director Walker said that he would be supporting the study and
that the end users are RTD’s constituencies. He said that RTD
owes it to its customers to innovate, because it is in
everyone’s interest to improve mobility choices in the District.
Director Lubow said she has spent weeks studying the
proposal and said that it is a wonderful, necessary idea for the
three agencies whose responsibilities are to address
transportation to discuss the impact of new technologies. She
said that RTD must have this discussion but noted that she has
too many questions to vote yes. She said she would be a
reluctant no vote because she is not satisfied that the Mobility
Choice Blueprint is the right vehicle. She said she was unsure
whether the pilot projects identified in the study would conflict
with RTD’s commitment to complete the unfinished corridors
and would not commit to any proposal that would do so. She
said the Mobility Choice Board also concerned her, in that she
did not know what purpose they or the executive director
would serve. She said these issues addressed by the study are
not going away and that RTD would need to tackle them. She
urged RTD staff to review the 20 prior studies conducted on

the same issues. She said that, if the study is approved, a task
force could be formed to report back to the RTD Board on the
study’s findings.
Director Anderson said that certain members of the RTD Board
have been studying transportation issues for years and
specifically named Directors Tisdale, Sisk, and Broom. She said
a former Mayor of Longmont, Leona Stoecker, was the lead on
transportation planning for the entire metropolitan region. She
stated that the input of private industry is needed in the study
because private companies provide jobs and social welfare. She
said that she served on the Jefferson County transportation
planning body for 30 years and on the board of Northwest
parkway and Jefferson County parkway. She said that not
everyone will be able to drive their own vehicle in the future
and that RTD needs a seat at the table to verify that everyone
involved is getting a fair shake. She said impacts to
transportation will happen sooner rather than later.
Director Tisdale said he likes the idea of being at the table and
supports the study. He also agreed with Director Francone’s
comments on transparency but did not see the issue of
transparency as being enough to stop RTD’s participation. He
echoed Director Anderson’s comments that RTD should trust
but verify in order to address transparency. He stated that a
new superstructure is being created and there is a question of
how large the structure should be. He questioned whether the
Mobility Choice Board would need 21 members or whether the
study would need an executive director or just a talented staff
person. He advised the Board that RTD is a mass transit
system and stated the agency is not obligated to look at
first/last mile solutions but should anyway in order to create a
cooperative solution. He urged the Board not to let the perfect
be the enemy of the good and stated the Mobility Choice
Blueprint is a good solution. He stated he would a reluctant yes
vote because of the known issues with the study but said he
was confident those issues would be addressed.
Director Menten said that RTD has a lot of available resources
that are already in place such as the Citizens Advisory
Committee. She said she does not want RTD to rush to be the
first to experiment. She stated that Director Lubow made an
excellent point in questioning the urgency of the study. She
said she believed the end goal of the study is a tax increase.
She stated that the Denver Metro Chamber of Commerce
(DMCC) receives a substantial amount of public taxpayer

money paid in dues from the State of Colorado, RTD, and other
government bodies and that all taxpayers are therefore
shareholders in DMCC and should have a vote on how much
they are paying an executive director. She said that CDOT and
DRCOG put RTD in its current position with respect to the
study.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 6]
MOVER:
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Hoy, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
NAYS: Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten
ABSENT:
Ernest Archuleta

C. Updates

• Sales and Use Tax Forecast
Doug McLeod, Controller, introduced Dr. Robert McNown, Dr. Richard
Wobbekind, and Brian Lewandowski, economists from the University of
Colorado Leeds School of Business (CU Leeds). Mr. McLeod said that CU
Leeds presents budget forecasts to the Board in April and October every
year. He said the October study is used for the annual budget and the April
forecast is used for the amended budget.
Dr. McNown said that the economy has reached full capacity and that any
further growth would be driven by supply-side factors. He stated the labor
market does not have much slack at national level and even less in Colorado.
He said that gross domestic product is showing a 2 to 2.2% growth rate
when adjusting for inflation, which he said tracks with the rate over the past
decade. He said that, at the national level, a lack of labor force participation
would suppress overall output and income. He said that the state economy
has grown more rapidly than national economy and expected that trend to
continue because of the state’s net migration of workers. He said that the
increase in available workers would allow a slightly higher rate of growth for
Colorado than for the nation. He said that Colorado is not in top tier in terms
of overall employment growth among states but is in the second tier. He
stated that the most recent recession has passed and predicted slow and
steady growth into the foreseeable future. He noted that households are in
sounder condition in terms of balance sheets but face challenges such as
high housing costs, uncertainties in terms of fiscal and monetary policy at
national level, and energy prices. He said those factors have both positive
and negative effects on state economy.
Dr. McNown said that employment is major driver in national short-term and
medium-term forecasts, personal income is a key driver in Colorado
forecasts, and retail sales and taxable sales are important for both national

and state projections. He stated that the long-term model is driven by
population projections. He spoke about forecast uncertainty and the factors
that contribute to that uncertainty. He suggested that a consensus forecast
utilizing an averaging of available models would present an accurate
depiction of what to expect in coming years. He noted that the revenue
forecasts showed a growth rate 4.1% last year, and he projected a rate of
4.0% for the current year. He spoke about the reliability of past CU Leeds
forecasts and noted the gap between optimistic and pessimistic forecasts is
only about 4%. He noted that forecasts predicting long-term growth depict a
flattening of the revenue income curve toward 2040. He compared the CU
Leeds forecasts to those used by other organizations in the state performing
similar projections and noted that forecasts put out by the Colorado
Legislative Council and the Governor’s Office of State Planning and
Budgeting (OSPB) are more optimistic. He said he is glad to see that CU
Leeds is more conservative in its estimates and noted that the organization’s
forecasts are model-based rather than human-interpreted projections.
Director Williams asked Dr. McNown to give an average of the CU Leeds
forecasting errors.
Dr. McNown estimated the average error would be 2 to 2.5% and stated
that most forecasts under the model previously used were too high.
Director Williams said that an aging population may be slowing down the
economy but pointed out that older people are more likely to use
transportation.
Director Lubow said that the recent recession has technically passed. She
stated that there has been a significant redistribution of wealth and that
many people work multiple jobs and asked whether those factors were taken
into account in the forecast.
Dr. McNown said that the wages and incomes of workers, which figure
prominently in retail sales and tax revenues, are incorporated in the model.
He said that even if employment grows by 2% in the coming year and
wages grow by slightly more than that, the forecast directly takes that into
account. He said that a tightening labor market creates upward pressure on
wages, thereby increasing retail sales.
Director Lubow asked whether the consensus forecast that CU Leeds will be
using in future forecasts has historically been more accurate.
Dr. McNown explained that the consensus study is composed of projections
from ten or more government agencies, such as the Congressional Budget
Office, the Office of Budget and Management, and the Department of
Commerce, and that each agency has its own forecasting methodology.

Dr. Wobbekind said that consensus forecasts have been closer and that the
Moody’s forecast CU Leeds used previously has consistently come in too
high, which is why they will be switching to a forecast with a larger sample
size.
Director Lubow noted that even a small over-forecast can cause big trouble.
She said it is important for forecasts to be as accurate as possible or slightly
below.
Dr. McNown said that CU Leeds wants to provide the best estimate and
does not tilt results one way or the other. He said there is solid academic
research to shows that averaging forecast uses different information that
provides better results, which he attributed to the wisdom of expert crowds.
Dr. Wobbekind suggested that the Board consider budgeting toward the
bottom end of the projections rather than the middle.
Director Mihalik said that the Board had just discussed disruptive technology
as it relates to RTD customers. He noted that the forecasts did not reflect
job automation technologies that would make office and blue collar jobs
redundant in the future.
Dr. McNown said that depressed wage growth has been attributed to
globalization and to automation. He said the automations Director Mihalik
spoke of are just a continuation of that trend and are captured by the
analysis.
Director Mihalik also stated that that real estate is in the largest bubble in
history.
Dr. McNown said that it is unrealistic for projections to accurately predict
future recessions but noted that forecasts CU Leeds has provided to staff do
anticipate the possibility of a recession. He offered that, to extent that CU
Leeds forecasts are conservative, their forecasting does perhaps account for
declines experienced during a recession.
Director Broom said the last major change to federal tax laws took place in
1986 and asked how changes in tax laws impact economic forecasts.
Dr. McNown said he has not reviewed the impact of the tax reforms in 1986
because doing so is a politically laden analysis. He said that some
economists found that the economy boomed as a result of the changes
while others said that the results were from normal growth. He said his own
opinion was that, in terms of real economy, changes to tax laws would not
make a difference, because the future is dictated by demographics already in

place. He said that real economic growth is limited by the number of
workers, and if no miraculous growth of productivity takes place, no change
in fiscal policy will make a difference. He noted that government fiscal policy
changes would drive changes in inflation.
Director Menten agreed that the recession is nearing its end but stated there
are indicators that show big challenges ahead. She said it would be a good
idea to be pessimistic in forecasting and asked whether a government could
be too conservative in its forecasting.
Dr. McNown said that an organization such as RTD is in the business of
providing services to the public. He said that a forecast that is too
conservative would cause RTD to spend too little money to provide adequate
services to its clients.

• Review of 2018-2023 SBP Development Process and 2018 Budget
Assumptions
Ms. McKillop said that the purpose of the Strategic Business Plan
(SBP) is to provide overall guidance for RTD. She said that the SBP
aligns with the agency’s strategic goals and incorporates
performance goal, sets target fund balances. She said that the SBP
and Annual Program Evaluation (APE) are both six-year plans now
and that both will be incorporated in one long-range plan going
forward. She said the development process is such that projects that
are approved go into the SBP. She said as new projects are brought
in they are then prioritized through an evaluation against the mission
statement and strategic goals and are analyzed against operating cost
forecasts.
Ms. McKillop spoke about the elements considered in the SBP for
2018-2023, including bus and rail service, the state of good repair of
operating and passenger facilities, capital elements, and the fleet
plan. She said that the age of RTD facilities was discussed at the
joint strategic planning session held in March 2017. She said that
RTD uses two forecasts for revenue assumptions, one in March that
is used for SBP and long-range planning and the other in the fall that
is used for the annual budget. She said the baseline forecast for
2016 should look familiar: 4.1% was the actual growth from 2016,
and 2017 growth is projected at 4.0%, which tracks closely to
realized year-to-date figures. She said both forecasts are below-trend
forecasts. She stated that the baseline forecast scenarios assume
that the Federal Reserve will increase short term rates, the dollar will
remain strong, deficit spending will increase, and oil prices will slowly
rise. She said that staff would recommend to the Board that the set

the growth forecast at 4.0% rather than a lower forecast, because
CU Leeds has recently changed to a more conservative forecast
model. She stated that forecasts do not typically build in recession
assumptions but noted that her department looked at a model that
factors in a slight recession in 2018 or 2019. She said a recession is
historically due, because they typically occur every seven to ten
years. She noted that a projected or realized recession could have a
dramatic effect on project selection.

Chair Hoy asked what the CU Leeds forecast would have shown if
the school had not changed their forecasting model.

Ms. McKillop said she did not have that number but noted that the
September forecast produced under the previous model showed
much higher growth than was actually experienced.
Director Sisk noted, with upcoming collective bargaining agreement (CBA)
negotiations, staff needs to have those models in place. He said the CBA is
what drives the train and the bus. He said the Board just heard from Dr.
McNown that employees are going to be less employed. He said he is very
concerned with creating an SBP with numbers that may not be realistic with
CBA renegotiations.
Director Menten said she was in favor of the lowest, most conservative
forecast possible.

• Non-Profit Program Update
Ms. McKillop said that changes were made in 2016 to the non-profit
program, which has been in place for 25 years. She said the program is
designed to allow nonprofits that are able to do means testing to receive a
50% discount on the face value of fare media, which they can pass on to
the people they serve in the community. She said the nonprofits are able to
either sell or give away the media to qualified constituents. She noted that
the amount available to the program was increased by $1million in 2016 to
a total of $6.8 million. She said constraints were put in place to monitor the
total value of media sold so that the program would not exceed the
budgeted amount. She said RTD anticipated increased interest in program,
because changes to the program were made in order to streamline the
administrative paperwork and tracking requirements

Ms. McKillop said the agency was able to manage the program under
existing resources through November, but in December the program
experienced a large spike in participation. She said the fare media issued
under the program was tracked manually via a spreadsheet, which is why
the program ran $700,000 over budget in December. She said that her
department was able to compensate for the overrun from last year but noted
that staff has made her aware that new program participants are placing
very large orders for fare media. She projected that the program would run
out of money in just a few months if the purchasing trend continued, which
is why she had approached the Executive Committee to put stopgap
measures in place. She reported that the Executive Committee agreed that
new program applicants would be waitlisted and that existing participants
would be limited to the amount of fare media they purchased in the same
month the prior year. For participants who had joined within the last few
months, she said those organizations would be able to purchase the average
number of tickets they had purchased in recent months. She said that the
Board had several options for the program:

To fund the program at the $6.8 million level. She indicated that
funding at this level would mean a reduction in the amount of fare media
available to participants.

To increase the program by $730,000, which would allow
participants to purchase the same amount they purchased last year;

To increase the program by another $1 million, which would allow
current participants to purchase more but close the program to new
participants.
She noted that the value of the fare media is not money the agency is losing
but rather revenue the agency is not collecting. She said she sought input
from the Board, and eventually a recommended action, because the outcome
of their decision affects how the amended 2017 budget will be structured.

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, said that RTD
anticipated a 10% increase in program participation because of the change
in the accounting process. He said the program previously employed a twotier application process with onerous accounting requirements. He said the
changes in the program were not marketed, but rather social service
agencies and umbrella agencies for the counties let their members know
about the changes. He said Director Deadwyler attributed the increase to
unmet need. He said Director Tisdale asked how the overrun came about,
and Mr. Reed explained that, because the accounting for sales of fare media
under the program was a manual process, it took a while to realize when the
sudden increase occurred at the end of the year.

Ms. McKillop noted that program participants do not always continue to
place orders for fare media and suggested that those groups could be
temporarily moved out of the program to make way for new participants.

Director Williams asked whether the program had been discussed with the
pass program working group. She also asked how many passes were issued
under the program and at what cost, and she inquired why the group from
Denver that is asking for 10,000 passes has not been added to the program.
She asked to see a list of program participants.

Ms. McKillop stated that many of the new participants are individual
schools. She said that Denver Public Schools (DPS) participates. She stated
the non-profit program is not a part of the pass program as a whole and said
that the outcome of the pass working group could affect non-profit program.
She said the reason the non-profit program was not offered to everyone is
that the agency we would go bankrupt and stated that Denver alone would
exceed the established limit of available media. She indicated that some of
the school districts were the reason the program overshot the amount of
available media.

Director Williams asked whether the increased cost of adding routes and
drivers as a result of the increased fare media was contemplated.

Ms. McKillop said that the cost had not been calculated and that there was
not enough data to know who receives the media.

General Manager Genova said he was waiting on demographic information
from Denver before factoring similar costs into the My Denver pass.

Director Walker asked whether the issue is an accounting problem or a cash
flow value problem.

Mr. Reed said that the issue is the revenue impact to RTD.

Director Walker suggested the use of a block-grant program, where
participants would submit requests for media in advance for the following
year.

Mr. Reed noted that the program funds had never before been exhausted.
He said staff is performing triage on the program and trying to establish
ways to control the process. He stated that the controls that may be put in
place could lead to more onerous accounting methods that will slow down
the distribution of fare media.

Director Walker asked if it would be possible to produce a smart card that
would allow program participants to fill the cards as one would an expense
account.

Mr. Reed said that would eventually be possible.

Director Anderson said she would like to see the program receive maximum
funding but noted that RTD is a transit agency and not a social services
agency and said RTD has been taken advantage of. She said she needed
more information on the program’s impact on revenues and the agency’s
ability to provide safe service before deciding how she would vote.

Chair Hoy said that the non-profits making large purchases have no skin in
the game, because they can purchase and resell fare media at the same
price. He suggested that non-profits be limited to reselling tickets at 25% of
face value, otherwise the program could sell out quickly. He mentioned that
certain organizations receive an additional 50% discount and can purchase
tickets at a quarter of the face value. He also suggested auditing program
participants and establishing a purchase limit. He said accounting staff
should be updating the tracking spreadsheet numbers daily to watch the
total number of tickets sold.

Director Tisdale said that he supports nonprofits but noted the money for the
program is public money. He said RTD is losing money by not receiving the
value for a ticket and noted that Directors took an oath to guard public
money. He said that a ticket given under the program is a gift of public
funds, not a right, and that no one is entitled to receive the tickets. He
agreed with Director Williams that the non-profit program should be part of
the pass program agenda. He reiterated that no one is interested in stopping
the program but rather are interested on pausing until the program can be
examined.

Director Lubow said that there exists a lot of unmet need and that she finds
it appropriate for a transit agency to provide access to disadvantaged
people. She asked whether the process could be automated.

Ms. McKillop said that automation is not possible presently but that her
department is working on it. She mentioned that the pass program is not a
part of the agency’s regular programs or processes.

Director Lubow said she is concerned with possibility of fraud.

Director Francone said that any additional spending should be stopped until
the program can be made equitable. She said that the program would need
to be stopped for the year if it were to run out of money even in the next
month. She said that Directors Tisdale and Walker offered good ideas and
that she was sure Ms. McKillop would create controls for the program.

Director Broom asked what portion of the ridership is represented by the
non-profit program, and General Manager Genova said that figure would be
reported by the next week.

Director Walker said there should not be a question of who is worthy to ride
transit and who is not and stated everyone deserves to be able to ride. He
said the question at hand is how much the agency can provide with the
money that has been allocated.
Director Menten said that she did agree to the additional $1 million because
the Board was told that non-profits were being neglected. She stated that
she does not want the non-profit program to be part of the pass program,
which she said should involve only the Eco Pass. She said she would not
have voted for the increase if she would have known the eventual outcome.

• SmartCard Project Update
Ms. McKillop offered to take questions only on the last two update items.
For the SmartCard. She reported that the go live date for the project was
still scheduled for May 10, 2017, for pilot participants May 24, 2017, for
the general public.
Director Francone asked about the notice to cure status of the disputed
project completion items.
Ms. McKillop reported that the main outstanding items were payment card
industry (PCI) compliance and platform validators. She said the vendor has a
plan to put fans in the platform validators to cool them down, thereby

hopefully preventing the screens from turning black under sunlight. She said
the vendor has been asked to compare validators side-by-side, one with the
fan and one without. She said the vendor is servicing the validators even
though warranty has expired. She said the vendor would hopefully resolve
the PCI compliance prior to the before go live date but that all issues are
currently within the agency’s risk tolerance.

• February 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Ms. McKillop said the actual sales and use tax revenues came in close to
projections and that the agency is very close to being on budget for the year
to date. She reported that ridership is down slightly and that fare revenue is
slightly above projections. She said the amended budget would be presented
soon and that the 2017 budget last year projected sales and use tax growth
of over 6%, whereas the realized growth was 4%. She said this gap has
resulted in a $20 million shortfall but said that she has a plan to
accommodate for the difference.

D. Other Matters
Director Menten asked when the agency would begin to review fare structure
changes slated to be implemented in 2019.
General Manager Genova said that those discussions would take place starting in
early 2018.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 16, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 9:18 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

