1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, July 9, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:34 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:29 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:34 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:37 PM
5:35 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:35 PM
5:35 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:22 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:33 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:31 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:33 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Absent
Present

5:30 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Judy McMurphy, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Zamy Silva, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Doug Grass, Stanley Gronek, Diana Horton, Douglas Howey, Johanna
Medina, Mei-Ling Rodriguez, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors adopts the 2014-2019 Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP).
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the
motion to move the 2014-2019
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) to the
full Board for adoption.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Jannette Scarpino explained that the development of the SBP
has been discussed in several committee meetings beginning
in March of 2013. Two previous drafts were presented with
their initial and early assumptions. They have been able to
sharpen the estimates after gathering more information. They
are now recommending approval of a final SBP. Jannette
Scarpino reiterated that this is a balanced SPB; balanced
means there is a positive unrestricted year end fund balance
over the 6-year period. Staff has incorporated the CU Leeds
sales tax forecast updated in June. The revised growth
projection for 2013 is 3.7%, which is up from 2.5% in the
March forecast.
Jannette Scarpino reviewed Exhibit 1 (available online as page
7 in the Agenda Packet). She stated there are no service
reductions being proposed in the SBP. She explained staff is

showing a fare revenue decrease of 2% in 2014 but this is
really just a transfer of base operations revenue to the West
line. The SBP show a fare revenue to increase 10% every
third year per Board policy.
Jannette Scarpino reminded the Board that she spoke about
project requests in previous meetings and the project requests
have been reduced, eliminated or deferred to the tune of about
$185 million, which has helped balance the SBP. The deferred
projects which they would like to bring back into the SBP at
some point now total $13.7 million. A list of deferred projects
is contained in Exhibit 4 which is available in the Board office
for review. A list of planned projects is shown in Exhibits 2
and 3 (also in the Board office).
Jannette Scarpino stated that the Board-appropriated fund and
the capital replacement fund are funded at the minimum of $3
million per year, to a target of $30 million for each fund. This
is per policy and provides a basis for fiscal sustainability. She
said the target balances are reached no later than 2019. Also
in 2019, the unrestricted year end fund balance is projected to
reach $95.1 million. There will be factors outside of staff
control, such as sales tax revenue, fuel, cost of materials,
inflation, economic conditions, etc., which will impact the
SBP, but they will attempt to address those factors in
developing the 2014 budget.
Director Folska requested to be able to review Exhibits 2, 3
and 4 mentioned in the presentation just given when she was
reviewing the entire Board packet. She also asked whether
this would be the right time to ask about the Transportation
Improvement Program (TIP). Jannette Scarpino assured
Director Folska she would investigate the possibility of
providing a link to the Exhibits. GM Washington stated that Bill
Van Meter would address the TIP later.
Director Deadwyler inquired about the fare decreases and
increases she heard mentioned in the report. GM Washington
explained that there would be a fare revenue decrease, not a
fare decrease, in relation to the 2% in 2014. Jannette
Scarpino further elaborated the 2% fare revenue decrease
would occur in 2014 as a result of the West line coming on
and “cannibalizing” fare revenue that otherwise would have
gone to Bus. The fare revenue will still be collected but will be
reported in FasTracks operations, which is the West line. Then

in 2015 and 2017, they are programming in a fare increase of
10%, per Board policy. The Board has the opportunity to
consider a fare increase every 3 years. GM Washington stated
that 2015 will be the year in which the Board will consider a
fare increase, per Board policy. Director Deadwyler
commented that this explanation is very helpful. She has been
approached by many transit-dependent citizens concerned
about fare increases. She thanked Jannette Scarpino and GM
Washington for the clarification.
Director Walker commented that we will be bringing a few
other rail lines on board in 2016 and 2017 but he doesn’t see
a fare revenue decrease in 2017. He wonders if it is too far
out to estimate. Jannette Scarpino said this is a good point; it
is difficult to estimate right now, so they have opted to not
include it in the SBP. By that time, largely due to sales tax
increase, staff will be able to generate substantially more
unrestricted fund balances in those years, so there is a
cushion.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Chair of the Board
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• May 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Manager of Financial Reporting, provided the Board with a
status report. RTD ridership is up 4.7%, or 398,000 riders; this is mainly
due to the 373,000 additional riders we gained with the West line. For the
year we are still down 1.2%, or 515,000 riders. That is actually an
improvement over April. With the additional ridership that we got from the
West line May actually wash with the extra day that we had in 2012; we
are basically flat to 2012. He pointed out that in the ridership section, staff
has added a line (the second line down) for the West line and will be report
that separately because it is FasTracks operations. At this time ridership is
about where we expected it be at about 13,000 on a weekday. Doug
MacLeod believes that should ramp up to about 18,000 eventually.

Doug MacLeod stated that fare revenue is up 10.7%, or $1,044,000, for
the month of May over May 2012. Year-to-date through May of 2013 we
are up $1,854,000, or 3.9%. He explained that the revenue from RTD’s fare
boxes was actually down half a percent, or $13,000 but the overall increase
is coming from our passes -- EcoPasses, CollegePasses, monthly passes and
annual passes. These increases are due to the federal workers shifting over
to flex-pass and out of the discounted EcoPass, as well as annual increases
that we have in contracts for the CollegePasses and EcoPasses.
Doug MacLeod explained that the Sales and Use Tax numbers reported were
an estimate; he informed the Board he left a copy of the revised/actual sales
tax numbers at each Director’s place at the table. For the month of May, we
were actually up 6.3% compared to May 2012, so that was additional
$2,385,000 this May. Year-to-date we are up 2.3%. In April, we were down
eight-tenths of a percent, so that’s a big swing the other way. The main
contributors to that increase in May came from a few different industries
including new and used car sales, home improvement centers, liquor stores’
sales, and computer manufacturing.
Doug MacLeod stated that page 17 of the Agenda Packet shows RTD’s
operating results for the West line for the month of May in addition to the
start-up costs for the year-to-date. He explained that staff is tracking the
cost of FasTracks operations with an allocation cost model; the reason staff
uses this model is because they cannot separate out all the West line
specific costs from the costs for the rest of the system. Each one of those
costs has been allocated to the West line on an activity-based approach; for
instance, they would allocate maintenance costs on track miles or revenue
hours. He stated that staff will follow this methodology throughout the year
and then true it up. He does not anticipate any big adjustments. Doug
MacLeod pointed out that the year-to-date column includes both start-up
expenses through April and operating expenses; going forward, it will only
be operating expenses.
Director Folska thanked Doug MacLeod for the update and requested
clarification on whether a rail line continues to be in FasTracks once it has
been opened or if it gets moved into our base system operating budget.
Doug MacLeod replied that we have to keep the six-tenths sales tax
separate from the four-tenths sales tax for FasTracks so the West line
becomes part of FasTracks operations; FasTracks operations is separate
from FasTracks capital programs. Director Folska asked whether the
FasTracks operations accounts for 5% or 20% of the bus fare revenue.
Doug MacLeod responded that when staff sets the budget for FasTracks
operations versus base system operations, they look at certain costs that
cannot be separated out; for instance, maintenance costs. There is not a
separate maintenance support function for the FasTracks operations so staff

looks at the individual item and determines how much will be used by
FasTracks and the rest stays on the base system side. Director Folska
thanked Doug MacLeod for the clarification.
Director Hoy stated that his understanding is that this allocation has to do
with West line trains sharing tracks with base system trains. Doug MacLeod
confirmed this was true.
Director Sisk commented that there doesn’t seem to be an allocation for
general counsel and safety and security. He asked if those allocations would
always be zero. Doug MacLeod replied that there is actually an allocation
for safety and security, but he understands Director Sisk’s point that there
are some zeroes. He explained that their cost allocation model has been used
for a long time. It was used in the past for our national transit database
report to the federal government and also to do our internal allocation to the
FasTracks operations. When it comes to some support costs like legal
counsel, RTD would have those costs whether or not the West line existed.
Marla Lien added that when the FasTracks capital program was developed, a
staffing plan was put together with all the staff necessary to implement the
program that are paid out of the FasTracks capital budget. She said that we
have not yet made an assessment of the staff allocation and the way we do
the budget but we could in the near future now that we have FasTracks
operations. Director Sisk believes that would be good. GM Washington
stated that one of the things to think about as well is that a lot of the
positions that we brought on which are funded by FasTracks capital budget
are project positions as well. He stated that some of those positions will
theoretically go away when the capital portion is complete.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 13, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:06 P.M. to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

