Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
July 12, 2018 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
Chaired by Doug Tisdale
I.

Call to Order

II.

July Board Meeting Agenda Review

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Adjourn

Draft Board Meeting Agenda - July 17, 2018
I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 26, 2018

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Approval of ERP Licenses

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract to Mythics for licenses for the ERP
Replacement Program for an amount not to exceed $2,000,000 over 5 years.
Subscriptions for the ERP Replacement Program will be paid annually.
This recommendation addresses two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals: Core
Goal #3 Strong Financial Management and Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.
B.

Approval of Data and Content Analysis Software

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a fiveyear contract to Active Navigation in the total not-to-exceed amount of $869,539
for a data and content analysis software (record crawler).
This recommended action addresses the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Task Goal
#1 Fiscal Sustainability, and Task Goal #3 Asset Management/State of Good
Repair.
XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Old Business

XIV.

New Business

XV.

Executive Session
Denver Transit Partners dispute resolution process and negotiations. CRS 24-6-402 (4)
(b) (Conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving
legal advice on specific legal questions); and CRS 24-6-402 (4) (e) (I) (Determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations; developing strategy for
negotiations; and instructing negotiators)

XVI.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

July 2, 2018

Subject:

Approval of ERP Licenses

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: July 3, 2018
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: July 17, 2018

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
to Mythics for licenses for the ERP Replacement Program for an amount not to exceed $2,000,000
over 5 years. Subscriptions for the ERP Replacement Program will be paid annually.
This recommendation addresses two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals:
Financial Management and Task Goal #1 Fiscal Sustainability.

Core Goal #3 Strong

BACKGROUND:
The current Oracle e-business suite (EBS) enterprise resource planning (ERP) implementation at RTD is
approaching end of life. Oracle will end support for the EBS system in 2021.
Starting in 2017, the Information Technology team began researching various approaches for the ERP
replacement. Modern ERP solutions are moving toward a cloud-based, specialized solution. Three options
for replacement were presented to the AGM’s for consideration:
1. Upgrade the existing ERP Oracle system to Oracle Cloud
2. Implement another vendor’s single cloud ERP solution (such as SAP or Workday)
3. Use a best-of-breed hybrid approach by implementing ERP cloud-based solutions for specific lines
of business (such as finance and human resources)
The options were presented to the AGM’s and they determined to use a best-of-breed, hybrid approach.
This enables RTD to take advantage of the strengths of various cloud-based solutions to improve
business operations and more closely align the cloud/software solution to business process. Cloud tools
make it easier to implement a best-of-breed approach and they also allow for integration between the
differing systems.
During the research phase, demonstrations of several vendor’s solutions were held with RTD business
units to determine the functionality needs and best fit for RTD business processes. Through this series
of demos and requirements gathering sessions, the determination was made that finance related
modules would stay in one cloud-based solution forming the ERP backbone, or backend system. The
solution that was chosen was Oracle cloud. The human resources and payroll modules will utilize a
different cloud-based solution that has not yet been determined. Some examples of the finance related
modules (and those that are dependent on finance modules) include:





General ledger
Accounts payable
Account receivable
Assets

Packet Pg. 4

2.11.A






Procurement
Inventory planning and forecasting
Public sector budgeting
Sourcing, supplier, and contract management

The first phase of the ERP replacement project includes the following modules:
1. Public sector planning and budgeting
2. Inventory planning and forecasting
3. Sourcing, supplier and contract management
The current Public Sector Planning and Budgeting module is outdated and does not provide the
functionality needed by RTD. It is no longer supported by the vendor. The Inventory Planning and
Forecasting module is outdated and does not provide advanced functionality that enables efficient
business performance. This module will reach end of life and no longer be supported by the vendor after
2021. Sourcing, Supplier and Contract Management is a new module that will be added to the ERP
program once licenses are procured and will allow for easier management of contracts and vendor
interactions.
Over the past eighteen months, multiple vendors were invited to demo their solutions for these three
modules with RTD business units. The Oracle solution best fit the needs of the business units as well as
the specific public-sector business needs of RTD. In the case of public sector budgeting, Oracle is the
only solution that performs the functions needed for public sector. Oracle was also chosen because of
the dependence and integration needed between these modules and the finance backbone.
The Board previously approved a total of $15,000,000 for the ERP Replacement Program in the 2018 2023 Strategic Budget Plan. The contract authority recommended in this board action will use a portion
of this approved funding for this first set of ERP program licenses.
DISCUSSION
RTD conducted an RFI to obtain pricing for these three modules with the National Association of State
Budget Officers (NASBO), US Communities, and The Cooperative Purchasing Network (TCPN). Each of
these organizations have pre-negotiated contracts with the State of Colorado. The State bid and
awarded these contracts through their standard procurement processes and these contracts allow other
governmental agencies to utilize them. Two firms submitted proposals. The criteria used to evaluate the
proposals was license cost.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The contract authority shall not exceed $2,000,000. Funding for these licenses is included in the approved
ERP Replacement Program budget.

The yearly breakdown for the licenses is as follows:
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022

$400,000
$400,000
$400,000
$400,000
$400,000

Packet Pg. 5

2.11.A

ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract to Mythics for licenses for the ERP Replacement Program for an amount not to exceed
$2,000,000 over 5 years. Subscriptions for the ERP Replacement Program will be paid annually.
2. Remain on our existing ERP implementation with one module currently out of support and the
remaining modules no longer supported by the vendor after 2021.

Prepared by:
Heather McKillop, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

2.11.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather McKillop,
Administration

Date:

July 2, 2018

Subject:

Approval
Software

of

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: July 3, 2018
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: July 17, 2018

Data

and

Content

Analysis

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a five-year contract to Active Navigation in the
total not-to-exceed amount of $869,539 for a data and content analysis software (record crawler).
This recommended action addresses the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Task Goal #1 Fiscal
Sustainability, and Task Goal #3 Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
BACKGROUND
Since RTD began using personal computers and related technology to support its mission, our employees
have created, received and saved electronic files on RTD’s network shared drives. Today, there are
more than 9,000 – nine thousand – gigabytes (GB) of electronic files in RTD’s shared drives alone.
Translated to paper, that is 8 billion pages, 8 million file boxes (at 1,000 pages per box), or more than
4,500 round trips to the moon if each page is placed end-to-end.
In this digital age, all organizations including RTD are facing steadily increasing information management
challenges. These challenges include increased regulatory requirements that now focus on information
assets more than ever before, security and privacy issues, and email and web communications. To
support best practices in information governance, lifecycle management, and records management, and
to most efficiently leverage the information and data in our custody, RTD must take control of this
tsunami of data. A well-established software tool called a “crawler” is a standard method to identify and
flag files for transfer or deletion, helping reduce the total volume of electronic files to manage while
ensuring that the information RTD relies on is quickly accessible.
DISCUSSION
In August 2016, IQ Business Group (IQBG), a highly respected information governance consultant,
presented RTD with recommendations to improve our records management program after a careful
assessment of the existing program. IQBG’s recommendations included combining RTD’s various
document control and information governance staff into a unified Information Governance &
Management (IGM) Division, creating records liaisons within each department, and other
recommendations.
The purchase of a data and content analysis tool – a crawler – was one of IQBG’s recommendations
after a pilot crawl of a small portion of RTD’s network revealed that roughly 40% of the total content
fell into the category of low value. For this exercise there were five classifications that made up the low
value category:



Temporary – 2% of files were created by system processes (i.e., .tmp file extensions)
Duplicates – 30% of the files assessed were duplicates

Packet Pg. 7

2.11.B





Non-Business – 24% files identified as multimedia content named in a way that indicates it is not
related to business (Christmas, holiday, vacation, etc.)
Old – 26% content with a modified date greater than ten years.
Identified low value – 18% content identified in the name or by folder as being a first draft, or an
older version, of content that should be deleted.

Another factor in the analysis was the risk content that was identified. Approximately 280,000 files on
the network showed a number that appears like a social security number or a credit card number.
The term “crawler” is most often seen in the context of internet searches: a “web crawler” – also
known as a “spider” – is an automated tool that browses through the internet in a systematic way,
creating an updating a search engine index and helping make sense of the huge amount of online
information. Google and Bing would not exist without automated crawlers.
For individual enterprises like RTD, crawlers serve similar indexing and search functions for data in a
variety of formats, but they also perform the crucial task of identifying files that can and should be
deleted. Appropriate deletion of data is important because data costs potentially enormous sums of
money to manage – especially in the context of litigation e-discovery – and value can only be derived
from data if the information is accessible and usable. Not all data has equal value – to a computer, an
employee’s vacation snapshot can take up just as much space on RTD’s files and require just as much
management as critical operational data – but all data must be evaluated for its value (or lack of value)
and retained or deleted based on that evaluation. A crawler is the key automation tool to perform such
evaluation and promote efficient retrieval of valuable data. A crawler can also identify information that
needs to be secured. Conducting such searches and evaluation manually is virtually impossible given the
amounts of data at issue, while an automated crawler uses algorithms to quickly and accurately identify
files that can and should be deleted.
To more efficiently and securely manage RTD’s data and information, and optimize storage in
compliance with RTD’s records retention policy, subject to approval of this Recommended Action the
IGM Division will use a crawler to search and analyze RTD’s structured and unstructured electronic
information. IGM’s goal is to reduce storage of information in unauthorized locations, identify and
remove duplicates (de-duping), reduce storage costs, identify the most current version of duplicates to
preserve as the record copy, and improve current processes and practices when it comes to managing
information as an organization.
The crawler is one strategy that IGM intends to use to reach these goals by better identifying redundant
information. Another strategy is to implement a records liaison program to interface with IGM as the
Division’s eyes and ears. A third strategy is the assessment program to determine compliance of
departments across RTD with the records management and information governance policies and
procedures.
This technology will be used in conjunction with RTD’s Enterprise Content Management (ECM) tool,
Laserfiche, to capture the original and authentic record. Duplicate and redundant files will be flagged for
destruction in accordance with RTD policies and procedures. These actions will help reduce the cost of
doing business, minimize the risk of keeping records past their retention period, and lower legal
expenses.
The RFP was advertised on October 16, 2017. RTD received five proposals. Active Navigation was
selected as the best value based on software features, functionality, maintenance and support, and
price.

Packet Pg. 8

2.11.B

The proposed contract with Active Navigation is for a not-to-exceed amount of $869,539 covering all
five years, and includes a five-year licensing agreement, implementation, testing, maintenance, training,
and support.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Most of the funding is accounted for in the 2018 - 2023 Strategic Budget Plan within IGM’s operating
budget and approved capital award. Crawler software Award #LC-01-3309-16 and Award #LC-013309-15 have cumulative funds at $650,000; implementation and integration Award #LC-01-3309-16
has $74,880, and Support and Maintenance from the expense budget has $100,000 for a grand total of
$824,880. The balance of the funds will come from the Data Processing budget line in the IGM O&M
budget.
The cost savings/avoidance to be realized is significant. The Crawler will:
 Reduce the volume of electronic files to review during eDiscovery.
 Decrease time spent searching for information. An estimated 15–25% of employees’ time is
spent on nonproductive information–related activities.
 Eliminate redundant, obsolete and trivial files (ROT) to keep storage costs down.
 Identify the authentic record for business and engineering decisions to avoid costly mistakes.
 Eliminate shadow systems that hold duplicate information.
 Provide the legally defensible deletion of e-trash, ROT, stale and low value content.
 Effectively identify and protect personally identifiable information, personal health information,
sensitive security information, and protected critical infrastructure information.
 Move the authentic records to the correct repository to reduce duplication of files, or re-creation
of the record.
 Enhance compliance with current processes and practices to manage information overall at RTD.
ALTERNATIVES
1. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a five-year contract to Active Navigation in
the total not-to-exceed amount of $869,539 for a data and content analysis software (record
crawler).
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to
award a contract to Active Navigation in the amount of $869,539 for the data and content analysis
software. This alternative is not recommended because without a crawler, RTD would continue to
generate and store data and information at an exponential rate, with lessened security and increased
search and e-discovery costs. RTD would have to rely on costly, inefficient and less reliable manual
methods to try to manage electronic information, resulting in greater personnel costs, reduced
effectiveness, and greater risk of liability.

Prepared by:
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel
Linda Buss, Sr Manager, Information Governance and Management
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 9

2.11.B

Packet Pg. 10

