2024-10-09
Operations, Safety, and Security Committee
TROY WHITMORE: Good evening, everyone. The Wednesday, October 9 Operations Safety and
Security Committee of RTD will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Time. I'd
respectfully ask everyone attending the meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak.
Thank you all for joining us this fine evening. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access the service should send an email to the RTD Board Office, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anybody who desires the Spanish version. A live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
With that, I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Vice Chair Julien Bouquet. We do
expect him later due to a work conflict. Director Ian Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm here.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Jaime Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Paul Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director JoyAnn Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Marjorie Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
TROY WHITMORE: And I'm Troy Whitmore, Chair. And I am here. So we do have a quorum, six of seven
Directors on the committee in attendance.
For the record, I also see that we have several other Board members present tonight, including Chair
Davidson and Secretary Guzman, Vice Chair Catlin, Finance Chair Tisdale, and Director Broom. Have I
missed any other Board members that have joined us? Does not look like it. Thank you all for being here.

All right, B, Public Comment. Now like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press pound 9 on your phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or
responses. However, if you'd like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD
Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd denver.com.
All right, Mr. Kroll, do we have any raised hands in queue for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Whitmore, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At
this time, I see one hand raised, and that is from Richard Bamber.
TROY WHITMORE: All right, Mr. Bamber, you know the drill. You have three minutes to address the
committee. Proceed.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi. Good evening, and thank you for letting me speak, Chair Whitmore. I wanted to
talk about the Vision Zero, which is on the agenda tonight. It is an initiative that multiple organizations
from the community, stakeholders, people with an interest in safety, having the best transit system we
can have, have worked and put a lot of hours in. So we are very, very keen to see the fruits of the labor
and the collaboration end up as a policy that RTD follows and makes things better. So I would urge all
Directors on the committee tonight to vote to advance the resolution.
There is also an amendment, I understand, that's being submitted, and that kind of says, it kind of more
pushes for we would like to see a draft report and a report. I should point out at this stage some of the
language. We are not asking RTD staff to take responsibility for Vision Zero on all the roads. We know
RTD doesn't have jurisdiction. But if you are to get to zero fatalities and injuries, you don't just stay in your
own lane. If there is another government agency, for example, DOTI or CDOT, who are failing our riders
by not providing safe, accessible infrastructure so transit riders can get to that bus stop, the transit facility
or the rail station, RTD needs to be an active part of the community in saying to those organizations, hey,
that's not right. We need to improve this. It is not sufficient just to say, that's not our responsibility.
So in closing, I hope all Directors on the committee will vote for the resolution and including the
amendment. Thank you very much.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Bamber. Mr. Kroll, any further raised hands?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Whitmore, at this time I do not see any additional hands raised.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I do know that we received at least one letter from
Greater Denver Transit that you all received on a number of topics for this evening and in the immediate
past. Are there other letters to recognize, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Whitmore, at this time, I'm not aware of any additional emailed letters for
public comment for tonight's meeting.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll.
All right, item C, information from external entities. We have no external entity reports this evening.

We do have, however, two recommended actions under item D. The first action is for the resolution in
support of RTD Vision Zero initiatives. And that is for the Board of Directors to adopt the attached
resolution supporting RTD-specific Vision Zero initiatives. Do I have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved, Sloan.
TROY WHITMORE: Do I have a second?
JAIME LEWIS: Second, Lewis.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you. I heard Directors Sloan as a movant and Lewis as the seconder.
All right.
As you all know, this item has come forward through the outreach efforts and hard work performed by
Directors Guzman, Harwick, and Ruscha. And I do want to allow any of the group of three to make a
statement or present any further information. And at this time, I believe the plan is that Director Harwick
will begin with? OK, so the floor is yours, Director Harwick. Proceed.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Yeah, this has been a labor of labor for quite a while. So here we are. But I really
appreciate you, Director Whitmore, putting this on for us tonight.
Yeah. So Director Ruscha and I and Director Guzman, and Director Lewis, before he was a Director,
have all really put a lot of time and effort into this. So I'm just reading this. Anyway, given that we've
already seen the presentation, we don't really need to add more to that right now. And we have the
presentation that you can view. If you haven't seen it, it's bit.ly/rtdvisionzerodocs.
As we shared in June, our Vision Zero group convened nine times from October, 2023 through January,
2024. We had almost 40 participants, including riders, subject matter experts, and representatives from
transit advocacy organizations, like Denver Streets Partnership, Pedestrian Dignity, the Denver bicycle
lobby, Greater Denver Transit, and the Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. ATU 1001 also participated.
Earlier today, we submitted the initial resolution, and then Director Ruscha submitted an amendment. The
amendment clarifies two things. The first is that the GM and CEO and staff will present Vision Zero action
plan to the board no later than the end of the second quarter of next year, and that our Vision Zero plan
would follow the guidance of the Vision Zero network.
Right now, we are not submitting the amendment. We are just submitting the resolution. We want to make
sure that the work that we've done and the work in that is in collaboration with staff. And so we're just
going to submit this as is, and then we want to make sure that we're just, again, really getting everybody
at the table together to make sure that the amendment that was submitted is on par with where staff is at.
And that was sort of a combination of a meeting between a lot of different people at different times over
the course of today. So we appreciate that happening. Any other-- so just go back to my script. Any other
language is actually just redundant.
And so anyway, yeah, I'm really excited, again, to get this across the finish line, or at least right there to
handing off one more relay to the last bit here. So again, we're going to negotiate the amendment
language and then we'll submit that to the Board at the final meeting later this month.
So I think we have a couple comments, but I'll leave that there for right now.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Director Harwick. As one of the principal creators of this
document, I'm going to switch over to Director Ruscha next, followed by Lewis and Rosenthal and Sloan,
if that's OK with the committee.
All right. Go ahead. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I apologize. I had to Zoom in from my phone today. So
thank you, Director Harwick for that lovely recital.
So I just want to note, just on the amendment language, of course, we don't want to submit any tweaks
that look to be last minute. There was just, I think, just a little bit of confusion on the final language. And
then once something is published, it's kind of hard to take it back.
But I did speak with GM/CEO Johnson today, and I think we came to a really good place. And I don't want
to speak for her, so I would love for her to jump in or address this, just to ensure that we're on the same
page and we're respecting where staff is. And we had really wanted to see a completed action plan by
next summer, and got feedback that that might be a little inflexible for staff because we've got a lot on our
plate.
And, of course, being a transit agency, while these principles are certainly transferable, we'd still be a little
bit unique. And we want staff to succeed and we want to respect staff's time as well. And so what we had
discussed was, well, maybe next June, then staff would just come back with a draft and we would have a
discussion and we could have dialogue and if there's feedback or anything that we need to do. But at
least just have a draft. And it's possible staff will come back earlier with a completed document. But that
was just to give staff the flexibility.
And then just the language regarding the Vision Zero network, I think that was, you could kind infer from
the current resolution before you. But we just wanted just to make it clear. Because as my colleague,
Director Guzman, would say, clarity is kind. But I just wanted to put on the record that I'm just really
appreciative of all the work that everyone put into this. And also, just I think our GM/CEO must have had
a collective 14 meetings on this, just in the last couple of months. And so I'm just appreciative of that
support and that leadership.
And then finally, I will just note that if we pass this, then we will be the first transit agency in the country to
fully adopt a Vision Zero strategy, which I think is really exciting and demonstrates the leadership that we
have here and also our unique position in just being a regional. We can do a little bit more and we have
that flexibility.
So again, thank you, everyone, for your participation and thank you, staff, for your feedback. I'm excited
to hopefully move this forward tonight. And I can't see the screen, so I'm going to turn it back over to the
Chair. And if you have further questions, Director Harwick would be happy to answer them.
TROY WHITMORE: All righty, then. Thank you, Director Ruscha.
GM/CEO Johnson, do you have any statements or thoughts at this point, or do you want to wait till we're
done with the Board input? It's up to you.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Well, thank you, Mr. Chair. I would just share, both Directors Harwick and Ruscha
are correct, we have engaged. I did have an opportunity to speak with Director Ruscha earlier today who
shared with me her intent to submit amendments.

In the interest of full disclosure, as I shared with her, I support the resolution in concept. I have not had an
opportunity to go through the amendments. What she spoke of regarding staff's time and things of the
like, yes, there are a lot of things on our plate and we are doing various elements that could be
incorporated into the Vision Zero work plan going forward. However, I would like the opportunity to confer
with members of my team.
And so I am in support of what the committee collectively decides to do going forward, because I do think
it's important relative to ensuring that people are using various arterials in a safe manner. And I am a firm
believer and supporter that one death is one too many. And having come from areas that actually have a
transit first policy and things of the like, there's a myriad of things that we can do, that we're already doing
here at this agency, that could be enveloped into the Board's desire to have a Vision Zero plan.
So with that, I will yield the floor. Thanks.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam CEO and GM. Do appreciate those comments.
All right. We have several other Directors in queue. I will go next to Director Lewis. The floor is yours.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. I wonder if we could pull up the resolution on the screen? The original.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Kroll, can you or one of your staff members do so?
JAIME LEWIS: And while he's doing that, I'll explain. I had concerns with a line that indicated that it
appeared that RTD was solely responsibility for the bus stops, and I'd like to maybe do an edit on that or
an amendment. Let's see. I'm not sure if, let's see, therefore-- it would be in the therefor section? OK. We
engage with communities. Trying to figure out where it's at. I know it's in there somewhere.
TROY WHITMORE: Does it happen to be in Section 4?
JAIME LEWIS: OK. OK, funding for bus. Here we go. Let's find the sentence. It's a long sentence. In
addition to going on-- [MUMBLING]-- and leverage information and evaluating ongoing infrastructure
investments similar to the recent installation of the new blank out signs along the railroad system to
improve pedestrian and vehicular, starting in 2025, budget documents will specifically identify funding for
bus stop, rail crossing, and pedestrian improvements.
I have a strong feeling that's obligating future Boards to address the bus stop through budget documents
only. What I'd like to see is a statement indicating-- because we do, just for clarification, we have over
9,000 bus stops. So that is a big, big undertaking. So what I'd like to see is, RTD will work with city and
counties throughout the District to create a plan to address bus stop design, construction, and
maintenance.
And I'm wondering if our Directors who created this would be willing to make that change. Because the
way it's stated right now, it looks like we're obligating ourselves to take on the task of bus stops. And this
is really an issue that has to be sorted out with counties and municipalities.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, Mr. Chair. I'm not sure if could-- I'm on the phone so I can't see the whole, I
can't see the whole gallery.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. Go right ahead, Director Ruscha, as far as addressing Director Lewis's ideas
there on that verbiage change.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. So thank you for that feedback, Director Lewis. So the language is not
intended to obligate RTD to care for all of our bus stops. And that was language that had been submitted
by staff. So I would say, I'm open to any clarifications. And I would definitely commit to making sure that
we clarify that at the end of the-- or at the regular board meeting, just when we make those other tweaks
as well. I could definitely say that on the record, if we need any kind of clarification, since that was, what
you just stated is definitely not the intent. And I don't want anyone to read that incorrectly.
Does that make sense? Because I just, I'm not sure how I would amend it. I'm not sure how I would
rewrite it on the fly.
JAIME LEWIS: Exactly. And I'll send you my suggestion and you can bring up that amendment at the full
meeting. But I just wanted to point that out. It sounded like it was pigeonholing RTD to be obligated for
bus stops. So thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Understood. You have my commitment we'll work on that. We'll tweak it.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, ma'am.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Anything else, Director Lewis?
JAIME LEWIS: Not at this time. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. So it's my understanding you will submit recommend language in that
regard. I think that's a valid point, sir, to the Board Office. And we will work it into an amendment, or a set
of amendments, at the full Board meeting on this same matter. So that is the action that I think we heard,
and I think that will work with staff as well.
All right. Next in queue, I have Director Rosenthal. The floor is yours, sir.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And I just want to say how much I appreciate the members,
the Directors for pulling this together. It's a very detailed report. They put a lot of effort on that and the
presentation and the proposed resolution.
My sense is it really actually just describes what RTD is already doing, what DRCOG is already doing,
City and County of Denver, City of Aurora, and so many other municipalities are already doing. But as I'm
hearing tonight, this process is getting a bit of a muddle and it's getting a bit chaotic. We're hearing like,
well, we should support the resolution, but really not, because there's an amendment tonight and then
there's a possible two amendments.
I mean, we as Board members, we are not the legislature. We are not the City and County of Denver. We
have rules and practices how we follow that some Board members sometimes try to criticize our General
Manager and others on her team. We need to make sure that we follow rules. And somehow I feel like
tonight we're not.
And so I will respectfully not vote for this tonight, not because it's not well intentioned or not because it's,
not because of the subject matter, which I said, as I said, we're already doing and we're doing for good
reason. And so is the City and County of Denver and DRCOG and other entities. So I just can't support it
tonight because there's just too much going on with this potential resolution.
So that's my perspective. Thank you.

TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. Director Sloan, the floor is now yours.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, thank you, Chair Whitmore. First, I want to say that I truly support the Vision
Zero plan for RTD. In fact, at a JEFTAG meeting, and JEFTAG stands for Jefferson County Action and
Advocacy Transportation Group, which consists of electeds and staff, transportation staff members in
Jefferson County. And the County presented that they were working on a Vision Zero plan. And I said,
we're discussing one tonight. And the response was great, a great opportunity to collaborate on this. And
I notice in the therefore section, paragraph 2, it specifically calls out collaboration. And I think that is
already underway in the metro area, which is a great thing.
As far as Director Rosenthal's comment, I understand what he's saying, but I think this is in sufficient
shape tonight to move to the full Board. So I will be in support of it. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. Second bite at the apple for Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes, ditto what Director Sloan just said about the amount of work that both Ian and
Ruschka put into this.
One comment. I actually have a question, and it's for Debra Johnson. I'm just curious, how does this
Vision Zero mesh with the-- is it the PFAS that we're going to be talking about later in this agenda? And
that kind of talks a lot about safety and safety protocols. How do these two things mesh together, or if
they mesh at all? I'm just kind of curious.
TROY WHITMORE: The floor is yours, Debra.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Thank you, Director Lewis, for the question.
I believe you're referencing the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, the PTASP. And recognizing
that the PTASP is just that, our agency safety plan. There's many different facets to that. We have an
SMS, a safety management system. There's various things to which we have to adhere. Recognizing that
the core business of this agency is delivering transit services that take a high level of care, i.e. operating
mass transit vehicles, some are on public rights of way, some are on private rights of way.
And recognizing the ultimate aspect of it, to the point that was raised earlier, we don't have auspices over
those arterials for all intents and purposes. But what we do with that high level of care is train people. We
basically have different programs. We're a part of the roadway worker safety program. When we train our
bus operators, for instance, we use the five keys, the Smith system.
So I share that to say at a high level, quite naturally, since we're hearing people that basically are
traversing arterials there needs to be a higher level of care when delivering that. So there is interface. I
want to make that clear. Outside of the PTASP, before the PTASP came to fruition with the federal
reauthorization bill, we still were doing a myriad of things. And it calls for collaboration, quite naturally.
That's why we have-- we're hoping for transit signal prioritization and preemption and all those different
things.
So I don't want you to think that this usurps that. It's just collectively that we're better together as we try to
create an optimal operating environment. And hence, that's why I referenced earlier like a transit first
priority, as we have multiple municipalities. And if, in fact, there are different elements of that incorporated
in, which could be in the future, we are there.

So I know that was sort of taking us around the mulberry bush, but just wanted to give you high level of
how this is all interwoven. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And thank you, Director Lewis.
I see no other raised hands from the committee. Are there any non-committee Directors with comments or
questions. Don't see any raised hands there.
There's Director Catlin, Vice Chair Catlin. Proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I read through this and actually I share Director Rosenthal's
concerns that we received an amendment at 3:00, or proposed amendment at 3:00. I was glad to hear
from Director Harwick that that will not be addressed tonight, but would possibly be addressed at the full
Board meeting, because I had concerns about the lateness of the submission of this proposed
amendment. And there were quite a few changes, and I didn't have a chance to compare them side by
side.
But I just wanted to make a comment that I found it curious that Greater Denver Transit commented about
the proposed amendment prior to any Board members seeing that proposed amendment. And I think
from a process standpoint, we tried to address that with our Board Operating guidelines. And, as Director
Rosenthal suggests, this kind of deviated from those guidelines. So I was glad to see that Director
Harwick said that this amendment would be pulled and that we would not be dealing with it at the last
minute.
So that's not really a question. It's more of an observation. And I'm not on the committee, so take that for
what it's worth. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Vice Chair Caitlin.
With no other hands raised, I think it is appropriate that we take a vote. The motion was made by Director
Sloan, seconded by Director Lewis. We will do a roll call vote. Is Director Bouquet with us yet, Jack? I
don't think I see him. OK. So we have no vote from Director Bouquet.
The rest of the roster. Director Harwick, how do you vote?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: Thanks for the suspense there, Director Harwick. Not necessary for everybody else.
OK, Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: No, respectfully.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.

TROY WHITMORE: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
TROY WHITMORE: And Director Whitmore, myself, I am a yes. So the motion passes five yes to one no
and one absent.
All right. Thank you very much. And thanks for all the hard work from numerous parties in this regard.
All right. Next action item, the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, PTASP. For the Board of
Directors to approve the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan, PTASP, in accordance with the
requirements set forth in 49CFR Parts 674 and 673 and 4CCR723-7 Rule 7345. Is there a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved, Sloan.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Rosenthal.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you. We have a [INAUDIBLE] motion and second. And at this point in
time, I'd like to ask our staff member on this topic, the Manager of Safety Management Systems, Sky
Mott, and he's also in charge of safety and environmental compliance. He's got a long job title, Sky Mott.
So anyway, Sky, the floor is yours for a summary of the PTASP, as we had a very good presentation from
Sky last month. The floor is yours, sir.
SKYLAR MOTT: Thank you. Thank you, Chair Whitmore, and good evening, everyone.
Like he said, I'm Skylar Mott, the Manager of Safety Management Systems Program Development, and
I'm here to recommend the Board's approval for the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan in
accordance with those regulations, 49CFR 673, which is the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan,
and 49CFR674, which is what is in part for the SSO, or the State Safety Oversight Authority, which is a
Colorado Public Utilities commission.
So at last month's Operations and Safety and Security Committee meeting, I provided a comprehensive
update on the key changes in the 2025 PTASP update. Tonight, I will briefly recap the most significant
updates, as if you have any questions, you may ask them.
So the first update is the Joint Labor Management Safety Committee and the GM/CEO approval prior to
the Board of Directors review and approval of the 2025 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan. So that
was a major update since last time. The other one is the introduction of a three-year rolling average and
safety performance targets, as reported by the National Transit Safety Database, in compliance with the
bipartisan infrastructure law, as well as the National Safety Plan. And then lastly, the big update is
incorporating the risk reduction program and the risk-based inspection requirements in line with 49CFR
673 and 4CCR723-7.
These updates not only ensure compliance, but also overall strengthen our safety performance at the
agency. Lastly, since our last meeting, I'd like to provide an update on where we are with the 2025
Agency Safety Plan as far as approval. As I mentioned in that first update item, the approval by the
GM/CEO occurred earlier this month, or actually, earlier last month. And then following that, it was
endorsed by the Joint Labor and Management Safety Committee co-chairs, which is Julian Gutierrez, the
Vice President of the ATU 1001, and myself.

Other than that, I will thank you for the opportunity to speak and give you guys the update on where we
were with the Agency Safety Plan, and I will yield the floor back to you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Mott. Appreciate the presentation last month and the update tonight.
I do see, for the record, that Vice Chair Guissinger has joined our meeting as well. So at this point, any
questions for Mr. Mott or Ms. Johnson? I see Director Ruscha in queue. The floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have two. So on packet page 55, where it discusses the Board of
Directors and executive leadership, I wanted to note just that the language currently states that the
GM/CEO has full charge of the acquisition, construction, maintenance, and operations and so forth and
so on. But our current delegation of authority has some limitations. And I just kind of wanted to put that
out there.
And then I was also, just in looking at this section, I was thinking our GM/CEO is primarily responsible for
safety, and she's also our accountable executive. But the Board of Directors also legally and ethically we
also have some responsibility as well. And so I would have kind of liked to see that just kind of better
reflected in the first paragraph.
And then it is noted elsewhere in the PTASP, and I don't remember what page it was, but just that the
Board of Directors gets a report that includes risk reduction program and performance targets. And I
understand this. We have a 700-plus page packet tonight, and we got this on Friday. So it kind of is what
it is. But I just wanted to make just general, just a general comment. But the part that actually I have a
concern about and I would love for staff to address is on packet page 61, where it talks about annual
updates, revisions, and changes.
So if you go to the second paragraph, it's just a line, and it says the CSO, Senior Manager of Safety, has
the responsibility and authority to review, revise, and update the PTASP. I felt like if there were to be an
update to the PTASP, outside of the normal annual one, that that would also have to go through the
JLMSC.
And so I was wondering if staff could just like speak to that, if that was an oversight or what the rationale
is behind that.
TROY WHITMORE: GM/CEO, the floor is yours.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you. Director Ruscha, thank you for your comments.
And quite naturally, as it relates to your earlier statements, and I'll get to the latter part about updates to
the PTASP. Wanted to just to qualify, as it relates to being the accountable executive, we are adhering to
language put forward by the Federal Transit Administration. We do recognize that there is a delegation of
authority, hence, that's why we do bring things forward to this body. But we are complying with what the
requirements are, for all intents and purposes, for the Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan.
With that as a backdrop and with the modifications that have been made, that statement is one in a
general sense, quite naturally. If, in fact, we were making changes once again, we would have to go
through the same processes, i.e. I, as the accountable executive, need to sign off. It would go to the Joint
Labor Management Safety Committee. Generally, it's worked through the Joint Labor Management Safety
Committee so we're all aligned on what we are doing collectively for the betterment of our safety
management safety systems here at the agency. And then in turn, that would come back to the Board.

So there's no way we could submit this to the state safety oversight agency, which would be the Colorado
Public Utilities Commission, without going through those steps.
Mr. Mott, did you have anything further to add to what I outlined?
SKYLAR MOTT: No, you were correct.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: All right. Thank you very kindly.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Further questions or clarifications, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah. And I apologize because I didn't have the-- I wasn't looking at the closed
captioning fast enough.
So did I understand it that if there are any interim changes, it would go before-- it would follow the same
process as the annual process? Because my concern was just that it says that the CSO Senior Manager
of Safety, like, has a responsibility and authority to review, revise, and update the PTASP. So I took that
as outside of the normal annual process.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY WHITMORE: Proceed, please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, Director Ruscha, you are correct. We would adhere to the same process. For
all intents and purposes, recognizing this is safety-related, we do call out the Chief Safety Officer in that
regard. But that does not negate the fact that we still have to adhere to the process that's been
established by the regulation.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And I apologize if I was speaking out of turn, Mr. Chair, because I
can't see the gallery. But thank you for that clarification. And I will be a yes this evening. And I read the
packet tonight. But I also just recognize how much work goes into this. So appreciate it. And thank you for
taking the time to explain those two points to me.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I see no other hands raised.
So we do have a proper motion and second from Sloan and Rosenthal. With that, are there any no votes
on this item? Seeing no votes, the item, PTASP for 2025 passes unanimously. Thank you, Skylar Mott,
and Debra, for your input and the hard work on this very important matter.
All right. Let's move now to F, Discussion Items. We'll move to the one discussion item that we have,
which is the January, 2025 service change recommendations.
At this time, I'd like to introduce Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager, Bus Ops, and Jessie Carter,
Senior Manager, Service Development, to present the item. Gentlemen, the floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations. Not bus stops, sir. Sorry.
I'd like to provide you an update for the January, 2025 service change recommendations. As is
customary, staff presents three service change recommendations over the course of a year's time for

discussion and subsequent recommendations in alignment with the Collective Bargaining Agreement with
Amalgamated Transit Union Locals 1001 for frontline operator worker selection.
While staffing levels have been the primarily challenge to increasing service levels and to efforts to
implement the comprehensive operational analysis, which you will start to hear the term comprehensive
operational analysis in lieu of the System Optimization Plan that has been historically used, that is more
of a general terminology used within the transit industry. So although we will continue to refer to SOP
tonight, in the future, you will hear the term comprehensive operational analysis.
So the combined efforts of operations and human resources department have resulted in operator class
sizes and new operator starts that we believe can support growth within the system. Considering the
current staffing levels and anticipated attrition, the January, 2025 service change recommendations were
designed with careful consideration towards improving system performance and the implementation of
the comprehensive operational analysis based upon projected available people power.
Provided in your Board packet is a summary of recommended service changes containing
recommendations for service improvements, restoration of service and service realignments contained
within the comprehensive operational plan. Three public hearings, along with an enhanced operational
effort, which includes a customer survey and in-person presentations with then stakeholder and
community events are also planned to begin in early October, will be concluded the first week of
November.
At this point, I'd like to invite Jessie Carter, RTD Senior Manager of Service Development, to join me with
further details regarding the service change. Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. This is Jessie Carter. Good evening to the Board of
Directors. I'm the Senior Manager of Service Development.
As AGM Worthen stated, the January service change recommendation contain several COA, that's
comprehensive operations analysis items. And some of the more notable changes, and I'll be brief on
these, include increases to service spans, like on Routes 24 and 73, increases the service frequency on
Route 49, 105, and AB, and the reinstatement of service segments, one that's not been served since
2020, on the Route 35. That concludes the bus notable changes.
On the rail side, we have also planned the reinstatement of the service on the E and H Lines to 15-minute
service frequencies.
That said, I'll turn it back to you, Fred.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Carter. And thank you, Chair Whitmore. At this point, we are happy to
answer any questions you or other committee members may have.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
And just to clarify on my introduction, I inadvertently abbreviated Operations to Ops. It did not mean, I did
not mean for it to come out as Bus Stops, because I know that would probably turn some of that beautiful
black hair to the color of mine, Mr. Worthen. So my apologies.
FRED WORTHEN: Oh, I'm sorry, sir. I could not help but give you a little bit of a hard time on that.

TROY WHITMORE: We all need to enunciate better. And, boy, I'm in need of that. So speaking of
somebody who can enunciate, let's move to Marjorie Sloan, because she is in queue and the floor is hers.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, thank you again, Chair Whitmore. I would like to again refer to the JEFTAG
meeting. Director Catlin and Lee Cryer were also there. And we were very happy to present the bus
changes to Jefferson County, because there were several that will really help with bus operations in
Jefferson County.
So I would like to thank and congratulate staff with coming up with the plan. And the rerouting, which you
didn't mention, is also going to be very beneficial for Jefferson County. So thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. Very, very nice comments. Thank you, Director Sloan.
I don't see any other committee members with their hands raised, but I see a couple other Directors. Let's
move over to Director Tisdale. The floor is yours.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just have a brief comment. Thank you for
restoring, or expanding to previous experience, Route 24 on University Boulevard. I know that will be
greatly appreciated by a lot of people. And we're going to continue to work to try to get vital service on
University Boulevard. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. All right. Director Secretary Guzman, the floor is yours.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair.
Mr. Worthen or Mr. Carter, this one's for you. Can you speak about the 1E/44 and what's going on with
that particular route? I think it's really important. In my district, Elyria and Swansea and Globeville have
had an unfortunate history of being left out of public transit since the A line was constructed. But I see the
changes happening and I'm excited by this. But I want to understand it a little bit better because it looks
like it's splitting that route. I just don't understand how it's working. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: Sure, if I may. Thank you, Chair.
Director Guzman, so you are bringing up something that is somewhat complex, and this was a part of the
COA that was put together as part of Reimagine RTD. So if you were to imagine the Route 44 as a
crosstown route going from East Denver to West Denver, going through downtown, and if you were to
imagine the Route 1 coming from South Santa Fe and actually the Lakewood area all the way into the
downtown area and through the Santa Fe Art District, what we're doing is we're breaking the 44 to
operate primarily West, between downtown, 17th and 18th streets, all the way to its western terminal. And
then with the route 1 it will operate Lakewood to downtown.
However, the segments that are-- and I hate to characterize it as being weaker, but they have weaker
ridership levels on the eastern part of the 44-- we're combining that with the eastern portion of the Route
1. So those services would remain with their current levels of service, for the moment. Later, as resources
become more available, we'll be bringing all those services up to 30-minute all day service. But at this
point in time, we don't have the resources to do that. So they'll remain at their current service levels, with

the 44 having 30-minute peak frequency, 60-minute midday frequency, and the Route 1 operating hourly,
as it does today. And the new route, the 1E/44, which we're probably looking for a better name at some
point, will operate on an hourly basis as well.
Something also to note is that the Route 1E will be in a different service category than the Connect
services on the Route 44 and Route 1. They'll be a part of the community services.
So with that, that kind of outlines what that change is. Do you have any further questions, Director
Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Maybe we can speak offline. I just would like to really dig in and understand this. I
do want to applaud that, though, because this 1e/44 route that you are discussing runs right through an
area of town, RINO, that has blown up in transit-oriented development potential with, I don't even know, I
lost count of how many new housing units came online in the last three to six months, and there's still
more slated.
So I think that this was a great opportunity. And I'm really proud that you jumped on this and put this route
together to serve that part of town. But I'd just like to follow up, because I do have a meeting with GES
folks and I'd like to be able to speak to them about this with great detail.
So thank you for answering the question to this point. Appreciate it. That's all I've got.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Guzman. Thank you, excuse me, Mr. Carter, for that
explanation.
All right. I see Director Lewis has his hands, his hand raised. Proceed.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was pretty hard on staff at our last run board, but I really have to
say, I'm excited about this run board, and I think there's a lot of good nuggets in there for us to tout.
One question, though. If this is passed, how are we going to market? How are we going to let people
know that these are back? I can't tell you how many times I've talked to somebody maybe a month after
something's been implemented, and they have no idea. So I'd really like to make sure that our marketing
department is putting signs up and other things at these stops to let people know that these changes are
happening. So thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: And thank you for your comments. I do appreciate that.
All right. I see Vice Chair Guissinger in queue. The floor is yours.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. And thank you, Mr. Worthen and all the team. I know Jessie's
team's been working hard on this, and it's really great to see this service coming back.
My first thought is along the line of Director Lewis, which is, this is great news and I know our team will be
getting it out. But I'm wondering if you can-- and I'm not expecting you to have these necessarily tonight-but if we could aggregate and say how many routes came back in this return of service, how many got
increased frequency, how many got longer hours, some of those things, to really let people know what
we're getting done.

I'd also be interested to know what percent of the SOP COA we are achieving now that we're bringing
back this service. I think it's great news that we're having such success lowering our vacancies, and it
looks to me like we've lowered them a lot. So I'm looking forward to seeing what else we can do, but I
think this is a great start.
I have a couple of comments on specifics. One was somebody was asking me today about the 24. And I
know that is University and Cherry Creek, and Director Tisdale mentioned it. At this point, it's still going to
stay 60-minute intervals but it's going to be adding a lot of service into, looks like till midnight during the
week. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: That's correct. And the Route 24, I should have stated this before, the Route 24 in the
COA is actually broken into two components. There's a 24N, 24 North, and a 24 South, and they'll be
dissimilar headways between those two services. Added to your Board packet was some supplementary
information defining the routes as they were adopted by the Board of Directors. And the 24 is likely not in
that group.
So what I'll do is provide that to the Board of Directors. Because what we're doing right now is more
related to just the span of service and not to the change in the actual alignment and the additional service
frequency. So that would come later, as resources become more available. That is a pretty sizable
change. There's even more to come on the 24 University line, which will cost probably the equivalent of
six full-time employees.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I see lots of other hands, so maybe I'll just wait.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. So if GM/CEO Johnson would like to introduce the first part of Vice Chair
Guissinger's question, and Fred to follow?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Chair Whitmore. And thank you, Second Vice Chair
Guissinger, Committee Chair Whitmore.
But just wanted to qualify, last-- oh, what am I trying to say here? In August, we introduced a method by
which we were showcasing exactly what you outlined, Second Vice Chair Guissinger, in which we were
showcasing the additions and subtractions relative to service going forward to help the layperson better
garner an understanding of the enhancements. We created a dedicated web page. And we're doing much
more than that in reference to introducing the concept of our service modifications, not just in a piecemeal
fashion, but looking at them more holistically.
I would like to call on Stuart Summers, who can speak more in depth about our undertaking, just to
ensure that everybody has an understanding about our established framework that we're now leveraging
that was introduced in August.
Mr. Summers, the floor is yours. Thank you.
STUART SUMMERS: Thanks, GM/CEO Johnson. As introduced, I'm Stuart Summers, Chief
Communications and Engagement Officer.
I think many people are aware that we introduced a robust outreach and engagement strategy around our
service changes. We introduced that as part of the May service changes. We've been operating under
that now two cycles. It involves dispatching staff out to impacted stops and stations to directly engage
with customers, providing more virtual opportunities for members of the community to engage with Jessie

Carter's staff, and then as well as enhanced media relations strategy, obviously trying to bolster our
earned media.
In the question earlier that was raised about marketing, we do two different types of marketing strategies,
one around the proposed and then one around the final changes. And so right now we have a marketing
campaign that is underway, sharing information about these proposed service changes ahead of January,
inviting customers and community to provide feedback. And then once action is taken by the Board, we
roll out a second and separate campaign where we then promote heavily the changes that are
happening. And we use a number of digital out-of-home, on-vehicle advertisements, events, outreach.
And so we really want to make sure that we are targeting customers in the different parts of the metro
area related to the changes that would likely impact them.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Chair, may I?
TROY WHITMORE: Sorry. Proceed.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. Thanks so much, Stuart. That's really helpful. Can you tell the public right
now, or does somebody, when, I think there are three public meetings scheduled. And also, is there a
digital form people can go to? I'm not sure if that's you or if somebody else has it.
TROY WHITMORE: He looks like he's working very hard to pull it up on his computer.
FRED WORTHEN: So I can answer the question with regard to the public.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead. Go ahead, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: So Monday, October 21 at noon, there will be a virtual session via Microsoft Teams.
Monday, October 21 at 5:30, there'll be an in-person at the Blake administration building, at 1660 Blake
Street in Denver. And Tuesday, October 22, 5:30 to 6:30, there'll be virtual drop-in sessions held via
Zoom.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Mr. Worthen.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I can just share, that information that he just read is on package page 718, as
well, for everybody's edification.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I knew it was there. Just wanted to get it out so people could hear it if they're
listening tonight. So that's great.
And finally, thank you for the AB bus. It's been standing room only in many buses for a while. So it's
coming back. I can't tell from the materials in the packet, but I think I know, but it's going to be
interweaving with the AB2. So it's 30-minute headways, I think, from 1:00 to 8:00, and plus it got longer
hours. Is that right?
JESSIE CARTER: Right, Director Guissinger. And the way the AB2, it's a modified AB2, so it doesn't go
to the Junction Depot Square Station, but it does run along 28th Avenue, which was really what we're
definitely trying to attempt to do with providing service along 28th. There's been a lot of requests for those
stops as they go fairly close to the school.

So yes, it is interspersed between the AB1 and AB2.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. My hope and-- well, my hope is that we can continue to look at what it
would take to have at least bus stops stopping on the street at Boulder Junction. It's an important TOD,
and beautiful TOD facility, where they tax themselves for eco passes. So I look forward to working with
you more on this, but thanks for all the work on this.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. Mr. Worthen, the floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you. Not to belabor things, but first and foremost, Mr. Chair, thank you for
allowing me to give you a little hard time with my twisted sense of humor.
But above and beyond that, although we are not presenting a people power quarterly update this month,
due to the timing, I do want to acknowledge that the Human Resources department has worked jointly
with a lot of our departments to make significant inroads in our headcount. And I really want to
acknowledge the work of Charlene Polege, our Chief People Officer, and those in our Human Resources
department. Without their help, even though we've had a good vision for our service going forward, we
would still be in a deficit with people power.
So I just want to say thank you to them. And thank you to the rest of the Board, too, for your support.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you Mr. Worthen. That's a good mention. Without people, we don't move
people. So kudos to Charlene and our HR department.
OK, I see no further hands raised. Good presentation. Look forward to hearing the good news as it's
spread throughout our service territory. So appreciate that immensely.
So let's move to item G, Other Matters. Are there any other matters that a Board committee member
would like to bring up at this time? Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Yes. I'm having an issue with the contract change with Greyhound. I have shared my
concerns with the Board of Directors through the staff office because of the discontinuation of the contract
with Greyhound. And I would like to know if there is a desire of this Board to visit this issue as a
discussion item at our next Ops meeting.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, if there is enough interest from other members of the committee, we certainly
can endeavor to do that. Is there any input from other Board members or members of staff? Director
Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I just wanted to say that I would be interested in having that conversation. I also think
it would be good for the public benefit as well, given the decision. And I actually, I don't know if anyone
else has their hand up in the queue, but I had a question about-- I had a question related to the
Greyhound issue, if it would be appropriate to raise it now. It might be for counsel, if counsel's present.
TROY WHITMORE: Go ahead and proceed. We have one other hand up. And Director Lewis' hand is up
as well. I don't know if he has follow up or not. But go ahead with your question, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Sorry, Mr. Chair.

So I just-- when we received this decision, or when we were notified of this decision, I, and I think a few
other members, had thought this might be outside of the delegation of authority. And then we were
informed of a 2015 resolution that firmly put this under our GM/CEO's delegation of authority. And so that
was new for me. And I read it and concurred.
But I just kind of just wanted to add, when we think about training, just generally anything related to
delegation of authority, we might want to put that in just one packet for incoming Board members. Does
that make sense? Because there are other resolutions that might relate.
And then to that end, I was wondering, and not being in the real estate business and not being here when
this was passed in 2015, would that also affect something, like, does that also mean that anything less
than seven years duration, would that potentially impact decisions related to Amtrak or CDOT, you know,
like Bustang? Or do those decisions come before the Board?
TROY WHITMORE: General Counsel Snyder, if you'd like to opine on those questions, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel.
So for everyone else's reference point, what Director Ruscha is talking about is there was a Board
resolution in 2015 that has to do with real property, so both lease and sales of real property interests. And
that is the delegation that governs the General Manager's authority with respect to the Greyhound license
agreement.
And Director Ruscha, I think that's a great notation. I'll make sure that I add that as part of the training for
the onboarding. And it's always hard to do to train on every single resolution that the Board has adopted.
But the point's well taken with respect to the delegation of authority.
I think I would have to have a little bit more-- it might be more helpful to follow up separately on the
specific questions about what are the parameters of what that delegation does cover. But I'm happy to
send that out to the whole Board so that you have that, as a point of reference. And then Director Ruscha,
I'm happy to follow up with you offline about your specific questions about what would be in or outside of
scope.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. Director Ruscha, anything further before I move on?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Just thank you, General Counsel Snyder. And I appreciate that feedback and
we'll follow up offline.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I see Director Catlin in queue, as well as Guzman.
And I think Director Lewis has another point. So I haven't forgot about you, Director Lewis. Floor is yours.
Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a little bit of history with the Greyhound issue. And I
believe Director Tisdale does as well. Back in 2018 or 2019, when we, the Board, was informed and we
had considerable discussion about permitting Greyhound usage at Denver Union Station. And there was
quite a bit of discussion, even though the delegation of authority remained with the GM/CEO. So I think
what happened this go around is that we did not have the benefit of that discussion publicly.

That said, going back even further, I was involved in the initial planning master planning with Denver
Union Station as a part of the original team and then Denver Union Station Project Authority. And it was
contemplated at that time that there would be opportunity for Greyhound to utilize the facility at Denver
Union Station. So that was part of the overall vision for the development of Denver Union Station, as well
as the Bustang. At the time, it wasn't Bustang. It was called inter city bus routes. And it was planned that
there would be two bays available for that.
So I think when you look at the long-term history of the multimodal Denver Union Station use, that was
always contemplated for that. And I think that regardless of the delegation of authority, which I respect, I
think that this Board could benefit from a public dialogue about it.
That's just my perspective and my opinion. I don't know if Director Tisdale would recollect anything
differently, but just wanted to shed some light on that. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Vice Chair Catlin. With that vein of thought in mind, I'm going to jump
over to Director Tisdale to continue that conversation. Thank you. Go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, my memory comports with that of the Vice
Chair. And I do appreciate the fact that we did originally, back in, and I think it was 2018 when we had the
Greyhound discussion. It was brought before the Board. And when we had the change, I expressed some
concern about the fact that we hadn't had the benefit of that in advance, which I think would have been a
positive outreach to the public to demonstrate how these concerns came about.
I thought the decision by the General Manager/CEO was more than justified, from the information that
she presented to us. But it was a question of process that I think perhaps some people might have felt
some disquiet over.
The important point that I would like to emphasize from Director Catlin's remark is, yes, Union Station is a
multi-modal hub. And to the extent that we can look into the future to see how this can be addressed and
expand the modalities, I think that would be great.
And regarding the 2015 delegation of authority relative to real property, recall, at all times, it is the Board's
decision on what is delegated and what is not. And if we have concerns and if they arise, we should
address them as appropriate.
Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. All right. I will go to Secretary Guzman, who's next in
queue.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Sloan is part of the committee. I can certainly wait.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Sloan, what is your preference?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I have no preference. And Director Guzman was faster with his raised hand. So we'll
go ahead.
TROY WHITMORE: We'll go with expediency then. The floor is yours, Secretary Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. I am the Director for District C, in which Union Station resides. I'm going to ask
that we do have a conversation about this. I think it is necessary at this point. I do want to say, the
concerns that were raised and explained to us I have seen and understood, I have heard about from
constituents living in and around the Union Station area.
I am also concerned about the perceived unsafety of the Union Station Wewatta Pavilion, which is,
frankly, to me, old news and not real anymore. We have done so much work in the Pavilion, so much
work in the Union Station itself, collaborated. The Directors went and visited everything that was going on
during the reconstruction of the Great Hall and the efforts that were done there by Sage Hospitality
Group, who is our current lessee. And the work has turned out very well.
I've expressed a number of concerns over that property and keeping my eye very close to it because I'm
through there today, five times after I left work, before I got home for this meeting. It is quite safe. It is a
public area. It is also something that we do need to worry about, as we hold the lease and we have
operations running through there.
With respect to decisions that are made, I am inclined to say I would prefer a decision be made and then
we can discuss whether that was the right decision or not after the fact. On this one, though, I would like
to understand more behind the why the decision was made and if there's any other additional information
that we need to be concerned with. Losing Greyhound from that particular part of town might be difficult. I
don't know where they would house themselves since the old Greyhound buildings do not exist anymore.
And the intention of Union Station, as previously stated by the other Directors, still stands. So maybe we
can have a dialogue about that going forward. But since that is directly in my district and the crown of
RTD, I want to make sure that we address it somehow. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Proceed, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I appreciate. Director Ruscha for raising this. And I was informed by
Director Catlin and Director Tisdale about the past history of this. And I really appreciate it.
I believe an after the fact autopsy may be helpful. But the better procedure on an issue of this magnitude,
and Union Station is the crown jewel of the entire RTD district that neither the public or the Board should
first hear about it on the media.
So I think a discussion would be helpful, but it's too bad it's after the fact. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Director Sloan.
Madam CEO and GM, I think I'll move to Director Lewis, and then you can summarize from all of the
comments, if that's OK? All right, Director Lewis, proceed.
JAIME LEWIS: Mr. Chair, it's your call. But what we may want to do is a straw poll. There might be other
Directors that may not want to comment on this but would like a discussion. So just a suggestion.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. I will take that under advisement after we hear from CEO/GM Johnson. So
the floor is yours, ma'am.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And thank you all for your comments. I just
wanted to clarify some statements that were made that I don't find to be completely accurate.

It was stated that the Board heard about this decision after the media. I apprised the Board, be it not in a
public session, but via a Board memoranda. I provided that to this body well in advance, probably about a
month in advance, was working with the City and County of Denver as well. And I do want to clarify that
the contract sunsets. And pursuant to the tenets of said contract that we, or I, I own this, that I did not
want to leverage the option years because of the lack of adherence to the tenets of said contract going
forward.
So I'm totally amenable to having a discussion. And there's a lot more, as we talk about the operability of
our transit network. And customarily, when we do bring forward to this body a contract where we're
looking to exercise an additional option year, the first question always is, what is the level of
performance? What is the adherence to said contract?
So just want to ensure that it's fully recognized that all those different elements were taken into
consideration, which I outlined. But if it's the committee's desire, I welcome the opportunity to have a
discussion. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I sense that a straw poll is unnecessary at this point,
judging by the interest of the committee and non-committee members. So we will plan to put a discussion
item in this regard on the next meeting, if not the first one of next year, but as soon as it's practical by staff
to be prepared.
So thank you, Ms. Johnson, for your cooperation on that matter. And thank you for all the input,
everybody.
All right. Any other matters? Any other other matters? Any clarification on Fred Worthen's job title? All
right.
Our next meeting is Wednesday, November 13, 2024. And November meeting is shaping up to be a
significant one. Obviously, we will be looking at the passage of the January service charge. We have
some paratransit items on the agenda, as well as discussion update related to the facilities and fleet
transit transition plan, and the Greyhound bus depot discussion as well.
And with that, seeing no further discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 6:48 PM Mountain Time. Thank
you all and have a good rest of the week.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.

