March 24, 2020
RTD Board Meeting
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody. I'd like to thank you on behalf of the
RTD Board of Directors for joining us for our first ever remote RTD Board Meeting. These are
clearly unprecedented times for all of us, and we want to thank you for taking time out of your life
to sit down with us and have a serious discussion about one of the most important issues facing
our world, and that is transit.
So let me start by saying that I would like to now call the Tuesday, March 24 RTD Board Meeting
to order. We are convened as of 5:31 Mountain Standard Time, and I would respectfully ask
everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and to set your ringers to silent. Please note
that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare during this time. Meetings will
be primarily audio recorded, and the audio recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. You can find them by
visiting rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors
page.
If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the board during the public participation portion
of tonight's agenda, please press star-3 now. You will be placed into a queue, and I will call on
you at the appropriate time. Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you
would like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you would please
announce your name and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
We have a lot of people on the phone line with us tonight, and speaking out of turn will only add
confusion to the record and to the proceedings. Please note that at the appropriate time during our
discussion and voting procedures later in the evening, I will call on each director in turn, so please
know that your time to speak will come, and if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
This is the point where we do our Pledge of Allegiance. So our normal process would be to recite
the Pledge of Allegiance at this point, but under the circumstances and given that you'd only hear
me recite it, we'll dispense with the pledge for now. Instead, I would like to take this time to
acknowledge the incredible efforts of our operators, maintainers, street supervisors, custodial
workers, and other staffers, both represented and non-represented, who are on the frontlines
keeping this agency ahead of the COVID-19 public health crises as it unfolds. This Board is truly- this board truly appreciates everything that you are doing, and we would just like to say thank
you.
Ms. McManus, would you please call the roll?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening, I am present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Ms. McManus. At RTD, safety's our core value, and
I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. As we all learn to deal with the new
realities of this presence of the COVID-19 virus in Colorado, it's important to recognize that there
are effective measures you can take to keep yourself safe and to stop the spread of pathogens and
not just the COVID-19 virus. Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
Cover your cough or sneeze with the tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash, and wash or at least
sanitize your hands.
If you don't have a tissue, cough or sneeze into the upper sleeve or elbow, not your hands. Avoid
close contact with people who are sick. Stay home when you are sick. This applies to directors, as
well as staff and members of the public. Clean and disinfect frequently-touched surfaces both at
work and at home. When soap and water aren't available, use hand sanitizer with a concentration
of at least 60% alcohol. Washing your hands is one of the most effective ways to prevent the spread
of germs. Be sure to lather each and every part of your hand into scrub for at least 20 seconds. 30
is better.
And lastly, COVID-19 has now spread in Colorado and elsewhere via community transmission.
Help to flatten the curve by limiting close exposure to others to the greatest extent possible.
I'll mention this again. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the
public participation portion of tonight's agenda, please press star-3 now. You will be placed into a
queue and I will call on you at the appropriate time.
I'd like to talk about our retiree awards. We have three retirees for the month of March. On behalf
of the entire Board, I would like to express our deepest appreciation and gratitude to the following
individuals for their many dedicated years of service to this organization. Katherine ArlingtonWells, Light Rail Operator, 20 years; Darrell Rickett, Bus Operator, 19 years; and Jon Sieve,
General Repair Mechanic, 22 years. We wish you all the best in your retirement, and when
circumstances allow, we will invite you to come back to a future meeting where you can receive
the recognition you so richly deserve.
Now I'd like to turn to public participation, which is open to anyone who wants to speak. As if it
is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first so that they can get back
to their own meetings and attend to business. If you've indicated that you would like to speak to

the Board by dialing star-3 on your phone, I will call your name in the order in which you signed
up. Each speaker will be allowed three minutes. And please, also bear in mind that by participating
in this process, you are being audio recorded. So if you do not wish to be audio recorded, then your
comments will have to be submitted in writing and you will not have the opportunity to speak this
evening.
If any speaker has documentation or reference materials for the Board, please email those materials
to the Board office at the following email address-- board.office@rtd-denver.com. Again, that is
board.office@rtd-denver.com.
For anyone just joining the call, if you would like to speak to the Board, you can press star-3 on
your phone now, and you will be placed into the queue. When it's your turn to speak, I will call
you by name. And our first speaker is Edward Curtis. Mr. Curtis, you're on. Could you please give
us your address?
CURTIS EDWARDS: Thank you, yeah. My name is Curtis Edwards, and I'm at 3255 South Parker
Road, Apartment 2612, Denver, Colorado, 80014. My name is Curtis Edwards and I'm a climate
and transportation advocate at Conservation Colorado. First, we want to applaud the steps that you
all at RTD has taken to keep us safe while continuing to provide service across the region during
this crisis. We're especially appreciative of the dedication of the bus and rail operators, the
mechanics, and of all the RTD employees who make it possible for us to reach our destinations.
At a time when public transportation may not be at the top of folks' minds, there are many who
still rely on these crucial services that RTD provides and we thank you for doing that.
Later this evening the Board's going to consider a proposal to cut or reduce service to several routes
starting in May. While we recognize that ridership has dropped since the outbreak of COVID-19,
and we support short-term adjustments that are required to keep RTD employees, especially those
that are on the frontline, safe, we do encourage the Board to consider some of the long-term
negative impacts of the service reductions outlined in the proposal that was suggested prior to this
current crisis. And so just to be clear, I'm referring to the proposal-- not the emergency cuts
proposal, but the one that's been contemplated over for the last few months.
First, transportation has long been the number 2 source of carbon emissions, and this year it's going
to surpass electricity generation to become the number 1 source of emissions in the state.
Furthermore, due to pollution from gasoline vehicles, we now have, according to the EPA, serious
levels of ozone that aggravate asthma and contribute to other respiratory-related diseases and
deaths. Low-income Coloradans and communities of color disproportionately bear the brunt of
these pollution-inducing illnesses.
In addition to these environmental impacts, transit service reductions will worsen traffic
congestion, which is going to cost Coloradans valuable time and money, as well as perpetuate
transportation inequity across our region. Given these negative impacts, we need RTD to pump
the brakes on this proposal and focus on providing robust and equitable transit service. We do
acknowledge, however, that the mandatory overtime is unsustainable, and it's unfair to workers. It
can't be the solution to RTD's retention issues. Therefore, we ask that RTD management

collaborates with employees and the Transit Union to find solutions that make it an agency that
employees are proud to work for.
--behalf of Conservation Colorado, we thank you for providing service during this challenging
time, and we look forward to working with the RTD Board and staff to make our region a known
transit leader nationwide. Thank you for your time this evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Curtis. We have next Diana Miller. Ms. Miller, please
state your name and your address. Thank you.
DIANA MILLER: Yes. My name is Diana Miller. I live at 1011 Navajo Street, Unit 311, Denver,
Colorado, 80204.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You can go ahead.
DIANA MILLER: My concern is, if we need to get to a store out farther from the directions of the
light rail and the buses are, how can we get there if they're going to-- if you guys are going to get
rid of like the C or the D and stuff? Because I'm in-- I'm a ADA-- or I'm in an electric scooter and
it's kind of hard for me to get out and go along-- go places that are longer or far away, because we
don't have the closest Walmart to us downtown. So my question is, is there any possible ways that
we can get around town with-- instead of going all the way like walking or making a cab or
something?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Diana, for your comments. We will get back to you.
We have your address and we'll get back to you on that question. Thank you. Next we have Dr.
Goban. Dr. Goban, go ahead.
DR. GOBAN: Yes, hi, thank you. Can you hear me? Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can hear you.
DR. GOBAN: OK. I am at 2580 East Harmony Road, Suite 201 in Fort Collins. I'm calling with
great concern that although the-- it's my understanding that RTD workers are now identified and
considered essential workforce, which means that they do need to show up in order to help others
get to their places of work so that they, too, can help their families financially and do their job.
And it is come to my attention that the essential work force on RTD are not offered any type of
hazmat gear to protect themselves as they are facing the public and are even cleaning the RTD
buses. I believe they're provided-- I've been told that they've been provided gloves and that's it, as
well as they have not been offered any type of hazard pay, where other workers, like grocery store
workers that are asked to attend in this-- during this COVID-19 emergency are offered hazard pay
because they are being exposed and they are then going home and are inadvertently exposing their
family.
And that, to me, is something that I am hoping that this Board will address, that it will become a
highlighted concern for all of them thinking that, what if one of my own children or one is one of

my family members or somebody-- anyone that I care about is working for RTD and not protected?
And above that, not being offered the hazard pay that they are mandated to work and expose
themselves to this disease. So I just wanted to bring that to the attention of the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Dr. Goban. Next we have Justin Robert-- Rogers-- I'm
sorry-- and Justin, would you mind stating your name and your address for the record, please?
JUSTIN ROGERS: Yeah. Hi, my name is Justin Rogers, and I'm in Aurora, Colorado.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, sir.
JUSTIN ROGERS: Well, my comment was for not the May service change, but the projected
service change due to COVID-19 in April. I understand that the proposal may be to go to a Sunday
schedule, and the problem with that is, number 1, the trains get run that often and no F lines, and
also, I'm concerned with the workers there. I'm sure there's fewer trains and buses out there, which
means some drivers and operators won't be able to work. And my concern is for them and their
families and how would they support themselves.
I know everyone's really hurting right now. I mean, a lot of people are anyways. And we wouldn't
want to make this worse than it already is by putting people off of work, having them lose their
houses, cars. And I think that should be a top concern to make sure all the employees in RTD still
have a job during this epidemic. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Justin. Next we have Emma Hagin. Emma, if you
could just state your name and your address for the record, please.
EMMA HAGIN: Hi, my name is Emma Hagin, I live in Denver, Colorado.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
EMMA HAGIN: I am a regular RTD rider. I actually-- outside of this pandemic, I actually take
four buses to get to work, and then I take a company shuttle. I spend about three hours a day on
public transportation to get to and from work outside this-- during my normal scheduled business.
Right now I'm currently in a mandatory work from home with my office, but I am actually calling
related to the same issues that the representative from Conservation Colorado called because of. I
am concerned about the permanent route cuts that RTD is considering, as that would likely impact
me and multiple other riders.
Public transportation I think is a critical infrastructure both for reducing environmental impact and
as well as reducing traffic even on roads-- Denver's traffic is really pretty bad during rush hours.
And so I think that considering cuts to RTD lines would severely impact this, and I just wanted to
state for the record that I am against any considerations for cancellations on RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Jared Bynum. Jared, if you're on the
line, could you please state your name and address, please?

JARED BYNUM: Thank you, director. My name is Jared Bynum, and a resident of Denver,
Colorado in zip code 80206. I am currently a student of urban planning at the University of
Colorado at Denver, and I've been a Denver area political activist since the age of 16. I've spent
time at numerous nonprofits advocating for a wide variety of social justice issues, and currently I
work for an environmental nonprofit.
I've also spent time as a legislative aide at the Colorado General Assembly, and during the process
of reviewing the proposed cuts for May, my largest concern has been, A, ensuring that the focus
has been on continuing the accessibility of RTD services to as many folks as possible as the Denver
original population continues to swell. If we do not put forth the infrastructure, the physical built
environment infrastructure as well as the transit infrastructure provided through RTD, we will not
continue to see the broad adoption that we do have in the region.
In addition to that, if we are not able to ensure the lowest income among us, who may not have
access to vehicles, are able to access RTD services to get to work, to get to school, to visit with
friends and family, we will drop in our prominence in the region. Historically, RTD has undertaken
enormous, fantastic, internationally-renowned projects, including key ramps and FasTracks, which
at the time of their inception were some of the largest transit infrastructure projects in North
America, only to be dwarfed by the project most recently in Vancouver, but following that, we
have seen the six or seven-day mandated work weeks for operators, we have seen the lack of
overtime pay for operators, and we have seen an overall drop in what is the perceived service
quality of transit riders.
I've been a user of the RTD system since 16 when I got my first job. I was previously a resident in
Aurora, and I actually had taken one of the farthest east RTD lines to work every day. It took
approximately an hour and a half, but I was grateful for the experience because I wasn't afforded
a car at that age. And it's also imperative to understand that if we as Coloradans want to align
ourselves with the broad climate goals that were set previously with House Bill 19-1261, which
was Colorado's Climate Plan, if we are not able to increase the adoption of public transit usage,
we will very likely be unable to reach those goals, and the impacts of climate change to all
Coloradans could potentially be insurmountable. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Jared. Jared was the last person in the queue to speak.
If there's anyone on the phone currently who would like to address the Board, please press star-3
now. Seeing none. I will close the public participation at this time. Committee reports. The
committee minutes were included in the board packet. Are there any corrections from the
directors? Hearing none, those committee reports will stand as submitted and will become part of
the permanent record.
General Manager Search and GM Oversight Performance Management Update. Committee Chair
Catlin, First Vice Chair, if you would at this time please share with us your comments regarding
the GM Executive Search, GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee. Committee
Chair Catlin? Can you give us a report on the General Managers Oversight Committee?
PEGGY CATLIN: --you know, that I have been talking to a muted phone, I apologize. A meeting
of the--

SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Angie?
PEGGY CATLIN: --search-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm sorry, Director Catlin, this is Shontel Lewis. I just got a message from
a constituent saying that they were in the queue and that they weren't able to speak. It said that
they were in the queue. Sorry to interrupt.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. OK, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Would you like me to proceed or did you want to take the comment from the
person in the queue?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not see a person in the queue. Mr. Sherman?
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah. We can go back. People did not buzz in before you moved on. We
can have screeners screen them, and you could go on with the meeting and we can come back to
them.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Thank you. OK, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, I apologize. I was talking having not taken my phone off mute. A meeting
of the Executive Search GMOC Committee had been planned for last Thursday, March 19 to
evaluate the executive search firm proposals that we had received. We received five. This meeting
was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic.
That's said, Ms. McManus sent committee members a revised schedule for the selection process,
and committee members are to have the evaluation of those five proposals completed today. The
intent is for the committee to meet this Thursday late afternoon, and I would continue-- the
members of the committee to communicate with their fellow board members who were assigned
as their buddy to indicate their progress on this evaluation.
So Thursday, March 26 in the late afternoon, we will be having the committee meet to evaluate-meet remotely to evaluate these proposals and select an executive search firm. That's all I have,
Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. I do not see anyone in the queue
currently, so-- I just got another-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Hey, Angie, I'm sorry to interrupt you. I just got another message from
someone from the ATU saying that they also pressed 3 when the call started and they did not get
placed in the queue. I don't know what's going on, I'm just seeing messages.
ROGER SHERMAN: Hi, Director Shontel-- this is Roger. We ask everyone's patience. We didn't
have screeners on any longer after the agenda item moved forward to the next item, being our first
time at this. Angie, I sent you a message of how to see the people, and we can move forward with

them without being screened. So if you are listening, stay on the line, and Angie, click and you'll
see the next person's name.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let me look. I have an inbound caller from last four digits of your
phone number, 1908. Could you just state your name and your address for the record, please?
YVETTE TRUJILLO: This is Yvette Trujillo. My address is 3315 West 72nd Avenue,
Westminister, Colorado, 80030. Can you hear me?
ROGER SHERMAN: We can, go ahead.
YVETTE TRUJILLO: OK. Well I want to thank the Board of Directors and the Chair for all the
work they've done during this COVID-19 crisis, and I'd also like to think the comments that were
made before my call regarding the future impact of the service plan and the importance of
transportation in our area. I'm a member of Amalgamated Transit Union and a proud third
generation RTD employee. My grandfather started with Denver Tramway before RTD came in the
district, so transit has been in my blood. I just recently retired with after 25 years of service with
RTD, and I'm calling on behalf of the members that we represent in the district.
I appreciate all the steps the district has taken thus far to ensure the safety and protection of our
employees, but I would also like to ask that they extend their service out to our contract employees.
I currently work with Transdev out of Englewood, Colorado, and while the management team
there has done a phenomenal job at trying to ensure that all the proper personal protective
equipment and cleaning supplies are made available, we all know how hard it's been to get those
in the Denver area.
So any assistance that RTD can offer in making sure every-- across the country as far as use of
rear door entering and exiting, except for those in need of-- with special disabilities and that have- need the ramp. Also considering no-fare collection during this time. We feel that it's important
that our operators have some sort of six-foot social distancing between them and any riders. They
don't-- our employees don't always have access to handwashing the way it's been recommended,
so I believe social distancing is even more important. With all of the businesses currently closing,
a lot of them are not having access to restrooms, and again, handwashing, which was a challenge
even before the COVID-19 came into place.
We're also seeing that a lot of agencies are using social distancing for passengers as well by trying
to create space onboard and having additional buses available to follow behind in the event a bus
gets crowded and our riders are not able to protect themselves from each other. The bus operator
can call dispatch, and there are buses on standby to assist with picking up the riders.
We've also asked for information on pandemic leave. A lot of other agencies that have contract
employees have currently provided leave in accordance with the federal guidelines, and they've
offered them again to the public and private agencies, and we would really like RTD's
consideration. I believe a memorandum of understanding has been provided, and if not, I can send
that in after this call, but it's something that we want to see that all of our employees and members
are protected.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Yvette. Thank you for your input on that. I need to go
to the next call, but I really appreciate your call. Next we have Tanya Smith. Tanya, if you could
just state your name and address for the record, please.
TANYA SMITH: Tanya Smith, my address is 168 South Monaco Parkway, Unit B, Denver,
Colorado, obviously, 80224.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead with your question.
TANYA SMITH: I've been with the district mostly as a light rail operator for about five years. I
am very passionate about my job and serving our passengers the right way. During this current
pandemic and the crisis we see here, I know that we are considered now critical to the movement
of employees through the City and County of Denver and our districts, but we do not have the
necessary PPE that is needed probably that is most often provided to emergency personnel or
personnel that are considered critical. And I know that there is a shortage and that it's difficult to
get these things, but I am scheduled to work this week. My three-year-old toddler son is very sick,
we have not gotten him tested as they don't find it necessary, but I also have my mom who's 65
staying with us and is on disability.
My concern is, even though I'm not currently ill enough to get tested for COVID-19, what other
measures can be done? Although I am a train operator and we are in our own cab, the HVAC air,
as far as I know, is recycled, and we do have to-- face-to-face customer service with people that
have disabilities to get on the ramp. Bus drivers, they have it a little bit worse than us, so I
understand the importance of us out there operating them, though I have seen very low ridership
since the stay-at-home orders and people were forced to work from home.
I'm just really concerned about the long-run. I know that there's people that are depending on us to
get to and from work, I get that, but I'm also concerned about my family and my safety. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Daya Zavala. Daya, could you just say
your name for the record and your address.
DAYA ZAVALA: Yes. My name is Daya Zavala, and I reside in Westminster, Colorado.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead with your question.
DAYA ZAVALA: OK, thank you. Thank you, Chair, and members of the Board for providing us
this opportunity to participate virtually. As you all may know, I am here as a representative of Mile
High Connects, a collaborative of 23 different organizations and individuals. We want to thank
RTD for maintaining reliable service for riders, especially those that are currently on the frontlines
of this crisis. We understand the difficult circumstances that you all are in, but transportation serves
as a critical line of hope amid the emerging public health crisis.
As you all know, city after city is calling on all nonessential residents to stay home, however,
essential services, including those that are working in laundromat, grocery stores, gas stations, and

financial institutions, those that are often earning hourly wages who can't make ends meet even in
the best of times, are now our most vulnerable workers. Additionally, our bus drivers are our most
vulnerable workers.
The unprecedented public health crisis before us has paralyzed our community at a scale that is
going to have ripple effects for months and years to come. We encourage you to consider
eliminating the six-day workday mandate for the operators to ensure that they're able to keep their
families safe and healthy. We also encourage you all to follow the lead of transit agencies around
the country by considering temporarily suspending fares and allowing rear-door boarding for
individuals that must still rely on public transportation to get to and from work and are serving as
our essential connection to vital services during this crisis. Thank you for your time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Next we have Lyla Riggins. Lyla, could you please
state your name for the record and your address.
LYLA RIGGINS: My name is Lyla Riggins, 7980 West, 51st Avenue, Apartment 807, Arvada,
Colorado, 80002. I am a 24-year bus operator out at Platte Division, and I'm calling today about
the COVID changes that may be effect in April. And I'm mostly concerned about the Shopper's
Special, because that's the route that I do, and this is a very important route that takes seniors from
the senior housing places and takes them shopping. And I'm concerned that if we move to a
Saturday schedule, that may eliminate this very important bus.
And also, I would also like to see if-- I've been asked by the managers from King Soopers and
Walmart that we would provide bus service for seniors during the senior hours, because they save
extra toilet paper and essential need items for the seniors, but I run the Shopper's Special that runs
during just normal times, and I usually get them there after the times that are specified for the
seniors. So they are missing out on very important items that are already gone.
I also would like to thank you very much for providing gloves and Clorex wipes to us, but also
would like a mask. And then I would also like to agree with Yvette Trujillo about maybe using the
back door and keeping the public far away from us. I've had people getting on and coughing right
in my face when they get on the bus. And then also, I think that we deserve some sort of hazard
pay just for being a frontline worker. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Lyla. Last we have Paul Rosenthal. Mr. Rosenthal, if
you could state your name and your address, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And what I'd like to do is share some of the concerns that other folks have
expressed, particularly the safety of the operators, ensuring that they have the proper PP&E, and
that they also have ability to allow for riders to enter on the back door of the bus. I also have a
concern about when the service is going to be restored, to ensure that different school districts will
be consulted, to make sure that kids can get to school.
And speaking of that kind of outreach, just to make sure that we are also doing outreach to the
Colorado Coalition for the Homeless, the Cross-Disability Coalition, local officials, city councils,

mayors, C managers, town managers, county commissioners. They may or may not be on this call
tonight. I just want to make sure that they're also-- that their opinions are included.
Finally, as the Reimagine RTD process goes forward, to make sure since-- we probably won't have
a lot of public meetings left, but to make sure that social media is utilized. But also possibly some
outbound-- more outbound phone calls to make sure that people are reached where they are, which
is in their home. So thank you so much to the Board for all their hard work, and thank you for
listening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Mr. Rosenthal. I see no other folks in the queue to
speak, so I will officially call the close of public participation at this time. To move on with our
agenda, our next item is the approval of board minutes for February 25, 2020. May I please have
a motion to prove the minutes from the regular board meeting of February 25, 2020? This is
Director-DOUG TISDALE: So moved by Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Whoop, whoop. I'm sorry, was it you Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: Director Whitmore.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. So I have Director Whitmore as the movement and Director
Tisdale is the second. Unless there is discussion, we're going to proceed with the voice vote. Are
there any no votes of the approval of the board meeting minutes for February? All right, hearing
none, that motion is adopted, and the minutes are approved. I'm sorry did a director chime in?
OK. Then the motion is adopted in the minutes are approved. OK. Chair's report. I'm going to keep
this brief, and then ask Mr. Ballard to give us an update on the current status of the agency. Due
to the circumstances we're facing right now, the agency is encouraging all directors and-- I'm
sorry? OK. The agency is encouraging all directors and employees to refrain from engaging in
face-to-face meetings with constituents, stakeholders, and even other electeds to the greatest extent
possible.

Directors, please work with the Board office staff if you'd need to make arrangements for remote
meetings as they can coordinate with RTD's IT staff to identify the best technical means of
supporting those meetings. Mr. Ballard, would you please share with us your report at this time.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, Interim Chief Executive
Officer and General Manager of the RTD. As you imagine, Madam Chair and members of the
Board, most of our time over the last week to 10 days has been consumed with preparing the
agency for dealing with the coronavirus and all of the issues surrounding it. We anticipate a fair
amount of discussion about this further in the agenda, so I won't address it at this point.
The other issue that we continue to work very diligently on is getting the north line into service,
and we're making very good progress there. We'll have a separate item later on in the agenda to
review that progress. The other key issues that we continue to work on, first of all, of course, is
the budget and the financial projections. As you would imagine, the changes in ridership as a result
of the coronavirus has caused some very radical changes in our fare collections, as well as we
anticipate significant challenges based on reduced sales and use taxes. But I would want you to
know that we're working very diligently on that, we'll be sharing our projections with you as soon
as we get to a point-- which will be shortly-- as to what we're seeing for the future.
We continue to try to build relationships for the agency with all of the partner entities that we work
with. It is quite a challenge having to do all of our business by telephone and then email, but we
continue to make efforts in that area, and we look forward to the day when we can actually sit
down, shake hands, and talk to people face-to-face again. It can't come too soon.
The last item that I'll report on briefly is that we continue to work successfully with the Federal
Transit Administration. The regional office as well as the Washington, DC headquarters have been
extremely supportive and working with us. They call us regularly. We've been asking them for
guidance and counsel on how we adjust services, what requirements we need to follow, and they
have been available every step of the way.
The other entity that's been providing a great deal of assistance to us is the American Public
Transportation Association in Washington. Their president, Paul Skoutelas, and others are also
working very closely with us, and keeping us posted as to what other transit systems are doing
through these challenging times. So I want you to know that the entire staff is working diligently,
and we are working forward-- we will come up with good solutions to all of the issues, and we
look forward to continuing some of these discussions later on this agenda and in the special board
meeting agenda. Thank you, Madam Chair, that concludes my report.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. We have one item under unanimous
consent agenda tonight, which, ironically enough, is the remote participation in meetings during
emergencies. If anyone has a change to or question on this item, please feel free to advice the Chair
at this time, and we will, of course, be happy to pull the item from the unanimous consent agenda
for consideration under the recommended action. Hearing none, may I have a motion to approve
the consent agenda?
BOB BROOM: So moved--

TROY WHITMORE: --Tisdale moves.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oop. I'm sorry?
BOB BROOM: So moved, Bob Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Buzek. All right. I heard Director Broom as the movement and
Director Buzek as the second. Unless there is any discussion on this motion, we will proceed to a
voice vote. Hearing no discussion, are there any no votes on the consent agenda? Hearing none,
that motion passes and the consent agenda is adopted.
We also have one recommended action tonight listed as Item 12, Action B in your agendas. It is
the May 2020 recommended service changes. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer
Service Committee that the Board of Directors approved the May 2020 service change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A, resulting in an annualized base system cost savings of
$6,737,700, and a FasTracks cost saving of $1,534,700, and a reduction of 43 operator shifts, and
further, to authorized the General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
These funds that are saved through the service reductions will be placed in the board-appropriated
it reserved for future board consideration. The recommended action supports the following General
Manager goals. Core Goal Number 1, Successful Delivery of Transit Services. Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams, so moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Catlin, second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I have Director Williams as the movement and
Director Catlin as the second. At this time-DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chairman.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just for the sake of the record, because
I know that people received notice of both the regular meeting and the special meeting, and perhaps
it behooves us to point out that the special board meeting then will follow this discussion and this
board meeting, hence the request for orders of the day, thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale, duly noted. So at this time, I would
like to ask our COO, Michael Ford, to present any pertinent additional information regarding the
action, noting that the action was included in the packet. Directors have had time to ask questions

of the staff online, and we've discussed this item once already. Mr. Ford, please proceed when you
are ready, and please state your name for the record each time you speak.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford, COO. As we have discussed
this over the last couple of months, we're seeking your approval for the May service-- 2000 service
change. We've had a lot of public meetings, stakeholders, constituents, over 20 public meetings,
and at this time, I don't have anything more to add, but would look for your consideration tonight
on moving this to adopt. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Before we move into the discussion phase,
in a moment I'm going to offer a motion to amend this action to accomplish three things. One, the
first is to clarify RTD's commitment to continue to provide the existing levels of paratransit
services for existing customers following the implementation of the May service changes; the
second is to correct the report regarding the modifications to the Route Y service; and third is the
incorporation of the equity analysis that was completed yesterday.
So again, I move that the Board report be amended as I've described. Is there a second?
DOUG TISDALE: Director Tisdale seconds.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Tisdale is the second. Mr. Ford, is there
anything else you would like to add?
MICHAEL FORD: Yes, I would. I'd like to offer an amendment to be consistent with our
commitment to the paratransit community, and I would like to read that for consideration.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
MICHAEL FORD: Again, Michael Ford, COO. Access-A-Ride is our federally-mandated ADAcompliant complementary paratransit service. The service is provided during the same service
hours as fixed-route bus and is offered within three-quarters of a mile of fixed-route bus service
and within three-quarters of a mile from a rail station.
While we finalize work on the new service development for fixed-route service, we are keeping
aware of any reduction of fixed-routes service might impact the ability of our Access-A-Ride
paratransit customers to gain access to service. RTD is committed to our Access-A-Ride
customers, and we understand the best way to continue to meet the needs of the at-risk population
is to grandfather in customers who might be impacted in those areas where all fixed-route service
is eliminated. Grandfathering the continuation of service to existing Access-A-Ride customers in
areas where all fixed-route service is eliminated due to the May service deployment is
recommended by staff as a solution to this concern.
Upon approval of this action by the Board, staff will work with its call center team and software
provider to adjust training and update software to assure that Access-A-Ride paratransit service to
those customers who are grandfathered in is offered at the same levels and in the same area as
those immediately prior to the May service change. I would like to offer that as an amendment to

ensure that this is consistent with our understanding of how we were going to address paratransit
customers going forward with this service change.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Move approval. Director Folska here, move approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right-SHELLEY COOK: --acting as second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Is there any discussion on this motion?
SHELLEY COOK: Shelley Cook with just a question. This is separate from the three-- if I may
speak, I'm sorry, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director-SHELLEY COOK: Is this-- is this separate from the three amendments that you offered earlier?
Or was Michael Ford-- Mr. Ford speaking to the first amendment? And just wanting to clarify, if
we're voting only on his amendment or on the three prior ones at this point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ford, if I could have you respond to that, since we did do an
amendment to that.
MICHAEL FORD: I was speaking to the first amendment-- this is Michael Ford, COO, but there
are two corrections that we wanted to make sure that are updated in this process, along with the
commitment to our paratransit-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Does that answer your question, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, is there any other discussion?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Hi, Angie, it's Shontel-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair-- Madam Chair, Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just as a point of order, I think for the
sake of the record, we should note that the motion to amend, it includes the three amendments that
you described is technically what's on the floor, and that Mr. Ford was merely giving us further
amplification on the first of those, and that if there was to be discussion, there could be discussion
on any one of the three amendments, and then we could proceed to vote on the three amendments
as a package as per that motion. Thank you, Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I no longer wish to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I no longer wish to speak. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, thank you. OK. Hearing discussion from the Board, I
will now call on the Directors in turn, starting with Director Broom, to see if anybody else has any
discussion. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Are we voting on the amendment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: We are voting-- yes.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Madam Chair? This is Jenifer Ross-Amato.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Councilor, go ahead.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jenifer Ross-Amato, the acting general counsel. So the pending
motion to amend is for all three action items. So that paratransit issue to correct a report on Route
Y, and to incorporate in the equity analysis. Is that clear for everybody? That's the pending motion
that you should be voting on.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes? Go ahead, Director Broom.
TROY WHITMORE: This is Director Whitmore.
BOB BROOM: --voting yes on the amendment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
BOB BROOM: I'm voting yes on the amendment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is this for my vote or to speak?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: This is for you to speak.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah. Well, I will support the amendments and that my only comment is that
the Y modifications, just to be clear for the record, they were the ones sent out later in the week,
three buses in the morning and three in afternoon for Lyons. Thank you.

BOB BROOM: Chair, this is Director Broom again.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes? Yeah, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: --a question-- are we voting on the amendment or are we voting-- or are we going
through and discussing the main motion?
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. We're going to do one round of comments
for those Directors that would like to speak, and then we'll do a second round for the vote.
BOB BROOM: OK, well if this is the first round, then I do have something I'd like to speak to.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BOB BROOM: OK, I move to table the May 2020 service changes until the April 21 board
meeting. You need more time to assess the impact of the coronavirus pandemic on our drivers,
operators, maintenance staff, on ridership, on sales tax revenues to support the system. The Board- a weekend type-- if the Board adopts a weekend type of schedule in response to the large drop in
ridership-JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Director Broom? May I interrupt for a moment? This is Jenifer RossAmato, the acting general counsel.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, counsel.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: If you would like to-- are you moving to amend the current
amendment? Or did you want to make a motion to amend the original action items?
BOB BROOM: Well, that's why I was trying to determine whether we were talking about the
amendment or whether we were talking about the same motion.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: We are talking about the amendment to the original action item. So
this is the motion to amend the original action item to add three things. One is a statement about
paratransit service, two is to correct the report on Route Y, and three is to add the equity analysis.
BOB BROOM: OK, well that's-JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: That's the motion you're discussing and voting on.
BOB BROOM: OK, that's why I said first that I supported the amendment, but then it sounded like
we were starting to discuss the main motion, and in that case, I was passed by. So if we're talking
about the amendment, I favor that, and I'll hold my comments until the next round. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. OK, Director Tisdale.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Madam Chair, thank you very much for being recognized. Again, for the
sake of the records, we are voting on the motion to amend. This is simply the motion to amend.
It's a clarification relative to certain issues in the main motion. Therefore, if there is any desire to
postpone to a date certain-- as opposed to table-- if there is a desire to postpone to a date certain
the overall discussion of this matter once amended, that would be appropriate after we vote on the
amendments. But I view this essentially as a clerical matter now to clear up certain things and to
make certain that we've addressed them all, and so therefore, I speak in support of the amendment,
and will be voting in favor and would encourage all to do so. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'd like to take the opportunity to ask if there are any
no votes on this amendment, and that way, we can move this forward quickly. Are there any no
votes on this amendment?
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair, this is Peggy Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And I got confused. I thought we were going in alphabetical order, so I
was kind of confused. But we have the three amendment-- or the three items contained in the
proposed amendment, but Mr. Ford provided a much more detailed analysis of Item 1, and are we
to assume that-- that that be appended to Item 1 for clarification?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Ford?
PEGGY CATLIN: Because in my opinion-- or excuse me, in my opinion, that was really good
information to add, but I don't think-- and Director Folska made a motion, but then it just kind of
got hung up. And so just for clarification, are we-- we're voting on those three items in the proposed
amendment with the additional information that Mr. Ford provided?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct. Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. So are there any no votes on this? OK. OK. Hearing
none, we're going to proceed on the amendments, not on the action itself, which will come later,
and if there are any no votes to that amendment. So here we go. Hearing no opposition, that motion
passes and the amendments are adopted.
Now I'm in a call to vote on the amendment, in turn, starting with Director Broom. So this is to
vote for the amendment. And please be patient with me, because I'm trying to go through this
process for the first time by phone. So I'm going to call on each-- yes?

JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is General Counsel Jenifer Ross-Amato. I think you need to vote
on the original action as amended.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. OK. All right, thank you.
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Because the amendment has been approved, so-- or passed. And so
then you are voting on the original action as amended by the amendment that just passed.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: --of order, Director Tisdale. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just for the
sake of clarity, we've adopted the amendment, we're back to discussion on the main motion as
amended. However, it would be, respectfully, counsel, inappropriate to proceed to a vote on this
because we've already had expression of a desire by one of the Directors to file a motion to either
lay on the table, or, I believe, it was intended to postpone to a specific date, specifically the April
meeting date. And so therefore, respectfully, I think discussion is in order. And if there is a
privileged motion, such as a motion to lay on the table or a motion to postpone to a specific date,
that it would be appropriate at that time-- at this time, I should say, to make such a motion.
So therefore, the discussion currently is the main motion as amended with the opportunity for
debate on that main motion has amended, and for the opportunity of the making of a privileged
motion either to lay on the table or to postpone to a date certain. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Tisdale-- or Director Tisdale. OK. So, General
Counsel, if you could help me out with this. The motion, then, what we're voting on now-JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Right.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --is the original action amended, correct?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: That is correct, but you should open it up for discussion or any motions
to amend.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So at this time, I would like to open it up for any discussion
or points to amend. I'm going to do it alphabetically, though. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'll restate my motion. I move to postpone the May 2020 service
changes until the April 21 board meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: In April.
BOB BROOM: And I think you probably heard my explanation of why I was doing that, because
I didn't think it makes sense for us to adopt this May plan, and then later on this evening, adopt a
second plan which is actually the plan that's going to take effect for the pandemic, it'll just confuse

the public terribly, and a month from now we'll have a lot more information as it pertains to what
the schedule should look like in the future. So that's my motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Broom. OK. I'm going to go ahead and call,
and I have Director Lewis as the second on that amendment. And now what I'd like to do is ask if
there are any other discussion on this. So I will now go to Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a question for staff. If we postpone this
decision until April 21, can we possibly enact these changes for the May run board? That's my
question, thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO, that would not be possible given the time
constraints that it would take, so we would not be able to do that.
VINCE BUZEK: That's what I thought, thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair, this is Director Broom again. You could still approve it in April,
but change the effective date.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Director Catlin, or First Vice Chair Catlin, do you
have anything?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes I do. This is addressing the amendment, because that the next action item,
not the original motion. So with respect to the service changes for May, it's my understanding that
if we adopt this COVID-19 service plan, that the adoption of the service reductions for the May
run board would allow staff to reintroduce or restore those dropped runs for the emergency
according to that specific plan and not the plan that we have in place currently. And that May run
board includes the summer school routes that aren't in effect.
So it's my understanding that if we adopt this plan, then the staff has a framework to go forward
when we get out of this COVID-19 crisis. So that's my comment. And I will be opposing the
amendment proposed by Director Broom, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director, Second Vice Chair Cook.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce Abel, may I comment?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead, Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: In response to Director Catlin's comment, Director Catlin is right on mark. The
May service changes have been folded into the COVID-19 service plan, however, staff needs a
service plan that has been approved by the Board to allow us to move out of the COVID service
plan and to a Board-approved service plan, which would be the May 2020 service plan, as the

pandemic winds down and we begin to ramp service back up from the COVID-19 plan, assuming
the Board approves it at the special meeting.
And it is important that we have a May service plan, because the May service plan, as Director
Catlin pointed out, is where we typically roll back the level of service on school routes-- for
example, services in Boulder are not as robust in the summer because CU is out, services in Denver
along a number of routes are not as robust in the summer because high schools are out, and many
high school riders ride the routes. So it is important for us to have an adopted May 2020 service
plan to come back to as we build service backup from the lower level of the COVID-19 plan
assuming that the Board adopts it. Does that make sense?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, it does. Thank you, Mr. Abel. Second Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I've struggled with this as well. We know that the
Saturday-Sunday service level already takes into account a reduced schedule that would
encompass the school changes, for example. And what's more, it goes well beyond the reduction
needed to remedy the operator shortages. So I'm going to support the main motion, but with a
measure of reluctance, because I am concerned that we are enacting these service changes, as
Director Broom says, without knowing how things will be even a month from now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Folska.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce Abel again, if I may?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, go ahead.
BRUCE ABEL: I think as a technical clarification, we have to think about that the May service
change will not be enacted from the perspective of what we-- if the Board approves the COVID
plan, the public will not see the May service change enacted until we roll out of the COVID service
plan. So we will not be communicating two service plans to the public. If the Board approves the
COVID plan, that is what will be implemented prior to any potential implementation of the May
run board, so therefore, the public would never be-- would never see the May run board until we
roll out of the COVID plan and begin building back up, it, again, gives us the target to what to
build back up to. I hope that may clarify the Board-- the public will never see the May service plan
until we roll out of-- are able to build service back up after the COVID plan. And-SHELLEY COOK: I was going to say, that really does help, because the subsequent special board
meeting item seemed to indicate that they would-DOUG TISDALE: Point or order, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Point of order, and Director Cook, if we could just let Mr.
Abel speak and-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, of course. Forgive me, I'll let that go.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. All right, thank you, Mr. Abel. Director
Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I think there is a lot of confusion. I'm
not going to be able to support Director Broom's amendment. I will support the service change
motion for this evening. I think-- I mean, everything I'm hearing on the news tells me this is going
to be a long haul, and I would be excited to know that school's back in session in September,
frankly, so I'm going to have to support the main motion and not Director Broom's motion. That's
all for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folksa. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Yeah, I agree that these are tough-- I have two questions. What
you were saying-- what Bruce Abel was saying was really helpful, and my questions are, I thought
in the COVID proposal that we're going to consider next, but there were some things that said that
were heading into the May service cuts, is that not right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director-- er, Mr. Abel, can you discuss?
BRUCE ABEL: I'm sorry, could you please repeat the comment? I only caught part of it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Thanks for your comments, those were helpful. I thought in the
service change proposal that we have for the next meeting, the spreadsheets, that some of them did
incorporate the May service changes. Did I read that wrong?
BRUCE ABEL: All of the May service changes have been incorporated into COVID, so they will
be implemented, but COVID goes far beyond the May service change in terms of reducing a level
of service, so it gives us a target to build back up to.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Then I'm a little confused. What did you mean when you said people
won't see the May service changes? Because they would be combined with the COVID changes?
Is that what you meant?
BRUCE ABEL: We would never-- oh, Madam Chair, Bruce Abel.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
BRUCE ABEL: So once the Board approves the May service changes, if that is your direction, it
will be merely an internal exercise for us, not something that is communicated to the public. What
they would communicate to the public, assuming the Board approves the COVID service changes,
are the schedule-- the routes and schedules per COVID. The only time that the public would ever
see the May service change is-- and it would not be called the May service change-- as we
reintroduce service, we would have as our target that which the Board may approve as our May
service.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks. And finally, to be sure I understood the conversation I had
earlier today with Paul Ballard, passing these May service changes won't slow down the process
of putting in effective COVID changes, is that right?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO, that's right, it would not slow it down.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right, I will support the May service changes sort of with mixed
feelings to it. It's a whole different world, but I think we're-- we should move forward with them.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Lewis?
PEGGY CATLIN: Point of order, Madam Chair, this is Director Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead-- Director-PEGGY CATLIN: If I might, Director Broom offered an amendment that was seconded by
Director Folska. She has now recinded that-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, it was Director Lewis who seconded it, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize, I didn't hear correctly. OK, never mind. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Catlin-- I actually wanted
to hear the discussion, so I was interested and seconded the motion. I have a few questions for
staff. So the first question I have is about the May run board. Can that be started at another date or
does that have to start in May? And if so, why?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ms.-MICHAEL FORD: The May run-- this is Michael Ford, COO. We go to you at this time every
year, we have three run cuts, and we need your approval to adopt the May service change now.
Again, as Mr. Abel had indicated, it's a placeholder, we may get to it depending on conditions
changing, but as is indicated, we have another special meeting to talk about the COVID service
plan as well. But we typically need the time to do the bidding and to do the work, and that's why
we bring it to you at this time so we can allow our operators to bid and do all the other necessary
work to put it in position. Is that your question?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, I'll take it. So it seems to me in a fluctuating environment, in a
changing environment where we have many unknowns, it might make sense for us to think about
a new process that would allow us more flexibility to meet the fluctuating demand and to make
those changes as we go. And so we've talked about like how many folks are on our buses and like
how to operationalize social distancing in that, and I don't see the flexibility in how we're moving
forward in this pandemic and doing things differently with the understanding that our demand and

our ridership is changing. And so if you could speak to that, that would be helpful for me, because
I'm not really sure I understand the next steps.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. We have been continuing to monitor our ridership as well
as our employees coming into work to determine-- these are key factors in determining how we
are going to address our service. We're also looking at what the governor's saying, what the mayors
are saying, what other transit agencies are doing across the country to try to make the best
determination. We've come to a point right now where we want to enact a pandemic plan and get
that moved forward as quickly as possible, but we also have constraints based on the work that
needs to go into that process.
So we have taken into consideration a lot of information. In terms of trying to speed this up, we
are actually moving it up quicker based on discussions with our ATU partners in this, discussions
along the lines of dealing with our IT department, our customer service department. So we've
looked at different ways in which we could move faster, and we also have to consider our
contractors in this process as well.
So we have really cut our time down to try to bring this pandemic service plan that we'll be talking
about later quicker. And then there's a natural progression of how we have to make this work with
the time that we have with our union contract, or CBA regulations to make this work. I would
probably offer others to speak out, and I think Mr. Abel has some thoughts.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Mr. Abel.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Mr. Ford. And Director Lewis, I think that your comment is right at
the heart of why we are recommending moving forward with the May service change as well. And
flexibility is the key to what we're attempting to do here. The May service change would not be
implemented in one fell swoop at any point in time. It gives us the flexibility, however, for as
conditions change with the COVID pandemic, we can reintroduce different services-- as Mr. Ford
indicated, we are monitoring our ridership constantly.
We don't know if in May we want to come and increase some of our services. So that we have
some guidance as to what services to increase-- because this is going to be a gradual process
coming out of the COVID service plan, it's not going to be Monday is the COVID service plan
and Tuesday's the May service plan, we would implement the COVID plan, assuming the Board
approves, and as things-- conditions change over the next weeks and months, we would implement
appropriate pieces of the May service plan. But the main service plan, again, gives us a target and
the flexibility to build up to it, but we need to have some guidance from the Board as to what we
wish to build back up to. Does that help?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: It helps. I guess when I talk about flexibility, it feels like, in a time with
many unknowns, when we're working in a pandemic, it might make sense for us to go back and
have discussions with the union to be flexible around bids and service changes. I don't-- I guess
I'm trying to understand why we are sticking with our January, May, and August when we don't--

that's normally how we do business, but we aren't in a-- we aren't in normalcy right now. We're
kind of in panic and chaos and lots of fluctuation, and we have 60% ridership, and then we have-a decline of 70% ridership. And so I'm trying to understand why we're holding ourselves to these
standards and these boxes, when really, we need to be flexible in how we move forward during
this pandemic.
MICHAEL FORD: Director Lewis, this is Michael Ford, COO. I just want to re-emphasize, we
have been working with the ATU to help expedite this process as it relates to our pandemic plan
proposal, and also just normal service cuts that we go through on a continuous basis. We're
working through how we would bring people to do their votes, what issues and concerns they may
have, we work through an MOU that we're trying to finalize on that process. Again, it's not just
one thing, it's a lot of different factors that we have to take in consideration, and we have taken
opportunity to be more flexible and maybe even design a system going forward that would move
us faster in the process as a result of this experience.
So again, we are gauging the environment, we're engaging the conditions, we've done work for the
last three weeks on trying to see what we can do to expedite things, and there are a lot of
components, from payroll to getting information out to the public. And I think the biggest thing I
would like to emphasize is we want to be thorough and we want to not create more panic in our
operation. People are going through a tremendous change right now, and the more thoughtful and
respectful and systematic that we can be while trying to reduce the time is very, very critical to
this process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Director Lewis, does that-SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No, I'm-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry, did that answer your question?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Yeah, I have another question. That-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, go ahead.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: --sense to me-- thank you. That makes sense to me, and then in the
meantime-- I guess when I'm talking about this flexibility, like in the meantime, we are three weeks
into this, by the time we are talking about these service changes for May and for our response with
the pandemic plans, that's a month from now, and I don't-- I have to push back a bit to think about
like, we're continuing to mandate our operators, we're continuing to see declines in ridership, we
still aren't doing the backdoor boarding, we haven't suspended fares, like people are being exposed
to the virus unknowingly.
And so like I respect and I appreciate all the work you all have done, and I hope that I'm not coming
off as someone who doesn't appreciate it, I just think there's more opportunity to be flexible as our
demand is fluctuating and to change our process, and even the short-term to deal with what is here
and now and not how we normally do business. And those are my comments.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I can.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh good. [LAUGHS] Phone technology is a little high tech for me, but I do want
to say that I'll be supporting the original motion, and I have respect for what Director Broom is
trying to do, because I feel that the process has unfortunately been very confusing, and it's been
difficult to follow along about what the effect of integration is between the May service changes
and the COVID changes. I would have appreciated an integration document that would have told
us more-- what we're being told now verbally, that this is how it works together.
I would like to say, it's my understanding that the May service changes are going to be the umbrella
on which the COVID changes are going to operate, and the May service changes are reductions.
And so therefore, the COVID is not only a reduction based on the virus, but the May service
changes were reductions based on the operator shortage. So we have like a double reduction in a
sense. And it seems to me that we need that, because we have a real financial crisis on our hands
now. And so I'm going to be supporting it, but it has been a confusing process, and I wanted to say
that. While at the same time saying, thank you very much for the staff for the incredible work
you've been doing. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't have any comments, I'll be a no on the motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: The same, no comments, no on the motion to amend.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Regarding Director Broom's motion to
postpone, and please, for the sake of the record, it is not an amendment, it is a motion to postpone
the main motion as amended. So the question has been asked, why do this? We're about to adopt
emergency measures in the next hour, why don't we postpone this and see how things go and then
decide?
Well I understand that question. I empathize with that question, but I submit that it is appropriate
and even necessary, for the reasons discussed by Misters Abel and Ford, that we need to approve
a plan now with an effective date of May so that we will be ready to go forward once we turn the
corner on this crisis. If we fail to take action now to be prepared for that eventuality, we will be
back at square one, and it will take us weeks to take appropriate action.
My contemplation is that when SLT looks to restore services pursuant to the emergency plan that
we will consider in just a few minutes, they will look to this service plan that hopefully we will

now adopt. They will not be looking to restore service at the level that we are currently providing.
It bears repeating that even these proposed service reductions are by and large temporary in nature,
they're not intended to be permanent reductions.
And finally, regarding the desire to be flexible with changes, which is a great suggestion, it would
be wonderful, but we must recognize that much of what we propose and what we do is affected by
our collective bargaining agreement with ATU Local 1001, so we must always be respectful of
that. So I will vote no on the motion to postpone to a date certain and will vote yes on the
recommended action as amended, and I urge all of my fellow Directors to join me in proceeding
with the main motion and voting yes on that matter. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Hello. Thank you. So I will be voting no on the motion because I feel that we
need to take this action to reduce-- to implement the May service changes so that they will be in
place when the COVID-19 service changes are starting to peel back so they'll underlie those
changes. And I suspect by the time the COVID-19 changes are fully rolled back, that the August
service changes will be in place. And as service is restored, it will be the August service changes
to which we'll be restoring services and not the May service changes, and that's in the September
time frame. So I'll be voting no on the motion to table-- or postpone, and a yes for the May-- to
implement the May surface changes. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I echo Director Tisdale's eloquent comment and
will vote similarly. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams, you're up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to thank Mr. Abel for his very succinct
comments. I would like to thank Director Tisdale for his eloquence as usual. I'd like to thank the
ATU and all of our drivers and mechanics and staff and everybody. I will vote no on the motion
and yes on the original. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. So now what I'm going to do-- so
as I was doing this, what I'd like to do is actually go to the motion to postpone. I've written down
who is in favor and who is not in favor, but I would like to just for the record, because this is our
first time, call your name for the motion to postpone from May to April by Director, and then we
will go to the original motion if that's OK with everybody.
So let me go ahead and start with the motion to postpone from May to April, as I understand it, is
the actual motion, and I will start with you, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Buzek.

VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair, and as you noted, I didn't vote, I just commented on
this motion, and I hope when we get back to the main motion, we'll have a discussion opportunity
again, because I did not discuss it. I vote no on the motion, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I vote no on the motion, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No on the motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And-- oh, and then that's me. Director Chair. No. So the motion
fails-- one yes, 14 no's. So now I'm going to ask Directors, we're going to go back to the main
motion. Is there any discussion-- I'm going to call each director alphabetically again, and if you
have any questions or comments, please wait until I call on you to make them before we do the
official vote. So I'm going to start with a discussion on the main motion, and the main motion is
to move forward-- let me look at it. This will be for the May service reductions for May 2020.
So if you'd like me to read it again, the May 2020 recommended service changes that it is
recommended by Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
approved the May 2020 service change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized base system cost savings of $6,737,700, and a FasTracks cost savings
of $1,534,700, and a reduction of 43 operator shifts, and further, to authorized the General Manager
or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service
is impacted by these changes.
These funds are saved through the service reductions and will be placed in the Board-appropriated
reserves for future Board consideration. This action supports the following General Manager's of
Core 1, Successful Delivery of Transit Services. I had heard originally that Director Williams was
the movement and Director Catlin, I believe, is the second. So with that, is there any discussion?
And I'm going to start with-- yes?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer Ross-Amato, Acting General Counsel. And just to
clarify, the main motion-- excuse me, the action that's under discussion is the original Board action
as amended-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, correct. I'm sorry, it is correct. It with the three items under- should I read that first, counsel?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: No, I don't think you need to read it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. So with that in mind-- thank you, ma'am. We're going
to start with Director Broom. Do you have any questions or discussion on the original amended
motion?
BOB BROOM: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair, and as everyone knows, I've been opposed to the May
service changes since their inception last summer. However, things have changed just a little bit,

and so a virus is going to have me change my vote, and I will be supporting this motion. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Catlin, First Vice Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I have no comments at this point-- oh, wait a minute, no I do. I
really appreciate staff working with me, particularly Jesse and also Brian in the special services to
really look at some creative ways to provide an alternative for those folks who are left abandoned
by the 99L extension-- or the south portion service cut. So I just wanted to thank staff for helping
me try and problem-solve that. That's all. I will be supporting-- I will be supporting it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: No discussion, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folksa.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I support it, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger Treasurer, Madam.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, thank you. No additional comments thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis? I'm sorry? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I'm sorry, I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I support it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I do have a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: We're on comment, right?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So going back to our discussion that we had earlier this month, we're
looking at the-- just for everybody's reminder, more for our public audience listening in, that since
we're talking about the May '20 service changes, I fear that they don't go far enough. And the
COVID service changes that we'll discuss later on will be temporary. And especially after having
a budget discussion this afternoon, we have a long-game problem. And especially as the private

sector continues to offer more convenient solutions. Faster service. One-seat trip. We're going to
continue to face bigger and bigger problems.
So I'm definitely supporting the service changes, but just don't think we got far enough by coming- reversing ourselves from the original suggestions. So that is my comments, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Something along the same lines, just that the May changes will be seen as the,
at least in my opinion, the bar, sort of a high bar, and it'll be certainly tricky to get back to that for
the foreseeable future. But that's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Concerning the main motion as amended
for the reasons stated previously, I support that motion and urge others to do so. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I will be supporting the main motion. No further comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to say a sincere thank you for
the comments and input from Mr. Abel and Mr. Ford tonight, they were both very helpful. I will
support the motion, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have no comments, and I'm in favor of the original motion, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I, too, am in favor of the motion, and I would like to
take this opportunity to join other Board members in saying a sincere and heartfelt thank you to
our staff and the union for working together in these unprecedented times. I mean, this has been
really just quite surreal. But I know that this agency is amazing, we have the best staff in the
country, and we're going to move it forward, and we're going to be doing it by serving our
community. And so I just want to say thank you.
I'm going to assume there is no other discussion since all Board members have been called upon.
So now I would like to call for the official vote on the main motion as amended with the three
pieces, and again, we will proceed in alphabetical order. Ms. McManus, can I have you do the roll
call, please?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mike? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folksa.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Aye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. 15 yes's, one no, it passes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Here's the next piece-- there is no executive
session tonight. Does any Director have any old business to discuss?
NATALIE MENTEN: Natalie Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, let me-- go ahead, Natalie.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm not sure if you want to consider this old or new, but since they're stacked
together, it doesn't probably really matter, but I would like to bring forward a discussion that can
take place outside of the board meeting, but we continue to have rules and regulations and potential
liability hurdles in our way, and I'll give a brief example. You all are very familiar with the news
that's been round of people making hand sanitizer. Distilleries using their byproducts. I had
purchased 99.5% isopropyl alcohol to make sanitizer.
OSHA has a regulation where we need an exhaust to it. We don't have one. This is stuff that could
be easily mixed in another safe environment-- an example, a parking lot. But then we continue to
have as a backup to it potential liability. And as you've also seen, probably on the news, people
now I've taken to making air masks with their sewing machine and 100% cotton fabric. There's a
shortage on elastic. You can't go to the stores to buy it, but we still continue to have the liability
issue.
If we do go deeper into this pandemic and we do have-- we're just completely unable to get N95
air masks, I would like to hear from our legal staff, is there an alternative? Can we say to a driver,
I mean, pretty much-- driver, we don't have an air mask for you, or, would you be willing to waive
liability and we will get you this-- I don't know, let's say doubled up cotton air mask? Can we work
with the distilleries to get hand sanitizer?
We don't know how long this will go on, but I feel very frustrated when there are plenty of people
who want to help and there are ways to work around and think outside the box, but we've got
OSHA in our way and potential liability, which I do respect that, but let's at least open that
conversation as to what's really legit and is there a way to work around it. So again, happy to take
this offline, but it's something I did want to share with the Board.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, and I want to thank you, and I really want to
thank you for your willingness to look outside of the box and think creatively on how to support
our drivers with sanitizers. General Counsel, I would ask you if you could get with Director Menten
to talk about this issue, because I do think it's going to be something that comes up on a regular
basis as we're going down this really unusual time if you don't mind doing that.

JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: I would be happy to. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. There was another person who said that they
had old business. May I call on you?
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: Hi, Chairman Rivera-Malpiede, Director Lewis. I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
SHONTEL M. LEWIS: I sent around the Board a letter regarding the-- I'm sorry, someone's phone
is not on mute and it's kind of distracting. Thank you. I sent a letter around to the Board regarding
the six-day mandate that at the time that we are seeing significant declines in ridership-- ridership,
excuse me, I hadn't heard much from-- much of anything, but I just wanted to bring that back up,
because I think, as we are seeing these declines in ridership and we are also mandating, that we
might want to look at that differently as a Board and as an agency to see where we might be able
to provide our operators with some relief to some degree somewhere in our decision-making as
we are making these decisions that impact them that they're often not at the table for. I think I
would encourage us to continue to have-- or to begin to have discussion around-- to suspend the
mandating during this pandemic. That is all, director. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Is there any other old business?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Director Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just to address specifically the comment
by Director Lewis, it is my intent to discuss further that issue in the context of the special board
meeting that we are about to adjourn into, and I think that it is a meaningful response to the request
made by Director Lewis. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Do I have any other old business?
OK. I'm now going to ask Mr. Ballard for an update regarding the N Line. As you recall, we've
decided that we are going to have a monthly update on what's happening with the N Line as we
move forward. Mr. Ballard?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair, and as I begin my remarks, I'd like to thank
you and the other Board members for the comments-- the positive comments that have been made
towards the staff showing your appreciation. We appreciate the leadership that the Board provides
as well, but I very much appreciate those positive comments.
On my N Line update, I will report that work is continuing through the coronavirus period. It's
mostly outdoor work, and the workers are taking the required precautions for doing outside work.
We are still on track for a final acceptance of the right of way on May the 4th. If you remember
last month, I reported to you that there was a conditional acceptance, which was an important step.
We're now looking at final acceptance on May 4. The construction company will continue to

finish-- do station finishes, platforms and whatnot, but the right of way will be fully accepted on
May 4.
Crew training will continue shortly. We are still working towards a start-up date in September. It's
our plan to offer to the Board the opportunity to start that line in September assuming that we're
through the current emergency, but we will be monitoring that. We believe that we will have the
line ready to operate, and then we will present it to you for your decision as to when that line would
go into service based on all of the other situations that are going on.
One additional good point that I would like to make tonight is that we have been released from the
Federal Railroad Administration waiver on the A Line to the airport that had been required for
some time for our highway crossings. That is a very, very good movement by the Federal Railroad
Administration. This also has very positive implications for the N Line as the waiver process for
crossing on the N Line will now be unnecessary based on the Federal Railroad Administration
actions of our crossings on the A Line. So that's very good news, and I will close my report on the
N Line with that news. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard, that really is very great news, thank you.
I'd like to now call on First Vice Chair Catlin. Would you please also update us on the Ad Hoc
Committee on Certain Litigations at this time?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. The Acting General Counsel, Jenifer RossAmato, met with Director Tisdale and me on March 17 for we're continuing this Ad Hoc
Committee for Litigation Expenses. And as you might recall, we were very concerned about when
the Board authorized spending authority of an additional $4 million that we monitored pretty
closely.
So Jenifer updated us on litigation costs incurred to date. These costs authorized additional
spending for both the DTP case and North Metro, and I'm delighted to hear from Paul Ballard that
the restrictions from FRA were in place, so that's really good news, because that could probably
impact us as well.
Anyway, we did meet, and the costs that have been spent so far are within the authority that we
granted Legal to spend, and they do not believe that there will be a need for staff to seek authority
to incur additional funds through a trial, particularly in the late-- or in the Eagle litigation, there's
still a little bit of unknown on North Metro. But if I might invite Jenifer Ross-Amato to comment
and brief the Board on what her understanding is about both of those particular items, I would-- if
I might, Chair, yield the floor to her.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course, thank you. Counselor?
JENIFER ROSS-AMATO: Hi, this is Jenifer Ross-Amato, Acting General Counsel, thank you. I
wanted to update the Board on two points-- developments with the Eagle litigation. The first one
is that the court has issued an order moving the trial date back to September 21. And the
fundamental reason for that relates to the COVID-19 issues and changes with how the court is

operating, as well as the parties' ability to complete the discovery process prior to the previously
scheduled trial date, which was in May.
The court also approved the parties' agreed-upon deadline to extend discovery period through a
date in July. And so that the progress of the litigation is moving forward as well, and briefing on
the motion for summary judgment is now complete, and the motion is pending before the court as
well. So thank you for the opportunity to update you on that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Counsel. Madam First Vice Chair, anything
else?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. I don't know if Director Tisdale has anything to add at this point.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. No, I don't, other than we did discuss
with our Interim General Counsel that we expect that the outside counsel on this matter will not
use the extension in time as an opportunity simply to bill additional time to us on the case, and we
have assurances that they are proceeding in a professional and expeditious manner, and we rely
upon those assurances. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale, and that was-- we probed pretty extensively about
our concerns along those lines, and we were reassured by Acting General Counsel Ross-Amato
that they are being very judicious in their spending. So that was great. And oh, the other thing that
I did want to mention is that Jenifer will be reporting progress and budget status on a quarterly
basis to us as we proceed on both of these endeavors. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. OK. Is there any new business
to be brought before this Board to discuss?
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes?
SHELLEY COOK: This is Shelley Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Director Cook, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: I meant to ask a follow-up of Paul Ballard if I may on his update, would that
be all right?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It would be, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great, thank you. Mr. Ballard, you mentioned that the FRA had released
the waiver for the A Line. If I recall, the way they handled the B and G Lines was that they were
added to that waiver, and I just needed to verify that they also are released by that same action.
PAUL BALLARD: Paul Ballard, Interim CEO and General Manager. If I may defer to our
Assistant General Manager for Rail Service, Dave Jensen, to answer that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Of course, thank you. Mr. Jensen?
DAVE JENSEN: This is Dave Jenson, AGM with Rail Operations. And so my understanding of
what the FRA released was just for the A Line crossings, but the B and the G Line crossings were
not a relevant issue at this moment, if I understood your question correctly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: If I may, you mean not relevant because they are not in some way constrained
or the waiver isn't expiring? Could you just check into that and then let me know?
DAVE JENSEN: Yeah. I will look into it and confirm, but my understanding is that they were-we already had quiet zones in those areas, so I'll confirm that and get back to you.
DAVE JENSEN: Right. We don't believe the that the waiver applied to the B and G Lines, that it
was the A Line. But we'll look into it.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, yeah, I guess I misunderstood which waiver you were talking about, and
thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Cook. Are there any other Board members
with any other new business to discuss at this time? OK. Hearing none, I would like to know that
we can adjourn. I need a first in a second, but before we do that, please note that upon the
adjournment of this board meeting, we will take a five-minute break and go into a special board
meeting to take care of one additional item of critical business. Is there any-- is there a first and a
second to adjourn?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, Director Williams, I move that we adjourn.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, first. And second?
NATALIE MENTEN: I second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Natalie Menten-- or Director Menten. OK. So we are now done.
The regular board meeting of Tuesday, March 24 is concluded, and seconded by Director Williams
and Director Menten. The board meeting is officially adjourned and we will convene the special
board meeting momentarily. Please stay on the line if you'd like to listen to that meeting, but I

would like to give all the Directors and the staff and the public a five-minute break while we set
up for the next meeting, OK? Thank you. We are adjourned.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, Chair, but did we need to vote on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't know. All in favor? I guess it's going to be hard to do.
Should I go alphabetically?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, no, just see if anyone's opposed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Is anyone-DOUG TISDALE: --any objection?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Does anybody want to stay in this meeting? OK, hearing
none, I say we're adjourned, you've got five minutes, and then just mute your phone and let's stay
online and we'll go to our next meeting. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

