1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, September 2, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:38 PM
5:15 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:38 PM
5:27 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

5:23 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Absent

5:24 PM
5:12 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:17 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:33 PM
5:23 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:21 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:25 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:29 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Jim Maguire, Barbara McManus, Tara Miller, Vivian Morales,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Michael Dino, Aaron Epsten, Tina Francone, Joni
Goheen, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Eugene Howard, Daryl
Kirby, Brian Middleton, Laura Rinker, Roger Sherman, Joshua Solis,
Joe Racogley, Joe Triplett, Ted Wenzlick

B. Updates
Committee Chair Folska asked the representatives from CRL Associates,
Brandeberry~McKenna, and Squire Patton Boggs to reflect on RTD’s position in the
near past and what are the challenges and items of interest as we move forward.
She also asked for examples on how to build coalitions and partnering with other
agencies.

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates stated that the November elections will
decide much of what to look towards in the near future. He said the
upcoming elections include State Governor, State Congress, County
Commissioners, 3 municipal elections (Cherry Hills Village, Parker, and
Superior), and 5 contested RTD Board seats. The Denver City Council will
have 6 open seats for the May, 2015 elections. These results will bring
change and will impact how CRL works with the local partners on RTD’s
behalf.
He noted that Amendment 64 will not see a tax increase this year. After the
November elections the conversation to discuss transportation funding may
resume at a state or metro level. In both cases, RTD needs to be at the
table for the discussions.
Roger Sherman said that there is a renewed focus on rubber tire service. He
mentioned that the Denver City Council has made local transportation as top
priority. The Council is looking at transit options via partnering with RTD
and/or the private sector. He noted that Director James is involved in the
Denver discussions. Roger Sherman mentioned that he can see other
municipalities looking into intra-city transit services options.
RTD internal discussions, such as funding for unfunded portions of
FasTracks and the fare policy discussion will also have an effect on the near
future.

Roger Sherman addressed the RTD Board internal relations as another aspect
that affects the future work of RTD. He recalled his time serving on the
RTD Board in the early 90’s as a very difficult time. He encouraged the
Directors to head in the same direction with the same common goals
avoiding self-inflicting wounds. He said that solid RTD Board internal
relations will maintain the confidence of the stakeholders as RTD keeps
growing.
Committee Chair Folska thanked Roger Sherman for his comments and his
candor.
Director Lubow asked if there were any conversations about the sales tax
initiatives. Roger Sherman said that not until after the November elections,
but most likely until January, 2015.
Regarding RTD Board internal relations, Director Lubow asked if dissent is
considered a weakness. Roger Sherman answered that dissent is good. He
noted, however, that there’s a problem when the newspaper articles focus
on how the Board relates instead of the subject matter.
Director Bagley thanked Roger Sherman for his comments regarding Board
interaction. Director Bagley said the issue shows up when talking to his
constituents. He reiterated his embarrassment by the Denver Post article
from a few weeks back. Director Solano asked which article Director Bagley
referred to. Committee Chair Folska said that there are many articles in the
Denver Post and Director Solano may not have been present during the
meeting the article was discussed. Director Bagley suggested Director
Solano consult with the Board Office Staff.
Committee Chair Folska noted that the Denver City Council has made public
transit one of their top priorities. The Honorable Mary Beth Susman,
Councilwoman for Denver’s District 5, lived for a week using alternative
modes of transit and documented her experience. Committee Chair Folska
asked Roger Sherman if he was familiar with this story. Roger Sherman
answered that he was aware of her experience. He also noted how her
findings were misrepresented in the media. He said he believed her point
was that traffic congestion is the reality and will only grow, making
alternative forms of transit a necessity.
Director Lubow asked what the interaction between RTD and the Denver
City Council would look like now that the Council has transit as a prime
interest. Roger Sherman said that the Council recognizes RTD does a great
job with the resources available. They are also looking into connecting
Cherry Creek to downtown, all the employment hubs on Colorado Blvd,
larger residential neighborhoods, etc.

Director James thanked Roger Sherman for his comments. Director James
noted that the dialogue he has held with the editors of the Denver Business
Journal and the Denver Post has been interesting. The main topic has been
alternative forms of transit, not what RTD provides as transportation. He
explained that the Denver City Council has an emphasis on the last mile in
an effort to compliment what RTD offers. He thanked Roger Sherman for
helping the RTD Board focus on our mission instead of conflicts among
board members.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry~McKenna noted that during election
season their main task is proactive education to candidates and other
parties. She thanked the Directors who attended the Transportation
Legislation Committee Review (TLRC) on August 5, 2014. The Honorable
Nancy Todd, TLRC Chair, requested a tour of the East Line and DIA.
Jenifer Brandeberry said the dialogue on how to use the $200 million from
Senate Bill 228 continues. She also mentioned Brandeberry~McKenna’s
work with Colorado Department of Transportation, the Metro Mayors
Caucus, and the Chamber of Commerce, among others. She said that after
the November elections they will move forward with other projects.
Committee Chair Folska asked if the agenda for the next TLRC meeting is
available. Jenifer Brandeberry replied that the agenda for the next meeting,
scheduled for September 9, 2014 was not available. She will forward the
agenda to the Directors as soon as it is. She said she didn’t anticipate RTD
having a major role on the agenda.

• Federal Update - Patton Boggs
Michael Dino from Squire Patton Boggs told the Directors that Congress
resumes next week. The expectation is that Congress will continue to pass
the resolutions for all the appropriations that have not been passed that are
due by September 30.
He said that there are 3 Federal funding opportunities of interest:
 The TIGER Grant recipients will be announced this month. RTD
submitted in April for the Northwest Area Mobility Study II and the
Central Rail Extension. The prediction is that somebody in Colorado
will receive a TIGER grant. It is hard to say who would receive it.
 Under the Ladders of Opportunity Grant Program RTD submitted the
Colfax Transit Signal Priority in early August.
 The Board submitted the Full Funding Grant Agreement for the SE
Extension. It is the largest sum asked from the Federal Government.
This one, he said, has the best chance of being funded. He noted that

the Department of Transportation (DOT) keeps track of the money
they distribute and has a track record of granting funds to RTD.
He reminded the Board that the Transportation Reauthorization was
extended until May 31, 2015. There is a slim chance that it may be brought
up for discussion during the “lame duck” session.
Michael Dino said that Squire Patton Boggs is working with the Colorado
House Delegation to send letters to the appropriate House Committees
regarding Bus Rapid Transit Definition and Federal Transit Authority’s use of
opening day metrics to evaluate project funding. Letters have already been
sent to the appropriate Senate Committees. Funding has not been
established and will depend on the results of the November elections.
He said that the White House unveiled a Public Private Partnership (P3)
initiative. An Infrastructure Summit will be held on September 9th. Phil
Washington, RTD’s General Manager was invited to the event.
Looking ahead at the Federal level, Mike Dino said there are tensions
between the President and Congress, specifically the House of
Representatives. These tensions, mostly in the areas of immigration, climate
change, and military, may have an effect on other areas, including
transportation. There are 5 Senate seats for election in November: Colorado,
Alaska, North Carolina, Louisiana, and Iowa. If the Democrats win 4 of the
5, Vice President Biden becomes the deciding vote.
Michael Dino stated that the future hinges on the November elections. He
also noted that further changes will come with the 2016 elections. He said
that RTD seems to be aligned with DOT’s purview.

C. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

D. Next Meeting Date - October 7, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 6:01
p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

