Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009 at 4:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

June 16, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009
at 4:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck,
Secretary Daly; Director Tobiassen (via phone)

Board Member Absent:

Treasurer Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; Paula Perdue, Phil Washington, Marla Lien

Call to Order:

Chair Lee Kemp called the meeting to order at 4:03
p.m.

Chair Kemp modified the order of the agenda to allow Marla Lien to provide an
update to the committee on the BNSF report.
Marla Lien shared she wanted to change the board report based on a meeting
that they had with BNSF this week. In the current Board report, she had
indicated a $23M firm fixed price. However, RTD has submitted some revised
drawings and plans which affect this firm fixed price. She will modify the
language in the MOU to reflect the approval is based on 15% of the RTD initial
submittal which will be adjusted when RTD updated plans are reviewed.
Based on this new information, the Committee elected to move the
authorization to execute memorandum of understanding for property acquisition
with the BNSF Railway from unanimous consent to recommended action.

I.

June Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
June 23, 2009.
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED unanimously.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009 at 4:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6


Unanimous Consent



Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to
negotiate and execute all documents that may be necessary to
extend the sale and development by and between the Regional
Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South
Santa Fe through December 31, 2010 and further authorize that
no further extensions be evaluated.



Approval to Release the Gold Line Final Environmental Impact
Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the
Gold Line Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for public
and agency review. This is the second of a series of steps in the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process prior to the
Record of Decision, which will be issued by the Federal Transit
Administration (FTA).



Approval to Release the East Corridor Final Environmental Impact
Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the
East Corridor Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS) for
public and agency review. This is the second of a series of steps
in the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process prior to
the Record of Decision, which will be issued by the Federal
Transit Administration (FTA).



Approval to Release the I-225 Corridor Draft Environmental
Evaluation (EE) Document
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the I225 Corridor Draft Environmental Evaluation (EE) document for
agency and public review.



Request for Approval of RTD 2008 Annual Report to DRCOG
on FasTracks
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors approve submittal of the RTD
2008 Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report
summarizes the changes to the FasTracks Plan, including
financing and alignment, that have been approved by the
Board in 2008 and early 2009. These changes are included

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009 at 4:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
and referenced in the Annual Report.


Resolution Regarding Property Acquisition and Indemnification of
Claims for Union Pacific Railroad’s Boulder Industrial Lead
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the attached resolution.
The
resolution authorizes the General Manager or his designee to enter
into a Purchase and Sale and related Agreements for the Union
Pacific Railroad’s (UPRR) Boulder Industrial Lead (BIL) and to
waive sovereign immunity to the extent it may be applicable and
indemnify the UPRR for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership in
an amount up to $200 million and to purchase general liability
insurance in that amount. The resolution also acknowledges that
indemnity and insurance requirements will increase at the time
that RTD commences construction of its railroad improvements on
the property and that prior to commencement of construction RTD
will be required to obtain rights of entry and insurance for preconstruction activities.



Approval of August 23, 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the August 23,
2009 Service Change package as revised and summarized on
Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$53,300, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.



Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and
delivery of a Reimbursement Agreement, a Bank Note, a Second
Supplemental Indenture and a Reoffering Memorandum Relating to
the District’s outstanding Commercial Paper Notes, and other
matters related thereto



Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and
delivery of a Supplemental Indenture of Trust relating to the
District’s Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series
2006A



Resolution No. ___, Series of 2009 authorizing the execution and
delivery of a Supplemental Indenture of Trust relating to the
District’s Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project)
Series 2007A



Exercise of Contract Options – Wells Fargo
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009 at 4:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise
the option to extend the term of the commercial banking contract
with Wells Fargo Bank for two additional one year periods
beginning July 1, 2009.

II.



Recommended Action



Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt this policy, which updates the
District’s current established procedures and guidelines for
evaluating proposed new stations on RTD’s existing and planned
light rail and commuter rail lines. Since each potential station and
station area is unique, no one set of guidelines should determine
whether a station is appropriate for a specific site. The criteria
described below are meant to serve as a policy framework for
issues that should be considered when planning for and approving
new stations. RTD staff will evaluate each of the criteria, and
provide the results for the RTD Board’s information when
considering the approval of a new station. Final determination
regarding whether new stations will be added to light rail and
commuter rail lines, and who will provide associated funding of
new stations, will be a Board decision on a case by case basis.



Authorization to Execute Memorandum of Understanding for
Property Acquisition with the BNSF Railway
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to enter into a Memorandum of Understanding (MOU)
with the BNSF Railway Company (BNSF) regarding the acquisition
of property interests from Denver Union Station to approximately
72nd Street for the Northwest and Gold Rail Lines along BNSF’s
Front Range Subdivision, and for the Gold Line on BNSF’s Golden
Subdivision. The Memorandum of Understanding will set forth
price for the segments but actual contracts for the purchase and
sale of interests and for construction and use of the property
interests will be entered into according to the parameters
described in the MOU.

GM Transition Team Status Update
Director Martinez reviewed the meeting process from 6/9/09 with the
committee including the process used to notify each candidate of the
selection. He shared the upcoming calendar for the RFP selection
which includes:
o July 1, RFP released
o July 15, responses due back from RFP
He also shared that Phil Washington had volunteered to take no

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009 at 4:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6
additional compensation for this position.
Phil Washington was invited to offer his comments. Phil Washington
shared that Thurs/Friday (6-18-19), he will go to Washington D.C.
with Cal to meet with the FTA Administrator and others including
Senator Bennett. As part of his transition plan he is scheduling 1-on1’s with the Board members and senior staff. Chair Kemp has also
been introducing him to the elected officials in the community and he
has met with the North Metro Mayors and Mayor Hickenlooper. He
has a schedule to meet with the Mayor’s Caucus in August and Chair
Kemp is working on a schedule with Mayor Murphy. He and Chair
Kemp will meet with Mayor Tauer of Aurora on June 22 nd. The PI
team is also working on a schedule for him.
Phil also shared that Terry Howerter will be the acting assistant
general manager for finance and administration during this interim.
III.

Update from CMRL Tour
Bruce Daly shared that the tour to Owens Corning on June 4th was a
good idea and a number of people including two from CAC were in
attendance. He drew a diagram of the area in question and indicated
that the RTD engineering team thought they could provide an
alternative to the original plan. He talked about the storm water
outlets being grandfathered and not knowing what might be the
challenges with this. He also talked about the press campaign that
Owens Corning has been engaging in and Scott Reed was working
with them in this area. Phil Washington added he is meeting with Bill
Shockley on July 22nd and that Patrick Demmer, Community Activist,
had contacted him as well.
Cal Marsella stated the RTD team is still looking at alternatives but
think they can build against a 2015 timeframe versus a 2030
timeframe and build in increments to store the vehicles end of line
(EOL). This would require less facility space but could require other
modifications to address potential vandalism and community issues.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Martinez asked about the staff policy on what to do in the
case of a tornado, especially during the weekend. Last weekend
when the tornado was spotted overhead in downtown Denver,
employees on duty at the call center were instructed to keep working
and the supervisor appeared unsure of the policy. What is the policy
and how should employees be instructed?
There were other questions about design for EOL and the use of tail
tracks.
Director Daly inquired about the 191 buses that RTD is auctioning
off. These are buses that have been retrofitted and parts extracted
from as much as possible and the auction will be handled by an outfit
called Roller & Associates.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on June 16, 2009 at 4:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6

VI.

The meeting adjourned at 4:40 p.m.

