Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, January 16, 2007

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 16, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Tuesday January 16, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.
****

Committee
Members Present:
Other Board
Members Present:

Chairman, McMullen, Directors; Kinton, and Ruchman. Via phone:
Director Quinlan
Directors Daly, Tayer, Busck, Elfenbein, Yamrick (via phone)

Staff Present:

Jeff Becker, Bill Porter, Bruce Abel, Phil Washington, Lloyd Mack, Cal
Marsella, Tony McCaulay, Ron Dodsworth, Manny Herrera, Dean
Shaklee, Paula Perdue, Marla Lien, John Tarbert, Dave Genova, Brian
Matthews, Scott Reed, Errol Stevens, and Lorraine Taylor

Others:

Jeff Leib, The Denver Post, Kevin Flynn, Rocky Mountain News, LW
Morrow

Call to Order:
I.

****
Chairman McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:02 pm.

Recommended Action
 Approval of Contract for Off-duty Denver Police Service
Marla Lien introduced this item for approval. John Tarbert addressed questions related
to when and where we utilize the DPS service and how do they work across
jurisdictions.
Motion:

Director Elfenbein moved to

Summary of the Operations Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 16 2007.
Page 2
forward this item on to the full
Board at the January 23, 2007,
Board meeting.
Second:

Director Tayer seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Chairman McMullen had several
questions on how much man-hour
do we get for the dollar and if we
can look at options such as using
Wackenhut to perform random
checks on fare enforcement or
what assurances can be provided
to the bus operators that security
is available in case of incidents.
John Tarbert indicated that we do
this now on a targeted basis. Cal
Marsella shared that the use of
Wackenhut for security or fare
enforcement was grieved by the
union and the arbitrator ruled that
all fare enforcement must be by
RTD employees. Director Quinlan
indicated this should be a topic of
discussion with the union during
negotiations. Lloyd Mack
referenced the presentation
previously made to the Board on
Fare Enforcement Issues.
After much discussion, this item
was brought to a vote.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

 May Service Changes
Cal Marsella briefed the committee on options for some of the service routes for the
May run board. He then turned it over to Bill Porter who passed out a slightly revised
Board Report from the one received in the packet 1/12. Bill shared that the package
was close to $1.9M on an annual basis which would effectively use up the 1% annual
hours that are in the budget for 2007. Bill discussed briefly the proposed changes to
route P which would add 5 buses (a.m. & p.m. each) for a cost of $477,000 but with
the proposed modifications to route 410, the net change in cost would be $95,400.

Summary of the Operations Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 16 2007.
Page 3
Cal Marsella indicated this could be absorbed in the annual operations budget. Cal
Marsella drew a diagram of the old P route and the new route to explain the changes
and the challenges. Cal Marsella indicated there were similar options being considered
for the T&W but there are budgetary considerations to be discussed with the Board.
After extensive discussion on the proposed changes including the 6X, T&W, the
Committee felt that the presence of the Directors for these routes would be required to
make an effective recommendation.
One alternative proposed included providing an evaluation period for about 8 months on
the ridership of the 6X, T& W routes to see how they perform to meet service
standards or to pursue vanpool options.
Based on this, the following modification to the recommended action was made:
Motion:
Director Quinlan made the motion
to accept the proposed May 2007
Service changes with the inclusion
of the P route changes and to
move the T,W,and 6X options to a
separate Board Action item/report
for the Board meeting on 1/23/07.
Second:

Director Elfenbein seconded the
motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed.
For more information on the proposed May changes, please refer to the Board for
Directors Report for May 2007 Service changes.

II.

Staffing
Manny Herrera, Senior Manager of Human Resources, provided an annualized report
for 2006:
-Hired 412 Bus Operators in 2006 and terminated 125 Bus Operators
-First year attrition is holding at 30%; average termination 64 days and average hire
is 43.6. Mandated overtime is down to a single digit.
-Hired 12 general repair mechanics with 21 vacancies. This continues to be a
challenge.
Directors Ruchman and Daly expressed concern over the level of attrition rate.
Chairman McMullen requested more details around these attrition rates. Ron
Dodsworth indicated a convergence of a number of issues affects attrition issues.

III.

Rail-Fare Enforcement and Signage
Lloyd Mack shared current status on hiring process for mechanics. He stated we

Summary of the Operations Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 16 2007.
Page 4
currently have 6 mechanics and in the process of interviewing 26. Lloyd indicated
we are working on additional signage on the stations and currently permits are
required for bicycles on the station.
IV.

Bus Operations-Snow Removal at Bus Stops
Chairman McMullen shared a personal experience of getting off the bus and
stepping onto an ice shell. Director Kinton indicated this is twice as difficult with a
wheelchair. Errol Stevens indicated this is a tough numbers problem with about
13,000 senior and handicap users of the system causing the number to get huge
quickly. Currently we are clearing about 600 stops systematically using our
contractors. However, we will talk with municipalities about following some
different procedures as they do their sweep down the street. Ron Dodsworth
indicated there are thousands of bus stops that do not fall under our jurisdiction.
However RTD is trying to find a way to address high needs and priorities.
Chairman McMullen requested at a minimum that the bus operators be given release
to let off passengers at cross-streets where the areas are reasonably clean. Ron
Dodsworth indicated that this is possible and he would put out communications to
this affect.

V.

Other Matters
Chairman McMullen shared some of the things he saw on his trip to Utah and
provided ideas

VI.

Next Meeting Date
The next meeting date will be determined at a later date.

VII.

Adjournment
Hearing no objections, Chairman McMullen adjourned the meeting at 6:35 pm.

