Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 10, 2012
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

January 11, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
January 10, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, Walker and
Williams.
Director Anderson participated via conference call.

Board Members
Absent:

Director McMullen.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover,
Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue,
Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, John Tarbert, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Margaret Attencio, Kathy Cole – Colorado Department of Human
Services Division of Vocational Rehab, Julie Farrar – Colorado
Developmental Disabilities Council, Claudia Folska, and Stan Gronek –
ATU 1001.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 6:00 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Approval to move May service change recommendations to public comment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed May 2012 Service Changes
(Attachment A) on to public review and comment.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 10, 2012
Page 2 of 3

Bruce Abel explained that staff is requesting to move the May 2012 service changes
to review and public comments.
Jesse Carter added that this service change is relatively benign. The major change is
to the Stampede and there will be a number of school cancellations that are routine
each May.
Bruce Abel noted that at the last Operations and Customer Services Committee staff
indicated that certain routes will be monitored more closely.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to forward
this item to the full Board at the January
25, 2012 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed Unanimously.
II.

Information
 Update on January 22 run board implementation
Jesse Carter explained that staff has been able to finalize the schedules for the
January run board. Another set of flyers are being developed and distributed to
advertise adjacent routes as alternatives.
Brian Matthews added that due to a few Call-n-Rides being discontinued, we have
made special efforts with certain individuals and especially those at Heather Gardens.
For Heather Gardens we will be putting together a shopping trip.
Director Tayer asked that the public meeting schedule for the May service changes
be changed so that the Directors can attend. These are more than just service change
meetings and it looks very conspicuous if RTD Board representation is not there. To
have these meetings on the same night as a regularly scheduled committee meeting
makes it difficult for Directors to attend both.
 Presidential Debate at DU
Bruce Abel indicated that there will be a presidential debate this fall at DU. We have
been contacted to see how our real estate holdings such as parking garages can be
utilized for the debate.
 Blind wayfinding and transportation for individuals with disabilities
Claudia Folska, Julie Farrar and Kathy Cole presented information to the Board
regarding wayfinding issues and alternative options for the disabled community.
Director Hoy indicated that there may be things within our system that need to be

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on January 10, 2012
Page 3 of 3

improved but that the City and County of Denver should be approached as well with
suggestions on changes.
Director Tayer noted that this information will help us on the front end of design
plans for new projects.
 ADA workshop
Bruce Abel explained that ADA and Access-a-Ride fundamentals were a focus of the
Senior Leadership and Board Retreat last year and staff has decided to spend some
time addressing certain aspects of the ADA requirements. The ADA is a civil rights
law that prohibits discrimination against individuals with disabilities. Transportation
regulations define requirements for provision of accessible services, accessible
vehicles and accessible facilities.
Bruce Abel explained that the Access-a-Ride program is designed to comply with
ADA regulations by providing public transportation to riders who have a disability that
prevent them from making some or all of their trips on fixed route buses. Access-aRide service operates in the same areas and during the same days and hours as the
fixed route service. Staff is currently exploring the pros and cons of the various
service provision models and surveying other transit agencies that use non-dedicated
fleet models.
Bruce Abel added that RTD will continue to provide Access-a-Ride service to
addresses that are out of the ¾ mile service area or out of the day and time that the
fixed route service operates through the end of 2012. Staff will continue to work
with customers to identify alternative options, and we will mail a letter to all Accessa-Ride customers advising of the future adherence to the ¾ mile corridor and
day/time restrictions which will begin in 2013. Staff will also educate Access-a-Ride
customers on how to identify routes that affect their trips and to be aware that
future service changes could impact their service.
III.

Other Matters
Director Bagley complimented David Genova’s staff on working with Downtown Littleton
and the Highlands Ranch Library and Town Center and added that working with our local
governments is critical.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – February 7, 2012

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:12 p.m.

