Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 22, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
April 21, 2009 at 5:32 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eleven (11) Board members were present at roll call.
arrived after roll call. Director Bagley was absent.

Directors Chacon, Martinez and Brohl

Chair Kemp shared that Director Bagley has an excused absence in that he was attending an
important public meeting on FasTracks in Highlands Ranch.
III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees for this month.
acknowledgements:

However, Chair Kemp did provide these special

Director John Tayer-received Man of the Year Award from YWCA of Boulder County
Director Tom Tobiassen-received Community Leader of the Year by the Aurora Chamber of
Commerce
Director Bill James—attended the special Daniel Fund reception for Jim Moffett to represent
the Board.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Ira Schreiber who lives in Aurora and is the President of the Colorado Rail Passenger
Association known as Colorail, shared their early support of FasTracks and advocating on its
behalf. However he expressed concern with the FEIS and feels it does nothing to deal with the
development of DUS, a mistake to separate this into two projects. He urged an approach that
would improve FasTracks functionally, financially and for the future generations-the 3 F model.
He requested RTD to delay action on items F, G, L and N until the EIS is revised to include
development. The fear is once the shovel is in the ground and the bricks are laid, we are stuck
for many, many years.
(See handouts from Colorail included in the Board minutes notebook located in the Board office.)
Jack McCroskey, former Board member, continued with his mission to discuss finances,
particularly the General Manager’s compensation. He read a prepared statement and stated it
was wrong to use public money for this purpose and without public knowledge and expressed
his feelings there is a red heron in the midst.

Robert Baxter, representing Pine Junction and Park County, requested reconsideration of the

parking management fee for the Pine Junction parking lot. He stated the current usage is below
the established threshold and that Park County is the only peripheral location that is being
charged. He distributed pictures of the unpaved park-n-ride and stated RTD should be
embarrassed to be charging for an unpaved lot.
Keith Howard, representing Sunnyside in Denver, offered his support of Director Tayer’s
amendment for renewable energy sources to the Eagle P-3 RFP. He noted this was seconded
by Director Chacon who represents his district.
John Hambright, representing Green Task Force at the Jefferson Unitarian Church, stated he
was also in favor of Director Tayer’s amendment and referred back to the 2006 RTD
sustainability policy. He expressed cost should not be the overriding factor and shared some
of the benefits of growing the economy, eliminating potential green house effects along with
sustainability of providing stable and natural sources of energy for transportation.
Betsy Hand, Sierra Club, spoke in favor of the John Tayer amendment. She stated that transit
currently accounts for 25% of the greenhouse gas in Colorado. Supporting this amendment
would not only help to address this problem but would be in support of the Governor’s
initiative to make Colorado a green and energy efficient state.
Tom Konrad, PHD, representing the Colorado Renewable Energy Society, spoke about the
economics of not having renewable energy on FasTracks. He provided a nice academic
explanation of the benefits and cost components of this.
Lynn Greene from Larkspur, Colorado is a business attorney who has represented a number of
clients and investors in renewable energy resources. She spoke in favor of Director Tayer’s
amendment, not from a cost perspective but from business growth that would increase the tax
base, attract new investments and new businesses to Colorado.
Bob Wilson, PHD, Arvada, summarized several of the comments made by previous speakers
and referred the Board to 2004 when the voters passed FasTracks and Amendment 37 which
indicated a 10% renewable energy. In 2007 the legislators doubled this to 20% renewable
energy. He indicated that with the PPP, now is the time to bring transit backers together with
renewable energy backers so we can “win the double hitter” for Colorado renewable energy
and FasTracks.
Martin Wirth, Riders 285 Coalition, expressed that their lobbying efforts contributed to the
economic stimulus funds that RTD received and that this is taxpayers’ dollars. He stated RTD
was the beneficiary of their efforts and was upset that they did not receive any share of these
funds and felt this along with the parking management and the cancellation of the “U” was
tantamount to spitting in their face.
Pam Beckhorn, Riders 285 Coalition, expressed they were exploring funding avenues to make
Pine Junction surface-able at a cost of approximate $600K. This park-n-ride services citizens
of Jefferson County as well as Park County. They have obtained over 1000 signatures for
permanent surface for this park-n-ride. They are also ready to release their findings on Park
County resident market profile study on buying and spending habits that show much of their
spending is in the district. They are paying without necessarily the representation. She raised
the question why can we not move forward with permanent surface in the park-n-ride and RTD
contribute to the $600K needed for building a permanent park-n-ride surface at Pine Junction.

Edie Bryan, former RTD Board member from District D and representing Colorail, stated the

design for DUS does not meet the environment vision statement as established 7 years ago.
She reminded the Board of a farmer’s adage “don’t eat your seed corn”, and stated RTD
should not sell property today which they may be in need of in the future to expand or bring in
new technology such as the Maglev. This will make it difficult to add extra capacity in the
future and cautioned RTD to not eat their seed corn.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no committee reports.
Director Tayer reported the EcoPass adhoc committee met for the first time to discuss
structural and procedural plans. The next EcoPass meeting is May 20th and all Board members
are invited to attend.
Marla Lien shared she had just come back from the Capitol where the contract performance
surety bill which is necessary for the P3 project had passed out of the House.

VI.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
There was no Metro Mayors report since they are not meeting at this time.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF MARCH 17, 2009 AND SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING ON APRIL 7, 2009.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the March 17, 2009
regular board meeting minutes and the April 7, 2009 special
Board meeting minutes.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Bagley was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Meeting with Denver Post Editorial Board on FasTracks and RTD Issues
Cal Marsella, Chair Kemp, Pauletta Tonilas and Scott Reed met with the Denver Post
Editorial Board to provide an updated status on FasTracks and other RTD issues. This
was a productive information exchange.
 Discussion with Congressman Polis
Cal Marsella participated in a very engaging phone discussion with Congressman Polis
about the economic stimulus, authorization requests, and other funding sources.
Congressman Polis, Perlmutter and Senator Udall are all very supportive of RTD efforts
and pledge their support for funding.
 National Transit Institute Meeting on DBE Program
A meeting was held with the National Transit Institute to discuss the RTD DBE
program. The RTD program has become a model and information was shared on how
we set goals and some of the success factors of the program.


Recap of Snowstorm

The RTD operational and management staff responded fabulously to the latest spring
snowstorm and service was minimally impacted. We had a few issues on the route
“N” and had to follow a snow plow into the Canyon but the team was great in being on
top of all the issues and maintaining service.

IX.



Meeting with US 36 Mayors and Staff
Chair Kemp, Cal Marsella, Scott Reed and Bill VanMeter engaged in a spirited
discussion with the US 36 mayors and staff about FasTracks and the 36 Corridor. The
controversy has to do with the BRT where RTD has allocated our share of the funding
but CDOT is having difficulties on their share. We will continue to work cooperatively
with the US 36 team and CDOT on these matters.



Other Issues
Cal Marsella shared that in the Executive Committee meeting of 4/12, the Executive
Committee approved the budgetary strategy for fuel lock that will use $1.85 as the
trigger point for the low end and $2.00 for the high end with a guarantee to come
within the $2.00 budgetary number up to 90% at this rate. Staff will continue to
monitor the rates frequently and if they see a downward trend beyond the $1.85, they
will take this into consideration per request from the Chair. Director Cohen wanted to
know why we would not lock in at the current rate of $1.887 since in his business
you do not chase rates. Cal agreed that they are not chasing rates but working within
the range that has been approved for them. Chair Kemp added that for every 1cent,
this equates to $100K.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Christopher moved that the Board of Directors
adopt the Unanimous Consent Agenda items A through J.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Bagley was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

North Metro Corridor – Release of Draft Environmental Impact Statement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to release the North Metro Corridor Draft Environmental
Impact Statement (DEIS) for public and agency review. This is a critical step in the
National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) process and provides the public and
interested agencies with an opportunity to review the document and provide
comments.

B.

Contract Amendment to URS for FEIS and Advanced Basic Engineering for North Metro
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct the General Manager to negotiate a contract amendment for URS, not to exceed
$6,900,000, to complete the Final Environmental Impact Statement and Advanced
Basic Engineering for the North Metro Corridor project.

C.

Approval for West Corridor Full Notice to Proceed (NTP) for construction of the
civil/track work on the West Corridor to Denver Transit Construction Group contract

No. 16-FF-W01
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designees to execute all documents
necessary to award and implement a contract amendment for construction of the
civil/track work for the West Corridor to Denver Transit Construction Group (DTCG).
This is an amendment that allows the DTCG to proceed from pre construction phase
one work (22 task orders) to full construction of the west corridor civil/track work as
defined by the Feb 12, 2009 Issued for Construction Documents. DTCGs’ construction
amount for the civil/track work is not to exceed $346,246,968. Funding for this work
is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget and the FasTracks Financial Plan for the years
2010-1012.
D.

Recommendation for Contract Award to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc. for West Corridor
Systems Construction Service.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to Balfour Beatty Rail Inc.
(BBRI) in the amount of $65,259,741.52 for the West Corridor Systems Construction
Services Contract. The work in this Contract includes providing the Overhead Contact
System, Traction Power Substations, and Signal System for the West Corridor Project.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the West Corridor
and in the FasTracks financial plan for the West Corridor Project in the years 20102012.

E.

Authorization to the General Manager for Fiscal Authority of $707.6 million for the
West Corridor Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached Resolution Number___, Series 2009, to provide the General Manager
or designee with fiscal authority in the amount not to exceed the project budget of
$707.6 million. This authority shall include the ability to execute contracts, change
orders and contract modifications, agreements and purchases within the $707.6
budgeted amount. RTD will continue to report extensively to the board including the
regular monthly reports and periodic updates to the Board committees. Major decisions
will be discussed with the Board prior to action.

F.

Approval for Providing Construction Funding to the Denver Union Station
Project Authority (DUSPA) for Denver Union Station (DUS) Phase 1
Construction
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an IGA w/ DUSPA to
provide funding in the amount not to exceed $40,000,000 to begin Phase I
construction of the DUS project. This funding will allow for a Limited Notice to
Proceed to the Design/Builder (D/B) contractor, Kiewit, once the contract
documents are finalized, approved and executed between DUSPA and Kiewit. The
IGA will only be executed upon terms acceptable to RTD including:

Incorporation of RTD technical requirements


DBE goals of 16% for the D/B contractor



Acceptable levels for RTD oversight of the project

Funding for this IGA is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Denver Union
Station Project.
G.

Recommendation for Passage of Resolution Authorizing the General Manager to
Execute a Purchase and Sale Agreement (PSA) for the North Wing and Triangle
Parcels at Denver Union Station (DUS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors

pass the attached resolution authorizing the General Manager to execute Purchase and
Sale Agreements (PSA) for the North Wing and Triangle parcels at Denver Union
Station (DUS) with the Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) or an affiliated
designee in the amount not less than $1.51 million for the North Wing and $4 million
for the Triangle. The Board of Directors authorized the General Manager to execute
such an agreement in January 2008. The title company has made a Board resolution
authorizing the sale and requirement of closing.

X.

H.

Construction Contract Award to Railroad Specialties, Inc. for Elati Maintenance Facility
North Yard Expansion
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a construction contract to Railroad Specialties, Inc. in the amount
of $2,900,000 for the Elati Maintenance Facility North Yard Expansion at the Elati
Maintenance Facility. Funding for this contract is included in the 2009 Adopted Budget
for the Light Rail Maintenance Facility Project.

I.

Budget Transfer for US36 BRT Phase 2
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve a budget transfer in the amount of $7,743,842 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the US 36 BRT Phase 2 budget for the US 36 queue jumps and
final design for the pedestrian overpass at the Table Mesa park-n-Ride. The FasTracks
Contingency Reserve will be replenished in the 2009 Amended Budget through
$7,593,842 of funding from the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) for
the queue jumps and $150,000 in Senate Bill 1 funding for the Table Mesa pedestrian
overpass.

J.

IT Consultant – Universe/Legacy Programmers (Exercise Third Year Option)
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to exercise the third
one year option in the amount of $225,000 to extend the current contract for an IT
Consultant-UniVerse/Legacy Programmer (16DK001). This contract was originally
awarded May 1st, 2006 to 5280 Solutions, LLC (a WSCA company) through the
competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus three one year
options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The third one year
option is to begin on May 1, 2009 and remain in effect for one year until April 30,
2010. The contract is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal Services
Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
K.
Issuance of Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
direct staff to issue the Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP) in May 2009 to allow
the East corridor and Gold Line to be jointly procured and delivered under a single
concession agreement so that both corridors may open for passenger service in 2015
in accordance with the FasTracks program.
MOTION:

Director Martinez moved for approval of this recommended
action for the issuance of Eagle P3 RFP.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT:

Director John Tayer offered this amendment for a renewable
electrical energy source for the Eagle project RFP:
It is recommended that the Eagle Project RFP require the

proposers to provide input on securing a renewable electrical
energy source. Specifically, the proposals would be required to
address the source(s) and range of costs for the proposed,
renewable electrical energy sources. The information in the
proposal form from the selected bidder and analysis from staff
would be presented to the RTD Board for a decision on whether
to proceed into negotiations for this option.
The maker, Director Martinez and the second, Director Busck
accepted this friendly amendment.
DISCUSSION:

Director Cohen read the amendment aloud for clarification on the
motion.
Director Brohl asked clarifying questions: Who provides the
power in the original recommendation? Marla Lien indicated that
RTD does. Who would provide under the Director Tayer
amendment? Marla Lien indicated the options would be there
and this would provide the flexibility for the Board to approve
from the proposal or RTD to provide. Director Brohl indicated
she needed assurance the concessionaire’s cost of proposing a
renewable energy option will be separate from the base proposal
and that she needed to see that RTD’s cost would be separately
identified and voted on by the Board as well. Cal Marsella
assured her it would.
Director O’Boyle re-read the recommended action statement
proposed by John Tayer in his amendment and asked if the last
sentence in this paragraph created an executable option.
Marla Lien responded RTD always has options but this does not
say anything about an executable option. We would have to
negotiate. Cal Marsella added that what is proposed would
become property of RTD as part of the stipend and would be
treated as an addendum or modification to the successful
proposal.
Director O’Boyle stated his support but reiterated his concern not
to burden the proposers to prepare an executable option.
Director Christopher commended Director Tayer for his foresight
in getting this on the Board radar and considers this a good
“poker” play to see other options and to get some research done.
This is the right time to pursue this recommendation.
Director James stated he will be voting for this amendment and
sees this as just asking for more information.
Director Cohen congratulated Director Tayer for this amendment
but wondered if from a practical matter if the use of the word
“require” could discourage proposers or interfere in the natural
evolution or expansion of the technology.
Director Brohl indicated that she too was concerned about the
unintended consequences of such an amendment. Renewable
energy is a big deal but wondered how would the bidders react
to the word “require.” How willing will they be to give up that
intellectual property?
Director Busck and Cal Marsella felt this would not be cutting

edge technology but the bidders will probably team with a
number of small companies engaged in wind power, solar, etc.
technology to make this happen and the cost would be minimal.
Director Chacon felt this was a wonderful way for RTD to
expound on its leadership role in transit and to keep the bar high.
Cal Marsella clarified that this will not be considered as part of
the base evaluation but as a separate evaluation.
Chair Kemp indicated this was a positive move for RTD.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against.
Director Bagley was
absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

Director Tayer offered a closing comment that this was the result of the effort from the
full Board and he is happy with the decision by the Board to take this forward thinking
approach to include renewable energy. This shows RTD’s leadership position and will
take us to a new level of being environmentally responsible.
L.

Request for Approval of the Denver Union Station Utility Relocation Agreements
with Individual Utilities
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to: 1) execute Utility Relocation
Agreements (URAs) and any other documentation necessary, including work orders, to
accomplish the relocation of utilities affected by the Denver Union Station (DUS)
project; and 2) delegate signature authority for each of the approved URAs and other
documentation, including work orders, necessary to accomplish utility relocation for the
DUS project.

MOTION:

Director Chacon moved for the approval of the
Denver Union Station utility relocation agreements
with individual utilities.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Brohl abstained
citing her company work with utilities as a
potential conflict of interest. Director Bagley was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

M.

Amendment to the “AGREEMENT REGARDING REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF
RELOCATION OF UTILITIES” with the Central Platte Valley Metro District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that RTD approve an

amendment with the Central Platte Valley Metropolitan District (CPVMD) pertaining to
the “AGREEMENT REGARDING REIMBURSEMENT FOR COSTS OF RELOCATION OF
UTILITIES”. The amendment will provide an additional $75,000 to the original
agreement for an amount not to exceed $150,000 for other utility relocations, bringing
the total amount to $225,000, allowing the CPVMD to install for RTD at RTD’s cost a
new fire line, underground electrical conduit and a new electrical vault serving the
future underground bus facility at Denver Union Station (DUS). Funding for this work is
included in the 2009 Adopted Budget for the Denver Union Station project.
MOTION:

Director Christopher moved for the approval of the
amendment to the agreement regarding
reimbursement for costs of relocation of utilities
with the Central Platte Valley Metro District.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Brohl abstained
citing her company work with utilities as a
potential conflict of interest. Director Bagley was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

N.

Amendment to GM Employment Agreement
MOTION:

Director Busck made the motion to
approve the amendment to the GM
Employment Agreement.
Director McMullen seconded the
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was
taken with 14 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Bagley was
absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
Director Busck, Chair of the GM Evaluation Committee, was given the floor and
thanked Cal Marsella for the last few months during this evaluation process. He shared
that Cal’s original proposal was to defer the payout for his bonus and salary until later.
Cal Marsella has a legal contract with the Board and is under no obligation to do this.
The Board rejected this offer for transparency reasons. In this amendment Cal made an
offer to accept 3% reduction in his bonus payout and compensation increase. This
amounts to a cost savings of about $17K. The Board thanks Cal for his leadership and
foresight.

XI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
Director Tayer made the motion to go into Executive Session for the purpose of discussing
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (e)-labor contract negotiations.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion. The motion passed.

The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 7:00 p.m.

XII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 7:00 p.m.
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 7:07 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, April 21, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Paula Perdue
Larry Buter
Scott Reed
Rolf Asphaug
Daria Serna
Rick Clarke
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Dean Shaklee
Terry Howerter
Dave Shelley
Brian Iacono
John Shonsey
Nadine Lee
Roger Sherman
Marla Lien
Stan Szabelak
Caitlin Magee
John Tarbert
Cal Marsella
Pauletta Tonilas
Jerry Nery
Lisa Trujillo

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Chris Taylor – Spectrum
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Ira Schreiber
Jack McCroskey
Jack Phinney
Debbie Gibbs – Classique LLC
Robert Baxter - Sunnyside
Edie Bryan – ColoRail
Steve Roberts
Keith Howard
Bert Melcher
Tom Konrad – CRES
Betsy Hand – Sierra Club
Bob Wilson
Lynn Greene
Martin Wirth – Riders 285 Coalition
Pam Beckhorn – Riders 285 Coalition
Gary M. Ulberg – First Transit
John Hambright – Chair Green Task Force
John West – Denver Transit Construction Group
Debbie Chapin – Riders 285 Coalition

Phillipp Theune – ColoRail
Bill Roettker – Sierra Club
Lee Johnson – First Transit
Joe Racosky – URS
Freddie Hanns – FHI Contractors
Lloyd Lovell – DTCG
Joan T. Shaffer – ColoRail
Ken Smith
Lee Johnson

