Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, May 19, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:27 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

4:54 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:20 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

5:12 PM
5:30 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:12 PM
5:13 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:31 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Absent

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:41 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:21 PM

Chair Sisk was absent. Director Solano arrived late.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Lacy Bell, Shirley Bennett, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lee Cryer, Heather Deckard, John
Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bob Grado, Ann Marie
Isaac-Heslop, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry,
Doug MacLeod, Tony McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Deborah
Menenez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Brenden Morgan, Kevin Parker,
Paula Perdue, Sue Sandoval, Jannette Scarpino, Steve Scholz, Cal
Shankster, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner,
Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Diana Aqra, Karen Carr, Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Kathleen Rosewater
Cunningham, Mary Durant, Tom Grushka, Felicia Gurule, Sherman
Hamilton, Audrey Haynes, Maricruz Herrera, Eugene Howard, Haya
Ibrahim, Jaime Lewis, Matt Marino, Erin Mooney, Kent Moorman,
Elizabeth Murphy, Joel Noble, Hanni Raley, Miguel Angel Reyes,
Eugenio Rodarte, LaSheita Sayer, Kenny Shepard, Joe Thomas, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Daniela Villarreal, Cheryl Wallace, Dace
West, Monte Whaley, Zoe Williams

B. Recommended Actions

• Presentation of 2014 RTD Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to
Governance
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited
financial reports relating to the year ended December 31, 2014 as prepared
by Staff and audited by the District's independent auditor, RubinBrown,
LLP.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer, introduced Cheryl
Wallace and Matthew Marino of RubinBrown, RTD’s External
Auditors. She said that they would review the ViewPoints
presentation included in the May 19, 2015 Financial

Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet and then
take questions.
Cheryl Wallace explained that the ViewPoints contains the
required communication that RubinBrown must provide to
every governing body when they conduct an audit. She said
that the objective of RubinBrown’s engagement was to
conduct an Independent Auditors’ Report on RTD’s Financial
Statements. She noted that the audit deliverables that would
be provided to the Board are Auditor Communications,
Required Communication of any Internal Control Matters and
Best Practice and Value-Added Recommendations.
Cheryl Wallace highlighted that RubinBrown is issuing an
unmodified opinion on RTD’s financial statements.
Additionally, RTD engaged RubinBrown to a report on RTD
agreed-upon procedures reports regarding the National Transit
Database reporting and the RTD General Manager Contract.
Rubin Brown is in the process of issuing a report on RTD’s
internal controls over federal reporting and compliance in
accordance with OMB Circular A-133.
Cheryl Wallace stated that RubinBrown is also required to
disclose their findings on several key areas as follows:
 Is the information contained in any other documents? –
None that RubinBrown is aware of.
 Were audit services planned and scoped? – Yes, this
was done in a letter dated September 22, 2014.
 Were there any changes in the qualitative or
quantitative aspects of RTD’s accounting practices? –
No, RTD has no changes.
 Does RTD have any judgements or estimates in the
financial statements? Yes, RTD estimates depreciation
because we have capital assets but Cheryl Wallace
stated that is normal. Staff also estimates the
allowance for bad debt and the net pension obligation.
 Are the financial statement disclosures clear and
concise? – Yes, they are.
 Were there any difficulties encountered in the audit? –
There were none.
 Were there any adjustments to the financial records? –
No, there were no adjustments. This is important
because as the Board receives interim financial






information that is indicative of what the year-end will
look like.
Were there any disagreements with management? –
No, there were none.
Did management sign a representation letter? – Yes, it
was included in the back of the ViewPoints information.
Were consultations with other independent accountants
needed? – No, they were not.
Were there any other audit findings or issues? – No,
there were none.

Cheryl Wallace highlighted that there was one past
adjustment. It came to RubinBrown’s attention that there is a
possible settlement regarding a litigation claim. It is an
estimate that is not recorded and should not be recorded but
they wanted the Board to be aware it is something that is out
there.
Cheryl Wallace reminded the Board that as part of their audit
they review RTD’s federal awards for compliance and internal
controls. RTD has received a Transportation Infrastructure
Finance and Innovation Act Loan (TIFIA). She said that within
the TIFIA documents one of the requirements that RubinBrown
looks at is called period of availability. She explained that
typically with every grant agreement there is a period of time
when there can be reimbursement for costs incurred. She
stated that buried within the TIFIA loan agreement it was
specified that RTD could be reimbursed for eligible project
costs for work performed after November 6, 2009. RTD had
submitted reimbursement requests that included expenditures
outside of the period of availability. Cheryl Wallace explained
that RTD was able to identify other eligible project costs that
met the period of availability and we are in the process of
amending the related reimbursement requests. She noted that
TIFIA is a very unique loan agreement and not a federal
funding arrangement that RTD had encountered previously;
therefore the loan program reimbursements were not subjected
to the same internal controls as federally funded
reimbursement grants. RubinBrown recommends that the RTD
Grant Accountant prepare all reimbursement requests for all
federal funds including both grant and federal loan programs
going forward.
Cheryl Wallace indicated that in last year’s audit RubinBrown
had some suggestions related to IT Governance. She said the

team was very happy to see that this year the RTD staff had a
plan in place to address those suggestions. She recognized
that this will take place over a period of time but staff has
done a good job addressing the suggestions so far.
Cheryl Wallace pointed out that the new Governmental
Accounting Standards Board reporting requirements will be
implemented in 2015. This means that there will be changes
in the liability for the pension gets recorded on the financial
statements. There will also be additional disclosures,
supplementary information, etc. required as part of the
reporting requirements.
Cheryl Wallace commented that there have been some
changes related to Federal Awards. She said this is a hot
topic in the federal awards arena but the RTD staff has been
well educated as it relates to these changes. She mentioned
these changes effect things like disposition of equipment
purchased with federal funds and indirect cost rates, among
many others. She said that those most relevant to the District
have been highlighted in the ViewPoints.
Director Folska thanked Cheryl Wallace for a great
presentation. She wondered if RTD would need to continue to
go through an auction to dispose of property that was
purchased through a federal award. Cheryl Wallace stated
that there would still be a need to go through auction; the
changes relate more to an agency like RTD possibly needing
approval to dispose of property purchased with federal funds.
Director Menten asked if it was possible to get more detail on
the possible settlement referenced by Cheryl Wallace. Cheryl
Wallace stated that it was related to a possible settlement
with Denver International Airport.
Committee Chair Tobiassen encouraged the Directors to reach
out to Heather Copp should any additional questions arise
before the Board meeting.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Bank Signing Authority for RTD Chief Financial Officer
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature
Authorization Agreement (the “Agreement”).
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the May 26, 2015
Board meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Heather Copp explained that this action was to add her as the
CFO and David Genova as the General Manager to the Bank
Account Signature Authorization Agreement.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Director, District G
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Chuck Sisk
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• First Quarter 2015 Investment Report
Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments, stated that as
has been the case recently there has not been much change in the
investment performance. Interest rates remain low and RTD continues to
perform within the Board approved Investment Policy Benchmarks. He said
he would be happy to answer any questions.
There were no questions from the Board.

• Review of 2016-2021 SBP Development Process and 2016 Budget
Assumptions
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis,
reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is available in the
May 19, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Agenda
Packet. She noted that this is the first time staff has included a draft of the
cash flow in the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). She reminded the Board that
the components of the SBP are:
 SBP includes only service and projects funded from the Base System
0.6% sales and use tax and FasTracks operations activity (West Line,
DUS Bus Concourse, Free MetroRide, I-225 Rail Line, North Metro)
allocated to FasTracks funded by 0.4% tax
 FasTracks expense and projects (non-operations) are included
separately in the FasTracks Annual Program Evaluation (APE) financial
plan
The parameters of the SBP are:
 Fiscal management, including requirements to operate per specified
performance measures, strategic goals for the General Manager and
maintain a balanced budget
 Continued development of Board-appropriated fund and capital
replacement fund
 Continued implementation of Fiscal Sustainability Task Force
recommendations and Board priorities
 Optimization of service levels for bus and light rail system
 Baseline for the SBP is the 2015 Amended Budget
 Fuel lock for budget certainty in 2016
 State of Good Repair of facilities and equipment
 Prioritization of capital and expense projects
 Collective Bargaining Agreement negotiated costs through 2017 then
escalated at Consumer Price Index
 Planned fleet expansion/replacement and building construction with
Certificate of Participation financing and associated debt service
Jannette Scarpino noted in review of the Cash Flow there is a $26 million
funding gap in 2016. She explained that staff expects to resolve this gap by
deferring certain projects into 2017 and 2018. She pointed out that our
fund balance goal is reached in 2018 in this initial draft but this goal will
probably be pushed back due to the project deferrals.
Director Menten inquired when the Board would receive a list of the deferred
projects. She wondered if it would be a complete list of requested projects
with prioritization or just the deferred projects. Jannette Scarpino stated
that a full list of projects would be provided with the final SBP; however,

she hopes to present an updated SBP on June 9, 2015 with a list of the
deferred projects.
Director Hoy indicated that on the pie chart that outlines RTD’s Base Uses of
Funds there is a segment for interest expense and debt payments. He asked
for confirmation that the interest expense is RTD’s interest payment and
that the debt payments goes to RTD’s principal. He wondered if it was
correct that RTD was paying an aggregate 4.0% interest rate on our debt.
Janette Scarpino said it was correct that the debt payments goes to pay
down our principal while the interest expense pays for the cost of our
interest; however, the interest expense equals 4% of the total available
funds, not a 4.0% interest rate.
Director Hoy wondered if our percentage of interest expense was
comparable to typical government agencies. Jannette Scarpino stated that
staff had not done any comparisons to our peer groups but it was something
they could look at.
Director Folska asked Jannette Scarpino for examples of what might make
up the other income line item on the Cash Flow. Jannette Scarpino said that
it includes things like advertising revenue, Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) revenue, leasing, etc. Director Folska asked Jannette Scarpino if she
could expand on the types of income that might be included in IGA revenue.
Jannette Scarpino stated that it was not a significant source of income. It
largely consists of some betterment agreements that RTD entered into with
various municipalities.
Director Lubow noted that in the pie chart outlining the Base Sources of
Funds it shows passenger fares at 17.5%. She thought that was something
closer to 23%. Jannette Scarpino explained that this was the percentage of
passenger fares in the context of our total sources of funding. The figure
referenced by Director Lubow would be when you were comparing
passenger fares only to the sources of operating revenue.

• March 2015 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller, reminded the Board that they present the
Monthly Financial Status Report each month as part of our fiscal policy and
good management practices. He reiterated that as the auditor mentioned,
the reports they receive are unaudited financial reports. He mentioned that
next month staff would be making some changes to the dashboard to
include the actual versus budget comparison. Doug MacLeod stated that
March was a very good month and fare revenue, ridership and sales and use
tax were all up.

Doug MacLeod pointed out that ridership on the W-Line increased 15% from
March of last year. He shared that after further investigation it appears that
ridership on the W-Line has begun to grow.
Director Anderson requested that staff still continue to present the
comparison between years; she finds this very valuable and hopes staff does
not plan to remove it. Heather Copp explained that the changes would just
be to add a few columns of additional information.
Director Bagley commented that the W-Line has been open now for some
time. He believes ridership being up 15% is a fantastic demonstration that it
takes time for ridership on new lines to increase; now people know about
the service and how to utilize the system. Director Bagley thinks we will
see similar trends on the lines opened in 2016.

• First Quarter 2015 Internal Audit Update
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager of Internal Audit, indicated that the 1st
Quarter Audit Report was included in the May 19, 2015 Financial
Administration and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. She said that she and
Kevin Parker, Senior Internal Auditor, would be happy to answer any
questions.
Director Folska asked if perhaps the Internal Audit Department might have
any insight as to the problem with Xerox and the SmartCards. She
expressed that she is very frustrated and it does not seem like Xerox knows
what they are doing. She wondered if Xerox had payments that were tied
to their failure or successes. Kevin Parker shared that he has looked at the
Xerox contract and SmartCards as it relates to the controls that RTD has put
in place. He recognized that there have been setbacks and that the project
is behind schedule but he personally cannot speak to the issues. Interim
General Manager Genova indicated that staff would be presenting a
SmartCard update at next month’s Operations and Customer Service
Committee Meeting that the thought would answer many of Director
Folska’s questions.
Committee Chair Tobiassen thanked the Internal Audit Department for
including Cyber Security into the Internal Audit governance.

D. Other Matters
Director Anderson noted that the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report included
incorrect information about the areas she represents. She asked that this be
corrected.

Director Solano commented that his area was generalized as just Adams County
but he represents Commerce City, Brighton and other locations. He would like to
see this corrected as well.
Committee Chair Tobiassen said that staff would make sure to look at that
information.

E. Next Meeting Date - June 9, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:28 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

