Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
January 16, 2014 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the Executive Committee meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.
Committee members present: Chair Sisk; 1st-vice-chair Hoy; 2nd vice-chair James;
Secretary Walker
Committee member by phone: Treasurer Tobiassen

II.

Other Board member present (via phone):

Directors Folska and Bagley

Others present:

AGM, Dave Genova for GM Washington,
Paula Perdue

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Sisk opened the discussion on the January Board Meeting agenda and asked AGM
Genova to please review.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to move
the January Board meeting agenda
forward for the January 21 Board
meeting.
Director James seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Bagley said he may just state
that the GM Oversight Committee
completed their process but that
RubinBrown will present their
independent financial review of the

General Manager’s compensation for
2013.
Chair Sisk indicated that he would like
the General Manager to discuss the
status of DesignLine and the possible
buyout of assets as part of his General
Manager Report. He also stated he
would like the Executive Committee to
provide input to the General Manager in
advance of the Board meetings on items
they would like to hear him discuss.
Director Hoy indicated there may be
some tie-in between lessons learned from
the DesignLine experience and the action
item on the purchase of the 59 buses for
US 36 BRT.
Chair Sisk shared that there is a letter
from the US 36 Commissioners that RTD
is looking at. They are making progress
in moving in the same direction but a few
loose ends may not be tied up before
January 21 and they may need to move
ahead on faith. He and Director Hoy met
with the incoming Mayors of Broomfield
and Westminster who are interested in
forging a positive working relationship
with RTD. They appear in line with the
constituent’s agreement.
Director James indicated that he had met
with staff on the Central Parking contract
amendment and they will be providing
him with information that he has
requested. He will share the Q&A with
the Board members at the Board meeting.
Vote on
The motion:

The motion PASSED unanimously.



Unanimous Consent
A. Resolution No. ____, Series of 2014 Appointment of Trustees to the RTD Pension
Trust and Defined Contribution Plan

B. TMD Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to approve an amendment to the
Transportation Management & Design, Inc. (TMD) Contract 10DO024 to exercise the
remaining two option periods and to increase the contract amount by $215,368 from
$384,682 to an new Not to Exceed (NTE) total of $600,000. TMD provides service
planning by task order over a five year period and the anticipated NTE total dollar
amount will exceed the General Manager’s authority of $500,000 in 2014.


Recommended Action
C. Purchase of up to 59 Buses for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to exercise the
option of Contract 12FK002 with Motor Coach Industries (MCI) for the purchase of up
to 59, 45-foot heavy duty intercity buses to replace the existing Neoplan intercity
coaches at a price not to exceed $35,036,000 and to authorize the use of existing
COP proceeds to finance the cost of such acquisition. Funding for 18 vehicles is
provided in the 2014 FasTracks capital budget for the US 36 BRT project, and funding
for the remaining 41 vehicles will be provided through a budget transfer.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize transfers of $9.351
million from the articulated bus replacement project and $14.996 million from the
transit bus replacement project to cover the cost of the remaining 41 vehicles.
Funding for these projects will be restored in the 2014 Amended Budget.
D. Contract Amendment, Central Parking, Contract No. 13-DO-002
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend the existing contract with Central
Parking to include the West Line parking facilities in the contract, to extend the term of
the contract through December 31, 2018, to change termination provisions, to modify
financial arrangements, to agree that RTD has an obligation to reimburse Central
Parking for unrecovered expenses at the end of the contract term, and to provide for
upgrade to smart pay stations and stationary cameras at selected facilities.

III.

Board Committee Assignments
Chair Sisk indicated that he had received responses from most of the Board members
regarding the Committees and had talked to everyone. He is still processing all the
information and as the Chair will reserve the final decision but he would appreciate the
feedback from the members of the Board who were present.
He began by asking Director James about the Fiscal Sustainability Taskforce and if it
needs to exist as an ad hoc. Director James stated that as he understands it and per his
conversation with CFO Howerter, the committee has completed its mission. Staff will
plan to provide timely quarterly updates on the status of the recommendations so he
questions the need for this committee to exist as part of the Board committee
assignments. Several other Board members expressed their opinion. Director Folska
recommended that this committee gets integrated under the auspices of the F&AA
Committee. A letter should be sent out informing the TaskForce member of the
importance of the work from the fiscal sustainability committee and how this will be a
living document which we will be accountable for its success as part of a report out in our
F&AA committee.
Paula Perdue indicated that the charter for F&AA will need to be updated to reflect this
integration. Chair Sisk wants to make sure the importance of the work of the fiscal
sustainability taskforce is not lost or minimized.
The committee reviewed each of the standing committees and the outside committee
appointments. Chair Sisk will take the input under consideration and make a decision soon
on the committee assignments. A central goal is to grow the bench while maintaining
continuity among the committees.

IV.

Other Matters




Chair Sisk indicated that the Committee needs to give it some thought on how to
effectively handle public comments especially for frequent fliers. Director James
suggested that the Chair needs to set the tone in his introduction when he announces
the three minutes and suggest that speakers speak only to new information that may
need to be added on a matter versus repetitious speaking.
Chair Sisk noted that more and more cell phones are going off in the meeting which
can be distracting. He indicated this may be something we need to remind people of
while in the meeting. Director Tobiassen indicated that CML has protocols, etc., on
how local government should handle these types of things and suggested we should
obtain a copy. Paula Perdue indicated she is working with her counterpart for the CML
and will obtain this information. Committee members indicated that both the Boulder
Council and the City of Denver have such protocols and meeting decorum.

V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:20 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

