Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, March 21, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 8:09 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent
Bob Broom
Director, District F
Present

Arrived
8:05 PM
8:05 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Absent

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

8:09 PM
8:09 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

8:09 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

8:05 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Absent
Absent

8:08 PM
8:05 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

8:05 PM
8:05 PM

Directors Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Sisk, and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Ivan
Broce, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Brian Matthews, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Dan Perreira, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino,
Roger Sherman, Henry Stopplecamp, Gerry Suazo, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Kelly Brough, Mizraim Cordero, Crissy Ditmore, Jim Gunning, Doug
Gragg, William Gross, Don Hunt, Joe Triplett, John Thompson, Gary
Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Proposed May 2017 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the May 2017 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $221,300 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, said
the first action item is the proposed May 2017 Service
Changes. He stated that draft recommendations were
socialized to the public so that staff could get input and
feedback. As a result of the input, feedback and ongoing
analyses, staff has completed the final recommendations
before the Board. He noted that included in the service
change is a recommendation to open the Fox and Pecos
stations on the B line. Staff is asking to open those stations
contingently, upon approval from the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA).
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
noted that the University of Colorado A line was added to the
service change proposal in an attempt to offer better on time

performance. Also, the R line was included to reduce some of
the running times due to excessive running times. He noted
that staff also reviewed the 105 and a bus had to be added to
that schedule. He commented that the 131, which is
currently operating on detour was included in order to make
that detour route a permanent change. The AT change has
been deferred until staff can complete further analysis, and the
55S was merged with the 55L.
Director Williams asked what the yellow highlights meant on
the Board Report.
Mr. Carter noted that the highlighted sections indicated
substantial changes from the preliminary proposal.
Director Francone inquired about the Lockheed Martin Call-nRide and asked if staff had performance numbers for that
service.
Mr. Abel stated that the numbers were included in the
quarterly report.
Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, commented
that last month, the Call-n-Ride carried 97 people. He noted
that the service is only averaging two passengers per trip, and
previously the average was four per trip.
Director Francone noted that the TrailMark development on
Wadsworth south of Chatfield has almost 1,500 homes and is
marked as being within the City of Littleton, which appears to
be in RTD’s service district. She noted that the Call-n-Ride
goes by there, and that development might improve ridership
in that area.
Chair Hoy asked how the schedule for the University of
Colorado A Line can be adjusted if it leaves every 15 minutes.
Mr. Abel remarked that staff is reviewing redistributing the
time at the check points. He noted that every station is
considered a check point. The end-to-end running time is not
recommended to change, but the time at the individual
stations will be reallocated to improve connections at the
various stations and on-time performance.

Director Broom inquired about ridership on the R Line, and
how its initial service compared with other lines that were
opened.
Mr. Carter stated that staff had preliminary numbers from the
first two weeks of operation but it was still too early to
provide final opening numbers. He commented that ridership
is currently in the 4200 per day range. In comparison, he said
the W line had 12,000 passengers per day when it opened and
currently runs at 14,000 per day.
Mr. Abel reminded the Board that the R Line numbers are
preliminary as it is only in its third week of operation.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Sisk, Solano

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 15 - 40' Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to exercise the contract option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig
LLC. for the purchase of 15 additional 40’ transit buses and associated
spare components in an amount not to exceed $6,598,000.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that this is a housekeeping item and the
vehicle replacement plan is included in the Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP). He noted that staff typically has a multi-year
option when purchasing vehicles so that RTD can have
vehicles of similar manufacturer for spare parts and inventory
management purposes. He commented that this is part of a
procurement that was entered into with Gillig, LLC, in 2013 to
replace the Orion transit buses. The 2017 budget includes
funds for the acquisition of 15 transit buses, and this will

complete the replacement of the 2000 model year Orions,
which are 17 years into their 12-year lifespan.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Sisk, Solano

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates
Mr. Abel stated that there are a variety of detailed quarterly reports that were included in
the packet. He commented that he would be happy to provide answers to any questions
that the Board may have.
Mr. Abel noted that there were no questions, and moved to the Lost Service Review
update to give a brief update to the Board.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th Quarter 2016
• Access-a-Ride/Cab 4th Quarter Update
• Special Services Report 4th Qtr 2016
• 2016 4th Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
• 2016 4th Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
• Lost Service Hours Review 3 21 17
Mr. Abel stated that the lost service hours for February totaled 297 hours, in
comparison to 972 lost hours in February 2016. He noted that a snowstorm
last February had severely impacted service. He stated that trends are
moving in the right direction, but RTD is still having to mandate operators.
He remarked that, from a customer experience perspective, there has been
improvement from last year.

Director Menten thanked staff on behalf of the riders of the 20 and 38. She
said that she sees the report every morning and knows that staff is working
hard.
Director Francone commented that last week the Board attended the APTA
Conference in Washington, D.C., and two inches of snow resulted in
Washington Metro Area Transit Authority (WMATA) providing weekend
service.

D. Other Matters
Director Lubow reported on a public forum in Longmont that she attended last
week. She commented that people in Longmont are mad; they do not want
additional buses or Bus Rapid Transit (BRT), they want rail and they want it before
2040. She commented that she would be renewing her efforts for rail and asked
the Board to accept a resolution in the future that would use base funds, seek
outside funds, or utilize any other available funding source to complete the
unfunded corridors. She added that she will be examining RTD expenditures to see
where money is being spent, as that money could potentially be used for the
completion of FasTracks. She stated that people in Longmont are angry and they
want to see improvement.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 11, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

