Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, March 21, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 8:09 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
8:05 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Absent

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Absent
Absent

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

8:09 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

8:09 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

8:09 PM
8:05 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Absent
Absent

8:08 PM
8:05 PM

8:05 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

8:05 PM
8:05 PM

Directors Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Sisk, and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Ivan
Broce, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington, Steve Gieske, David
Genova, Bob Grado, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Brian Matthews, John
McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Kevin Parker, Dan Perreira, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino,
Roger Sherman, Henry Stopplecamp, Gerry Suazo, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Kelly Brough, Mizraim Cordero, Crissy Ditmore, Jim Gunning, Doug
Gragg, William Gross, Don Hunt, Joe Triplett, John Thompson, Gary
Van Dorn, Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Proposed May 2017 Service Changes
RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the May 2017 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $221,300 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain
a high-performance, sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a
networked family of services for which the different classes of service have
different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services
in response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the
transit system as a whole. It is also our responsibility to identify services
that are underperforming and recommend modifications, curtailment or
cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of
service improvements, adjustments and reductions. Based upon current and
past ridership performance a number of services will have minor service
reductions. The Route 40-Colorado Boulevard will see the largest reduction
during the peak period. The 41st-Fox and Pecos Junction Stations are
proposed to open to provide access to the B-Line and consequentially,
Routes 8 and 19 are proposed to be realigned to serve the new stations.
We will monitor customer response to the implementation of these service
changes and propose adjustments and service alternatives as appropriate in
future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:









Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit
dependent markets;
The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and
the ability to enhance service when possible;
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without
regard to race, color or national origin; also disparate effects on low income
and minority populations; and
Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Five public hearings were conducted in Arvada, Denver (3) and Westminster
between February 14th and February 27th. Comments and further details
from these meetings and the service change website are summarized in
Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to
conduct additional analysis after the initial service recommendations are
communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the outcome of the
public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not
propose modifications to these initial recommendations. The following
proposals have been significantly modified:
A Line: schedule adjustment to improve on-time performance and transit
connections
R Line: schedule adjustments to improve on-time performance and reduce
service delay
Route 105 - Havana Crosstown: schedule adjustments requiring additional
resources to be added to the evening peak schedule
Route 131- Iliff: extends current detour to 9 Mile Station to become regular
route
Route AT – Arapahoe County/DIA: Schedule adjustments are proposed to
improve service reliability. Deferred to August.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 3 – Alameda Avenue: extend 30 minute service frequency in peak
periods and re-route westbound trips to serve Alameda Station northbound
on Cherokee Street
Route 4 - Morrison Road: reroute to serve Alameda Station northbound on
Cherokee Street Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron: reroute the Route 8 to
serve the 41st/Fox Station
Route 19 – North Pecos: reroute Route 19 to serve the Pecos Junction
Station
Route 105 – Havana: extend northbound evening service 30 minutes later
and discontinue 3:08am northbound trip

Route 131- Iliff: extends current detour to 9 Mile Station to become regular
route
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: extend evening service one hour later until
approximately 12:00 midnight
Route 135 – Smoky Hill Road: add 10:26pm eastbound trip from Nine Mile
Station
Route AB – Boulder/DIA: add 2 AM peak and 2 PM peak trips to create a 30
minute frequency,
Route BOLT – Boulder/Longmont: initiate Board approved BOLT Ltd trips via
Boulder Junction at Depot Square Station.
B Line - Westminster/DUS: add stops at the 41st and Fox Station and the
Pecos Junction Station to all trips.

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: reduce peak frequency from 10 to 15 minutes
Route 55S – Olde Town/DUS: recommend pm peak schedule adjustments to
combine with 55L. Consolidate with and rename as 55L.
Route 121 – Peoria Street: discontinue the 3:07am northbound operating
from Peoria/Albrook and 12:45am southbound trip operating from 40th &
Airport
Route 153 – Chambers Road: discontinue 3:35am northbound trip from
Sable/Colfax
Route 157 – CCA/Buckley AFB: discontinue service after 7:00pm due to low
ridership
BroncosRide: (contingent on the G-Line opening) prior to the start of Broncos
season, service to the OldeTown Arvada and Ward Road Park-n-Rides will be
discontinued

Routes proposed
reductions:

for

mixed

service

improvements/service

Route 21 - Evans Avenue: move the 7:15pm trip leaving Federal Center 6
minutes later
Route 37 – Smith Road Industrial: reroutes via 33rd Place between Sable and
Chambers

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule
adjustments:
Route 43 – Martin Luther King Blvd: Schedule adjustments are proposed
between 8:00am and 9:30am.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue: Schedule adjustments are proposed due to new
routing near Clayton/43rd
Route 45 – Montbello via 51st/Green Valley Ranch: schedule adjustments for
on-time performance improvement.
Route 73 – Quebec Street: schedule adjustments for on-time performance
improvement.
Route 105 – Havana Crosstown:
schedule adjustments for on-time
performance improvement.
Route 205/205T – 28th Street/ Gunbarrel/Heatherwood: schedule
adjustments for on-time performance improvement.

Applewood Village Interlines: minor weekday schedule adjustments are
proposed to improve on-time performance.
Changing to summer service levels for routes BOUND, DASH, JUMP, SKIP,
and STAMPEDE Other route related interline changes as result of a change
to summer service levels: (204, 225,206/206F, 208/208F and Y.
Route L – Longmont/Denver: schedule adjustments due to interline changes
with route BOLT/BOLT Ltd
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a net base
system cost increase of $221,300.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its
recipients of FTA financial assistance with instructions for achieving
compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and Executive Order
12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires
RTD to evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that
exceed the established major service change threshold, to determine
whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed May
2017 service changes does not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by
minority or low-income populations.
A Look Ahead – August 2017
L – Line
As previously discussed with the Board, a proposed solution to D Line ontime performance issues and consequentially, overall light rail system
performance, this concept introduces a modification to current D Line
operations. The L Line adds a new 30th& Downing to 14th Street Loop
(Downtown) movement, replacing the D Line service between 30th &
Downing Station and 19th Street. More extensive information regarding this
proposal will be made available in a future update to the Board of Directors.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, said
the first action item is the proposed May 2017 Service
Changes. He stated that draft recommendations were
socialized to the public so that staff could get input and
feedback. As a result of the input, feedback and ongoing
analyses, staff has completed the final recommendations
before the Board. He noted that included in the service

change is a recommendation to open the Fox and Pecos
stations on the B line. Staff is asking to open those stations
contingently, upon approval from the Federal Railroad
Administration (FRA).
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
noted that the University of Colorado A line was added to the
service change proposal in an attempt to offer better on time
performance. Also, the R line was included to reduce some of
the running times due to excessive running times. He noted
that staff also reviewed the 105 and a bus had to be added to
that schedule. He commented that the 131, which is
currently operating on detour was included in order to make
that detour route a permanent change. The AT change has
been deferred until staff can complete further analysis, and the
55S was merged with the 55L.
Director Williams asked what the yellow highlights meant on
the Board Report.
Mr. Carter noted that the highlighted sections indicated
substantial changes from the preliminary proposal.
Director Francone inquired about the Lockheed Martin Call-nRide and asked if staff had performance numbers for that
service.
Mr. Abel stated that the numbers were included in the
quarterly report.
Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, commented
that last month, the Call-n-Ride carried 97 people. He noted
that the service is only averaging two passengers per trip, and
previously the average was four per trip.
Director Francone noted that the TrailMark development on
Wadsworth south of Chatfield has almost 1,500 homes and is
marked as being within the City of Littleton, which appears to
be in RTD’s service district. She noted that the Call-n-Ride
goes by there, and that development might improve ridership
in that area.
Chair Hoy asked how the schedule for the University of
Colorado A Line can be adjusted if it leaves every 15 minutes.

Mr. Abel remarked that staff is reviewing redistributing the
time at the check points. He noted that every station is
considered a check point. The end-to-end running time is not
recommended to change, but the time at the individual
stations will be reallocated to improve connections at the
various stations and on-time performance.
Director Broom inquired about ridership on the R Line, and
how its initial service compared with other lines that were
opened.
Mr. Carter stated that staff had preliminary numbers from the
first two weeks of operation but it was still too early to
provide final opening numbers. He commented that ridership
is currently in the 4200 per day range. In comparison, he said
the W line had 12,000 passengers per day when it opened and
currently runs at 14,000 per day.
Mr. Abel reminded the Board that the R Line numbers are
preliminary as it is only in its third week of operation.
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED
unanimously.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Kate Williams, Committee Vice-Chair
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Sisk, Solano

• Approve Contract Amendment for the Supply of 15 - 40' Transit Buses
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee,
to exercise the contract option and amend contract 13-FH-053 with Gillig
LLC. for the purchase of 15 additional 40’ transit buses and associated
spare components in an amount not to exceed $6,598,000.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 28, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel stated that this is a housekeeping item and the
vehicle replacement plan is included in the Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP). He noted that staff typically has a multi-year
option when purchasing vehicles so that RTD can have
vehicles of similar manufacturer for spare parts and inventory
management purposes. He commented that this is part of a
procurement that was entered into with Gillig, LLC, in 2013 to
replace the Orion transit buses. The 2017 budget includes
funds for the acquisition of 15 transit buses, and this will
complete the replacement of the 2000 model year Orions,
which are 17 years into their 12-year lifespan.
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED
unanimously.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
SECONDER: Bob Broom, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Broom, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Sisk, Solano

C. Updates
Mr. Abel stated that there are a variety of detailed quarterly reports that were included in
the packet. He commented that he would be happy to provide answers to any questions
that the Board may have.
Mr. Abel noted that there were no questions, and moved to the Lost Service Review
update to give a brief update to the Board.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 4th Quarter 2016
• Access-a-Ride/Cab 4th Quarter Update
• Special Services Report 4th Qtr 2016
• 2016 4th Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring

• 2016 4th Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
• Lost Service Hours Review 3 21 17
Mr. Abel stated that the lost service hours for February totaled 297 hours, in comparison
to 972 lost hours in February 2016. He noted that a snowstorm last February had
severely impacted service. He stated that trends are moving in the right direction, but
RTD is still having to mandate operators. He remarked that, from a customer experience
perspective, there has been improvement from last year.
Director Menten thanked staff on behalf of the riders of the 20 and 38. She said that she
sees the report every morning and knows that staff is working hard.
Director Francone commented that last week the Board attended the APTA Conference in
Washington, D.C., and two inches of snow resulted in Washington Metro Area Transit
Authority (WMATA) providing weekend service.

D. Other Matters
Director Lubow reported on a public forum in Longmont that she attended last week. She
commented that people in Longmont are mad; they do not want additional buses or Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT), they want rail and they want it before 2040. She commented that
she would be renewing her efforts for rail and asked the Board to accept a resolution in
the future that would use base funds, seek outside funds, or utilize any other available
funding source to complete the unfunded corridors. She added that she will be examining
RTD expenditures to see where money is being spent, as that money could potentially be
used for the completion of FasTracks. She stated that people in Longmont are angry and
they want to see improvement.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 11, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:30 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

