2020-09-16 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: On the call today we have Directors Guissinger, Menten, Mihalik, Chair
Rivera-Malpiede, Cook, Tisdale, Whitmore, and Walker. Did I miss any Directors?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Did you say Menten?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think I did, yes. And then we have, also joining us we have Paul Ballard,
Gregg Moser, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Melanie Snyder, and Mr. Murray from the
Denver Post.
So I forgot to call the meeting to order. But it is now 12:37. I'm about to call the GM Executive
Search GMOC Committee to order on Wednesday, September 16 at 12:37.
This meeting should probably not take too long. But when Barbara and I spoke last Friday, when
we had the opportunity to, most of us, meet with Debra, she backed into a potential approval of
this contract at our Board meeting on the 20-- what? I can't remember the day.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 29th.
PEGGY CATLIN: 29th. And in order to do that, it was agreed that we needed two meetings of
this committee, one to kind of see where we were and talk about the process, and then meeting to
finalize negotiations. And then we needed to have that meeting prior to the packet going out in
the mail the Thursday before the Board meeting, so that there would be some time for it to be
public prior to hopeful Board adoption on the 29th.
Does anyone have any questions?
OK, I'm told by John that Director Lewis has joined us. Director, does your number end in 84?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, it does.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. Yours and Director Menten's are both 8-4. So thank you for
joining us.
Does anyone have any questions, or Barbara, do you want to umm [AUDIO OUT] what I said?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No. I just would clarify that based on a head nod with the contract
elements that we'll review in Executive Session, we would hope to have a meeting next Monday
or Tuesday to bring this forward to Executive Committee on Thursday, and then hopefully have
everything in place for the Board meeting on the 29th.
We have to build in the opportunity for Debra's attorney to do their review, both after this
meeting on a cursory review and then bring anything back that she feels needs to be changed or
added, and then move it forward. Then move it forward to the Executive Committee on the 24th
and then the Board meeting on the 29th.

So that's the rationale for the timing moving forward at this point.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. One other point. We had a draft mock-up-- Gregg provided us a
mock-up of a draft contract based in part on Paul Ballard's contract and others. And Director
Guissinger and I have looked at it, and then General Counsel Melanie Snyder has looked at it as
well. And we will be sharing that with this committee today and ask for your review and
comments back. I think that it would probably be best to have comments provided to Gregg and- and Barbara, and then Barbara can distribute them as necessary to Board staff.
Does that work for everybody? Gregg's not [AUDIO OUT].
OK. OK, we'll move forward. Is there any other discussion about the process for completing
these negotiations? I don't see any virtual hands raised. I don't-- actually, there is a hand raised.
That would be Barbara McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Gregg and I talked. So this contract would go into the packet for
whenever we choose the meeting to be next week as a confidential item for Directors to review.
Gregg and I also talked about, if that was not amenable to this committee, that we could also put
it out on HoGo again for everybody's review. So if we could just give some thought to that
between now and the end of the meeting and then I'll understand what this committee wants to
do in terms of reviewing that document.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Actually, that might be the better way to go. Until we have everything
agreed to from both parties, I think that would be the best way to go. Anybody else have any
thoughts about that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I would agree with you, Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff. By best way, do you mean HoGo?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I agree with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: So we will do HoGo until the actual contract goes out in the packet. OK.
Director Menten, your hand is up.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Just one problem that we encountered as we were going through
the GM search, with HoGo, and it was really in hindsight, was that the ability to not be able to
print it out, mark it up did create some challenges. I don't know that that's necessarily a hiccup
here, when we might have something that's, let's say, 10 to 15 pages maybe. I didn't look at what
the current contract is. But I will note that, as I had mentioned to John and when we go to lessons
learned, things like that, that HoGo has that challenge, of course.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that. Right now the draft is pretty brief. And I think our
objective was to keep it fairly simple. So hopefully that will help in the challenges that HoGo
presents with larger documents.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'll go with that. Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So currently, the contract is just five pages long. And everything is
pretty clearly outlined and separated. So if you did need to take some notes to bring back to this
committee, it would be pretty easy to reference the area that you were in within the five pages.
NATALIE MENTEN: Sounds good to me. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Any other questions about process? Seeing none-JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh, Jeff, yes.
JEFF WALKER: Sorry. This isn't really about process. But for this draft, can the lines be
numbered? So if there is a question, it's easy to identify line number X.
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, is that doable?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know. I'm going to ask Melanie to speak to that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. That's fine. Melanie?
MELANIE SNYDER: I think we could probably figure out a way to do that. Yeah.
JOHN MCKAY: Yeah, I've never done it before, but I'm guessing there's a way to do something
along those lines that we can figure out. So we'll work on that. Thanks for pointing it out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Might stretch it to six pages if we do that.
DOUG TISDALE: No, it won't. No.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right. OK, seeing no other comments, those are all good suggestions, I'd
like to entertain a motion to enter into Executive Session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f) Colorado
Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding the recently selected General
Manager/ Chief Executive Officer candidate Debra Johnson, 24-6-402(4)(e)(l) Colorado Revised
Statute for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations,
developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiated [AUDIO OUT] General
Manager/ Chief Executive Officer compensation [AUDIO OUT], and 24-6-402(4)(b) Colorado
Revised Statute to receive legal advice regarding the same.
Do I have a motion?

LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Guissinger moved and Chair Rivera-Malpiede second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Do I hear any objections? I'll take that as a unanimous vote
to enter into Executive Session. I would like to remind you that upon exiting the Executive
Session, we will readjourn to this meeting to close out the meeting and talk about next steps.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam. Just in the past, I think we've had a difference
of opinion relative to should we sign out of this call now and then sign into the Executive
Session, then at the conclusion of the Executive Session, sign back into this call, so that there is
no inadvertent leakage or slop over of communications?
PEGGY CATLIN: I might answer that. And then if maybe John McKay or Barbara wants to
answer it.
Some folks have found that when they leave this meeting open, even though it will be on music
hold or something, and then they open up another Teams meeting, depending on their computer,
that it slows down the operations of the computer and it sometimes garbled sound coming from
the extra meeting, when you have both meetings open.
So my suggestion, and this is what I do, is I would log out of this meeting, log back in, and then
your calendar should be able to allow you to log back into this Teams meeting. Did that make
sense?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, it does. And I thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So we are exiting this meeting at 12:48. And we will be readjourning in
our Executive Session. See you in a few minutes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Did I say we had Director Cook? We do not have-- Director-- who o we not
have? Director Folska yet. Although I don't know if she wants to join. And then we do not have
Director Mihalik yet. But since neither are on the committee, maybe they chose not to join this
meeting. I believe we have a quorum. It is now 2:46 PM on Wednesday, September 16, 2020.
And we are now going to turn the meeting over to Barbara McManus to summarize our process
going forward.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Hello. So at this point, we're going to get the changes made that we
discussed to the current contract. We're going to get that to the full Board, along with Dave

Genova's contract, into HoGo through Gregg Moser for review. At the same time, the contract
with those cursory changes will go to Debra for her attorney review.
We will put a meeting on the calendar. Go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: I apologize. But I think Melanie was concerned that we not have concurrent
reviews, that we expedite the reviews from the committee and Board members and then provide
that contract to Debra Johnson's attorney for review.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So what does that timing look like then? What's the turnaround
time that the Directors have to review it?
PEGGY CATLIN: I had originally suggested that it be reviewed by close of business on Friday.
But if that is compressing our timeframe too much, then we might have to speed that up a little
bit. But that only gives Directors two days to review it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. Well, in that scenario, it only gives Debra's attorney one day to
review it. If we're-PEGGY CATLIN: Gregg is shaking his head. Gregg?
GREGG MOSER: Well, I think [COMPUTER DING] restructure next week if we're not doing it
concurrently, that once we, let's say we get it back and we probably need to have a meeting with
the committee again if there's major changes that need to be adopted. We need to do that Friday
afternoon or Monday. And then once that's done, tell Debra she has till Thursday to get it back to
us. And we need to have another meeting on Thursday to see if we can get those changes
adopted so we can get it out to the executive package.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, in order to get it into the executive committee packet, all of this
has to be completed by 11:30 on Wednesday the 23rd.
PEGGY CATLIN: So what are you suggesting? Director Tisdale, you have-- you're gesturing.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sorry. And for those on the phone, I'm
sorry, I was just indicating that perhaps it might be appropriate that we consider acknowledging
that there is a 24-hour requirement for materials for the Executive Committee to be socialized to
the public, that perhaps, if necessary, we can simply move back the Executive Committee
meeting and have that be on Friday, at the earliest, so that we could send things out on Thursday.
And even if we have to change that and push it back further than Friday afternoon, we might
consider that.
But we clearly have to give this Board the opportunity to review the initial consultant prepared
draft contract with the former Genova contract to determine what substantive terms, if any, might
be included in that contract form as originally created, provide those suggestions back to this
committee, have this committee then approve that. Then that goes to Ms. Johnson and to her
legal counsel at that time, with an appropriate amount of time to review, understanding that we

then have to get it back to the Executive Committee, give 24 hours notice to the public prior to
the actual conduct of the Executive Committee meeting and go from there.
So I think we can calculate time backwards. And in my head, I'm coming up with 3:00 Friday
afternoon for the Executive Committee meeting. But I think that's probably something that we're
looking at.
That's my humble suggestion. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Hey, let me poll the Executive Committee members that are on this call as to
whether or not a Friday meeting would work. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: So a week from this Friday, hang on. Mm-hm. That's the 25th.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Yeah, I can do that.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair, I will make that work.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Is it 3:00? Is that what you suggested? If it could be earlier, I don't
remember, I didn't-- I'm not clear about the timeframe. But if it could be a little bit earlier, it
would help me. I'll make it work. I will have to be multitasking again, but no big deal.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that that was to allow Barbara enough time to get it noticed and in the
package. But sometime Friday afternoon. And then finally, Director Guissinger.
BARBARA MCMANUS: She's not on the call.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. If we could text her to find out if that would-- if we could make it work
for her, I'd appreciate that. It works for me. Or I can make it work.
OK. Gregg, do you think that will work for Debra Johnson and her attorney?
GREGG MOSER: Can we just repeat how much time Debra has? She has the weekend,
theoretically, and Monday and Tuesday?
PEGGY CATLIN: We would have-- no, we need to have another meeting of this committee after
her attorneys review the document. So that we could make sure that we can come together.
GREGG MOSER: So when do we need it back from her attorney by, to have our meeting?

PEGGY CATLIN: So what we were talking about was an Executive Committee meeting of the
Board on Friday. So this Committee needs to meet before that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it would need to be, we would have to post that approved
document by both sides on Thursday by 2:30.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But could you give them the date, Thursday-BARBARA MCMANUS: The 24th.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
GREGG MOSER: So I could theoretically, we could have a meeting with our committee on
Friday. I could get the document to her, theoretically, sometime Friday evening. Her attorney, if
he or she is working over the weekend, could look at it Saturday, Sunday, Monday, potentially.
And then we could have our committee meeting maybe Tuesday afternoon or Wednesday, it
sounds like.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that would work.
GREGG MOSER: Question is, do we give her Tuesday also to review it? You know, half a day
Tuesday, maybe. So she has all day Monday, half a day Tuesday, or something like that. We split
the difference.
PEGGY CATLIN: That works for me. Does that work for-- bear in mind that Tuesday we have a
Board meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right. I was thinking the same thing. So we have a Board
meeting at 5:30. If we give her a half a day, would have to be some time between noon and, I
don't know, 3:30, right? So we'd have time to discuss it.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. Gregg, do you think you can make that work? It's like a shoehorn.
GREGG MOSER: Yeah. I mean, let's shoot for that. Because we have a tiny bit of cushion in
there with Wednesday. So let's try and work with Tuesday around lunch time that she gets it
back, Denver time lunch time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chair Catlin? My only question would be for the committee if
they could make that work in their schedules as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Tuesday afternoon?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. I don't see any hands raised at this point. If there are some
concerns about that, would you kindly raise your hand to weigh in? The only one I'm concerned
about is Director Guissinger. She's had a pretty full schedule lately. Barbara, can you send her a
text?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I did text her about the Executive Committee. I'm waiting to
hear back. And now we're talking about what time on Tuesday?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It would be after the lunch hour. So any time between like 1:00
and 3:00.
BARBARA MCMANUS: [AUDIO OUT]
PEGGY CATLIN: Given the fact that I thought this meeting was going to be short and it was
not, I think we should start hopefully at 1:00.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I would agree with you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't see any other hands raised. So I'm hoping that that works. OK,
Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: I do have something at 1:00, although I can probably get out of it pretty
quickly.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'd just clarify, for the 22nd?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And you are asking that we essentially rope off the rest of our afternoon
after 1:00?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that's correct. If we start at 1:00 and we go to 3:00 or
3:30, then we have a Committee meeting at 5:30, for the Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I will do my best.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I know, I recognize this is a big time commitment and a hardship. But
we appreciate Directors making an attempt to try and get this thing over the goal line.
JEFF WALKER: I also have to leave at 3:00. I have to leave at 3:00. There might be a short
meeting also. So I might be able to rejoin if we go after that. But if we talk quickly, we should be
done by [AUDIO OUT].
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, if I have to take auctioneering lessons from our [AUDIO OUT].
Director Menten. Director Lewis, were you done?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. So I'm OK with the time. But as a request, I want to ensure that I
have the last contract from Dave Genova. And I won't be able to download that from HoGoDoc.
Barbara, would you send me the copy of Dave Genova's contract, please, as I've just got too
many variations on my computer and want to make sure.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know, thank you for doing that. Barbara, since that is a public document,
could we not clutter up HoGoDocs and actually send it independently?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Does that help, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Makes me happy.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what we strive for.
Director Lewis, your hand is still up. But were you done? Thank you.
Are there any other matters? I do think, though, that this is, like I said, we are shoehorning this
process in. We probably need to have in our hip pocket a plan B and may need to schedule a
special Board meeting.
OK, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. As I understand in the timeframe, what
we're talking about is having the contract draft, as I described earlier, and the Genova contract
distributed to everyone this afternoon, and that we would have to have this committee meet on
this Friday to discuss any changes that might be proposed, so that we could distribute to Debra
Johnson and her legal counsel sometime on Friday afternoon the draft contract as agreed by the
committee for their consideration, with their response back to us sometime at or before noon on
Tuesday of next week, and then schedule, at which point the GMES would meet at 1:00.
And then on Thursday, we would have another meeting of the Committee for purposes of
consideration of whatever changes were proposed by Ms. Johnson and her legal counsel, with the
result that Thursday afternoon we would distribute to the public and the Board and the Executive
Committee, the Executive Committee material, meeting materials that would be for the
Executive Committee Meeting to be conducted on Friday.
I think that's a fair summary of where we are.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm not sure about the second GMES meeting on Thursday? I think that we
need to get the notice out for the Executive Committee meeting on Thursday afternoon, So I
guess you're saying you want that extra meeting on Thursday to finalize the document to go into
the packet.

DOUG TISDALE: Yes. My point being that if there are changes that are recommended by Debra
Johnson and her counsel and we meet on Tuesday, it may be that we say, yes, we accept those,
no, we reject them, or here's our counterproposal. We would have to discuss that at some point
after she and her counsel consider that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: That's the reason for talking about a Thursday morning meeting of the
GMES.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I was wondering if in sending out the new contract it wouldn't help to
indicate that it was an adaptation of an APTA model contract. That, I find reassuring. It's kind of
tried and true. It's specific to our industry. So it would give people some background about why
the contracts are different.
I don't know. It was just a thought.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that explanation will be good. Thank you, Director Cook.
Director Tisdale, are you done?
DOUG TISDALE: I am. And I'm lowering my hand.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And Director Cook, did that answer your question?
[COMPUTER RINGING TONE]
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry, my hand will come down now.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Barbara, is this something that can be achieved? I have a shoehorn that's
about this long I'd be glad to give you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I can be there if you can be there.
Yeah. I'll just lay this all out and get it to everybody for an overview. I just heard back from
Director Guissinger, let's see. Tuesday meeting, she can make. She'll be on vacation on Friday
but she can probably dial in. If we have two meetings on Friday, she's not sure she can do both.
So we'll just outline it all out. And we'll ask a minimum of the Committee meetings to respond to
the polling for each of the meetings that we're adding.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And you know, I think with regard to Director Guissinger, we've
had regular conversations with Gregg, and I think that we could probably cover anything she had
with that. And I hope she understands with respect to the timeframe.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just want to throw out there that Debra hasn't heard any of these
elements yet. And I know she probably has an attorney on retainer and at bay. But if she, for
some reason this schedule is not going to work, we still have to be cognizant of her wanting
something in place to give notice on her current living situation. But we could have a special
Board meeting just on this single item, if we need to.
I just want to throw that out there.
PEGGY CATLIN: And that's why I mentioned that earlier, that we might need to have a plan B
with a special Board meeting, if we can't make the time work.
Now that being said, Gregg, didn't you say that her attorney is Colorado based?
GREGG MOSER: He is, yeah. He or she. I don't know who the attorney is.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
All right. Are there any other matters to come before this committee?
Do I hear a motion to adjourn?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Is there a second? Director Walker, second. Are there
any objections? I would be surprised.
OK. It is now 3:06, and the GMES Committee is adjourned.
Thank you all for your patience. It's been a productive discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Catlin.

