Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 1 of 10
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

March 8, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.

Special Board Meeting
I.

Call to Order
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

Roll Call
There were fifteen (15) Board members present at roll call.

III.

Public Participation: 2011 FasTracks Financial Plan Adoption
Mayor Bob Murphy, Lakewood, spoke on behalf of Mayor Larry Harte, Chair of the
Metro Mayors Caucus. He commented that his council will be grappling with two
key issues tonight, education and transportation, so he would need to get quickly to
that meeting. He read from a prepared letter that had been sent to Chair Lee Kemp,
a copy of which is enclosed with these minutes in the Board office. The letter
reiterated their support for the .4% tax increase but in light of recent polls and
change in the state of economy, they have removed the specific reference to the
year 2011 from the recommendation.
Mayor Nancy McNally, Westminster, spoke on behalf of the US 36 Mayors and
Commissioners and NATA. She reiterated the critical importance for RTD to
complete the full project sooner than later and expressed thanks for the proposed
use of the $305M for the North and unfunded corridors. She also introduced Mayor
Natale, Commissioner Cindy Domenico, and Craig Coon who would speak later.
Mayor McNally emphasized these key points:
 Great appreciation for the inclusion of the North, including the Longmont
Station as well as the I-225 corridor for the $305M
 They will support as early as November 2011 for going to the ballot
 DRCOG incorporate the 2011 date as one of the options in the approval of
the APE plan.
 Continue to consider other options for the North to provide rail to the area.
Commissioner Cindy Domenico dittoed the appreciation expressed by Mayor
McNally on behalf of the Mayors, Commissioners and NATA organizations. She
expressed support for the approach to the northern corridor and appreciation of the
$90M for BRT and leveraging the resources through the region. They support the
full build out sooner than later and for the project to be completed by 2019 or
earlier.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 2 of 10
Craig Coon, Chair of the US 36 Commuting Solutions, offered their continued
support for the completion of FasTracks. The funds that RTD are giving to them
will help them to leverage the TIGER and TIFIA funds they have received. This will
expedite travel time along the corridor plus create more environmentally and healthy
transportation solutions for the people along the US-36 corridor. He would request
RTD considers authorizing the $650Kfor the BNSF Northwest rail.
Mayor Natale, Commerce City, spoke about the efforts his city is taking to build a
sustainable comprehensive plan and to look for multi modal transportation options
that will contribute to the quality of life in the community. They have supported
FasTracks but the residents in his community have not seen any shovel-ready. His
city council approved a 0.4% no later than 2019 as a show of forward thinking.
They would like assurances from RTD that new revenue will be used to complete
the unfunded corridors. Two questions pertaining to the assurances:
1. How fast by 2019?
2. What assurance to Commerce City for completion of the NW corridor?
Daniel Rifkin, ACCU, expressed concerns about the handling and disposition of the
prairie dogs. He provided a letter, a copy of which is included in the minutes in the
Board office, stating these concerns.
Sandy Nervig, a Prairie Ecosystems Consultant, expressed her concerns for the
handling and disposition of the prairie dogs. She provided a letter with some
suggestions for more eco friendly removal of prairie dogs. A copy of that letter is
included in the Board minutes located in the Board office.
Marirosa Donisi also expressed concerns over the handling and disposition of the
prairie dogs. She advocated for a more humane way for relocating the prairie dogs.
A copy of her letter is included in the Board minutes located in the Board office.
Allan Lee, Henderson, CO, spoke as a private citizen residing within the RTD
District. He stated that while RTD has heard from the politicians and stakeholders,
they need to hear from the everyday citizen. There is no community support for
going forward with FasTracks. RTD should not consider going forward without
community support. RTD can run as many polls or check on the political climate as
much as we like and this will not change. RTD needs to focus on building support
for the everyday folks, not politicians. Even if RTD delays going to the ballot until
2012, this will compete with a number of other tax ballot related issues and RTD
will find itself flat in the middle with no support. If this should pass, the check and
balances needed to make sure the local communities benefit from the economics of
FasTracks are not in place to ensure a fair and equitable opportunity for all the
citizens in the community.
Bruce Johnson, Denver, CO, indicated that he was very interested in public
transportation and is currently attending the Transit Alliance Citizen’s Academy. As
he travels around the city, he is appalled at the amount of premium space taking up
with parking structures and lots. We need a better transit system that is
environmentally friendly. He urges RTD to get on for a full ballot in 2011 and he
will do whatever it takes to help.
Terry Jackson, Denver, CO stated that she was a product of Northeast Denver and
had made a conscious decision to locate her small business in the community that
she loves. She commended Director Deadwyler for a successful town hall meeting
on Saturday, February 26, where she encouraged community participation and
listened to the concerns of the small businesses. She also recognized Chair Kemp
and Director McMullen for attending this event. She strongly encouraged inclusion
of small businesses like hers in the opportunities afforded by the FasTracks project.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 3 of 10
The support from the community for voting on FasTracks hinges on their
participation in the FasTracks process and opportunities.
Danny Katz, CoPirg, stated they were an educational group with a focus to keep
FasTracks on track. Over the last few months, they have garnished in excess of
700 people who support FasTracks. They are actively involved with the Coalition
for Smart Transit and agree that while 2011 is not the right time to go to the ballot,
we need to keep the efforts alive to educate the public about the need for FasTracks
over the next 18 months while RTD reviews its options.
Bruce Tonilas representing the Construction Management of America, compared the
current RTD challenge with some of the challenges experienced by DIA and others.
He stated the time is now for going to the ballot and used as an example the ready
supply of qualified (and cheaper) labor due to the state of the economy.
His organization supports going to the ballot in 2011.
Jeremy Tamsen, CoPirg, introduced some of the young people from Auraria campus
who have been very engaged in the transit issue. These are experienced learners
who have a vested interest in the future of our environment and public
transportation and who are voters. November 2011 may not be the right time but
they will continue to carry the message of the value of FasTracks to all the
hundreds of young students who care about public transportation.
Gloria Holliday, former Board member, spoke about her involvement and support of
rail for over eight years. FasTracks is an excellent idea but must be inclusive to the
minorities. We need the representation from the Denver communities that we have
not had. When she was on the Board the DBE went up from 10% to 15% and RTD
needs to concentrate on keeping these levels up. There are talented members in
the minority communities who can contribute similar to our history when minorities
did a lot to develop the country. Minorities make a difference in the development of
our country and this nation and can make a difference on the FasTracks project.
Mary Tunberg, Westminster, talked about a CDO report from Jan 26, 2011 that
stated the Department of Transportation would have no funds within two years.
President Obama requested a bill to give $53B to transportation. The problem with
all this and FasTracks is we will have to create paper money to support this since
the cost to build is too high for what we can afford. Sure we need better
transportation but we need more efficient systems and technologies. We need adult
financial decisions. We cannot afford this type of transportation system.
Delilah Collins, Commerce City, shared that about 5 years ago her family elected to
build in that community for an improved quality of life, At the time, they were
unaware they did not have transit and was not included. Although they are part of
the RTD District and pay taxes, they do not have available transportation after five
years of living in this community. She has teenage children who would like to work
but will not have transportation. It is ludicrous that they would be asked for more
money for a transit solution when they have not realized the use of transportation
from the earlier voting of 2004. Her experience is voters vote from their pockets
and right now the pockets are empty. She works for the Department of Education
that is also being challenged by lack of funds. When people vote, they will consider
their pocketbook in terms of education, transit and other pressing issues and vote
accordingly. RTD needs to search for options on how to provide transit service to a
community that is long overdue before requesting additional funds.
IV.

Action Item
Chair Kemp asked the General Manager to introduce the item to vote on for the
2011 Adoption of the FasTracks Plan. General Manager Washington stated that the
staff has engaged in a strong, methodical well thought out process that included
public input and listening to parties in the communities. This has been a

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 4 of 10
collaborative process. He provided a chronology of that process:
1. June, 2010, RTD provided a competitive bid for the Eagle P3; at that time
they identified the potential $305M left over to jump start the other
corridors.
2. In August they provided an analysis of the sales tax assumption scenarios
(0.1through 0.4% scenarios)
3. November 9-- they provided information on completing the vision including
possible uses of the $305M
4. They conducted an extensive outreach for stakeholder’s feedback on various
items (i.e. $305M and sales tax scenarios) and spoke to 25 key stakeholders
group not including other public information that was received.
5. December 7-- a summary of the stakeholder feedback was provided
6. January 11-- various implementation packages were shared with the Board
7. January 25-- public participation and comments along with a financial
analysis were provided
8. February 8-- sensitivity analysis and financial analysis provided
9. February 15-- the poll supporting the 0.4% was shared
10. March 1-- shared poll summary from the Coalition of Smart Transit which
showed a lack of support for going to the ballot in 2011. Showed how the
world changed between November and now.
In the middle of this process, staff provided a recommendation on the use of the $305M
that included Expend on construction of operation segments on US 36, North Metro and I225. US 36, North Metro-complete DUS to Stock Show and I225-complete Nine Mile to
Iliff; $90M financial commitment for each segment; Provide immediate benefit to
Northwest Rail corridor by completing park-n-ride for end of line station in Longmont.
Final design and federal environmental process for Southeast Corridor; Relocate Union
Pacific Railroad Track for Southwest Corridor Extension.
We are still on track for the FFGA for late May and the Gold Line and NW corridor. We
are construction ready in all the corridors and have 8 projects slated for 2011; West
corridor will be 70% complete; We have been successful in pairing together two loans,
TIFIA and RIF for DUS for a combined $350M which is unheard of.
General Manager Washington provided the following recommended action using
alternative 5 of the Board report:
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a financial plan that assumes an election in 2012 with an additional 0.4%
sales and use tax increase commencing in January 2013. This alternative would result
in the completion of the full FasTracks program by 2020. Additionally so as not to
preclude any future opportunities to place a sales and use tax initiative on the ballot in
2011, it is recommended that RTD work with DRCOG to begin review of two separate
financial plans, one assuming an election in 2011 and one assuming an election in
2012. The RTD Board would then re-visit this decision prior to final approval of the
DRCOG SB 208 report this summer.
This alternative also assumes that RTD will expend the $305M available doe to the
Eagle project bid coming in lower than internal estimates in accordance with Table 1
above, and would begin expending these funds as soon as the Full Funding Grant
Agreement for the Eagle Project is received (currently assumed in May/June of 2011).
Should the Board choose not to seek a sales and use tax increase in 2011, the financial
plan would automatically default to assuming an election in 2012 with an additional
0.4% sales and use tax increase commencing in January 2013. The RTD Board would
then re-visit this assumption as part of next year’s APE.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 5 of 10

Based on recent additional information and the need for further analysis, this is the
current RTD staff recommendation.
Additionally, General Manager Washington asked to allow for a 60 day window until
May 3, 2011 for continued evaluation which assumes an election in 2012 for the 0.4%
but does not preclude a vote in 2011subject to triggers such as:

Change in the economic picture

Capacity to raise necessary funds for an election

Rising oil prices

Ongoing support from stakeholders
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve the adoption of the
2011 FasTracks Plan as described by the General Manager
above.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Amendment: Director Cohen asked for an amendment to the alternative 5
written in the Board report to include language for the 60 day
window requested by the General Manager. Director O’Boyle
asked to spell out the date to May 3, 2011.
The makers of the motion, Tayer and Bagley accepted this
amendment.
Secondary
Amendment: Director Hoy requested a strikeout in paragraph 2 of
alternative 5 to begin the sentence with “RTD will expend the
$305M….”
The makers of the motion, Tayer and Bagley, accepted this
amendment.
Discussion:

Director Tayer stated he believes the distribution of the
$305M in the region is highly appropriate. Staff has identified
efficiencies and the region can benefit from these efficiencies.
He feels confident in the work that has been done to prepare
for going to the voters and a plan that will build out what has
been promised to the voters. In the next 60 days there are a
number of things to be done and reflects this is not a knee jerk
response but the Board kept our cool while we exercise a more
measured and thoughtful decision making on when to go out
for votes. Finally, he hopes that during this 60 day window,
some of the concerns expressed by the DBE community will
be addressed. RTD SBE/DBE program has been recognized as
a model but we need to reach everyone to get the wide base
support.
Director Brohl commented the work of the SBE/DBE is very
important which is the reason she requested that the DBE
becomes a standing committee of the whole and will appear
monthly on the lineup of committees. She requested a change
to the language in paragraph 3 but Marla Lien explained why
the language need to stay as is to meet DRCOG’s need for a
clear assumption.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 6 of 10
Director Anderson stated she is in favor of the motion and
shares Directors Tayer’s and Brohl’s sentiment for the DBE
concerns; She would like to see this expanded to include all
SBE in the communities to benefit from this construction. We
need to be sensitive to the economy on displaced workers and
the impacts from a lack of jobs. There are a number of jobs
that will be produced by FasTracks which will have a high
impact that she expects will bring permanent jobs to the
community.
Director McMullen requested the General Manager to speak to
a number of questions that he posed. What is the completion
dates if the go to the polls in 2011 and 2012? General
Manager Washington responded 2019 and 2020 respectively.
The original FasTracks was expected to take 12 years and we
are now in year 6-where are we status wise? General
Manager Washington responded the original plan had us
completing in 2017. Approximately 50% complete.
The sales and tax revenue along with the spike in commodity
pricing contributed to the slowdown.
Director McMullen asked what assurances do we have that
this will not happen again. General Manager Washington
responded we are using very conservative sales tax revenue
projections. We have also sought external expertise on
forecasting over a 25 year period using a hi-med-low. We
have also used external experts on the cost side. We have
locked in the PPP. We have locked in the DUS with loans.
Five of the 12 projects are under construction and locked in;
we have guarantee pricing locked in which reduces the
uncertainty.
Director McMullen stated his understanding we will employ
10,000 people during the high point of construction. General
Manager Washington commented these are direct jobs and
does not include all the indirect jobs that will be created.
Director McMullen asked what assurances the General
Manager could give to the Board and the community that this
new 0.4% will sunset. General Manager Washington
responded that if the funds are combined, the sunset dates
could be as early as 2035. This will be in the ballot language.
Director O’Boyle stated he was supportive of the
recommendation and wanted to know if DRCOG was OK with
getting two plans. Bill Van Meter stated that Scott Weeks
from DRCOG was in the audience and that DRCOG would be
available to work with both plans. It may cost a little more to
review. He has had some preliminary discussions with
DRCOG and they are looking at an option of possibly reviewing
one plan now and the other at a later date.
Director Bagley stated that the May 3rd date gives the Board
an opportunity to re-adjust, do more research and avoid the
knee jerking type response.
Director Riley stated that he has a focus on how can RTD build
trust and establish relationship with the community. The
everyday citizens in the community are not engaged nor do
they support going out for a tax increase. He represents the

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 7 of 10
citizens in Adams County and as he goes out into the
community, they are saying now is not the time. RTD needs to
concentrate on how to build partnerships and regain trust of
the public.
Director Deadwyler asked about the sales tax and what
happens if we do not collect the revenue to complete by
2020.How long will people have to wait up north? We need
to look at other alternatives. She cannot support a tax
increase.
Chair Kemp stated that RTD has been working hand in hand
with our stakeholders, communities and the public. He thanks
all of you for speaking up and coming down here to provide
input to this public process. The message is clear: FasTracks
is important to the community. It is also important that we
get it done sooner than later. The Board is committed to
making FasTracks a reality.
Restatement of the Motion:
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize a
financial plan that assumes an election in 2012 with an additional 0.4% sales and use tax increase
commencing in January 2013. This alternative would result in the completion of the full
FasTracks program by 2020. Additionally, so as not to preclude any future opportunities to place a
sales and use tax initiative on the ballot in 2011, it is recommended that RTD work with DRCOG
to begin review of two separate financial plans, one assuming an election in 2011 and one
assuming an election in 2012. The RTD will re-visit this decision not later than May 3,
2011 which is prior to final approval of the DRCOG SB 208 report.
RTD will expend the $305 M available due to the Eagle Project bid coming in lower than internal
estimates in accordance with Table 1 above, and would begin expending these funds as soon as
the Full Funding Grant Agreement for the Eagle Project is received (currently assumed in May/June
2011).
If the Board does not decide by May 3, 2011 to seek a sales and use tax increase in 2011 the
financial plan defaults to assuming an election 2012 with an additional 0.4% sales and use tax
increase commencing in January 2013. The RTD Board would re-visit this assumption as part of
the next year’s Annual Program Evaluation.
Vote on
Motion:

The vote passed 13 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer
and Tobiassen) and 2 against (Deadwyler and Riley).
Chair Kemp declared this action PASSED.

V.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 8 of 10

VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m. to the DBE Committee.

Prepared by:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 9 of 10

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, March 8, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Brohl
Larry Hoy
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Mark Baudermann
Lacy Bell
Larry Buter
Jesse Carter
Susan Cohen
Carolyn Conover
Lee Cryer
Charles Culig
Kevin Diviness
J. Donovan
Martell Dyles
Sherry Ellebracht
Andy Mutz
David Genova

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District D
District J
District M
District N
District B
District A
District E
District G
District K
District F
Mike Gil
K. Hardin
Terry Howerter
Tom Hughes
Austin Jenkins
Nadine Lee
Marla Lien
Doug MacLeod
P. McLaughlin
Barbara McManus
Anthony Menendez
Karen Morales
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Terry Ratcliff

Scott Reed
Jannette Scarpino
Teresa Sedmak
Danielle Smith
Bill Sirois
Henry Stopplecamp
Walt Stringer
Pauletta Tonilas
Christina Tubb
Mike Turner
Tim Urseton
Del Walker
Michael Washington
Phil Washington
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT
Kevin Abels, Tom Aere, Greg Amparano, Steve Arasan, Debra Baskett, Janne Bennick, Matt
Bergles, Eric Biga, Ocie Brown, Evan Burton, Roy Caldwell, Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Craig
Carter, Delilah Collins, Craig Coon, Chris Cruz, Victoria Culverson, Lindsay D’Andrea, Audrey
Debarros, Commissioner Cindy Domenico, Marirosa Donisi, Geneva Doss, Selena Dunham, Chuck
Easterlig, Aaron Epstein, Dave Erb, Kirsten Gosch, Ellsworth Grant, Phil Greenwald, Freddie Hanns,
Daniel Harper, Randy Harrison, Dick Hinson, Gloria Holiday, John Huggins, Robert Jackson, Terri
Jackson, Danny Katz, Melanie Keene, Steve Klausing, Zack Knows, Ed Knox, Bruce Johnson, Alan
Lee, Sean Lehocky, Matt Lutkus, Mayor Nancy McNally, Cynthia McNell, Claudie Minor, Enrique
Moreno, Mayor Murphy, Mayor Paul Natale, Sandy Nervig, Stephen Newhouse, Franciso Nunez,
Gene Ouvir, David Parker, Michael Petraccelli, Gene Putman, Daniel Rifkin, Jeanne Shrene, D.

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, March 8, 2011
Page 10 of 10

Perkins-Smith, Jeb Sloon, Hunter Sydnor, Jeremy Tamsen, Chris Taylor, Les Townsend, Bruce
Tonilas, Mary Tunberg, Gaspar Verdugo, Robert Watkins, Scott Weeks, Katrina Wert

