2025-02-11
Finance and Planning Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, good evening. The Tuesday, February 11 Finance and Planning
Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:31 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom
and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email, and a link will be provided, to
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
I'm going to say that in Spanish.
[SPEAKING SPANISH]

Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access during the meeting. A livestream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll of the Committee members. Committee Vice Chair Karen Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Patrick O'Keefe.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am Committee Chair Michael Guzman. I am here. For the record, I also see
that we are joined by our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson. And I do not see any other
Directors. Can anybody double-check? All right.
JACK KROLL: That's correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. OK. I would like to open the public comment to anyone who would like
to address the Committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise
your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com. Are there any hands raised? I don't see any on my screen.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. I do
not see any hands raised at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Alrighty. Were there any emailed comments to the Committee? I did not see any
before logging on.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there was one that I sent probably right after you logged on. An
individual who was pleased to see the agency's efforts regarding Transit Equity Day submitted an email to
the Board Office that I'm reading as being intended to the full Board, related to expanding free transit day
to every day of the year and contained a number of questions about how to go about doing that. So I
forwarded that to you all for your awareness.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Is that from a Mr. Bryan Wilson?
JACK KROLL: It is.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. All right, not seeing any hands and not having anything else to add,
we will close the public comment section. Emails will be attached to the transcript of the Committee
meeting when practicable. We will close that section and move on to recommended actions.
So tonight there are three recommended actions on the agenda. The first item is for the approval of the
2025 Finance and Planning Committee Work Plan. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Oh, I was trying to catch up with who said that. Looked like-PATRICK O'KEEFE: I think it I was Guissinger and O'Keefe.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Guissinger and O'Keefe. All right.

PATRICK O'KEEFE: I get that right?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think there were other voices, but.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Oh.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Let's call the movement Guissinger and the second O'Keefe. Thank you very much
for your help, y'all. This is a team effort. [CHUCKLES]
Before I ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, and Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board
Office, to add their thoughts, I just did want to say thank you to the Directors, to the RTD staff, and
especially to Vice Chair Benker for their work on this plan.
We do have a good plan moving forward that will ensure our committee's focused on the right work, the
big picture items for the year. And so, as the chair of this committee, I am committed to seeing the work
plan through. And I look forward to working with all of you to ensure we get our work done.
With that, I'd like to see if Doug MacLeod, our CFO, or Jack Kroll, Board Office Manager, have anything
to add at this time.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. Thank you for
your work on this, as well as the Committee's work and the Board's work putting this together. This is a
fluid document-- a living document, excuse me-- with opportunities to change. We believe we have a full
contingent of good items.
Just a reminder-- we will be doing a training session, a Board training session, on March 4th for finances,
which will also help supplement some of the items we'll be covering. Mr. Kroll, did you have anything you
would like to add?
JACK KROLL: Sure. I'd be happy to add some additional color here. There is one clerical error that I will
fix after today's meeting. It says that you all were set to approve your work plan in March. You're ahead of
schedule, so I will update that accordingly.
I do also want to flag for you all, speaking of trainings, in April of this year, you all are set to hear a
discussion related to an equitable transit-oriented development policy, or ETOD policy. There will actually
be a training on TOD on the 18th of this month-- so next week, a week from today-- that I would highly
recommend, even though that's specific to new Directors or being done, I would say, as a result of many
new Board members coming on. The material there will certainly be applicable to the work all of you do.
So that would be a good one to check out in advance of that.
And then as this is a living document, as issues arise, I do want to point out that far out on the work plan
in January and February of next year, there is a lot of open space for you all to consider some additional
topics. So as things arise over the course of the year that rise to the level of being worthy of the
Committee's time and consideration, know that you have some flexibility on the back end of this to build in
some additional discussion and robust consideration of items of interest to the Committee.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Directors, are there any questions for you about the Work Plan at this
point? Hold on one second, Julianne. I see your hand raised. But Vice Chair Benker and I did have some
email communication quickly today. Did you want to bring up your thoughts here? This would be the place
to have that conversation.

KAREN BENKER: Well, you sent me an email, and you did respond completely. My question was-- and it
really goes to the Executive Committee-- to the discussion about having another Board retreat coming up
either in June or July.
The discussion that I've heard over the past couple of weeks is that it was at that point we wanted to set
our goals for 2026. And so once those goals are set, then we can build a budget around our goals. And
then the two can meet. And it's going to take a little while, I think, to make those budget adjustments.
But I'd like to be able to start working on the budget, although Doug will not be here. Doug, we will miss
you. But it'd be nice if we could start in June or July because it takes a long time to put together a budget.
So thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. So on our Work Plan, for everybody's edification, we do have
conversation slated, a discussion item from the Committee, in June, calendared, and, again, fluid. So if
we can move ahead with that, I'm sure that staff will meet us where they can. But we have to be mindful
that that is a longer process. So I just want to make sure that discussion is out there.
Also, sorry, CEO Johnson, just real quick. Another part of that conversation was to look at the federal
funding, and that came out of the retreat. But also we know we're under a continuing resolution through
March. And so we'll be waiting for a Government Relations report-- again, also going to the Executive
Committee-- that will give us any updates, depending on what happens at the federal level with a
spending bill or a continuing resolution at that level that will filter down to the Committee and its work on
budgeting for 2026.
CEO Johnson, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Good evening, all those that are assembled. Debra
Johnson, General Manager and CEO. In relation to the retreat, I just wanted to put forward for this body's
consideration, and more so for the greater Board's consideration, when looking at a retreat, I believe it's
advantageous to have one no later than June, not July, recognizing the process that we undertake to
develop a budget and the statutory requirements to have a draft budget that's posted for public review by
October 15.
For all intents and purposes, if, in fact, you all were to gather and decide upon goals, whether they for the
Board or for the position in which I currently hold, be it for me or someone else, I believe we would be
behind the eight ball relative to what we're doing from a financial planning vantage point.
So I provide that in the spirit of being collaborative and working in tandem that really anything after July-after June would be much too late. And I have conveyed that to the Chair. I know he's not here this
evening, but just wanted to share that for everyone's consumption for full transparency. Thank you very
much, Mr. Chair.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam CEO. So good thing that we have two members of the
Executive Committee in here. Hopefully we can, between the three of us, make sure that gets back to
Chair Bouquet.
JoyAnn Ruscha, Director Ruscha, who joined the meeting about 10 minutes ago. Sorry, I forgot to
recognize you. Others were speaking. But please go ahead.

JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. And thanks for letting me crash your Work Plan discussion. So this is
Director Ruscha, and I am the Chair of our Operation Safety and Security Committee, just for the record.
And I wanted to just flag that some of the items we had thought would be worthy of discussion for our
committee could also fit under this committee as well. And I will follow up with you via email, but I did
mention this to GM/CEO Johnson. The East Colfax BRT, while we're acting as a pass-through entity, it
clearly involves our services.
And so we thought that getting an update sometime this year, because now that we're in the launch stage
of construction, would be beneficial. However, if this committee could fit that into their calendar, I think it
would be just as reasonable. But of course, it's going to be up to you, Mr. Chair, and your team. But I
wanted to at least just flag. We might ask you to "red rover" an item or two related to both planning and
services. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. We certainly do have some wiggle room on our agenda to do that. So I
will work with Board Office Manager Kroll, and we will see where we can slate that in, perhaps near May-I think that was one of the lighter months-- if that is acceptable. CEO Johnson, would that be a problem?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I'm totally amenable, but keeping in mind it's contingent upon our coordination
with our peers at DOTI, as they have a project management team as well from a consulting vantage point
and also staff. So we could put forward a request. But I would ask the Board for flexibility, recognizing that
we would be partnering with a jurisdictional entity. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Would it then be-- sorry, would it then be advisable to have them as an invited
speaker, an invited entity?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, yes. I would recommend that it's an external entities report that is provided
at the beginning of the agenda, recognizing that they would be external to the organization and more so
basically be coming here to engage and inform all of you in your capacity. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Mr. Kroll, we can follow up later. Anybody else? All right, let's
move the question. Are there any no votes on moving this forward? And I will remind you, this is not a
finished document. This is a changeable document going forward. All right. That looks like it passes
unanimously. Thank you very much.
Our second item is for the Certificates of Participation, Series 2015A Refinancing. This is for the RTD
Board of Directors to adopt the attached resolution number "blank," the COP resolution, Series of 2025
authorizing refinancing of Certificate of Participation, COP, Series 2015A. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movement as Director Catlin and the second as Director Guissinger. I
would like to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, and Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt
and Investments, to present this item to the Committee. Please go ahead.

DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer. As you
mentioned, I'm joined by Brenden Morgan, Chief-- excuse me-- Senior Manager of Debt and Investments.
We do have a presentation to walk through this evening. This is a favorable action item in terms of the
finances of RTD in that it will save, potentially save, RTD interest expense on its debt service over the
next several years.
We will have a presentation that basically discusses the basics about RTD's debt process, the debt
options we have available to the agency. And then we'll go into the actual transaction that's being
proposed, where we're looking for approval from the Committee, followed by the Board in two weeks. So,
Brenden, Mr. Morgan, are you ready to begin the presentation?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes, Doug. Good evening. Thank you for that introduction. Good evening,
everyone. I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investment Management for RTD. I hope
everyone's staying warm this evening on this frigid evening.
We've got a brief PowerPoint that will walk through, talk a little bit about RTD's existing debt, a little bit of
background. And we'll talk about the re-funding that we're recommending that the Finance Committee and
hopefully later this month the Board consider for approval.
Let's see. Give me one moment here to get that presentation pulled up here. I had it, and I think I closed
it, unfortunately. Get that back.
Of course, when I need it, it's not right in front of me.
DOUG MACLEOD: Brenden, if you'd like, this is Doug. I can pull it up. And just tell me what I want to
change slides, if you'd like.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Perfect. Thank you. Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: You got it.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Scrambling to find it here. I appreciate that, if you have it handy. Thank you. There
we go. All right, very good. We can move on to the next slide.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Mr. Morgan, I'm so sorry. I'm going to interrupt real quick. If somebody from the
Board Office can double-check the link for CART, the streaming is not working. You can go ahead and
continue. Sorry.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you very much. So as I was mentioning here, we'll talk a little bit about the
background of RTD's debt, and government debt in Colorado in general, from a very high level. We'll talk
a little bit about the recommended action that's on the agenda here. And we'll talk about the next steps to
potentially move forward with this recommendation.
So we'll start with the background. And to start any conversation about government debt in Colorado, it
would be appropriate to start with TABOR. As I'm sure you're all aware, TABOR is the Taxpayer Bill of
Rights, and it's an amendment to the Colorado Constitution. One of the things it does, among many
others, is it requires voter authorization to authorize new multiyear obligations, or new debt, essentially.
Historically, RTD has used two primary borrowing tools, the first of which are sales tax revenue bonds.
Those fall under that TABOR requirement to get voter authorization. Voters did authorize debt way back

in 2004. But as of today, 20-some years later, RTD has no available voter-authorized debt capacity
remaining. You will see it on our balance sheet, and we are paying it off over time, all that FasTracks
sales tax revenue bonds, that we've issued over time.
The second one, primary borrowing tool that RTD has often used, are called certificates of participation,
or COPs for short. Those do not require voter authorization, and we'll talk a little bit more about those on
the next slide, Doug. Thank you.
As far as bonds go, the sales tax revenue bonds that RTD has issued-- excuse me-- has issued are
secured by a pledge of future sales and use tax revenues. Those revenues are pledged to repayment of
the debt at the time of issuance of the bonds. They're primarily used for major infrastructure or large
projects, like our FasTracks project, for example.
Certificates of participation, as I mentioned, do not require voter authorization. And that is because they
do require annual appropriation from the Board, as the Board sets the budget every single year. This
avoids the multi fiscal year obligation because it sort of renews every year.
These are structured as lease purchase agreements, and they're secured by collateral, typically whatever
it is that the government is buying. In RTD's case, we buy buses and rail cars. Historically, we've also
financed a portion of the North Metro project, or what's today the N line, using certificates of participation.
The third major bullet on this slide talks about the other category, which is really our TABOR and nonTABOR portions of the Eagle P3. That financing related to the Eagle P3 has a portion of the financing that
is a revenue pledge-- that's the TABOR portion-- and a portion that is annually appropriated, just like
certificates of participation. And that's the non-TABOR payment that we make, and it's tied to the
operations of Denver Transit partner. Next slide.
As far as RTD's debt obligations, this slide talks about some characteristics of those obligations. We've
issued our debt historically. We like to have budget certainty. Having fixed interest rates and fixed terms
allows us to know how much we owe and when it's going to be due. It's very helpful for forecasting,
budgeting, et cetera. Our current annual debt service is approximately $250 million, and that's a large
chunk of the budget. So it's very important that we know how much is coming due and when it's due.
Some of the debt was issued taxable. Some of it was tax-exempt. And what that means is the investors
that buy these bonds, sometimes they have to pay taxes. Sometimes they don't, depending on the tax
status of the bonds at the time that they are issued. This greatly impacts the interest rates that investors
are willing to pay.
And from RTD's perspective, we issue one or the other, depending on the use of what we're financing.
There's various IRS rules and regulations around what you can do with the financing proceeds of taxable
debt versus tax-exempt debt. So you'll see both of those on our financial statements.
Call provisions-- so I personally love call provisions for RTD. The municipal bond market typically expects
a 10-year par call, meaning that 10 years after the debt is issued, the issuer, RTD, has the option to call
or prepay that debt and either pay it off permanently or refinance it with cheaper debt.
It's a very powerful tool for us. We take advantage of that frequently to refinance for savings. And
historically, we've also done it to free up some cash flow during economic hard times. It's a very powerful
tool. So we love our call provisions and keep them coming.

When the debt is structured, how do we set it up? Well, we like efficient cash flow and flexibility. This ties
back to the call provisions, where we try to stagger them so that we try to have one every year. It doesn't
always work out that way. But with the amount of debt we have, we have a call almost every year where
we have an opportunity to refinance some debt and lock in some savings going forward.
I think that's it for this slide, Doug. Next slide. Now, this obligation trends. This is a great chart Doug put
together and has been including for the past year or so in various presentations, showing our debt in the
blue bars here, the bar chart, and then the pension liability in red on top of those.
And you can see across the bottom here, this stretches from 2019 through 2024. And you can see we've
made significant progress over the past several years paying down the debt and reducing those pension
liabilities. In total here, you can see these bar charts have moved from about $4.2 billion in total back in
2019 to approximately $3.5 billion here at the end of 2024. So we're making nice, steady progress
towards paying off these liabilities.
This slide shows a great view of what our debt service payments will be, or our principal and interest
payments will be, over time. On the left, you'll see the first year is 2024. You see the final little red bar on
the bottom. That's the old T Rex debt, our senior bonds. Those were repaid last year. Now fully paid off.
And you can see we continue to make the FasTracks and certificates of participation payments, et cetera,
all the way up until 2050, when the final FasTracks bond is currently scheduled to be repaid.
All right, that's it for the background. Moving on to the current recommendations. So RTD issued
certificates of participation back in 2015. They're referred to as the Series 2015A COPs. They were
issued to finance equipment as well as buses and light rail vehicles.
We've been working on paying that down over the years, and today, we currently have approximately
$107 million outstanding. And it will be available to refinance in the coming months.
In the current interest rate environment, we believe this refinancing can save a meaningful amount of
money. These numbers on this slide here, you'll see $15.4 million of savings through 2040. That's the
gross savings. And that works out to a present value savings, if you prefer that metric, of $4.1 million, or
3.84% of the par outstanding.
We just refreshed these numbers with our financial advisor on January-- I'm sorry, February 6. That $15
million number now has been revised a little bit. It's up to $24 million. The net present value savings is
currently $5.1 million. And the percentage number there is 4.73, so an even bigger percentage savings of
par.
So things have improved, and we've refined those numbers as well over the past month. So it looks like
an even more attractive transaction than we had originally thought when we started down this path. Next
slide.
Next steps. Well, next steps really involve the attached resolution, certificate resolution. That resolution
gives authority to the General Manager and CEO or her delegate or the Chief Financial Officer to move
forward and execute this transaction.
There's also parameters that require a minimum NPV, net present value, savings of at least 3% or more.
So that sort of guarantees that it's a good deal for the district, or at least a minimum threshold of
economic value for the district of 3%.

It also requires that the final maturity not go beyond 2040. That is the current final maturity of the 2015
certificates of participation. So the debt would still be repaid in the same amount of time, or shorter.
So that resolution-- I'm sure you've all read it-- it really sets out the requirements for this transaction to
move forward, should the Board decide to approve it. We've been on this project-- we've been working
with our financial advisor, or today they're called municipal advisor, Michael Newman from Hilltop
Securities. I believe he's on the call today. Our internal counsel, our external bond counsel at Hogan
Lovells, as well as our disclosure counsel at Butler Snow.
We've got a great team of professionals that we work with that help us ensure that transactions like this
get executed in the most beneficial manner for the district. So with that, we'd be happy to answer any
questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Are there any questions from the Committee? Go ahead, Vice Chair Benker.
KAREN BENKER: No questions, Brenden, but I just wanted to thank you. How did you obtain another,
what is it, almost-- was it $9 million additional savings?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Yes. So the numbers that have changed are our estimate that you saw on the
slide there. Those were created back on January 6. The numbers that I mentioned were from February 6.
So there's multiple parts that go into it. One part is just simply the change in the interest rate environment
during that period of time.
Another major factor is that as we move along with this process, we identified this as a good opportunity
and got the wheels rolling. And as we dug deeper and deeper, we also found that we had some additional
funds remaining. It was approximately $6 million remaining in the-- or not remaining, but sitting currently
in the debt service fund, which is where we contribute money to pay the debt service, the principal and
interest payments that are due six months from now.
So we have cash sitting in there. So that cash has already sort of been committed to this, to the next debt
payment. So we're going to contribute that to this refinancing as well. So it helps us pay down the debt.
Currently, that debt, I mentioned, is around $107 million outstanding. And we expect that number to get
closer to $87 million by the time a transaction like this was done. So reducing about $20 million of debt off
of our balance sheet.
KAREN BENKER: Wonderful. And then at what point do you lock in the interest rate? Is it as soon as the
Board passes the resolution?
BRENDEN MORGAN: Oh, that's a great question. I did not mention that. So yes, assuming the Board
approves this resolution, we will work with the syndicate of banks that we have selected from our
underwriter pool to schedule a date to price these bonds and sell them to the public market. It will be
sometime in March. And then financial close would be about a month later at some point in April.
KAREN BENKER: OK, wonderful. Great work. Thank you.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Any other questions? Comments? I don't see any hands. So let's move the
question. Are there any no votes on this item? Looks like that passes unanimously. Thank you very much.
All right.

Make sure I'm on the right part here. OK, our third and final item. It is an authorizing resolution for the
Federal Transit Administration, the FTA, funding, for the Board of Directors to approve resolution number- blank-- series of 2025, authorizing the General Manager and CEO to be responsible for applying for and
legally committing RTD to compliance with terms of awards from the Federal Transit Administration or
FTA.
Do we have a motion?
KAREN BENKER: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have the movement as Director Benker and the second as Director Guissinger. I'd
like to ask Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present this item to the Committee.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Thank you. Appreciate that. RTD is a recipient, a direct
recipient, of federal funding from the Federal Transit Administration, or FTA. So I will just summarize
what's in the Board report, see if there's any questions.
Essentially, as a direct recipient, RTD must meet certain reporting requirements, compliance
requirements, legal requirements, et cetera. Excuse me. My light. I have an automatic light in my room. It
just turned off.
And as a recipient of federal funding from the FTA, RTD primarily receives two types of grants from the
FTA, one being formula funding, which RTD receives every year in the form of Section 5307 preventive
maintenance grants, which approximates about a $150 million a year. So it's a significant income stream
for RTD.
In addition, discretionary grants, Section 5309 grants, periodically become available for which RTD might
apply for, depending on if they align with the strategic plan to help offset RTD's internal costs. In both
cases, these grants, or in all cases virtually, grants require a local match, which requires RTD to put in
some of its own funding in order to receive additional funding from the FTA.
I mentioned that there are several certifications requirements, things that RTD has to adhere to. One
thing that we'll talk about is the external auditors, Plante Moran, also look at RTD's federal funding and
audit that. It's called a single audit that is audited every year. So that's an example of some of the
regulations and reporting requirements that RTD must follow.
So this resolution is actually the result of a letter that was received from the FTA to RTD on December 6,
2024. And it's really requesting that recipients of FTA federal funding adhere to enhanced reporting
requirements.
And I would add that there are several reporting requirements currently that RTD adheres to in applying
for and receiving grants. General Manager/CEO Johnson is the authorized executive. There's certain
certifications and assurances that must be done every year. This is an additional administrative reporting
requirement that's required by the FTA.
The FTA has asked that this resolution be available from all recipients by March 5, 2025, in order for
agencies and other entities to continue to receive FTA federal funding. So this resolution really requires
the opinion of counsel to ensure that legal compliance is followed, as well as a resolution from the Board

of Directors that authorize RTD to be responsible for applying and legally committing to the terms of
federal awards.
So by signing this resolution, this resolution will actually be used in RTD's filings for application of federal
awards from the FTA, as well as ongoing awards that have already been received in which RTD will be
drawing down funds. So that's a quick summary, Mr. Chair, and I'd be happy to answer any questions.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Are there any questions from the committee? I don't see any. Thank you so much,
you guys, for reading and doing our homework. I love it! This makes our meetings so much easier.
[LAUGHS]
I do want to point out that in our Board packet on packet page 37, it does list several different types of
grants, including the Section 5339 grant, which is for bus and bus facilities. Very important for us for
ongoing planning with our facilities and fleet transition planning.
I'm getting the nod from the CEO. I got that in the right order. Thank you. [LAUGHS] But also, we work
very closely with-- I believe we're in Region 8, if I'm not mistaken, of the FTA. And so we need to make
sure that we have this paperwork done. This is not unusual to have to file this, but it's a more formalized
administrative process that they've requested of us.
So with that said, if there are no objections, let's move the vote. Are there any no votes on this matter?
Seeing and hearing none, that passes unanimously from the Committee. Thank you very much. This
meeting is moving right along. I appreciate it.
There are no additional discussion items for today's meeting. Are there other matters to discuss? Director
Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to mention that our Audit Committee is meeting.
And at that Audit Committee meeting, Plante Moran, our external auditor for financial matters, will be
giving a presentation at the Audit Committee.
And they have interviewed a few folks on the Audit Committee about potential risks and that type of thing
with the audit. And they will be presenting at our Audit Committee meeting. And just wanted to give folks
a heads-up on this committee that that will be coming before they do their audit work in last week of
February and first week of March. That's all I have. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Anybody else? Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, I just wanted to remind the Board members of a couple of things. We have sent out
an email asking for information from you all for your bios for the website. And that does-- while that might
seem like a non-sequitur, there's actually some important documents related to the Series 2015 refunding
you all just recommended for approval to the full Board. We need to list your occupation. So please get
that information back to the Board Office as soon as you possibly can.
Additionally, I wanted to mention this earlier in the conversation around the work plans, but I neglected to
do so. The Board Office has compiled a timeline that we will be sharing with all Directors.
Given the inclusion on the work plan for maybe not necessarily this committee but several of the other
committees of items, the genesis for which is coming from Directors, we want to make sure Directors are

aware of the same internal deadlines that we have for staff, for getting documents and items to the Board
Office for publishing in the packet so that we're not scrambling at the last minute to pull everything
together for your collective review. And with that, Committee Chair Guzman, I have nothing further to add.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Anybody else? All right, Committee members, please review the email
that was sent out to us about the zero fare request. You should have that in your email.
Also, I did request to be sent out to all of you the-- there's a podcast called Transit Unplugged. On
Monday. They were talking about some of the new FTA regulations that are going into effect that could
affect TNCs working with public transportation. The rules are under review right now. It gives a really
good summary of what's going on.
And the links to the FTA website are located in the podcast notes I sent out through Spotify. I'm not trying
to make anybody use anything specific, but at least you can pull up the information from the email and
review that at your leisure. It's about 30 minutes. It was a good conversation relevant to what we're
working with here in Denver and the financial impacts of what could be coming, to be aware of that for
everybody's edification on this committee and on the other committees.
The next Finance and Planning Committee meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, March 11. At that meeting,
we are not set to take any actions, but we will have many significant discussions, including those on
revisions to the fiscal policy, the progress on the report for finishing FasTracks, a review of our 2024
budget to actuals, an overview of the budget process, and a conversation around identifying peer
agencies for cost efficiency comparison.
Personally, I'm most excited about the last item. As I mentioned, we have been looking for some time to
develop a list of peer agencies. And we get compared to a lot of different agencies all the time. So we
need to define what that means for RTD and working with staff to identify those working with the Board
members to make sure that we agree will make our jobs and our lives much easier. Because when we
know with whom we're comparing ourselves, we're able to compare properly.
There are a lot of differences between transit agencies. You've heard it before. I'm going to repeat it here.
When you have worked with one transit agency, you have worked with one transit agency. We don't want
to compare apples to fish, and we want to make sure that we are making the right comparisons for the
right reasons.
So we are going to dig into that and make sure that we understand our perception of ourselves but also
help to educate the public on what those comparisons could and should look like. I look forward to that
conversation.
Good to see you all. Without anything else, I would take a motion to adjourn.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Catlin. We are now adjourned at 6:15 PM. Thank you so much.

