Sep 17 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Public via the Board's website. At RTD, as you know, safety is our core value.
I'd like to start with a brief safety briefing. If we have an emergency medical situation and 911
needs to be called, I will ask our RTD General Counsel, right there he is, thank you very much,
sir-- to make that phone call. Any medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully
requested to assist. If needed, an AED, an Automatic Emergency Defibrillator, is located just
outside this room, on the wall to the right, inside a glass case.
In the event that we must evacuate the building for fire or for any other emergency, please calmly
exit out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, round the
security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct
you to a safe meeting area. Anyone needing special assistance in the event of an evacuation will
be assisted by RTD staff, as necessary.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities,
the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware and alert to any suspicious or
dangerous activity on buses and trains and around our station stops and platforms. As such, I would
encourage all RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch app, which allows
users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and communicate directly with RTD Transit
security personnel on a real-time time basis, in the event of an emergency situation. The Transit
Watch app is available via Google Play and the Apple store.
In keeping with that, I would like us to take a moment to recognize our security people. This is the
National Security Officer Appreciation Week. So with little warning, we'd like to ask Mr. Meader,
and any of his staff that are in the room, to please rise, so that we can recognize them, give them a
round of applause, for the work that they do for us.
[APPLAUSE]
Security professionals have a call to public service that is above and beyond the norm. And as we
count safety as one of our first priorities, we are very grateful for the caliber of people that do this
work for us on a regular basis, and we thank them all for the work that you do.
OK, now we're going to move on with the meeting, and I think we'll start with recommended
actions. So our first recommended action tonight is a contract option award for the purchase of 13
cutaway buses. It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to exercise the option of
Contract 25FK006 with Masters Transportation for the purchase of 13 Goshen cutaway buses to
be used for the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services, at a price not to exceed $978,957.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals. Core goal number one,
successful delivery of transit services, and task goal number three, asset management in state of

good repair. We-- I have a motion. Director Catlin, and I second from Director Whitmore. Do we
have any information that we need to have on this, beyond what we were provided?
FRED WORTHEN: Only that the purchase will be funded with local funds.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's good to know. Thank you for that, Mr. Worthen. Directors, does
anybody have any questions on this particular action? Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What are cutaway buses?
FRED WORTHEN: Um, sorry. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. Cutaway buses are
basically smaller utility vehicles. They're very similar to the Access-a-Ride vehicles that we use,
rather than a full-size bus.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Anybody else? OK, seeing nothing more, I guess we will move to a vote on
this. Oh, I'm sorry, Judy, I did not see you up there.
JUDY LUBOW: I wasn't-- I wasn't up there.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, just wave at me next time. We'll be low-tech here.
JUDY LUBOW: It's not particular to these buses, but we're going to be approving a bunch of buses
tonight, and I'm just concerned that they're not electric, because at some point real soon, there
might be a mandate that we have many more electric buses than we do. I mean, it's in the wind.
And so I'm just wondering, has anybody thought of that issue?
FRED WORTHEN: Would you like me to address it now?
KATE WILLIAMS: I would be grateful if you would.
FRED WORTHEN: So I expected to have question asked. With regard to the next purchase that
will be coming in front of you, with regard to the diesel buses, every-- any time that we actually
make a bus procurement, we look at both operational needs and fiscal capacity. With regard to the
battery electric buses, there is a significant cost increase associated with battery electric. The cost
of the buses themselves run between $250,000 and $400,000 more than the standard diesel bus.
Plus, you're buying a complete system, so you have to do infrastructure improvements. You have
to pay to connect to the local utility provider. You have to have charging. You have to have space
at your base to actually deal with those things.
So you have a higher capital cost, but also, from an operational standpoint, the battery electric
buses, with their current pricing infrastructure with Xcel, are significantly higher than our diesels,
when you look at a cost-per-mile. Our cost per mile for a battery electric bus on the mall shuttle is
about $0.66 a mile. A diesel is $0.43 per mile, so it's about roughly 54% more expensive to operate
the battery electric bus. Above and beyond the capital and operational cost, there are operational

constraints with the technology as it currently sits in its current format. There are a range of issues.
Diesel bus can go about 600 miles. Our mall fleet, top end, is about 120 miles. So there are issues
associated with range.
There are also variability issues. On any given day, we can see, depending upon the operating
conditions, a 30% variation in the actual range, so it's very difficult to manage it, so it requires us
to manage the fleet at a completely different level. So it's not just operational costs, it's not just
operational capability. It's also having a completely new operating model to be able to manage a
fleet.
We are doing things right now to try and make electric fleet more viable for a larger scale. We're
working with Xcel to work on new pricing structures, so that the charging rates will be more
compatible. We're working with Xcel to try to get them to cover some of the capital cost associated
with some of the infrastructure improvements. We've also done some things like we installed an
electric load management system earlier this year to try and manage our load variations. That alone
has lowered our operating cost by about 10%, just trying to manage loads ourself.
We do have electric vehicle on the horizon, though. We have word that we are going to get money
from a VW settlement and a Low-No grant that will allow us to get up to 18 electric vehicles.
These grants do cover the cost of infrastructure improvements necessary to support these vehicles.
But the other thing is, as we go into this next purchase, we're going to take a more systematic
approach to how we purchase and how we approach managing [INAUDIBLE] itself. We're taking
our lessons learned from our mall fleets, so we're taking a look at our infrastructure, making sure
that our bases have adequate capacity. We'll look at routes, what routes are best, what pieces work,
are best suited to actually operate, based on the operational variabilities that we have. And also
work on really looking at BEBs, how we can make them work at a larger scale.
So the next step is kind of take what we've learned from BEBs. The one thing is the mall operations
are different than local service operations, so we will also have the ability to find out what our
experience would be more like in a local setting, so we are setting steps for that. We have a team
that is working on all of those different components that we talked about. Our work will be ongoing
over the next year, and we hope to have an RFP ready shortly after all that work is done.
So long answer, it's a complex-- I basically took about a 40-minute discussion and condensed it
down to a couple of minutes, but happy to explain it in more detail or talk with you more offline,
if you have more questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I do think it's important to-- I appreciate the detail that you're giving
about why it's inappropriate to buy a whole bunch now. I'm just concerned that we're going to have
12, 15 years of these buses, when we may have the passage of Green New Deal things at some
point in a few years. It's possible. We may not, of course.
FRED WORTHEN: So there's one thing that I did not mention a little earlier that I should mention
also. The majority of these buses will be going to our contracted services operators. We do not
own the bases that our contractors operate out of.

JUDY LUBOW: So what are you saying?
FRED WORTHEN: What I'm saying is that actually putting electric vehicles in a contractor
operations right now would require substantial changes to the way we do business.
JUDY LUBOW: Ah, OK. All right, well, thank you very much for all that information. I appreciate
it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I just had a-- this may be a question for Dave, based on all
the information you provided, and I do appreciate it. Will the Board receive an update or a briefing
on some of the work that this work group is doing?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, we can do that. In fact, Fred just walked us through a really detailed
presentation on a lot of this information, and we will be bringing that condensed version to the
Board soon because it is a very-- it's a very complex situation, and we want to make sure you're
fully informed as we're working through these decisions. But we've got a great opportunity with
the next round of our electric bus procurements that we will be doing.
And as far as what's happening in the industry, there's so much conversation around the complexity
of this issue, in terms of the bus manufacturing capacity, the infrastructure capacity, the cost of
electricity, and exactly what kinds of routes make sense for electric fleets, and so we're gaining a
lot of knowledge. In fact, our 36 mall shuttles at one time-- and may still be-- the largest electric
subfleet in transit in the country. At one time, it was, and we might still be there. So we're-- we've
got a lot of good information that we're learning about it, and we're eager to take the next steps,
but we need to be very thoughtful about it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, General Manager. Director Catlin, Director Guissinger, I'm going
to check and see if there's anybody on the phone. Do we have anybody on the phone?
[INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, Dr. Folska, not yet?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, no, I'm here. It just takes a while to turn it on, so thank you, yes, I'm
here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hey, there. Do you have any questions or comments on this?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, you know, to be honest with you, I mean, we're buying buses, and
we're giving them over pretty much to the contract. We pay them for the gas, we pay them for the
human capital. We pay hundreds of millions of dollars, and we're buying these buses and giving
them to them. They're not paying for them, is that right?

KATE WILLIAMS: I believe that Director Folska's asking if we give buses to our contractors and
that they have no investment in it, in the bus.
FRED WORTHEN: We don't give buses to the operators. We actually are allowing them to utilize
it to keep the contract costs down.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, so I mean, like, they could actually buy their own bus. We buy it,
and we let them drive it, so we're giving it to them, right? Essentially. And you know, I, you know,
and that's whatever it is and how it's done, and so on, that's fine. But you know, I think what
Director Lubow said is pretty important. And we don't know-- and in fact, we don't know what the
future-- I would wait to do anything, until we know about the transportation transformation
outcome.
We're putting $4.7 million into understanding that, and if they come out and say, well, you know,
we're just going to privatize the whole thing and forget it, then we've wasted a lot of money, so I
think I'd like to hold off on it. That's all. Thank you very much, Chair.
FRED WORTHEN: Could I respond to that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Certainly, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: So the one thing that I would like to point out also is deferring capital
procurements has impacts also. These buses are already 14-plus years old. They are past the end
of their useful life. And at some point, the reliability and the cost to maintain them costs more than
it does to actually replace them.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, you know, as a matter-- as a matter of fact-- if I may, Director
Williams, Chair Williams-- on top of it, we're cutting routes like crazy because we don't even have
people to drive them, and that's another point. Why would we buy buses when we can't even put
drivers in them? That's all, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. I support those primarily because it is in support
of the agreement that we made with the disabled community regarding accessibility, so I think we
do have a trade-off with electrification of vehicles, but we also made a commitment to that
community that I believe we should honor. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just quickly, Dave, do we have any update on the PUC request with-- the
Xcel request with PUC to help with our charging-- or pricing?

DAVE GENOVA: On the rates, I believe it is moving through the hearing process later this month.
So Xcel has filed all their other documents and we've prepared our, I guess, written testimony, if
you will, and so I think it's the 24th of September? Rolf? But it's towards the end of this month.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll keep you apprised.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Do I have anybody else that has any comments? Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just a quick question. Why is it that the FlexRide is more than the Accessa-Ride?
FRED WORTHEN: It's a little different configuration, so the differences in configuration cost a
little more.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would think it would be the opposite.
FRED WORTHEN: Steve, you had more seats? More seats.
NATALIE MENTEN: About $2,000 bucks worth of more seats or somewhere in there. All right.
And since I am on the mic here, I'll ask then. When we start to look at our routes-- an example,
Route 21, running along Jewell Evans. And it would be rare, I think, if that bus right now would
even be a third full, at least in the area that I see it. So where in our transit plan that we're embarking
on are we going to start to look at more smaller buses? And I know it will create challenges for
maintenance and service, but we've got so many big buses that are running around and very few
seats filled.
FRED WORTHEN: I'd have to defer to Jesse to talk about the service planning, but I would say
that we purchased buses based upon capacity needs. And much like a freeway, there will be times
when a bus will be full. There are times when it won't be. But we try to not only build for the
capacity we have now, but also not constrain ourselves to be able to expand, too, if we do gain
ridership.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I'll leave it at that, but I think we could use a lot of more small
buses. But I do realize, in service, that might be a challenge, keeping the small ones to the routes
where it'd be much more appropriate sizing.
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Chair. I would also add there's labor costs with that to run more
small buses than fewer larger buses, so it's all a modeling and a balancing act. But you know, that's
some of the most expensive part of our services is the operator.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right, that's it, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, nobody else? OK, can we go to a vote on this motion?
Says here, waiting on Lynn.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's my fault.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. OK, I think this has passed committee, and we will move on. Thank you,
gentlemen, for all your work on this. I'm assuming you're going to stay there for just a minute.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Excuse me, Chair. Chair?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. Did Director Folska indicate which way she was-KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, she did not, I'm so sorry. Director Folska? Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, thank you very much, Rolf and Chair Williams. You know, I'm going
to vote yes on this, but I, you know, I think it's a little premature. And I understand about the
lifetime, but, you know, I don't think a couple of years would do us any harm. And I think waiting
until the end of the transportation transformation results, I think, would be more appropriate. But
I am voting yes, so thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. OK, does that change our-- do we need to post
anything? We can move on? It's good if I could move on myself, I'd be happy here.
[LAUGHTER]
I'll just read it from the paper, that's all right. Our next recommended action is the purchase of 46
40-foot low floor transit buses. It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
authorize the purchase of 46 new 40-foot transit buses from Gillig LLC and associated spare
components and extended warranties for a total price not to exceed $22,527,120.00 and no cents,
with an option to purchase up to 264 additional 40-foot buses over a five-year period. This
recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals. Core goal number one,
successful delivery of transit services, and task goal number three, asset management and state of
good repair.
OK, looks like we have discussion immediately. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, we got to-- we're going to have a motion first. OK, before you can speak,
do we have a motion?

TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, we have a motion from Director Whitmore and a second from
Director Buzek. Director Broom, you can speak now.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Will these be delivered like five a month or how does that
work?
FRED WORTHEN: We will get a bulk purchase. It's usually about a 12-month lead time from the
time we place the order till the time they start delivery.
DAVE GENOVA: But do they come in in increments, I think, was the question.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, they do.
BOB BROOM: All right. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think I'm going to ask Director Folska right away before I forget, if she
would like to have a question on this issue.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. No, I have no comment or question. Thank
you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. So I have a concern. Well, I'll start with, I'm in support of
this, until we get to the, with an option to purchase up to 264 additional 40-foot buses over a fiveyear period. To Director Lubow's point, I don't think it gives us the opportunity to re-evaluate as
we're looking at reimagined RTD and, also, as we're looking at potentially electrifying buses. So
this may be a question for Rolf-- is there any opportunity to change the end of this, so that we can- so I'd be much more willing to support this.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that Mr. Worthen can answer this question.
FRED WORTHEN: So options are just that, they're options. They're not a commitment to actually
purchase. Every time we do a bus purchase, as I said before, we look at fiscal and operational
needs. We would need to bring the authority to exercise options to this board, so at that time, you
would have an opportunity to look at those particular options and approve or not approve them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. So we-- then we shouldn't have an issue with removing this? Because
it's the same outcome?
FRED WORTHEN: If you remove the options, what would happen is that we would lose our
contract pricing guarantee, and we would have to go out for a competitive bid again. Right now,

we have a locked-in price-based upon the pricing index that is guaranteed. If we don't approve the
options at this point, we would not have those options. We would have to go out, and there's a
pretty good chance we would have a much higher cost down the road. So by having an option, you
protect your ability to be able to purchase, but you're not committed to that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It would be really helpful if that level of detail were in our packages because
when it just reads like this, it's not helpful.
FRED WORTHEN: I apologize. I thought-SHONTEL LEWIS: You don't have to.
FRED WORTHEN: --the options were-- they're basically really just options, but happy to answer
the question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much that, and I appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: That's partly why we're here, so that we can ask questions and get more
information on this basis. I believe my understanding is that that option is just for a quantity and
that the bus types can vary in that they could all be electric for that-- at that point in time.
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct, ma'am.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I was wondering-- I'm just concerned with ordering so many,
given the, what I feel is, uncertainty about the legislation that's coming down the pike. I mean, it
kind of just locks us in, and I was wondering if it's possible to do this in a smaller increment.
FRED WORTHEN: I would not recommend a smaller increment on the 46 that are in there right
now. Those, again, are aging vehicles that our operators are really-- our contractors are really
struggling keeping those buses on the road. They're older, they cost a lot more to maintain, and it
impacts our reliability to deliver service too, so it's not just a cost association with it. There's also
the problems that we have with service delivery if we don't have reliable buses.
I do believe, though, that the comments are appropriate, with regard to exercising options, and
that's within Board Authority. In future years, if we bring something forward, we will evaluate
them, make a recommendation, but it will be based upon the existing circumstances.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Can you tell me, in the past, when we've faced emission standards, all
previous purchases were grandfathered in and would only move forward on new purchases?

FRED WORTHEN: You're asking if we are exempt from emission standard requirements?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm saying if we bought buses today and new standards went into place, the
buses we bought today would be grandfathered under the old, and we would not need to retrofit
them or modify them?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am, that is correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, and then could you give me, again, the figures you said at the
beginning of the cutaway discussion? The diesel versus the electric cost.
FRED WORTHEN: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: I did not have my pen ready.
FRED WORTHEN: And I can get you more detailed information if you want. The cost per mile
for the mall shuttle is about $0.66 a mile. The cost for diesel is about $0.43 a mile, and that is
basing, comparing the first six months of this year's operations versus the first six months of last
year's operation, when we looked at reductions, also, because I talked a little earlier about how the
ELMS had helped. The ELMS has actually helped. Prior to the ELMS, we're actually cost-- it was
costing $0.73 a mile to operate the battery electric buses, so we've made some reductions already
in the operating cost.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that an acronym you used?
FRED WORTHEN: Oh, I'm sorry.
NATALIE MENTEN: ELMS?
FRED WORTHEN: Oh, I'm sorry. I referred to that earlier. I should-- it's Electric Load
Management System. It's basically a computer system that we can program, where it says, here's
the maximum amount of electricity we'll allow to be used at once, and here's the priorities for how
you charge based upon that utilization. My apologies. I've been doing this a little too long.
NATALIE MENTEN: So have I, don't worry about it at all. But it's good for our minutes because
we'll have people even less familiar with the industry putting it into a transcription.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for your question, ma'am. It's good. All right, thank you for the
answers. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, both. Seeing no one else in queue, no other questions, shall we
have to vote on this?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Williams, I have a question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, absolutely, Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, thank you. It just came to my mind, and I'm wondering about the
electricity. Just some time ago, we were working with Xcel to reduce our electric costs for the mall
shuttles, and I was wondering where that's at, because I think there was some kind of
miscommunication maybe or something about what race we were going to get from Xcel. Can you
talk about that, Fred?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that the General Manager would like to address that topic.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK, awesome.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, that process is working through the Public Utilities Commission right
now, and I think later this month is when they have the hearing on their new proposed rate
structures.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, OK, all right. So that's what Director Guissinger was talking about.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, so for me, I'm just-- I'm going to say no. Thank you very much.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. We'll register your vote as a no. Directors, if the
rest of you would vote, I think the mover in the second have voted.
OK, looks like we have-- we have a no from Director Folska, and we have no vote from Director
Mihalik, and the rest of us voted yes, so I think that this passes committee, and we can move on to
updates. OK, so gentlemen. Nobody wants to sit down up here? I'm going to make a statement
before we go before we start.
MICHAEL FORD: We're going to-- OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hang on one second. We have a number of updates. I'm going to ask as we
go through them quickly. We are not going to have a presentation on each of these updates. I'm
going to ask that you guys do not put the statistics up. We've had this information for several days.
Anybody who has a question, I'm happy to address those questions, but I don't think that we need
to go through this at length. So I will read them off.
Mr. Ford, would you like to run us through what we got here, and then we'll look to see if we have
questions, as we go down the list.
MICHAEL FORD: As you mentioned, Michael Ford, COO. We have a number of updates. We're
happy to take questions. As you can see, there's a Second Quarter of 2013 Performance Report,
Contracted Fix Route Quarterly Report, Access-a-Ride Cab Second Report, Special Services
Customer Comment Analysis, Drug and Alcohol Compliance Monitoring, Service Availability, as
well as the Rail Operations Update, Security Statistics and Fare Inspection Summary, and Service
Performance. We definitely will want to talk about that. But the other ones I just mentioned, we're

happy to take questions, but there are a number of reports in your pocket. And if there are specific
questions, we'll be happy to answer at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you very much. I see Director Lubow wants some information.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. This is just a comment about the Second Quarter Performance,
and I was concerned to see, right at the very top, there were two dings based on ADA lack of
compliance, and I'm just personally concerned because these are very vulnerable constituents.
MICHAEL FORD: We are concerned as well. We're working with our contractors to try to address
the service reliability and availability. We obviously have some resource challenges. We've been
meeting with our contractor to try to help work through concerns and figure out pathways forward.
We've been meeting with all three of our contractors regularly, and we've kept our meetings up to
our expectations and try to work with them to see what we can do to address that.
We're also looking at software right now that might be of advantage to help us with service, but
we, quite frankly, have a resource issue. We are making some headway in the third quarter, but in
the second quarter, we've had some challenges.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. I just wanted to note my concerns. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: And we thank you for that, Director Lubow. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Mr. Ford, so I think this is just a glitch in the way we calculated
report something, but are we going to be looking at the performance measures themselves and our
standards soon? I think the General Manager, at one point, mentioned this summer, but-MICHAEL FORD: Yes, we are going to have a presentation at the end. There are a number of
reports, but the performance report will be done in detail.
SHELLEY COOK: No, what I mean is looking at the standards themselves. What I'm talking about
specifically is we report the number of light rail accidents, and we have a standard that is of two
or less per 100,000 train miles. But based on-- well, I was surprised, first of all, when the one in
Aurora recently hadn't shown up on the report. And come to find out that, given the number of
miles, the vast number of miles, it-- with rounding error, we don't even see it until we get, you
know, 100 accidents or something like that.
I wonder if that standard needs to be modified because if I calculate it properly, based on the 13
million train miles that we report or that was reported in the news one time, that it would take 260
preventable accidents to actually hit that 2 per 100,000 miles. I don't know if that's true or not. But
if it is-- and even if it's not-- I want to make sure that we're reporting this with a sufficient number
of decimal points, so that we at least are seeing when we have an increase in preventable accidents.
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. Can I take a stab at that one?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah.

DAVE JENSEN: I think the short answer is, yes, we're looking at the way that we're reporting.
That specific one that you're speaking of, though, has federal requirements the way that we report
it, which is why you're getting it that way. I believe there's footnotes, which explain what you're
asking about, that there were accidents, but if we did the math, it would be nominal.
What we've done, I hope, for you-- and maybe we need to evaluate the way we're reporting that
specific thing-- is the other reports for rail service availability, we're reporting to you monthly our
preventable accidents, and then that would not be per 100,000 miles. So you're getting the
information. Maybe we need to evaluate the way that we're giving it to you.
SHELLEY COOK: And would it, in, fact translate to 260 preventable accidents? So one thing I
wondered, TriMet reports and shows its standard as two accidents. It doesn't qualify them as
preventable, so I just wanted to make sure we're looking at this properly, since it is the Board's
standards for what we hold you to. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. One of the reasons we track the preventables separate is that
they're-- simply that they're preventable. There are issues, and we don't lump them as all together,
because we don't have control of all the other ones. We do our own. And so that's why we track
them in a preventable form.
We'll be bringing-- so we bring that quarterly performance measures to the Board. We'll probably
be bringing those along with the-- I'm sorry-- the budget, the 20-- next year's budget, because the
performance measures really impact the budget. So we'll probably be bringing those at about the
same time as the performance measures for next year.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you for that. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I just wanted to look at page 45 of our
packet for a moment, and not so much ask a question, but as to highlight something that I think is
the beginning of an issue that really will demand our attention going forward. You will note that
for year to date, the lost service hours are 2,568.
But if you read down further, two paragraphs below that, you'll note that it was necessary to cover
2,721 shifts with operators working on a mandated sixth day. If you were to take 2,721 shift hours
and add that to the lost service hours, that number would be much more significant than reported.
And it's simply an observation that we continue to have an issue with an operator shortage that we
must address in some way dramatically soon to avoid even worse results. And that was just the
observation I wanted to share at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that observation, Chair Tisdale. Gentlemen, do you want to-have anything you want to say on that in particular?

FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Chair. I appreciate the comments. I'd also like to point out that
we have been mandating for a very long time. This is not a new phenomenon. We started
mandating back in 2015, but I appreciate the acknowledgment. Thank you, sir.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Mr. Worthen. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Williams. On page 15 of our packet under ADA,
I also was looking at the courtesy count there in that, the complaints. And so I'm wondering, what
kind of training do we give to our operators in terms of sensitivity training, how to work with
customers who are dealing with difficult days or whatever?
DAVE JENSEN: So this is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. I can speak toward Rail
training. We're mandated as a result of an ADA complaint to provide a certain level of training as
it relates specifically to that. And so we do that on our initial training that meets the compliance
for what they've asked us to do, and then with our recertifications that every trained operator is
required to go through annually.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Can somebody from ADA-MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I'm going to have Larry Buter.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
LARRY BUTER: Hi, this is Larry. This is Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services. All of
our operators go through extensive training, including 80 hours, most of which are in a classroom.
They experience sensitivity training for quite a bit of time, about 20 hours. That also includes our
call center staff. They also go through sensitivity training.
Whenever we identify issues either on the road or on the phone, staff is encouraged and sometimes
mandated to go through sensitivity training and whatever other types of training in addition to what
they've already been trained on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Just as a follow-up, so if there is an incident that happens, you
could require additional training. Or are you doing like quarterly training?
LARRY BUTER: Absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that discussion. Thank you, Mr. Buter. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. I was looking on our packet page seven, Goal 6.3.
And maybe this is just a comment to be parked for the next committee discussion, but it says that
fare revenue and operating revenue were up 5.4% and 4% respectively.

However, the budgeted annual goals of 14.2% and 13.6% are targeted in the next discussion about
the mid-term financial plan. And I just wanted people to be aware that we are looking at less
revenue than had been budgeted. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that observation. I see any-- Director Folska, do you have any
input at this point?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you, Chair Williams. I do not.
KATE WILLIAMS: Seeing no one else in the queue. I think we've gone through all of this, service
performance being the last one. I think we're good. OK, do we have other matters that we want to- yes.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford-KATE WILLIAMS: Talk to the hand.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO. We do want to give you a report on the service
performance for 2018 that is something that we definitely want to bring to your attention and have
Jeff Becker, our Senior Manager, speak to that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Thank you, Mr. Becker.
JEFF BECKER: Thank you. Good evening, everybody. Next slide, please. So this presentation is
on that part of our mission. That is providing cost-effective service throughout the district. But one
size does not fit all, so we have a variety of services to meet a variety of market needs and each
having different expectations for performance. But, for example, a suburban route in Aurora would
be expected to perform just as well as a suburban route in, say, Thornton.
And thus, we would have comparable cost-effective services throughout the district. And we
connect all those services into a network, and we match the level of service to the market
requirements to have financial sustainability. Next slide, please.
Our primary economic performance measures are cost effectiveness, which is getting the most
ridership for the budget dollar, which we measure by subsidy per boarding, and productivity, which
is getting the most ridership for the amount of resources we put into it, which we measure by a
boardings per hour.
So this table shows the standards that we've calculated for the year, 2018. I've highlighted suburban
local in pink just as an example. And you can see that for the suburban local class of routes, which
are routes that do not have a terminus downtown and serve lower density areas. So for these 38
routes in this class of service, the average subsidy per boarding for all 38 routes is $6.76, and there
are, on average, 20.3 boardings per hour.
But according to our policy, we want to take a look at the worst 10% performing routes just as
kind of a cutoff to see, how can we improve our services? In this case, for suburban local, the

maximum at 10% would be $10.84, so routes that are-- that have higher subsidy for boarding than
that would be looked at. And likewise, if they have less than 11 and 1/2 boardings per hour.
Next slide, please. It's a little bit easier to look at that table and, in particular, the suburban routes
on a chart. And in this case, I've also got the Call-n-Ride services as well, because both suburban
routes and Call-n-Ride serve similar areas, the lower density portions of our district. The vertical
axis has subsidy per boarding, so better is up. It's a lower subsidy per boarding. And then on the
horizontal axis is boardings per hour, and so to the right is better performance.
So up and to the right is better performance overall. The shaded boxes represent all those routes in
that class of service that meet those minimum 10% standards. So for example, the bottom left
corner of that box represents the 10% maximum subsidy per boarding and the 10% minimum
boardings per hour.
I've labeled some of the routes. Some of them are up in the top right corner of the box. Those are
good, well-performing routes. We don't necessarily scrutinize them as much, but we do, of course,
look at them. Then there's the ones that are labeled, all the ones that are not in the box. And this is
a case of where you don't want to be outside the box, because then you're not meeting performance
standards.
And but, of course, there's a lot of gray area. I can point out, for example, you can see the route
169L over on the right, below the suburban local box. It's obviously needing the productivity
standard by a long shot, but it's still got subsidy per boarding, which is not meeting standard. So
there's we look at these routes in a continuum.
The full report that you have discusses every single route that is outside the box, tells you what
remedies are potential. This has the chart. It also has some other good things that you can tell fairly
easily. There is that orange dotted vertical line at 25 boardings per hour. According to our policy
standards, that's about the minimum where you would want to take a look at having 15-minute
frequency on a particular route.
There's another vertical line, not on this particular chart, at 40 boardings per hour, where 10-minute
service might be warranted. And also, in this particular chart, with having both FlexRide and
suburban local routes, you can kind of see some other interesting things.
For example, right about 10 boardings per hour, you can see there's about a kind of a transition,
where one particular type of service might be better for a particular community than the other.
And, indeed-- and it might even be for some of those routes you see that are in between there, we
have actually taken a suburban route and made it a FlexRide, and also vice versa.
So just looking at the services in this way, and you can see some different things on the other
charts, gives us a lot of information easily to say, well, how are we doing? How is it doing there
versus over here? This route versus that route in every which way, both relatively and in absolute.
Next slide, please. So this one just puts everything together, all of our classes of services and our
family services. Each marker represents the average of the performance for that particular class.

And you can see, as you would expect, like the Mall Shuttle and Rail service being higher
performing, and Call-n-Ride, Access-a-Ride, the on-demand services being more poorly
performing. But really, most of our bus routes up there are clustered together, and they have
relatively good performance.
Next slide, please. So every once in a while, I try to put together a little bit more analysis. And in
this case, it's useful to compare all of the different classes of service together to help judge whether
we have equitable service throughout the district. The boarding chart, the pie chart, depicts the
customer market share, essentially, by class of service.
Now since boardings also include transfers, there's a bit of overlap that's not captured by this pie
chart. However, you can see, for example, that the rail captures about 31% of our market. And if
you add up all of our revenue bus services, it would be about 58% of the market.
If you look at the other charts, subsidy for boarding, you can see that all of the bus and really the
rail classes of service are in that plus or minus five or six subsidy dollars per boarding. It's in that
range, whereas the on demand services are a much higher subsidy.
Next slide, please. So finally-- and I don't think I've ever shown this to the Board before-- but we
do have this. There's a lot to this. This map depicts, basically, RTD's policy and standards for what
coverage is warranted by the underlying population and employment density in our district. And
that is the main driver for transit ridership, period.
And you know, we recently had been enlightened, you know, on the significant trade-offs between
the level of service and coverage. And so this kind of shows that. This map essentially shows
RTD's method and process for how it matches the markets, its customer markets, the service
offering, and performance expectations throughout the district.
So that's essentially the presentation, and I would turn it over to see if there are questions. Well,
what do you think? Are we doing a good job?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Becker. We want to know if Director Catlin lives at the
bottom left hand corner of that orange line there.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's still in the green.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, OK. Never mind. OK, we'll have some discussion on this. Director
Rivera-Malpiede, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Jeff, thank you for this presentation. And you know
I've been waiting for this report to come out. And I was looking at last year's report, and I'm always
totally shocked that my bus routes don't perform, because, you know, it's like in the neighborhood,
and I'm always on it, and people are always standing.
So my question to you is when I read the mission of RTD that we provide reliable on-time service,
blah, blah, blah, how does that fit in with the performance standards and determining which bus

routes are not working-- or are not performing and getting eliminated? So you know, that's always
been the burning question for me and my constituents. So if you could answer that, I'd really
appreciate it.
JEFF BECKER: This is the starting point and an essential element of the mission statement,
performance. And this is economic performance, which is a bottom line, because we can only
provide as much service as we have a budget to provide. And we want to get the most riders we
can out of that dollar. But that's the first level.
So we are also looking, of course, say, what is the reliability, and how does that affect
performance? And I can tell you that reliability does affect performance. The basic thing is density,
but we know and we've made some efforts, for example, along with the city of Denver, like on
Broadway Lincoln Road.
We've given some lanes, and we can see that we've been able to improve the speed of the service
and its reliability, certainly in that section and the net effect overall, and people appreciate it, and
ridership is fairly good. It's strong, unlike the route 0 and the routes that use that.
So it all feeds into each other, and we go to-- we can look at route segments. We can look at
different periods of the day and different elements of their performance. This is just the top level
first step.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I may, just a follow-up question. Then how do you equate into
that gentrification and the community members who have been pushed out the furthest, where
there might not be as much service available?
JEFF BECKER: And so that is a substantial concern, and that's where the T2 is also going to be
looking at. And we're anxious to look at that. And we have observed ourselves in service
development the changing demographics and the changing geographic distribution of people. We
have observed, really over the last decade, we've noticed these changes.
People in, say, some of the lower income area-- groups moving towards Aurora, for example, and
ridership in Aurora has grown substantially not just for that, because we've put in these services
and things like that, but that's what we're anxious to do. We don't get a chance at our level to look
at these larger changes, because we're always doing a new run board, for example.
And so this is a chance to get it all together and take a more objective look. What are the changes
in overall demand, not just for transit service, but overall travel demands?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That was an interesting discussion. I think Director Menten would
be next.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm so happy to get this report. I really was. So one thing that
always catches my attention is the amount of subsidies around the Call-n-Rides. And I just find it,
for me, very disturbing how much we-- how high the subsidy level is on these, and for those in the
audience and for the record, who may not look at this, I mean I'll give three examples.

We've got-- I'll hit my own area first, Green Mountain, where the subsidy that's continued, I think,
to go up. But right now, if we're looking at somebody using that service to and from, that means
on top of the ticket price they paid, we are subsidizing that one person $54 a day.
And I'll go to somebody else's area-- Louisville. Same thing-- subsidy for a to and from ride, just
for the Call-n-Ride, $76 subsidy for a to and from one day. Belleview $56 subsidy to and from for
one day.
I think we have to do something with these Call-n-Rides. I've seen them. I mean when that West
line opened, we had a Belmar Call-n-Ride, and that one got to be terrible. And that one was up $45
per boarding. And I was happy to get rid of it. So it's not like I'm one of those, oh, we gotta get rid
of everybody else's. I did it in my area, and I'll be happy to do something with this Green Mountain.
But how can we keep our sustainability?
And we continue to add Call-n-Rides. We say, oh, OK, the city will pay a certain amount, I think.
And correct me if I'm wrong. But somebody will pay a grant. Somebody will do that. Somebody
will pay it, and we'll do it for a while. And then people, when we go to take it away or minimize
it, then there's a lot of crying and screaming.
But I think you would probably agree with me, and I may be wrong, but we can't-- we can't
continue to subsidize. We might as well just give these people at $5 or $8 Uber ticket, and we
would be so far ahead of the game. So do you have any comments? Or who wants to take that one
on?
JEFF BECKER: Well, in RTD here in Denver, we probably have the best of this type of service.
We have the most service of anywhere in the country, and probably have the most experience and
probably the best performing of those types of services. And yet that is something that people can
see as a way to provide service alternatively than just having bus service. We have van pools, for
example, as well, and accessorizing other types of services specifically to meet different markets.
Now that doesn't mean that we shouldn't be scrutinizing each one of these types of services or each
individual service, how to make it better. For example, we are looking to implement, as soon as
possible, where during-- for example, during the middle of the day on many of these FlexRide
services, it's-- we have very few riders during the day, which is why the boardings per hour is so
low. And instead of paying $40 or $50 an hour, we could use, in this case, probably a taxi service
and pay, say, $10 or $15 per trip for only a few trips and save quite a bit of money and still provide
the service.
So but that goes for any type of service that we have. We're constantly trying to improve on our
bus services and other services as well. But it's certainly up to the Board to decide. I mean this is
this coverage versus ridership, and if you want coverage-- if you do want something out in Parker
or in Meridian or up in Louisville, then bus service will be even more costly per person. So this is
a better option than that.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right, so I'm leaning towards the ridership, in case you were wondering.
All right. Thank you for getting the report together, and I'm glad it's back in the form that we had
some years ago.
And then there was the trial-error kind of thing going, so I'm very glad it's back to where all the
columns are populated. And would you also please send me this in the raw form of a spreadsheet
versus the PDF, please, so I can put it together with my other spreadsheets? Thank you. That's all.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Menten. Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: LIke the others, I love this report. Thank you, Jeff. It gives us lots of
information. I have some routes that I'm concerned about, but we also, in Boulder, have some
routes that are doing great. The DASH well, the HOP, SKIP, BOUND, Stampede, Flatiron Flyer,
all of those. Do you have a way of attributing that? I mean is that student passes, you think,
ECOpasses? What's-- what's putting people on the buses?
JEFF BECKER: Well, yes, certainly, Boulder is always classified as a university town. And the
people that go to universities generally don't have a lot of money or cars. And some of them, they're
not even permitted, so that's transit country. And so ridership is always higher under those
circumstances.
But the city of Boulder itself, as you know, is very much promoting and advancing transit usage
over car usage, walking over that, and that sort of thing. So that's been very beneficial. But other
cities are now coming around, over the last five years especially, and in Denver, for example,
putting in these exclusive lanes, bus lanes, for example. I think it's going to have a very significant
effect. It is showing that that's the case around the country.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I was looking at the map, and I noticed-- and I guess I can guess why-but the N line isn't shown. And I'm guessing that's because it's not operational yet.
JEFF BECKER: The what now?
JEFF WALKER: The N line. The North line.
JEFF BECKER: Oh, right. No, there's no N line yet.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and I'm guessing that's because it's not in service yet. But when I do talk
to friends, foes, people about the level of service in the south of I-70 versus north of I-70, what I
always come back to is density. So it's really helpful to have a map that shows the routes on a map.
It's helpful to have a map that shows the routes and the density to explain why.

And the same reason that somewhere in Vancouver, there's a corner that has four Starbucks on it,
one on every corner, because that's where the people are, and that's where they can get the best
service. Same thing with us-- the routes reflect where the highest densities are. It'll always be an
interesting discussion about what types of service we can provide or what types of service we
subsidize.
I noticed in one of the other reports that the Englewood Trolley has 30-some boardings on it, I
think 33 boardings an hour in the suburban service. That's really high for suburban services. That's
more urban service. So but look where it serves. Look when it serves, why it serves, who it serves,
et cetera.
And we could subsidize other ones, other services, like we do that one. I think when I came back
from Jacksonville, I mentioned that Jacksonville Transit Authority subsidizes the bike, the
pedicabs, where they used to have a fixed amount, because the fixed route didn't work. Pedicabs
work great.
So we can do stuff like that, and I'm always open for those suggestions and that conversation. But
anyway, thanks for the report. It's always fun to read this stuff, because the conversation never
ends on it. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Buzek, what would you like to add?
VINCE BUZEK: Chair, just a very basic comment, I think, and it goes back to our mission
statement, when we're talking about where we're going to supply services. So last six words of our
mission statement talk about what we're going to provide to the public, right? Cost-effective
service throughout the district, right?
Those two things can often be in conflict, and that's a challenge that we face constantly. But then
the question becomes, which takes precedence, and why? Are we going to provide cost-effective
service, and that wins the day? And then throughout the district goes away.
I think we have to be careful as we look at all these service issues to always remember what our
mission statement says, and those last three words, throughout the district, are pretty important, to
me at least. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair, I wanted to piggyback on something that Director Menten
talked about-- the idea of the subsidies for the Call-n-Ride being so high and the possibility-- I
think that you mentioned, Jeff, that perhaps in the middle of the day, there could be something else
tried that would be a lot cheaper.
And I personally would love to see a pilot project trying something out of the box, because these
subsidies are very high. And we never have enough money to do everything we need to do.
So personally, though, I would vote for that. OK, thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Just a quick comment about the density issue. So recalling FasTracks's
purpose, it was developed in tandem with the Metro Vision process and meant to direct growth to
areas that were identified as being or going to be urbanized. So it wasn't always the case that we
had the quarters going into only the densest places, but the places that, through the regional
process, we'd identified as the areas that we wanted to grow.
So just to drive home that point, because FasTracks was always as much about managing growth
in the region as it was about transportation. So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Cook. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I'm just trying to understand one thing,
if I may, Jeff, relative to the charts. And I'm looking at page 69 and following, because I've
discovered a ratio that appears to obtain throughout the entire series of charts. And that is if you
take the fare revenue and divide it by total boardings, the factor is 1.1344.
In other words, it would imply that every person who boards-- and this is true on every single page
here-- 69, 70, 71, 72-- relative to bus routes, train, and so forth, that it's-- and Access-a-Ride, that
every person pays $1.13, because that's take the total number boardings, multiply it by 1.13, and
then you say, there's the fare revenue in the case of the double zero, 2.686.
Is there some reason that-- because it strikes me that that isn't true, that every line doesn't produce
that same ratio. And yet throughout these four pages, every line is a factor of 1.1344. How did we
arrive at that?
JEFF BECKER: Well, without checking your math, the way we allocate fare revenue is by looking
at, what is the average fare to board a local route? And you have to remember here that these are
boardings. This is not like a single trip. In other words, in over half of trips, the actual trips that
our customers make, involve one or more transfers, for example.
And so when we talk about the different services we have, whether it be FlexRide or some of the
other ones, they are actually feeding into the other routes, right? And so they're connected together.
So if you were to take one class out, and you might-- you would affect the whole system in terms
of ridership.
And so we start off with surveying to understand the trip-making that people do, and then come
up with an average local fare. And then we know that we have two fare zones, and we can then
calculate, well, if a person does another two fare zones, you can calculate what that average fare
is. And then we can apply that to each route according to how many fares a day the ridership, the
riders actually go through.
So now I'm getting a little bit complicated to let you know how the fare revenues were actually
allocated to each individual route. Now all of the local routes will get the same average fare applied

to the number of riders that go to that route, but it'll be different for, say, the regional routes, where
there are multiple fare categories. And I could-KATE WILLIAMS: Can we let-- can we let Ms. McKillop speak to this somewhat, our Chief
Financial Officer.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So in your pocket, it describes the calculation he just went through. But
it's a series of calculations. I actually did just walk through this calculation in a narrative form for
the city of Longmont. So I'd be glad to send that out to you, but there is a different number for
local and a different number for regional.
And so-- but it is a formula that we go through to determine what a fare, equivalent fare is for
local. And then we base that as one, and then we go from that and calculate regional and airport.
So it's probably more detailed than you want to get in today, but I have a very short, sweet step-seven-step process that I can send to you as a Board. And then you can ask me any questions once
you see that.
DOUG TISDALE: I appreciate that, because I think that would help. And I-HEATHER MCKILLOP: It is quite complex, but we've narrowed it down to seven steps, so.
DOUG TISDALE: The reason I asked the question is because that ultimately yields the subsidy
per boarding number and I want to make sure that we are, at that point, comparing apples to apples.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We are. That's why we do this equivalent calculation so that we can do
that. But I'd be glad to send it to you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I think we would all like to have that simple seven-step solution,
too. I'm going to ask you to wait one second, Director Broom, so that we can check in with Director
Folska on the phone.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Williams. This is fascinating, Jeff, and it is very complex,
as Heather said. I think all transit agencies on the planet are pretty much subsidized. And I guess,
for us, the question is, how much can we afford to subsidize, really? And you know, with that, we
already give these vouchers to folks through Access-a-Ride to use the cabs instead of paratransit.
And I think it's been pretty successful.
So going back to Director Menten and Director Lubow's idea-- Lubow's idea of doing a pilot for
Call-n-Ride during the day, giving people like Uber vouchers or something, it might be really cool.
And actually, with the relationships that we have with Uber right now, they might be very open to
that. So I would really encourage you to consider that. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Broom.

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. A couple of things-- one, a lot of people don't appreciate
how big of a geographic area that we serve. In this map, if it was about four times as big, and if
you would provide some identifiers for where some of these routes run to, it would really be helpful
to us when we're talking to constituents about the district. So I don't know if something like that
can be done or not, but I would appreciate that.
The other question I had was, through our federal grants, are we mandated to provide certain types
of services so that we just have to eat these $50 fares? Is that we're talking about? And then we're
talking about-JEFF BECKER: For Access-a-Ride, yes. We have to meet the ADA requirements for
complimentary public transportation services for those people that can not use our bus service
within a certain distance from our routes.
BOB BROOM: But then we're compensated by the federal government through grants.
JEFF BECKER: I wouldn't say that, no.
BOB BROOM: Partially compensated.
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager?
DAVE GENOVA: Just to clarify quickly, so not for Access-a-Ride, so we are mandated to provide
the Access-a-Ride services. But there really aren't a lot of grant opportunities to get reimbursed
for any of those. Most of the grants are either under a discretionary program or formula grants that
we use for other kinds of things.
JEFF BECKER: And to your first question, I kind of call this a squint map. You know, you squint
at it, and it's kind of-- you know, you can kind of get a feel for, are the routes covering where it's
dense or not, and that sort of thing.
BOB BROOM: I know, but when you're talking to a group of people, and you put that up on the
board, it's not very useful.
JEFF BECKER: So the best thing is for you to-- if anybody's interested, if you're going to where
there's a section of this map, then I can make it, expand upon it, and add a few locator site types
of things, and make it easier for you to see it. But to take a map, like you said, of our huge area
and make it readable, that's about the only way you're going to be able to do it, unless you have a
big map-KATE WILLIAMS: It'd be the size of this room, right?
JEFF BECKER: Which we don't have anymore. We used to have that, but we don't.
BOB BROOM: Well, I'd like to see something in between that's manageable.

JEFF BECKER: Yeah. Just letting you know, and we can fix you up.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll take a look at it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to-- I have two questions myself. DRCOG does a lot of
data studies and GIS information. Do we get some of this data from them? Do we share the end
result back with them? I know that they're working on a number of-- we saw the RTC a number of
programs that have to do with transit in the region as a whole.
So I'm assuming that they would weigh in on this and vice versa.
JEFF BECKER: Yes. The geographic information system, or geographic data, has become
standardized in how you can display it and all. And there's a lot of sharing amongst transit agencies
and other agencies like a DRCOG so that we can put layers, different types layers of information
on each other's data. In fact, on our website, we have a GIS sharing page, which others do as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. OK. Oh, yeah. Director Lewis, why don't you speak to that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, Jeff. Thanks for this presentation. It's always wonderful. I really
appreciate it. I just had a question-- a clarifying question. For the HOP on packet page 71, it says
zero for fare revenue. Is that correct, or is that a mistake?
JEFF BECKER: On 71. It could be. What's on 71?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think it's a glitch.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It says-KATE WILLIAMS: For the HOP in Boulder, it says zero fare revenue. Is that-JEFF BECKER: Yeah. Well, the HOP is basically a university route, and it's basically paid for
through the students. And we don't collect fares on it. In fact, we do not operate the HOP route.
It's operated by-- through the city of Boulder, it's operated by Via, the human services provider up
there, which we also contract with. So that's why that's zero there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
JEFF BECKER: There are some quirks in it. There's a lot of data in this thing, and I can't guarantee
every single cell.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is wonderful. I just wanted to know if it was correct or if it was a mistake.
So thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good question. OK, seeing nobody else in the queue. I think we will thank
you very much, Mr. Becker. Everybody was happy to have this report, and we will look to get
some-- sorry, Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: --go back to the security statistics. [INAUDIBLE] Sorry. I wanted to go back to
the security statistics, because I didn't realize that was part of the last group of questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely. Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: Can we do that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, we can.
JUDY LUBOW: On page 52 of our packet, basically-- oh, well, it's 51. Excuse me. It has the
plainclothesmen and the percent of evasion, and several months, it's either three or above 3%,
which, to me, is quite a bit. And I just remember Director Solano always saying, you know, I'm on
that stuff, and I never see anybody, and I really think there's a lot of evasion.
And I'm just wondering, you know, 3% or 3.6% is significant, if it's worth pursuing, trying to
collect-- somehow trying to collect those fares.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I think we see Mr. Meader and Mr. Grado up here during Security
Appreciation Week. If you'd like to address that, we'd be happy.
BOB GRADO: Yeah, I will. And this is Bob Grado, Chief for RTD Transit Police. I look at the
3%, these numbers as being the real number for fare evasion, just because-- I mean this is done on
the light rail system. And when the officers board in plainclothes, the people riding the train don't
realize that law enforcement has boarded.
So when you have a uniformed presence, a lot of times, they'll see them coming, and they'll leave.
And then on commuter rail, we have the benefit of having a much higher level of fare enforcement.
So as far as collecting the revenue, I think that's a discussion for the Board to have. But the point
I just wanted to make is that is, to me, a more accurate view of what's really happening as far as
the evasion rate.
JUDY LUBOW: Is there some way to figure out how much money that would amount to?
KATE WILLIAMS: General Manager Genova.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Chair. So in the past, we've done a number of cost benefit analyses
of this around similar statistics, and we can dust some of that information off and make it available
to the Board. But you know, the ways to go back to try to recoup that, to lower those evasion rates
would either be to add security officers to trains, which we could do, but there's a cost to that. And
so we can measure that against what the recovery would be.
Other way would be to change the whole way we do fare and do-- you know, we've looked at
adding turnstiles and gates and things like that. And that not only has a huge capital expense, but
then it has a huge labor expense, because then we have to staff every location where we have
turnstiles and gates.

So I can just say from when I was in Mike's seat, we've done this a number of times. So we can
pull that information out and just give the Board an idea of what that looks like in terms of what it
would cost and the cost benefit around this.
JUDY LUBOW: Great. And how much 3.6% or whatever amounts to in lost revenue.
DAVID GENOVA: Yep. Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, ma'am. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I wasn't going to offer this, but since it came up, so there's so much good data
in this packet that we all just really dived into it, I guess. And I calculated the revenue per boarding
for light rail only, subtracted out the A and B lines, and came up with 1.49. Now whether that's
system-wide, I don't know.
But to the extent that's a reasonable number, $1.49 per boarding, and then took the difference in
evasion between commuter rail and light rail and assumed that would be the added amount of fare
we could collect if we checked everyone, just if we achieve the same checked level and resulting
rate of evasion.
Then the amount came out to a little over a million on an annual basis. So that begs the question
about whether it makes sense to try to pursue something that either has a payback that's reasonable
or if we're trying to combine, you know, purposes, if we wanted to increase the security presence
on a train, while, at the same time, paying for it, you know, essentially seeing it pay for itself. Then
maybe that's something to consider. I don't know if those are good numbers or not, but it was
interesting.
KATE WILLIAMS: If anybody wants to answer that, I think that might be a separate discussion
at another time, which we can come back to, if you're OK with that. OK, good. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Just to offer a point of validation, Madam Chair, to the evasion statistics, when
I spoke to a number of electeds who lead transit agencies in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada two weeks
ago, their evasion rate was 2.6%, and that seems to be something I've heard from other regions and
districts around the country that have a similar system to ours. So I guess the 2.6% you will always
have with you, like whatever else.
KATE WILLIAMS: Is that a Canadian number compared to an American number? They might
balance out, and for a number of us who were just in Vancouver, those numbers reflect, even
though they do have entry and exit turnstiles. So that did not make that much of a difference. You
have to-- we all had to tap in and tap out, and their evasion numbers are roughly approximate, so
I'd say that we are doing fairly well, since we just let people get off and go. OK, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair, I know you came to one of our meetings in the past, and
you talked about a work group. Maybe it was called a safety work group. And I'm curious-- and

you may not be prepared to answer this question, so do forgive me-- if there are any learnings or
discussions that you all have had that you might be able to bring to this conversation around fare
evasion or safety from that work group.
MIKE MEADER: There is. So this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety Officer. We do have a work
group that we have. We call it the Safety and Security Continuous Improvement Team. It's made
up of operators, street supervisors, security, safety, and we've talked about quite a few things.
I'm not prepared here to present that to you, but I can certainly do that. In fact, we've been putting
together some-- the most important things from a security perspective for the operators and the
street supervisors, some of the things they face out there.
And it's been a fantastic group. We meet once a month on Saturday mornings over at District
Shops, and I absolutely will provide a summary for you about some of those kinds of things.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: They're the typical things you would expect from a security perspective. And
the fare-- the fare structure and some of those are definitely at the top of the list. So we can certainly
talk about that and fare evasion as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. It just might be helpful for the Board to know the information.
MIKE MEADER: Absolutely. I'm happy to share that with you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know what the protocol is. Perhaps we could have a Study Session
sometime in the near future that addressed those topics that seem to have all come up just here and
now. OK, I see nobody else waiting to speak. Director Folska? No? OK.
She's either left us or has nothing to say. I believe that we would then be moving to other matters.
And I believe that we might have another matter on the topic. General Manager Genova, did you
have something you wanted to bring to us?
DAVID GENOVA: Just two very brief things I want to make the Board aware of. So in one week,
next week, we're going to be bringing in a pretty detailed update on the N line as far as where we
are in the project in terms of construction and testing and where we are with the contracts and the
contractors. So next week, we'll do that briefing.
And then in two weeks-- I'm sorry, three weeks-- it was item number two for me. In three weeks,
at the next FasTracks Committee, we're going to be bringing a bit of an update on some of the
things we've been looking at since we did the report for the Board a number of months ago. So
that'll be in-- that'll be at the next FasTracks Committee in three weeks.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that information. Seeing nothing else on the agenda, nobody
waiting to speak. I believe that we will begin to adjourn this meeting. The next meeting is on
October 22nd, and we will have a brief personal respite in between meetings.

