1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 16, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Pro Tem Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Director Hoy led the meeting with the pledge of allegiance. Following the pledge, Chair
Pro Tem Bagley requested a moment of silence in honor of the victims of the Boston
Marathon bombing.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue called roll. There were 11 Board members present at the time of roll call.
Chair Anderson was late arriving from a meeting at the State Legislature, Director James
was out of town on travel, Director Deadwyler was sick and Director Menten who was
also at the State Legislature, arrived after roll call.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:46 PM
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present
Absent

5:29 PM
5:30 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:28 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Absent

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:22 PM
5:29 PM
5:28 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:33 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

IV.

Director, District D

Present

5:28 PM

Retiree Awards - Donald C. Wanser – Quality Control Inspector – 30 years
There were no retires in attendance. However, Chair Pro Tem Bagley recognized Donald
Wanser, maintenance quality control inspector, who was retiring after 30 years with RTD.

V.

Public Participation
No one requested to speak during public participation so Chair Pro Tem Bagley closed
public participation.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee - Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee - Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee - Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee - Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee - Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee - Chaired by Director James
CDOT - Director Walker
E-470 - Director Tobiassen
ACED - Directors Solano and Hoy
Northwest Parkway - Director Sisk
Pension Committee - Directors Lubow and Tobiassen
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Chair Pro Tem Bagley shared that the GM Survey Monkey went out on April 5 to all the
Board members and he is extremely encouraged by the number who have responded. The
cutoff time is April 19th for all to complete. He reminded the Board that as a result of a
state audit, the Board has strengthened its oversight and it is the responsibility of all Board
members to review the agency performance for 1Q, 2013. This provides an opportunity
for the Board to gage how effectively we are being and to redirect efforts if necessary.

VIII.

Approval of Regular Board Meeting Minutes of March 26, 2013
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve the regular
board meeting minutes from March 26, 2013.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors Deadwyler,
and James were absent and Chair Anderson had not yet arrived.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Pro Tem Bagley declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Approval of Special Board Meeting Minutes of April 2, 2013
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the special board meeting
minutes from April 2, 2013.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors Deadwyler
and James were absent and Chair Anderson had not arrived.
RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Pro Tem Bagley declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

X.

Chair's Report
Chair Anderson provided this report following her arrival at 5:45 p.m.



Chair Anderson reported she was at the State Legislature to testify on HB 1272 on
Sales Tax Parity. She apologized for being late to this meeting.
Chair Anderson complimented the staff for the outstanding employee celebration
day on the West Line. This was one of the best days of her life and marked the
first corridor rollout from the FasTracks program. Brenda Tierney, FasTracks Public
Information had done a fantastic job.





XI.

Last month, Director Hoy hosted an extremely successful North Metro tour. One of
the highlights from this tour was the relationship building and people (i.e. elected
officials in the North and Board members), getting a chance to dialog and know
each other.
Chair Anderson and Director Sisk attended the Metro Mayors TaskForce meeting.
They are in support of RTD plans for FasTracks.

General Manager's Report


General Manager Washington stated the West Corridor Employee Event day was a
success with over 4200 employees who had RSVP’d. He thanked all the
volunteers including Director Rivera-Malpiede and stated he had received numerous
emails from employees who were proud of this organization and its
accomplishments.
 General Manager Washington announced that RTD is in queue for Federal funds in
the next phase of MAP-21 New Starts process for the Southeast Corridor
Extension. He stated we have been accepted into the project development phase
and that RTD is the only new start in the country for the new MAP 21. This new
MAP-21 looks at some different factors such as current ridership versus
projections.
 General Manager Washington announced that RTD did not get the full $150M from
the FFGA as hoped for 2013. RTD was part of the across-the- board cut (haircut)
of 5.489%.Nevertheless we will figure out how to stay the course and he believes
we will ultimately get the full amount.
 General Manager Washington indicated there have been some questions or
confusion about the operations and maintenance portion of FasTracks. O&M is a
part of the .4% of FasTracks and we will retain what is needed of the .4% for
operations and maintenance. He stated that RTD has taken an aggressive stance
on state of good repair with emphasis on asset management. This is a priority for
us and continuing to be proactive in this area will help us in the operations and
maintenance area.
 North Metro—we are moving in the direction with the assumption of no federal
funds; however, we will remain open so if an opportunity exists to apply for federal
funds.
Questions from Board Members:
 Director Lubow asked if this was the second cut RTD has experience for the FFGA.
General Manager Washington indicated that it is; the first cut was $10M which is
more than this second cut. We have done well with FFGA and he believes it hinges
on when we get the funds, not if.
 Director Sisk asked for an update on the NAMS study and if we were on target
with the timelines. General Manager Washington replied we are still on schedule
with a target submittal date of May 14.






XII.

Director Solano asked assurance that we are still moving forward with North Metro,
with or without federal funds. General Manager Washington assured him we will
be moving forward.
Director Folska complimented General Manager Washington and staff for a
phenomenal employee event for the West Corridor.
Director Bagley commented on the Directors who attended this event, Folska,
Anderson, Tobiassen, Hoy, and Rivera-Malpiede and stated it was a great event.
He also declared how pleased he was to hear about Southeast Corridor extension
being accepted into the first phase of MAP-21. This is absolutely critical.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Access-a-Ride Travel Training Project

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into a contract with Via Mobility Services
for the provision of Travel Training services. Performance under the contract is for a three
(3) year period and the total contract amount shall not exceed $396,288.00.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve item A, Access-a-Ride
travel Training Project.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy,
Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and
Walker) and 1 against (Menten). Directors Deadwyler and James
were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Recommended Action
B.
US 36 Bus Rapid Transit – Use of Contingency Funds from Phase I and II
Commitments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors modify the formal actions taken on August 23, 2011 and July 24, 2012
concerning RTD funding provided to the Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT)
and the Colorado High Performance Toll Enterprise (HPTE) for Phase I and Phase II of the
US 36 Managed Lanes Project. Specifically, it is recommended that the RTD Board of
Directors allow the following actions:



Any RTD funding left over after completion of Phase I may be used for the Phase II
project; and
Any RTD funding left over after the completion of both Phase I and Phase II will be
used for acquisition of Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) vehicles for the corridor.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve item B, US 36 Bus Rapid
Transit-Use of Contingency Funds from Phase I and II Commitments.
Director Tobiassen seconded this motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Bagley stated he is in full support of this action. Any
remaining funds will be divided equally between RTD and its partners,
CDOT and DRCOG.
Director Hoy stated he is also in support but stated we are dealing
with forecasted funds; until the work is complete, we do not know
what, if any funds may be available.
Director Solano asked about what happens if there is lack of funds.
General Manager Washington responded that our contractors will be
paid. This kicks in only if there is an underrun.

The motion passed 13 in favor and 0 against. Directors Deadwyler
and James were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
C.

Donation of Vintage Rolling Stock

It is Recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate seven vintage
trolleys and buses for restoration purposes to the Pikes Peak Historical Street Railway
Foundation, (dba) Colorado Springs & Interurban Railway.
Primary motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the donation of the
vintage rolling stock to Pikes Peak Historical Street Railway
Foundation in Colorado Springs.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Substitute Motion:

Director Lasater asked for a 6 month postponement of this decision
while he lead the effort to rally support and funds for the
preservations of these vintage rolling stock.
Director Solano seconded this motion.

Discussion:

Director Lasater stated his position that this is part of RTD history
and that we need to retain our history. He brings a passion to this
issue that perhaps others do not share. He wanted time to put
together a group to look at preservation options and to try to do this
without cost to RTD. He referred to a letter by Robert Brewster that
spoke also to this being Denver legacy and not Colorado Springs.
Director Lubow thanked Director Lasater for putting this option on the
table. She strongly supports this and stated that Brewster felt we
could turn this into an asset for RTD.
Director Daly shared that this is not a new discussion. He also
shares the passion for history but the last time this came up, staff
had been instructed to issue a RFP for possible interests. Staff sent
out letters of inquiries to every historical group. The only one
expressing any interest was Pikes Peak. AGM Genova stated he had
put a list of the people who the letter had gone to in the Board report.

Director Daly stated now is not the time for RTD to spend on
historical preservation. What is being offered is a compromise.
Director Menten inquired about acquisition costs. AGM Genova
stated he has no other information other than what he provided.
Director Menten asked if we could be creative in our approach.
Perhaps trade schools such as Emily Griffith could have their students
work on the preservation, donate materials, etc. General Manager
Washington responded that he is not sure who all was on the list of
18 names but he questions if trade schools such as Emily Griffith
would have capability.
Director Solano commented there is a lot of cultural history here and
the trolley is an instrumental part of Denver history that should be
retained.
Director Walker stated he is in favor of preserving the past as long as
it does not risk our future. Given all the issues with time, storage,
determining who might want them, etc., it is time to move on and
make a decision.
Director Lubow clarified her understanding that we had two
approaches. The first with the RFP was to give them away and have
someone take them off our hands. What Lasater was proposing was
preservation and a different approach.
Director Folska stated that she appreciated history but was more
concerned that the opportunity to do something with these vehicles
might go away.
Director Hoy stated his experience in restoration of vehicles and
stated the costs could easily go into millions of dollars. He could not
foresee spending any funds in this direction when we need buses and
services on the road. He would not support.
Director Bagley stated he supported Director Folska’s position that
this is an opportunity on the table that could be lost if we postpone.
He could not support postponement.
Director Lasater re-stated that he is not asking RTD to spend any
money. He is simply asking for time to look at the feasibility for
putting a group together for preservation. He also has extensive
experience in restoring and preservation and he understands fully
what is involved. Over the years, he has managed to restore lots of
things that others would have thrown out. He can also be a
fundraiser and knows how to make his way around the block when it
comes to putting this kind of thing together.
Chair Anderson called the question and asked for a vote on the
substitute motion.

Vote on
Substitute motion:

There were 4 members in favor of the substitute motion (Lasater,
Lubow, Menten and Solano) and 9 opposed (Anderson, Bagley, Daly,
Folska, Hoy, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen and Walker).

RESULT:
FAILED [4 TO 9]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Paul Solano, Director, District K
AYES: Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
NAYS: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Anderson declared the motion FAILED.
Vote on
Primary Motion:

The motion passed with 9 in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska,
Hoy, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen and Walker) and 4 against
(Lasater, Menten, Lubow, and Solano). Directors Deadwyler and
James were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [9 TO 4]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Anderson declared the primary motion PASSED.
D.

Adoption of 2014 Performance Measures

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors adopt the attached 2014 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7. There are
22 performance measures in total.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve the adoption of
2014 Performance Measures.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor and 0 opposed. Directors
Deadwyler and James were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Bill James
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

XIV. Old Business


XV.

Director Hoy indicated that four Directors, Hoy, Bagley, Lasater and Daly attended
the DUS tour this afternoon. They are about 80% complete. When you look at the
progress in that area, we are building a city that is changing the face of Denver.
We are about 6 years ahead of where we thought we might be and the progress is
significant.

New Business








Director Lasater passed out a map of District G and directed the Board members to
a section in his District where there is a small protrusion off Main St. He indicated
this is a residential area where these homes are not in the District. He wanted to
know if the Board members would have any aversions to annexing this area into
the district. Chair Anderson directed staff to look at this and provide direction to
the Board on the appropriate action. General Manager Washington indicated they
will put a package together and get back to the Board as to action required.
Director Menten expressed interest in this discussion on annexation and wanted to
make sure that we knew and followed the requirements of annexation to the law.
We need to be very clear on process and notice that needs to be given to the
residents.
Director Sisk indicated that he had met the residents in the mountainous
community of Nederland north of Boulder. He stated this is a community that is
heavily dependent on transit and that RTD is the lifeblood of that community.
Director Folska expressed that we review our policy on wheelchairs and strollers on
buses and light rail. She wants to see if this policy might need to be revised.

XVI. Executive Session

XVII. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:45 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

