Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Monday, March 5,
2012
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue

Date:

March 6, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Monday,
March 5, 2012.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Deadwyler,
Malpiede, Williams and Walker

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Lacy Bell, Michelle Brier, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Lee
Cryer, James Czupor, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Shannon Duty,
Sherry Ellebracht, John Ewy, David Genova, Tina Jaquez, Austin
Jenkins, Jeff Kay, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Carla Perez, Paula Perdue, Trent
Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Marta
Sipeki, Julie Skeen, Karen Stanley, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan
Wood, Brian Welch, and Mikki Wilder

Others Present:

Mac Callison - City of Aurora, Mayor Bob Muckle - Louisville, Matt
Jones, State Representative - Boulder, Mayor Pro-Tem Gabe Santos –
Longmont, Debra Williams, Trustee – Superior, Matt Alexander, John
Aguilar, Debra Baskett, Garrett Baum, Andrew Berkeland, Andy Buck,
Don Bufford, Steve Cook, Alixandra Feeley, Anthony Gargoc, Phil
Greenwald, Sherman Hamilton, Pete Hankuszky, Connie Johnson, Eric
Kahneit, Daryl Kinton, Jeff Leib, David Lewis, Lance Lewis, David
Longanecker, Brian McGuire, Mark Meredith, Dave Migoya, John
Ordelheide, Aric Otzelberger, Jim Paulmeno, Gene Putman, Helen
Richardson, Bill Roettker, Alex Rubin, Paul Ryan, Gary Shea, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Alvertis Simmons, Ira Schreiber, Jim Souby,
Lynda Spangler, Kevin Standbridge, Barb Stephens, Les Stephens, John
Valepdo, Walter Weant, Scot Weeks, Desiree Westlund, Bob Wilson,
Spike Wofford
****

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Monday, March 5,
2012
Page 2 of 5

Call to Order:
I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:25 p.m.

Recommended Action
 Grant of Permanent Easement for Roof Overhang over RTD light rail tracks at the
intersection of 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City and County of
Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all
documents necessary to convey a permanent easement allowing for the roof
overhang of the adjacent DaVita Building containing approximately 462 square feet
to encroach into property owned by RTD near the intersection over the light rail
tracks at 16th Street and the consolidated freight main line, City and County of
Denver, Colorado.
Susan Altes introduced this item. She indicated RTD considered this a minor
encroachment and would like to give permanent easement to this space.
Motion:

Director Cohen made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the March 27, 2012 Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the motion:

Director O/Boyle expressed some
concerns over the liability issues
and if the fees offered was too low.
He also stated some concerns over
possible damages from natural
hazard such as water, snow, or
wind. Director Deadwyler dittoed
these concerns. Director Hoy asked
questions related to if the City of
Denver would need to check
variances.
Director Williams
questioned why a permanent
easement versus an easement over
the life of the roof. Director Bagley
requested staff to look more closely
at the liability issue.
The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James,
Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Monday, March 5,
2012
Page 3 of 5

2 against (Deadwyler, O’Boyle).
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.


Amendment to Lease Agreement for Office Space at Civic Center Plaza – 1560
Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000 and 1075
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to amend and extend the lease agreement by and between
the Regional Transportation District and CCP/MS SSIII Denver Post Tower Property
Owner, LLC for office space in Suites 510, 605, 610 and 700 on the 5th, 6th and 7th
floors of the building commonly known as Civic Center Plaza. This is for the colocation of Planning and Capital Programs personnel and program management
consulting services related to the planning and implementation of the FasTracks
program as wells as Capital Programs, Planning and IT personnel and Suites 1000
and 1075 on the 10th floor for the housing of Paratransit Services and Competitive
Services, Transportation Contracts for a period of seven (7) years, expiring October
31, 2019. Base rent of $16.50 per sq. ft. will increase annually by $0.50
concluding with an annual base rent in the final year of November 1, 2018 through
October 31, 2019 of $19.50 per sq. ft.
Motion:
Director James made the motion to
forward this item to the full board at
the March 27, 2012 Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.
Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed
members in favor.

with

15

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.


Office Space Lease Agreement – Civic Center Plaza
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Lease Agreement for 7,780 square feet of
office space on the 10th floor, Suite 1099, of the Civic Center Plaza located at 1560
Broadway for a minimum period of five years. Base rent of $16.00 per sq. ft. will
increase annually by $0.50 concluding with an annual base rent in the final year
2017 of $18.00 per sq. ft.
Motion:
Director Malpiede made the motion
to forward this item to the full board

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Monday, March 5,
2012
Page 4 of 5

at the March 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director
motion.
Vote on
the motion:

James

seconded

The motion passed
members in favor.

with

the

15

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.


Contract Award for Union Station Alliance for DUS Building Improvements
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General
Manager enter into a contract with the Union Station Alliance (USA) for $5 million
for the purposes of designing and constructing renovations to the Denver Union
Station (DUS) historic building in advance of RTD and USA signing a lease. The
purpose of this early work agreement is to ensure that Amtrak is relocated back into
DUS to coincide with the opening of the new commuter rail terminal and
termination of the lease at Amtrak's temporary facility. The source of funds for the
$5 million is a Colorado Department of Transportation FASTER grant and RTD's
associated local match to the grant which was awarded to RTD in early 2011.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board authorize a transfer of $5 million from unrestricted net assets to fund this
contract. The unrestricted net assets would be replenished in the 2012 Amended
Budget by the proceeds of the FASTER grant.
Bill Sirois introduced this item and also provided an update on the status of DUS on
behalf of Bill Mosher. He stated the permanent floors are in, the walls are going up
and they anticipate the bus facility to be fully enclosed by the end of the summer.
Pertaining to this particular action item, staff believes that a separate contract with
USA in conjunction with the FASTER grant allows RTD to keep this clean and
authorizes staff to move forward with the contract.
Bill provided a revised Board report which corrects some of the previous financial
assumptions.
Motion:

Discussion:

Director McMullen made the motion
to forward this item to the full board
at the March 27, 2012 Board
meeting.
Director Malpiede seconded the
motion.
Director James indicated he would

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Monday, March 5,
2012
Page 5 of 5

abstain based on potentially
perceived conflict of interest.
Vote on
the motion:

The motion passed with 13
members in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and
Williams) and 1 against
(Deadwyler). Director James
abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED.

II. Other Matters
 Director Anderson stated it was inappropriate to allow clapping or cheering at public
meetings. This can impact negatively on the next speaker or act as a source of
discouragement. Board Chair and Committee Chairs should state upfront that this
is not appropriate for the meetings.
 Director O’Boyle reminded staff that a copy of the stakeholders list was supposed
to have been sent to the Board members for their review. General Manager
Washington indicated he was of the perception that this had been done and
apologized. He would send the list.
 Chair Kemp announced a number of the Board members would be attend the APTA
legislative conference in Washington, D.C. and he hoped they could get together on
Sunday night for dinner.
III. Next Meeting Date—April 3, 2012
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:05 p.m.

