Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, February 07, 2008
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

February 7, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on
Thursday, February 07, 2008 at 7:07 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Chair Tayer, Noel Busck, Bruce Daly, Bill Christopher, Chris Martinez, Bill
McMullen, Barbara Yamrick
Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Wally
Pulliam, O’Neill Quinlan, Dave Ruchman

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Lloyd Mack, David Genova, Teresa Sedmak, Robert
Merriman, George Hovey, Bruce Abel, Caitlin Magee, Scott Reed

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Holman Carter (ATU 1001), Steve Fisher

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 7:07 p.m.

I. Recommended Actions
Resolution No. __, Series 0f 2008 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2008A
Teresa Sedmak, Manager of Debt and Investments, introduced this resolution. Interest
rates are dropping significantly. The District has a chance to refund a portion of the
District’s Sales Tax Revenue and Improvement Bonds, Series 1992, Sales Tax Revenue
bonds Series 2000A, Series 2002 B, and Series 2004A. She gave an explanation of the
refunding process. The refunding process would decrease the District’s interest expense
and realize present value savings of approximately $2.2 million or 3.37% of the refunded
bonds (based upon interest rates as of January 25, 2008; subject to change).
Ms. Sedmak reviewed the parameters of the resolution.
refunding if the value of the refund is less than 3%.

Staff will not execute the

Bill McMullen asked where the savings would go. Teresa Sedmak responded that these
are base system bonds and have to be kept separate from FasTracks due to voted
authorization. The savings would come in the form of decreased interest expense. This

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, February 07, 2008
Page 2 of 5
was an unsolicited proposal from Bear-Sterns, which Ms. Sedmak explained was
consistent with the RTD policy that is designed to encourage bond agencies to bring such
savings opportunities to the District.
Director Yamrick asked how much the bond company would make on this deal. Teresa
Sedmak said she would get the number for her.
Director Christopher expressed gratitude to the staff for this creative resolution.
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number
_____ (the “Bond Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2008A (the “Refunding Bonds”)

Motion: Director Christopher made a motion for
full approval before the Board
At the February 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Busck seconded the
motion.

Additional Discussion: Chair Tayer asked about the municipal bond insurers and the
instability in that market. Teresa Sedmak responded that the municipal bond insurance
market is very troubled right now. There are a couple of bond insurers that have been
downgraded from triple A status. The bonds that will be refunded will only be insured if it
proves cost effective to do so.
Teresa Sedmak informed the Board that several bonds that the District has issued have
bond insurance.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.



IT Contingency Work Order Contract (Ciber) Third One-Year Option – Phil
Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration, introduced these items
and asked George Hovey, Manager, Program Management Office to speak to
them. These are third year options of contracts. Mr. Hovey explained that the
District brings in a series of work order contracts to bring in unique expertise and
resources that are not found within staff. The District has received quality service
over the last two years from these contractors and asks the Board to renew both
contracts for an additional year.
The Information Technology Division of the Administration Department proposes that
the Finance/Administration Committee approve and recommend that the Board of

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, February 07, 2008
Page 3 of 5
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the third one-year option with Ciber incrementally
increasing the total contract limit to $1,575,000 to extend the contract for IT
Technical and Management Support Services (15DK008). This contract was
originally awarded in 2005 to Ciber through the competitive bid process totally
separate from the ERP effort. The contract allowed for an initial year plus four oneyear options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the
contract was not to exceed $525,000. This third-year option is to begin on April 1,
2008 and remain in effect for one-year until March 31, 2009.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
Full approval before the Board
At the February 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Yamrick seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.


IT Contingency Work Order Contract (LM Telecommunications) Third One-Year Option
The Information Technology Division of the Administration Department proposes that
the Finance/Administration Committee approve and recommend that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the third-year option with LM Telecommunications
incrementally increasing the limit to $750,000 to extend the contract for IT Technical
and Management Support Services (15Dk009). This contract was originally awarded
in 2005 to LM Telecommunications through the competitive bid process. The
contract allowed for an initial year plus four one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $250,000.
The third year option is to begin on March 1, 2008 and remain in effect for one year
until February 28, 2009.
Motion: Director Mcmullen made a motion for
Full approval before the Board
At the February 19, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Christopher seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, February 07, 2008
Page 4 of 5
II.

Fourth Quarter 2007 Investment Report– Teresa Sedmak gave this report. The
benchmark for the fourth quarter was not met. The fourth quarter experienced
significant credit market turmoil. The District’s investment underperformed due to a
significant amount of cash/liquidity position in order to have funds available as needed
to satisfy upcoming progress payments on 55 light rail vehicles.

III.

December 2007 Financial Status Report – Phil Washington introduced this item.
Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis went over the details of
the report. Sales tax figures were not available at the time the report was sent to the
Board. Sales tax figures became available on February 6, 2008. FasTracks and
overall sales tax were 1.6% under budget. It is difficult to compare December 2006
to December 2007 due to the blizzards at the end of 2006.
Year to date: Revenue boardings increased 17.2%; farebox revenue increased
17% over 2006. 12.9% higher than year to date plan. This is $8.8 million above
plan but it is offset by the sales tax shortfall of $7.4 million.
Mr. Merriman mentioned that increased ridership does not equate to increased
revenue. Farebox recovery ratio is around 20%, so the District subsidizes a
substantial amount.
Cost recovery ratio was 48.9%, 21.9% operating recovery ratio.
The District is within the 2007 amended budget for expenditures.
Director Martinez asked about projecting sales tax revenue for the Democratic
National Convention and if it is included in the budget. Phil Washington said it is not
included in the budget but the District is hoping for a spike in sales tax revenue.
Director Christopher spoke about continuing to educate the public about ridership
subsidies.
Director Yamrick asked about how revenue trends are moving. Robert Merriman said
he would generate a method for clarifying total monthly revenue trends.
Phil Washington spoke about the three wildcards in the District’s budget. 1. Fuel –
the District is not locked in on a fuel price at this point. 2. paratransit – costs
continue to rise. 3. Health and welfare.
Phil Washington said Finance would work on a monthly balance sheet for the
Directors to review.

IV.

Other Matters – John Tayer spoke about input from the retreat about the budget
process. Staff distributed a 2009 Budget Preparation Calendar (preliminary). April 15
would be an added Board Study session on 2009 Budget Assumptions, in June the
Assumptions would be presented. August 18 – 2009 Requested budget to Board/PreBoard Budget Workshop Study Session, September 23 would be a Board budget

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, February 07, 2008
Page 5 of 5
workshop before November 18, 2008 adoption of 2009 budget.
Chris Martinez expressed his gratitude to staff for putting the calendar together.
Phil Washington said that they want to call out the policy trigger for each Board
Report.
Director Tayer requested that this calendar be distributed in the board packet with an
explanation. Phil Washington replied that the calendar would go in the next packet
with a Board Report explaining the details.
V.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Financial Administration
Committee will be determined after a discussion in the February 14, 2008 Executive
Committee Meeting.

VI.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting 7:49 pm.

