2023-10-24
Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good evening. I'll now call the Tuesday, October 24 RTD Board meeting to order.
We are convened as of 5:30 PM. And I ask everyone, please, to remain muted unless you are recognized
to speak. Thanks, all of you, for joining us tonight. I see we have a lot of guests and a lot of people we
want to recognize, which we're looking forward to.
The Board has moved to in-person meetings for this gathering and our monthly Board meetings. Please
note that committee meetings of the Board of Directors will still be held remotely via Zoom, and will be
audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will
be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. Director Catlin, could you please lead us in the
Pledge of Allegiance?
PEGGY CATLIN: I pledge allegiance to the flag and the United States of America, and to the Republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Director Sloan, would you please read out our land
acknowledgment?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. Thank you, Chair Guissinger. The RTD Board of Directors acknowledges that
the land on which our buses and trains operate is a traditional territory of the Ute, Cheyenne, Arapaho,
and other contemporary tribal nations that are historically tied to the lands. We honor our Indigenous
elders who have traveled, inhabited, and stewarded these mountains, hills, and plains throughout
generations. May this acknowledgment demonstrate a commitment to working to dismantle the ongoing
legacies of inequity of the native and all historically oppressed peoples, and recognize their current and
future contributions in the district as we move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. I'll now call the roll. Director Bouquet-- Director Bouquet will
be absent tonight he had a conflict. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second Vice Chair Davidson.
JOEY DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell. He is also excused. I am Chair Guissinger. I am here. Director
Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Ruscha,
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Go Nuggets.
LYNN GUISSINGER: [LAUGHS] And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. With 13 present and two absent, we have a quorum. There are no retiree
awards for this evening. Fourth quarter retiree awards will be announced at the November Board of
Directors meetings. But we do have special recognition. One of our great traditions at RTD are our
regular competitions, our rodeos of various sorts, and our competitions that recognize our top operators,
mechanics, maintenance workers across our Rail, Snowplow, and Bus Divisions. We have a really cool
list of RTD employees and contracted services providers who are being recognized for their superior
performance in the 2023 various rodeos.
To recognize our outstanding performers in an orderly fashion, we'll go by divisions, starting, initially, with
Rail, then Snowplow, then Bus. Before concluding with Bus, I will read the names and finishing places-excuse me-- I will read the names and finishing places of the competitors in each division, and ask that
we hold applause until the names of all the honorees from a given division have been read. Once we've
recognized winners from all of the rodeos, I'll ask for comments from our GM CEO. Then we'll pause our
meeting for a few minutes to distribute certificates of recognition and allow time for photos with honorees
in attendance who would like a picture.
First up, we have the Rail Division winners. Please hold your applause until all Rail performers have been
named. And if you'd just raise your hand when we call you, we'll-- like to recognize you that way. First up,
the winners of the 2023 Light Rail Operator Rodeo are first place-- Robert Dennis, second place-- Jacob
Tonda, and third place-- Simon Gavaris. The winners of the 2023 Light Rail Mechanics Rodeo are, first

place, George Sweeney, second place, Mike Hubbard, and third place, Bruce Diaz. Great. Thanks.
Please join me in recognizing our 2023 Rail Rodeo winners.
[APPLAUSE]

Next we have the 2023 RTD Snowplow and National Snowplow Rodeo winners. Again, please hold your
applause until we've recognized all of you. In the RTD Snowplow Single Action Competition, our winners
are, first place, John Rather and Dave Johnson, second place-- Manuel Padilla and Zach Lamorie
SPEAKER 1: Martinez.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Ah. Martinez-- Manuel Martinez? Oh, I apologize. Third place, Richard, or Chip,
Seedroff, and John Richards. Our Snowplow Tandem Axle Competition winners are, first place-- now we
have it-- Manny Martinez and Cory Reese. Second place-- Martha Guzman and Alex Martinez Casillas.
Third place-- Daniel Guerrera and Alberto Martinez Casillas.
Several of the year's RTD Snowplow Rodeo Winners were able to attend the National Competition, and
we'd like to recognize their performance as ambassadors and champions of RTD. At the 2023 National
Snowplow Single Action Competition, our teams performed as follows-- 36th place, Manny Martinez and
Cory Reese. Third place-- John Prather and Dave Johnson. At the 2023 National Snowplow Tandem Axle
Competition, our pairings performed as follows-- 45th place, Manny Martinez and Cory Reese. First
place-- John Prather and Dave Johnson. Please join me in recognizing our 2023 outstanding Snowplow
operators.
[APPLAUSE]

Last but definitely not least, we have the 2023 RTD and Contracted Service Bus Rodeo winners. This is a
lengthy list of winners, and I'd like to remind everyone, please hold your applause until we recognized
everyone. On our Fixed Route Bus Rodeo, the following operators prevailed first place was Craig
Vasbinder. There you are. Second place, Jimmy Romero, third place-- Samantha Martins. There you are,
in the corner.
At our Fixed Route Bus Rodeo, the following rookie RTD operators competed in a new rookie division and
are due recognition for their performance in that group. First place-- Jorge Rosales, second place-Lamont Dennis Smith, third place-- Gilbert Trujillo. All right. At our Fixed Route Bus Rodeo, the following
contracted services operators prevailed-- first place, AB Ekchan, second place-- José Ekchan, third place- Ronnie Champagno. Sorry if I missed that.
At our Fixed Route Bus Rodeo, the following rookie contracted services operators competed and should
be recognized for their top performance among their peers. First place, Neb Berhe, second place-- Ruben
Mendoza, and third place-- Luis Martinez. At our Small Bus ADA Competition, the following RTD
operators came out on top-- first place, Negash Eritrea, second place-- Bel Gafr, and third place-Benjamin Joshua.

In our maintenance competition at the Bus Rodeo, the following RTD teams showed out-- first place, Ben
Carroll, Marcos Carrillo, and Dan Juric, second place-- Justin Rickmeyer, Yasha Demchenko, and
Yvonne Ortiz. There you are. Third place, Cesar Aldava, Blake Peterson, and Armando Mejia Alvarado.
In the maintenance competition at the Bus Rodeo, the following contracted services team shows showed
out-- first place, Lance Newcomb, Derrick Williams, and Juan Inohar, second place-- Troy Forehand,
Mahmoud [INAUDIBLE], and Hassan Arkawazi. And the final category of winners to be recognized is our
top performers from the Service and Cleaning Competition at the 2023 Bus Rodeo. First place, Mark
Bujalski, second place, Ryan Foltz, and third place, Benjamin Kellogg. Please join me in recognizing our
2023 Bus Rodeo winners.
[APPLAUSE]

And I know that our GM CEO, Debra Johnson, has been busy attending these rodeos, so I'd like to ask
her to say a few words.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. As introduced, Debra Johnson, General
Manager and CEO. It is my pleasure to acknowledge and welcome the winners of the three rodeo
competitions that took place this summer, specifically the Rail Rodeo, which was held on Saturday,
August 5, the Snowplow Rodeo that was held on Friday, August 27, and the Bus Rodeo that was held on
Saturday, September 16.
I was pleased to be able to attend and, in some instances, participate in all of these exciting competitions
and have extended my Thanks and graduations to these individuals personally and previously. But it is
my distinct pleasure and privilege to welcome the winners to our Board Meeting this evening.
Each year, the highest placing teams in the Single Axle and Tandem Axle Snowplow Competitions here
at RTD are invited to compete on the national stage in Loveland, Colorado, that just took place a few
weeks back, and you just acknowledged that, Madam Chair. The top placing bus rodeo competitors are
also invited to participate in the International Bus Rodeo. It's been on hiatus for the past couple of years.
But I'm pleased to state that there will be one taking place during the APTA mobility Conference in 2024.
As for the rail-- International Rail Rodeo, we have yet to agree upon the commencement date via APTA
but there is talk that-- perhaps in 2025, that we will have a resurgence of that.
These competitions give the participants an opportunity to hone practical skills that they will use during
the course of their duties, and serve as a way to foster camaraderie, teamwork, and employee ownership,
as we just saw by the roaring applause here. So please join me once again to recognize all the winners
as well as the participants who may have not placed who engage in these activities annually. It gave us
an opportunity to come together and do some great activities. There was a car show, basketball games, a
myriad of different things that took place. And so with that, Madam Chair, let's give everybody another
round of applause, and then I'll turn the proceedings back to you. So thank you,
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Ms. Johnson, you said you participated. They let you drive a bus or a snowplow?

DEBRA JOHNSON: They know I drive-- don't I drive the snowplow, y'all? You saw me, right?
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I was in a rail car. I did not drive a bus because I didn't want to prolong it. It was hot
that day. But I have driven a bus before. This ain't my first rodeo, right?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: You've been waiting all night for that line. All right. We are going to pause the
meeting, take a short recess, and invite all of you that want to come up. And who's our cameraman
tonight? Oh, Mr. Summers. Stuart Summers is going to take pictures, and I think-- I don't know if Dave or
Fred or Debra or any others are lined up to get in the pictures. That'd be great. What's that?
SPEAKER 3: In an orderly fashion-[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I usually am in those, too.
SPEAKER 3: --earlier. And we ask the Chair, here, to join us for these photos.

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

[BANGS GAVEL]
LYNN GUISSINGER: The meeting is now called back to order. Thank you again. Please join me-- one
final round of applause for our best and talented operators.
[APPLAUSE]

SPEAKER 4: Woo!
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. Next on our agenda is our public participation period. Yeah, we're going to
let people clear out a little bit.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

All right. Bye-bye. Thank you. Next on our agenda is our public participation period, which is open to
anyone who would like to address the Board. All right, Board. [LAUGHS] As we have both in-person and
remote attendees, in-person comments will go first, followed by those who are participating remotely. For
anyone attending in person, please come to the podium when your name is called.
If you have not already signed up to speak and would like to speak, please approach the podium when I
call for any additional speakers. For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already
done so, please raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone. The staff will unmute you when it is
your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your Mute settings.
Please prepare, and bear in mind that by participating in this process, you're being recorded. If you do not
wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has
documentation or reference materials for the Board or if any member of the public would like to submit
written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the Board Office-- again, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Speakers, please begin your remarks by stating your name, and you'll
have up to three minutes to provide comments. Are there any speakers signed up tonight?
SPEAKER 5: We didn't receive any registered speakers, although-- Mr. Dennis, did you want to say a few
words? And then we do have one hand raised online following Mr. Dennis's remarks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Mr Dennis, please state your name, and you have three minutes. Thanks for
joining us.
SPEAKER 6: I was concerned about a co-worker of mine, James Ferris. He's fighting a renal cell
carcinoma right now, and I just wanted prayers and support to be for him, and that he'll have a hasty
recovery and he'll be back to work with us soon.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That is very nice of you, Mr. Dennis, and I think we all join you in wishing Mr. Ferris
just the very best and keeping him in our thoughts and prayers. Thank you for bringing that to our
attention.
SPEAKER 6: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. We have a speaker online?
SPEAKER 5: We do. Connor Shea has raised his hand.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Mr. Shea? Go ahead.
CONNOR SHEA: Hi. My name is Connor Shea. I wanted to start off by saying that I appreciate RTD a
ton. Rail and bus lines aren't easy to run at all, and having options for public transit in Denver is really
appreciated by me and, I'm sure, many others. I live in district a near Alameda Station. And I rely on the E
line to get to many places, Union Station, to get to the airport, and to get to Arvada to visit friends, to
reach the W line to visit family, and plenty of other things. It's useful for getting to Nuggets games, like
tonight, and though I don't know why anyone would this year, to Broncos games.

I was looking forward to the returning of 15-minute Intervals for the E line starting this month, and the
construction is paused for the next couple of months. But at least based on comments from RTD on
Twitter and elsewhere, my understanding is that it won't change until the service updates happen in
January, and I just wanted to speak on that.
And essentially, I don't own a car. I don't work in an office downtown regularly, though I do need to
commute sometimes. But it's quite inconvenient to be reliant on rail lines that are running only every 30
minutes instead of every 15. It makes it very hard to recommend RTD services, at least the light rail lines,
to friends and family.
And just as a big supporter of rail and not needing to own a car, necessarily, it's a big disadvantage for
me and others. So I would appreciate if it was considered to return to 15 minutes sooner rather than later,
even now that the construction has paused until spring. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Mr. Shea. We appreciate you coming, and we appreciate
your support of RTD. And I think we all are hoping to get the operators and the employees that we need
to increase our service. So thanks for coming. Anyone else in the queue? No. With no other participants
in the queue, we'll close public participation at this time. This month, we have three external entity reports,
starting with our State Public Relations team-- Brandeberry McKenna. Jennifer Brandeberry, please start
when you're ready. It's nice to have you all here tonight.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Thanks for having us. It's been a very, very long time since we've been
before you all, so appreciate the opportunity to be here tonight. Even though it's been a long time, I can
tell you the work has continued, and we really appreciate the leadership both with Debra and her team,
and working with Director Guissinger. And a special thanks, from our end, to Michael Davies, who's just
been a fabulous partner in the work that we do at the state legislature.
Really quickly, I just wanted to let you know-- I think you know Megan Gilchrest. Megan's been with us
for-MEGAN GILCHREST: 2008.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Since 2008, and now I don't have to do math.
[LAUGHTER]

And also, we've hired two new people at Brandeberry McKenna. One who's specifically going to work with
us and has a background in municipal government is Mollie Steinemann, and she's here tonight. She's
been on the team, now, for about three weeks, but came most recently from CML, and prior to that, had
done some work for the Restaurant Association. So has a long history in the building and a stellar
reputation, and we are thrilled to have her.
I think, really quickly, we just wanted to give you a high-level update of what we've been doing in the last
year-plus. As always, we meet with legislative leadership and legislators. I think this year we've already
met with House and Senate leadership. We have a meeting scheduled with the Governor's Office this
Friday. We continue to meet with transportation chairs and members of the Transportation Committee.

And then really trying to, between now and January 1, get in front of all the members, legislators from the
very large RTD district. And special thanks to a lot of the Board members, who also meet regularly with
their legislators and communicate to us when they've had those meetings and what they're hearing. That
kind of communication just makes us better advocates for you all under the dome, so appreciate that
work.
We had a busy interim with presentations to the Transportation Legislative Review Committee, both in
August and then again in October. Again, thanks to the Board members who show up and come to those
meetings. It's always great. We get a lot of feedback from legislators. They like seeing you at the Capitol,
so appreciate all of you all that attended those meetings.
Also, I think what has really changed is-- the atmosphere at the State Capitol, five years ago, was pretty
hostile to the district. And I would mostly get requests from legislators telling me about bills they were
doing to get RTD or fix RTD. And what I can say now is I think, with this new team and the work we've
been doing collectively, we get a lot of positive feedback about how can we partner with the state.
A great example of that was Spare the Air, that the Administration put forward. We expanded it last year.
Michael and the team here worked really well with the Governor's Energy Office. And I think, going
forward this upcoming year, we expect that it will be built into the Governor's budget to make that program
permanent and statewide. So I think we really led on that with the legislature and got-- had a great press
conference earlier this summer and a good report to the TLRC.
The other thing that I think is a possibility for us, going into this next legislative session-- the General
Assembly is very impressed with the pilot project for Fare Free 19 and Under. The transportation
legislative review committee has a bill drafted that will be introduced, that will make that permanent and
part of the state, along with CASTA.
That will be hard, just given the realities of the budget. So we're going to have our work cut out for us to
make sure that the line item is in there that, as the budget gets finalized, we can do that. But again,
working with the team here, I think we'll have a lot of support from school districts, foster care
communities, and others. I mean, the legislators are pretty excited about partnering with us to move that
across the finish line.
Finally, I think the other thing that you all do really well, and we've been trying to do more of, is outreach
to various stakeholders. We have a great partnership with Jen and Catalyst at the local level. But our
team attends most of the Commuting Solution meetings. We've met regularly with CoPIRG and their
advocates, who are very interested in trying to find ways to increase funding for transit.
We met, recently, with the lobbyist for the AFL, who also represents ATU, to hear about what's on their
plate and agenda. Regular conversations with CASTA and their team. We did some tours with the
Colorado Competitive Council.
In years past, as you recall, legislators in those districts have often wanted to highlight some portion of
RTD or the service in their area for those. And we continue to participate in that, as well as some of the
Denver Chamber opportunities. So large lists of stakeholders that we continue to meet with to make sure
they know, if we don't know the answers-- the folks here at RTD can help them out and work together for
the region to make sure that we're delivering on the service.

Finally, I just really appreciate the partnership, and we look forward to a busy session. I think this
administration-- when Debra first came, I think it was a fairly hostile. [LAUGHS] Welcome to Colorado,
Debra. Where's my train?
[LAUGHTER]

To where we are now, which is-- I think General Manager Johnson is seen as a partner with the state,
moving forward, as is the Executive Committee here and Michael, in terms of how can we, together, do
what's right by the Front Range and the state moving forward. And we're just thrilled to be part of that and
look forward to continuing working with you. And happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much. How long have you been working for RTD?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: It's my first client when I moved to Colorado 20-plus years ago, so it's the
longest client that Brandeberry McKenna has had. And when we started with RTD, there was the 16th
Street Mall and the line down Santa Fe, and that was it. And so a lot has changed. And when we were
walking here, I told Molly-- I said, back in the day-- because we've always done tours-- we did a tour
looking at Denver Union Station when it was a giant dirt pile and pit. And there was a fox that lived there,
and we pointed out the Fox that was living there. We did tours of the hotel with legislators before it was
built, and we wore hard hats and got to go in there.
So it's been a huge part of my professional life that I have loved because I see how investment in transit
changes urban areas and really allows people to get to work. And I think we deserve a lot of credit. I know
we represent a very large region, but that region has leveraged a lot more federal dollars than smaller
cities or bigger cities because we work collectively, in a nonpartisan way, to advocate for transit and
transit investment. So it's a long time, and we've loved every bit of it and take it very seriously. And thank
you for the partnership.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And thank you. That history and the very professional way that BBMK works with
our legislators, I think, has served us all very well. I've seen them interact, and they're trusted and great
partners. Paul Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Jenifer, for all you do, and your entire
team. And hopefully this doesn't throw a monkey wrench into what you're doing. But as I talk to
legislators, I'm also urging them to potentially do a pilot program, like what DOTI does in Denver for our
Connector program. I wouldn't call that Last Mile. I'd call it a last few blocks sometimes, or last few blocks.
And so it's very successful in Montbello and in GES, as you know. And RTD of course, is also funding, as
I understand it, through our grant program, to the West side of the city. So I think it would be nice if the
legislature also funded something like that, too, for around the state and modeled on what we're doing,
connecting RTD with certain neighborhoods. And I think that would be very helpful, too, for a continuum
of service. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The Wall Street Journal had an interesting article, this past
week or so, about the gasoline tax. And of course, with the switch over to electric vehicles, that tax is

going to go away. And they even mentioned Michigan was going to lose something like $700 million a
couple of years out from now. Is there any effort going on to come up with a replacement in Colorado?
MEGAN GILCHREST: In the past, they've looked at pilots for vehicle-miles-traveled programs through
CDOT. It didn't go very far, but that's what they were exploring as a replacement for that. But I haven't
seen anything of recent years.
BOB BROOM: Well, that's been talked about for 20 some years.
MEGAN GILCHREST: Yeah,
BOB BROOM: [LAUGHS] Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Anyone else? I don't see any other hands. Thank you so much.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Our second report is from Catalyst Public Affairs, our local government public
affairs team. And Jennifer Webster, you're on.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Is this on? Good evening, and thanks for the opportunity to be here. I'm actually-I'm thrilled to be here in person. I've met each and every one of you individually, but I've never presented
before the whole group together. So this is an exciting opportunity. I really wanted to say, thank you, to
the Board. Jennifer Webster with Catalyst Public Affairs. We do local government and stakeholder
outreach for you and the team at RTD. And I wanted to provide a quick update to the Board about some
of the buckets of activities that Catalyst supports for RTD.
Starting first with local government outreach-- I think the last time I briefed the Board was virtually. And
we talked about how we used the survey last year to inform how we do our outreach with local electeds.
And that survey that we did really spoke to us in terms of the need to broaden our reach a little bit more
than the way we've been engaging in the past-- in other words, not just with mayors of each of our local
municipalities. There was a little bit of a hole in terms of city council members.
So we've used that data, or those data, to help inform how we do super intentional outreach over the last
year, and have reached out to each local government in the RTD district, to the City Managers and the
County Managers and offered RTD up as a resource, offered briefings, offered to come to executive
sessions or listening sessions with local governments-- much, probably, to the annoyance of GM CEO
Johnson and her staff. We've been keeping her calendar pretty busy, and those of you who are available
to come to those meetings as well.
But have been met with some success with that. We've had quite a bit of interest from the local
governments to provide those updates. And really, those updates have helped inform further
conversations. So we've done outreach at the County level with Douglas County and Arapahoe County
and Adams County and several municipalities within each of those counties. And again, that-- those
conversations have helped inform further conversations.
One example of a success story, I think, from some of those conversations was now we're doing quarterly
meetings with the City of Aurora staff. I see Stuart Summers on team here. Those have been absolutely
phenomenal, from my perspective. I cannot thank the staff at RTD enough for engaging with our
municipal partners in that regard.

It's been interesting to see the shift in some of the conversations. Jenifer mentioned sometimes we've
dealt with a lot of incoming because there's a little bit of a void, or has been a void, historically, on
information. And this has helped fill that void. The last quarterly meeting that we had with the City of
Aurora and their leadership team was, I would say, much more of a partnership conversation. And there
were really interesting, aha, moments as part of those discussions where we realized that we have more
in common than we do not in common, if you will.
And so I think we really identified some further opportunities to work together, and we're looking forward
to continuing those. And probably-- I'm trying not to look at Debra because she's going to be throwing
darts at me, but trying to model that approach with some of our other municipal partners as well.
So we've also been engaging with the Metro Mayors Caucus. This is something that RTD has done,
historically. And I know that Directors Tisdale and Director Sloan have been involved with that, and
Director Harwick is now coming. I think we've got a great opportunity with the Metro Mayors Caucus now.
There's new leadership with the Metro Mayors Caucus.
We have 15 municipalities with elections this November. So some of those municipal elections will include
mayoral elections. So there will be some potential changes there. But we've been really trying to be
intentional with that engagement with the Metro Mayors Caucus, and be more proactive with our updates
and identify opportunities to partner with them.
The offshoot of all that, and our priority for the next year, is-- some of those conversations have also
yielded opportunities for us to engage with individual businesses. So those local government
conversations have identified issues that may have been brewing in their domain, where RTD may be a
partner. So a couple of examples-- I know Michael Davies and I have met with the teams from Amazon.
We had a great meeting with the Park Meadows teams. Some of the same issues that come up that you
all hear about within your district meetings-- safety, travel times, et cetera-- those are often the issues that
come up with these businesses. But our reach has been able to be broadened because some of those
conversations with our local partners have identified those opportunities.
And then our priority for next year is to be a little bit more intentional with our engagement in the business
advocacy community. There are a number of Chambers of Commerce and economic development
corporations where-- you all have memberships. RTD has memberships. We engage with them. You can't
be everywhere at once. We've had a lot of feedback from our chamber partners that they would love to
see RTD come to a Transportation Committee. Many of these chambers within the Denver Metro region
have infrastructure committees that meet monthly or transportation committees.
And so we're working with the team-- Stuart's team again-- the Communications team-- to identify that
universe of memberships and those-- universe of engagement opportunities. And we'll be much more
intentional, again, and proactive and try to ensure that RTD's flying the flag at every opportunity possible,
within reason. I mean, we recognize that there's only so many places. Stop looking at me, Debra-- that
you can be at once.
[LAUGHTER]
But we've had a lot of interest. So Director Catlin, the Jeffco Economic Development Corporation comes
to mind. They are thrilled with the notion that we might have Director Sloan, Director Catlin, staff members
come occasionally and brief them because there's a lot of interest, within the business community, to
understand what's happening at RTD. And frankly, we think that really benefits us going forward. If we

have broader challenges that we're trying to tackle, it helps us build that net of ambassadors in the
community.
One of the other functions that Catalyst supports within RTD is the staffing of the Citizens Advisory
Committee. I believe you're going to have an update from the Chair of the CAC after me, John Fussa.
And we're working with Jack Kroll, and thanks to Director Guissinger for spearheading that conversation
to really fine-tune and approach for the Citizens Advisory Committee next year. They are hungry to try to
provide input, as you've heard in various reports back to the Board on priority issues for you.
And so one potential item is having them focus on revenue sources and understand how this organization
is funded, understand if there are-- learn to see if there are other opportunities to change, potentially, the
way the organization is funded, and make some recommendations back to the Board. So we'll bring that
focus back to this Board once we fine-tune that a little bit more.
And then the Subregional Service Councils is another area where Catalyst engages on behalf of RTD,
working with the RTD staff. We've had three series of Subregional Service Council meetings. As you all
know, there are five of them. And those were born out of the DRCOG Accountability Report. They're
regionally focused by travel shed. There's a Northeast, Southeast, Northwest, Southwest, and Boulder
Subregional Service Council. I know I'm telling you things you already know.
We've had, like I said, a handful of meetings with those groups. Really, the primary focus for the
Subregional Service Councils this year has been the partnership program that you all authorized last
year. So there was a lot of interest within those Subregional Service Councils. I believe we had 10
applications for projects and awarded eight.
And as Debra's been at various city council briefings-- in fact, one today, as she was sharing with the
Denver City Council's [INAUDIBLE] Committee-- the outcome of that partnership program-- there was a
lot of interest. And I think we'll have more interest from our elected partners next year, considering the
Board has authorized, or is considering authorizing additional funding for that program next year. So
really, the theme here is partnerships in all of our outreach and our conversations. And I think those are
great opportunities.
And I think I mentioned the elections. We will be sure to track election updates with our municipal
partners and circle back with the Board in two weeks after we get those results. So I would be happy to
answer any questions you might have.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Thanks, Jen, for a good report. Director Sloan and I have had inquiries
about-- or from school districts, from Jeffco School District-- about engagement and discussions for
partnerships. And I know Ms. Johnson has been involved in those as well. And I was just wondering if
your plan for this next year, due to our Zero Fare for Youth pilot program, might include some of those
discussions.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Thank you, Director. I think that's a great idea. They're not on our list right now,
but we can certainly add them. And I think that's another example of good partners in the community. And
so we'll certainly add those to our list. I know there have been some discussions about driver shortages
within the school districts, too. Those issues seem to come up quite a bit, as we're out and about.

PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah I just think that's an opportunity, with this Zero Fare for Youth, to really do great
outreach, so thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Rosenthal-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
LYNN GUISSINGER: You bet.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to just address Director Catlin's
question more specifically. That is in the works as we talk about engagement with the school districts. It's
the whole element behind Zero Fare for Better Youth because we need those data points as we assess
the feasibility of the program.
And as we look to advocate for statewide funding, we need to have those data sources, and we would
like to have those entities come on board with us to advocate for the continuance of this program through
subsidizing it. So recognizing-- while Jen may not be specifically involved right now, recognizing this
program just launched at the beginning of last month, we're in the process of doing that.
And then just to follow on to the inquiry that was received from Jeffco, staff did reach out, as we said, and
actually two times. And I believe that there is a meeting that has-- the meeting that's going to be
scheduled because Mr. Summers was able to get a response from the individual who reached out. So
just wanted to ensure that we have been engaging.
And it took some time to get a response back from that entity, but we are moving full steam ahead with all
of the entities that provide different services to school-age children, not just those that are school districts
but other programs and things of the like because we want to ensure that we are casting a wide net.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to add additional commentary. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course. Thanks. Dr. Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, Jennifer, for-- you and your team for all
your work. I mean, it's quite exhausting hearing all the different things that you are working on the
different levels of local government. If I could just throw in a couple more, I'm wondering-JENNIFER WEBSTER: [LAUGHS]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Might as well, right? To add to the list. Especially given a couple of our line items-and this, of course, intersects at our state level as well. Item D, in regards to our assault-related crimes on
our RTD frontline employees-- to the extent that you have had discussions with district attorneys about
charges on some of these offenders who are doing that, and-- how do we really make it so folks are not
assaulting our drivers?
And as a secondary-- as a second issue there, mental health, working with these localities-- the city of
Denver has a STAR program, things like that. So it may not necessarily be a law enforcement issue. It
could be a mental health issue. And I know that's a real stressor in our state. So yeah-- so that would be
one of the things that I'd like to bring up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I can see Ms. Johnson, would like to address that first, real quick?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would. Thank you very much. So to the question that you raised, Director
Rosenthal, about creating a welcoming transit environment-- that is an element-- we have been working
in tandem with Brandeberry McKenna, as we talked about and as you heard from the team when they
presented to you. We have engaged with a myriad of different elements. We are engaged with AFL-CIO.
We are talking to various district attorneys, and had last year as well, recognizing that we want to see
increased penalties.
As it relates to where we are via partnership, you referenced the STAR program with the City and County
of Denver. We have been immensely involved with that program. And without running the-- without trying
to sound boastful, having reached out to the previous administration to convene those discussions and
created a working group going forward.
Additionally, had the opportunity to meet with Mayor Johnson just last week, and talked about the need
for the continuity. And under the leadership of Dr. Chief Fitzgerald, we are leveraging that more. So
looking at different opportunities jurisdictionally as it relates to the partnership that we can engage within
as it relates to mental health and other types of resources, recognizing that we are a convener of people
and that we don't discriminate because the operative word in what we do is, public, as it relates to public
transit.
So all of these things are in the works, and I'll leave it there because, basically, it's not falling within the
auspices of local government. It's something that we have been doing. But quite naturally, as we go out
and meet and have these engagements on a recurring basis, these issues come up as it relates to one's
personal security and public safety as a whole. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Go ahead, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, and thank you, Madam General Manager. And I understand I'm also
bringing up some topics that, now, I won't have to discuss later in our agenda today on our legislative
program. The other question I have is whether-- and to the extent that when you have discussions with
city managers and mayors and city councils and city planners and things like that, as cities like, say,
Aurora for example, is hugely expanding, is that something where you have discussions with them to say,
look, we'd love to know what those expansions are so that we can also plan for the future, for where we
have our service?
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Thank you for that. And I think that that's a good example with the City of Aurora
because in those quarterly meetings, the senior leadership team is assembled, and so those types of
issues tend to come up organically. I'm trying to think of good examples that came up in the last meeting,
where we were made aware of some strategic planning efforts that they were undertaking, that we didn't
know about before those meetings. So I think the basic answer is, yes. I think those types of
conversations will start to come up more organically, and we can certainly try to emphasize that issue
going forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I just wanted to say thanks, Jen, for all the progress we've made with our local
government relationships. Absence does not make the heart grow fonder. So we do have to be very
repetitive in our visits with our commissioners and our council members and our mayors, public works
managers-- the list goes on and on. And I do feel like where we can, budget-wise, need to be active

members in the economic development and chamber organizations, that serves us well. And I know that
we need to clone Debra, but I'm thinking we might need to clone you as well.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: No, that would not be a pretty scene. [LAUGHS]
TROY WHITMORE: OK, fair enough. Well, I know there's one thing-- they certainly don't want to clone
any more Board members. But that's another topic, right, Kate? Anyway, I do appreciate that. And any
way we can help with inroads from our local connections, we need to do that to make the job easier for
everybody.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: I appreciate that, and you all-TROY WHITMORE: Keep up the good work.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Yeah. Thank you very much. And you all have really good relationships in your
own communities, clearly, with the Chamber. So we will be leaning on you, and we have already, so stay
tuned. Thank you.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep. And Jen and Catalyst-- as you can hear, they got they took a broad-- many
groups to be juggling and working with. And haven't worked with us that long, but Jen has a long history-what-- cut your teeth with communications at CDOT? And can you tell us, just to remind people, briefly,
what you've done? Because I know how well respected you are in the region and in the community.
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Thank you, Director. I'm looking at Director Catlin to keep me honest here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well, let's hear them. [LAUGHS]
JENNIFER WEBSTER: Well, OK. Thank you. I appreciate that my background is in transportation. I cut
my teeth in transportation policy. Started on the Hill, working on transportation policy and moved to
Colorado and was CDOT's legislative liaison and then the Director of the Policy and Government Affairs
Office. And worked for Director Catlin and former Executive Director, Tom Norton, at CDOT. So really
learned a lot from Director Catlin and consider myself very lucky for that. And so the opportunity to
support RTD was-- I mean, it made absolute sense for Catalyst. It's just something-- we love
transportation. We love the work that you all do. And so this was a perfect fit. And I'm just thrilled at the
opportunity. So thanks again.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank all of you for all your work. We will have our Federal Public
Affairs team, Patty Dorsch and Mike Dino and all who cover Congress, whenever Congress does
something that we can report.
[LAUGHTER]

The final report is from the Citizens Advisory Committee. Mr. John Fussa, you, I believe, are online, and
the floor is yours.

JOHN FUSSA: Yes. Thanks, Chair Guissinger and members of the RTD Board. John Fussa, CAC
member from District G and Co-Chair. I do want to say Jen Webster is a tough act to follow. So I'm not
even going to attempt it. I do want to say that the CAC and I, as Co-Chair, have certainly appreciated
working with Jen in support of the CAC. She's done a terrific job, as has Colleen Roberts of Peak and the
RTD staff, especially Brandon Figliolino and Chad Kroll.
So brief update-- the CAC last met earlier this month, on October 12, and had a limited agenda. The
primary item of business and discussion was an update from Charlie Stanfield of the RTD staff about the
Subregional Service Council Partnership Program. Charlie did a terrific job and walked the CAC through
that initiative of RTD.
And we've had prior updates. The CAC remains very supportive of that effort, particularly as a way for the
organization to partner with localities with local counties and municipalities in that very large district. We
think it's a terrific idea. It's worth the effort. I think-- credit to RTD and the Board for supporting the
Financial commitment you've made to the Subregional Service Councils-- not just for this year but over a
three-year period. We think that's, at the CAC, very important so that there's enough runway for this
initiative to hopefully gain traction and become part of what RTD does for mobility in the region and in
support of partnerships.
A couple of CAC comments on the Subregional Service Councils. Certainly, the CAC recommended to
Charlie, on behalf of staff, that there be some consideration about how to evaluate and measure success.
The good news is Charlie indicated the staff's already on that and working through how to measure
success with the program and with the projects that gain funding.
The CAC-- in all transparency, me, as a member and Co-Chair, asked if RTD staff would consider having
a CAC member serve on the Application Evaluation Committee in the future as a way to get the CAC
more involved and supportive of that effort, which really goes to local partnership, similar to the one
representative that DRCOG has on the Evaluation Committee, so that's my pitch for that. And Charlie
said he would take that back for further discussion.
The other item of business with the CAC is administrative and preparation for next year. Many of you on
the Board and staff know Matt Applebaum, who has been a long-time member of the CAC and has
served as Co-Chair for several years. Matt is nearing the end of his three-year term as Chair and CoChair. So Matt's going to continue on as a CAC member for the rest of his term, but take a step back from
being a Co-Chair.
So we had some kind of business discussion about volunteers from the CAC to step up and replace Matt
as Co-Chair for 2024. And we have a good group of volunteers and residents from across the district-- all
very talented and committed to our mission and the goal of increasing mobility, and the role of transit in
the region's health and vitality. So I've got my fingers crossed-- I think, as does the consultant and staff
team-- that we'll have a couple of volunteers who will step into that position.
So that the Board knows I'll continue on as Co-Chair in 2024, for one more year, to fulfill my three-year
term as Co-Chair, and to help out and provide for a transition as we bring a new Co-Chair on. I think, with
that, I do want to recognize Matt Applebaum solely, speaking for myself, but I think the CAC-- you know
Matt. He's been active in City of Boulder, Boulder County, in the region for many years now.
I've enjoyed working with Matt and learning about the CAC and its role for the past two years, and also
enjoying the way he advocates for both the CAC RTD and transit in the region, and never holding back on

his opinions and perspectives, which I very much appreciate. So I just want to recognize and thank Matt
Applebaum for his service on behalf of the CAC. It's been really important, and I think worthy of
recognition.
And then, lastly, we look forward, as I think Jen mentioned in her update prior to me, working with the
Board and RTD staff, as well as Jen and Colleen, as consultants supporting the CAC on our 2024 work
plan, including that topic of the financial picture and how the CAC can provide input and support to RTD
in terms of the longer range financial picture and revenue, in the way that the Board and the staff think
appropriate.
And we look forward to continuing discussion with the Board and with you, Chair Guissinger, about how
the CAC can have a meaningful role and be supportive of the Board the staff and the mission of the
organization in the region. And that's it. So thanks very much, and have a great evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you so much, Mr. Fussa, and thanks for your service on the CAC. And I think
we all join you in thanking Matt Applebaum for his years of service as Chair and co-Chair. And I'm excited
about the meetings we're having and getting the CAC working with all of us on looking at revenue sources
and diversification in the future, and we'll keep those conversations going. So thanks very much. Item
number 9 on our agenda is the Audit Committee Report. Director Catlin and Davidson, do you have
anything to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: We have not had an Audit Committee meeting since we last met here as a Board.
However, we will be having one on November 6, and we should have a fairly lengthy report at our next
Board meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Finance and Planning Committee Report. Committee Chair Tisdale, do
you have a report?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The Finance and Planning Committee met on
October 3. The minutes of that meeting are contained in your packet at pages 16 to 19. There were four
items on the agenda that came forward as unanimous recommended action, so they are on the consent
agenda for this evening.
In addition, we had a very good informational presentation by the staff of the CU Leeds School of
Business regarding our projections. And the next meeting of the Finance and the Planning Committee will
be on November the 14th of this year, at 5:30 PM, which will be a Zoom or virtual meeting. Thank you
very much, Madam Chair. That concludes my report.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Tisdale. The Operations and Safety Committee Report.
Committee Chair Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm sorry. I did not know the page numbers in the packet
reference, so my report is incomplete. But we did meet in October. We had no recommended actions. We
had two discussion items. We had a really great presentation by our Chief People Officer, who-- someday
I'm going to learn how to say her last name right-- Ms. Polege? Polegi?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Polege. [LAUGHS] Keep trying.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll keep trying. Really great information that we had on the People Recruitment and
Retention Process. We enjoyed that. We also had a report from-- I got this one down-- from Dr. Chief Joel

Fitzgerald on what was going on within our Transit Police and Emergency Management Department. So
we learned a lot. All of that information is available to the public on the reports, which are on the website.
And the committee will meet again on November 15. Happy to have everybody attend. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Performance Committee Report, Committee Chair Davidson?
JOEY DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Davidson speaking. We met on October 16, the
Performance Committee. We had a presentation of the community and customer survey results. For any
colleagues that may not have had a chance to listen in, it's worth going back and looking at that. They
were very, very interesting.
We also had a good discussion around net promoter score and how it's not quite serving us as well as
some of the details that we received, as to what is really driving customer satisfaction. There were a
number of areas that we're leading the nation on right now. So we were excited about that.
Then we had a recommended action, which is on the Unanimous Consent Agenda this evening. It's an
important item, so I just want to take a moment to comment on a few things with regards to that. This is
the adoption of the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer base salary compensation range. This
is the result of a compensation analysis that was done in 2022.
We had retained the services of Gallagher Benefit Services. They looked at a full market analysis of what
our base salary range should be for the General Manager and CEO position. The committee decided to
move with recommendation two, which was the full market analysis. Given that analysis was completed
12 months ago, the committee made the decision to apply an aging factor to that. The aging factor that
was selected was employment cost index, or ECI, which was 4.5%
This resulted in a General Manager and CEO base salary range that has a minimum of $292,600, a
midpoint of $402,325, and a maximum of $512,050. That sets the range for the General Manager and
CEO position. It's important to note that is not any kind of commentary on total compensation, inclusive of
any benefits. It is also not directly with regards to the salary of the incumbent General Manager and CEO.
However, I would note, for Directors, that the Gallagher Report, as we frequently call it, or Compensation
Analysis, on packet page 108, does have recommendations for additional strategies as to the next steps
that the Performance Committee and the Board should consider, one of which has been completed,
which is the updating of a compensation philosophy. I'd just like to note that the-- Gallagher Benefit
Services did note for us, in that report, that we should revisit this range on an annual basis or biennial
basis, and that we can look at others for frame of reference.
Just-- I'd like to highlight-- I'm happy to answer any questions as Directors may have about this, as we
move forward into next steps. We're not the only ones dealing with this. Actually, a number of agencies
have not had published ranges for their positions. In an increasingly competitive environment for this very
specialized position, that's becoming increasingly important.
I think, actually, TriMet's Board put it well when they recognized a lot of recent retirements of CEOs and
General Managers in the transit sector, when they said that, a smaller pool of experienced Chief
executives are available right now. And in fact, TriMet is contemplating an adjustment to their base salary
range and understanding what next steps they need to take. So we're not alone in this. It was an
important step to take after going through that compensation analysis. Thank you for the lengthy report.
Thank you, Madam Chair.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much for that report. I think that's helpful as we look at-- salary
range as an item on our Unanimous Consent, but it's new to us, so it's good to have that brought up. Our
next item is the Approval of Board Meeting Minutes and Committee Reports. The Board and committee
minutes were included in the Board packet. Are there any corrections from the Directors for the minutes to
be approved this evening? Nope?
Seeing none, unless there's objection to considering the minutes all at the same time, may I please have
a motion to approve the minutes for the following meetings-- September 26, 2023 Board meeting,
October 2, 2023, Performance Committee, October 2, 2023, Operations and Safety Committee, October
3, 2023, Finance and Planning Committee, October 16, 2023, Performance Committee, October 18,
2023, study session, and the October 16 2023 Executive Committee.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I heard Director Williams-- I saw her going for her microphone. That's why I
was pointing to her as the movement, and Director Rosenthal as the second. Is there any discussion on
this motion? All right. Are there any No votes? With 13 Yes votes and two Directors absent, the motion
passes.
All right. The Chair's report. Thank you all for a very good study session the other night. We went back in
the Executive Committee and talked about next steps. And it's some of what we did at the end of that
meeting. But we had two specific bylaw changes that we discussed that we will be moving forward. Those
are drafted and will be moving forward following the discussion to vote in November, probably. And that is
the length of the meetings and the informal-- the informal meetings by Board members that comply with
the Open Meetings Law.
And as Jack Kroll explained to us, we will be embarking-- and the Board Office, largely, will be driving
this-- but looking at a review of the bylaws. And this will be your chance for-- obviously, there may be
other things we want to consider and look at and clean up. So we will be listening to Board members and
trying to move those forward. There are several other items that we talked about that we'll be drafting for
and bringing back to the Board over the course of the next few weeks and months.
The TLRC-- I think Jenifer Brandeberry explained, very well, the TLRC. Well, she didn't put it exactly this
way, but they get to bring five bills forward. And one of the bills is the funding for Zero Fare for Youth and
funding for the Zero Fare Month. And it also has a provision that Senator Priola was wanting, that is a
study of a statewide pass that would be available for purchase by people, statewide transit pass.
I attended a groundbreaking for highway 119. Ms. Johnson spoke at that. I know that Director Davidson
was there. I think-- was somebody else there? Maybe not. It kind of came up very quickly at the last
minute. The Governor, Senator Hickenlooper, Commissioner Claire Levy, and our GM CEO and the
CDOT Director all spoke.
The father of Magnus White all spoke, who was the young bike racer that was killed on 119, tragically,
just in the last few weeks. And so adding that bike lane and the bike way and making the other changes
to move people along, but try to avoid that in the future is critical. RTD is putting in about $33 million, and

we were celebrating the award of $25 million and the federal RAISE grant that finishes the funding for the
project.
I spoke with-- spoke to the Commuting Solutions Membership meeting, and I find-- I'm sure a lot of you
are hearing these things, too. People really love our fare changes. People love our Zero Fare programs.
They're very interested in the partnership program, which-- by the way, I talked with our CFO last week,
Doug MacLeod, because I realized, when we looked at the budget, that I wasn't clear on the funding for
that.
But we will be rolling-- the budget has us rolling over $2 million to another $2 million. So next year,
instead of being funded at $2 million, it will be funded at $4 million, right? [LAUGHS] I think that's right. It's
rolled over. So that's exciting.
And they're also interested in our revenue diversification efforts. There's a lot of interest around that. I've
met with Danny Katz from CoPIRG and with Jenifer Brandeberry and some of the leadership. There are a
lot of people trying to help. CoPIRG has the Alliance for Transform Transportation, and we've talked
about that. They're looking at revenue ideas.
Tomorrow afternoon, there is an onboarding, from 3:00 to 5:00 on Asset Management and State of Good
Repair, which promises to be interesting, and of course, we're all invited. That's all I have. Ms. Johnson,
you have a CEO report?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I do. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And good evening once again,
Board members, and to all that are assembled both virtually and here in the Board room. Once again,
Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. This evening, I will share with you the following information
centered around our strategic priorities regarding community value.
I will share an overview of meetings and events in which I have engaged, including an event sponsored
by the Colorado Sun, two meetings of the transportation legislation review committee, of which you heard
about from our advocates at both the state and local levels an annual award celebration sponsored by the
Denver Regional Council of Governments, the APTA Transform Conference and Expo, and meetings with
both Denver Mayor Mike Johnston and members of the administration and the Denver City Council.
Regarding customer excellence, I will discuss and just provide a different vantage point as it relates to the
celebration of the grant award related to CO 119, that you just spoke of, Madam Chair. And speaking to
employee ownership, I will briefly touch upon my participation in an event hosted by Denver Public
Schools. And regarding financial success, I will discuss RTD's receipt of a favorable rating related to the
agency's Eagle P3 Series 2020 Private Activity Bonds.
So related to community value, on Friday, September 29, I participated in a panel discussion during the
inaugural SunFest, hosted by the Colorado Sun. The main focus of the panel was the future of how
Colorado moves. And discussion topics included but were not limited to electrification, zero fare policies,
Passenger Rail, and Bus Rapid Transit. I was joined by fellow panelists, including Will Toor, Director of
the Colorado Energy Office, and Dan Blankenship, the Chief Executive Officer of the Roaring Fork
Transportation Authority. And the discussion was moderated by Colorado Sun reporter, Michael Booth.
On Tuesday, October 3, I engaged with the General Assembly's Transportation Legislative Review
Committee, better known as TLRC, to share information regarding project funding awards to the Call for

Projects Partnership Program, as well as preliminary data for the 2023 Zero Fare for Better Air two-month
initiative.
Later that week, on Thursday, October 5, I, along with Chief People Officer Polege, once again, engaged
with TLC members during the committee site visit to the Denver International Airport. CPO Polege and I
shared additional context regarding RTD's people power. My perspective that I shared was through my
engagement at a national level, and CPO Polege, with respect to the 2023/2024 strategic initiative
currently underway as we're focused on people power, as well as external conditions impacting hiring as
well as recruitment and retention trends.
On Wednesday, October 4, several Directors and members of staff attended the Denver Regional Council
of Government's 2023 awards celebration at the Seawall Ballroom at the Denver Center for the
Performing Arts. The annual event celebrates engaged residents, dedicated local leaders, and innovative
partnerships that help make the Denver region a great place to live and work, as well as play. Awardees
this year included current and former RTD employees. Brandon Figliolino and Bill Van Meter,
respectively, were recognized. I extend my congratulations to them, as well as to Tex Elam of the
Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities, who also received an award.
From Friday, October 6 through Wednesday, October 11, I attended the American Public Transportation
Association Transform Conference and Expo, which is held triennially. It was held in Orlando, Florida.
That's the Expo that's held triennially-- and participated in the APTA Board meeting as well as several
committee meetings throughout the weekend, including the CEO Coordinating Council, the Bus CEO
Committee, the Rail CEO Committee. And at the Commuter Rail CEO Committee, I was elected the Vice
Chair for 2024.
I also participated in a thought leadership workshop on Sunday, October 8, hosted by LA Metro, for public
agency executives, which was centered on working collectively to create a playbook for LA '28 and other
large-scale events. But really, the discussion was jumpstarting discussions for LA '28, which are the
Summer 2028 Olympics.
I was one of three CEOs featured, along with Collie Greenwood of MARTA, which is the Metropolitan
Area Rapid Transit Authority, and MJ Maynard, who was also the new Vice Chair of APTA, and she's also
the CEO of the Regional Transportation Commission of Southern Nevada, which is in Las Vegas. And we
all shared recent success stories with transit service delivery during large-scale events across the
country.
On Monday, October 9, I participated in a CEO roundtable discussion entitled "Data-Driven Workforce
Investment," during which panelists discussed strategic workforce development initiatives such as
succession planning, the use of data, analytics to drive individual growth and recruitment, building a
learning culture, and strategies for recruiting strong candidates for managerial positions. Also participating
on the panel were Heather Dalmolin from the Mountain Lion Transit Agency in Flagstaff, Arizona, and
Jameson Auten from the Lane Transit District in Eugene, Oregon.
On Tuesday, September-- I mean October 17, representatives from RTD, including myself and
Government Relations Officer Michael Davies and Chief Fitzgerald-- we met with Mayor Mike Johnston
and members of his administration-- more specifically, his Chief of Staff and Chief Operating Officer-- as
an Avenue for formal introduction of our respective teams and to discuss opportunities for future
collaboration, of which I referenced earlier when Director Rosenthal posed the question to Catalyst staff,
relative to what are we doing about some of these issues that are plaguing our societies as a whole.

During the course of that meeting, stressed the partnership continuity as we have established, especially
when we were looking at various resources, recognizing that things that are spilling over on transit are
coming from municipalities and we, alone, can't solve those problems.
I was invited to participate in a roundtable discussion held in Denver on Thursday, October 19, as part of
the Black Community Social Equity Summit, hosted by the Colorado Black Roundtable. The discussion
focused on diversity, equity, inclusion, and belonging. And I gave remarks on the significance of public
transit, which is a particularly important public resource at this time in this country, when established legal
protections for historically disenfranchised and marginalized communities, and individuals have been
undermined.
Earlier today, I, along with Chief Fitzgerald and Government Relations Officer Davies, attended a meeting
of the Denver City Council's Land Use transportation and Infrastructure Committee to share information
related to the partnership program, the Zero Fare for Youth pilot currently underway, as well as to provide
context regarding RTD's Transit, Police, and Security Operations and jurisdiction collaboration related
thereto.
Regarding customer excellence, the Chair referenced the Colorado 119 RAISE Grant celebration. So on
Thursday, I journeyed to Niwot to participate in the celebration of the $25 million raise grant. And just for
you all's edification, RAISE being an initialism for rebuilding American infrastructure with sustainability
and equity. This funding is associated with the $162-million multimodal safety improvement and bikeway
project along Colorado 119, the diagonal highway that connects Longmont to Boulder.
As you heard from the Chair, the project is the result of 10 years of joint effort by a myriad of local, state,
and federal partners. And I was joined in celebrating this momentous occasion with Chair Guissinger and
Director Davidson. And then you heard the speakers, which consisted of Governor Jared Polis, Senator
John Hickenlooper, CDOT Executive Director Lou, Boulder Commissioner Levy and Ryan Owen from the
Federal Highway Administration, among other honored guests.
Speaking now to employee ownership, in recognition of National Walk and Roll to School Day, Denver
Public Schools invited individuals to serve as celebrity crossing guards for various schools throughout the
city. I, along with Lieutenant Governor Diana Primavera, Mayor Mike Johnston, DOTI Executive Director
Adam Phipps, musicians, local news anchors and reporters, and others donned fluorescent yellow vests.
And mind you, I got glittery letters on the back that say, Johnson, just in case I forget my name-- to assist
young scholars safely getting to their schools on the morning of Wednesday, October 4th. I was assigned,
along with the Lieutenant Governor, to Columbine elementary and Prep Academy, which share a street
crossing, and I had a fabulous time engaging with some of Denver's leaders of tomorrow.
And speaking to financial success, I am pleased to note that the Fitch Ratings, one of three major credit
rating firms, announced earlier this month that RTD's 2020 A and B private activity bonds received a
rating of A-minus. This announcement follows on a similar release in August of 2023 from Standard and
Poor's, in which the firm upgraded RTD FasTracks bonds to AAA, the highest rating possible. Coupled
together, these ratings reflect RTD 's prudent financial management and extremely strong capacity to
meet all financial commitments. And with that, Madam Chair, that concludes my report, and I'll yield the
floor to you. Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. That is great news about the upgrade in our bonds and the
recognition. And we appreciate our financial team for that. Any questions or comments? Director
Davidson.
JOEY DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Madam Chair. Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, as
always, for a great report. You mentioned a roundtable on data-driven approaches to things. I just,
actually, was going to make a comment that and thank you for the Board reports. And we've been here
long enough, now, to see these get more data-rich and highlighting the things that matter.
And the Performance Committee had a chance to reflect on just how difficult it is to move the needle on
community value. With customer excellence, we're directly engaging with people using our services. And I
think very clear on how we move the needle, and we got to learn a lot from those survey results.
Community value is tough.
But when I look at the community value engagement and how this has continued to increase, month over
month, year over year for the past few years, it's impressive. And looking at September, I love the data
that is shared about the number of folks that are engaged, and being north well North of thousand in a
month that these types of events is great. So thank you for sharing that data. Thank you for moving that
needle. And everybody who's involved in that community outreach, given just how difficult that is, which
we're reminded when we look at those surveys-- just really appreciate that work. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Davidson. Anybody else? Okey doke. Our next step is the
Unanimous Consent Agenda. On our agenda, there are five items listed on the Unanimous Consent
Agenda listed under Section 16 actions A through E. Those items are the Third Amendment to the
Salaried Employees Defined Contribution Plan, the 2024 Investment Policy, the 2024 Fiscal Policy, and
the 2024 to 2029 Mid-Term Financial Plan, or MTFP, the GM/CEO compensation base salary range.
You know, it's our practice and our rule that, if anybody wishes to pull something off the Unanimous
Consent Agenda, that we do that. And I actually think that's very important on some of these items, that
we look at some of the bigger items. Director Ruscha asked that we pull off the 2024 fiscal policy. She
has a comment or question, and I am doing that at this point. I'm pulling that one off, so the other items-may I have a motion to approve the Consent Agenda?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And a second?
JOEY DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I hear Director Whitmore as the movement, and Director Davidson is the second.
Are there any No votes on this action? If you want to discuss it, we just pull it off the Unanimous Consent
Agenda. Is there something you'd like to discuss, Paul?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I just had a question.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sure. Which one?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: [INAUDIBLE]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'm fine with that. We'll just- so we're removing that.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: I don't want to remove it. [INAUDIBLE]. I just thought we'd discussed [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: Usually, it's just-- but go ahead.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

SPEAKER 7: Councilor, can he just talk about it without removing it from the Consent Agenda?
SPEAKER 8: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, point of order?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Hang on just a minute. Our attorney is going to address this.
SPEAKER 9: Typically, if there's going to be discussion and questions and answers, the practice has
been, yes, to pull it off the Consent Agenda.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Director Rosenthal is choosing not to pull it off the Consent Agenda. Do you
still have a point of order, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, it was just simply to request, for the sake of the public record so that people can
hear what's happening during our meeting-- that people, when they speak, speak into a microphone.
Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Well taken. All right. There are four items on the Consent Agenda
again. Are there any No votes? OK, with 13 Yes votes and zero No votes, the motion passes. All right.
There are two recommended actions on the agenda tonight. The first recommended action is the 2024
fiscal policy. It is for the Board of Directors to approve the 2024 fiscal policy. Do we have a motion?
JOEY DAVIDSON: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And do we have a second?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I hear Director Davidson and Director Catlin as the second. Is there
discussion? Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I apologize, Madam Chair. I think I forgot where we were in the agenda. Did we just
pass the entire-- I guess I was going to ask for a point of order. Do we just pass the entire Consent
Agenda?
LYNN GUISSINGER: We passed the Consent Agenda without the fiscal policy, and we pulled the fiscal
policy as a recommended action. And right now, we have a motion from Director Davidson and a second
from Director Catlin, and so we're asking for discussion on the fiscal policy.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, Madam Chair. I apologize.

LYNN GUISSINGER: No problem.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have a hearing impairment. I thought I heard you say four items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The four items were the Consent Agenda that we passed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. So I am a Yes vote on this recommended action for the fiscal policy.
I just wanted to raise a brief point of discussion. So I do believe that the work of our committees and their
respective chairs have has been very good and very effective and efficient so far. But I also do feel that
there are duties of the Board that might transcend the work that we could expect any single committee to
do.
And one example would be the, roughly, billion dollar budget that we're to pass next month. And if you
think about it, there are only a handful of things that this Board has to vote on by law, but the budget is
one of them. And so I was wondering if we as, a Board, could figure out a way to have significant budget
items, such as fiscal policy, to be brought before the full Board for consideration.
And I do recognize that we're already in the month of October. So I guess my request was, perhaps, the
Executive Committee could work with the Finance Committee Chair and staff to give the upcoming
budget vote next month and other significant items just a little more dedicated space at the next full Board
meeting, for staff to present and for the Board to review and discuss.
I think that that would allow the full Board the opportunity to benefit from the insights of our colleagues.
And so with that, I just want to say, thank you, for giving me the opportunity to pull this off of our Consent
Agenda and speak to that. And with that, I'll yield back to the Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much, Director Ruscha. I actually intended to talk with Ms. Johnson
and Mr. MacLeod about giving us some time at the Board meeting next month to have the presentation
again on the budget, and a full Board discussion. So I'm seeing some thumbs up-[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE]. As you said, it's one of the critical items that we passed, so we'll discuss that and try to
move it forward. [INAUDIBLE] All right. Second recommended action-- oh, sorry. Are there any-- and I'll
call for the votes. Are there any No votes on the motion? All right. With 13 Yes votes and 0 no votes, that
motion passes on fiscal policy.
Next recommended action tonight is the 2024 Legislative and Government Relations Program. For the
Board of Directors to adopt the 2024 legislative and Government Relations Program, do we have a
motion?
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I heard Director Buzek. A second?
JOEY DAVIDSON: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I heard Director Davidson as the second. Is there discussion on this motion?
Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am not opposed to this action. I'm just wondering if
anybody would like to speak to why it is brought to the Board, because I don't see that this has anything
to do with the Board of Directors. It has to do with staff and staff's interaction with our consultants. And I
don't see that there's really anything here that the Board of Directors has to do with anything here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll answer that. Or Mr. Davies, do you want to answer that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair. I don't want to put staff on the spot. I think I should take that
question. Recognizing that there has been ensuing conversations relative to this body perhaps taking a
position on legislation, we were ensuring that this body had an understanding of what we would be
working with our state advocates on as we looked position-- for instance, legislation for the betterment of
the district, for the customers and communities that we serve-- specifically, as we talked about,
legislation, perhaps, to subsidize Zero Fare for Youth, as we talk about a welcoming transit environment
quite naturally increasing penalties for assaults on transit workers.
So if, in fact, there is legislation that is provided, we wanted to ensure that we, collectively, had an
understanding of what that may be, and that the Board could decide to take a position on said legislation.
And further, just to close out my comments, this was discussed at the Executive Committee. And then it
was my understanding that there was a request to bring this to this body on several occasions. So hence,
that's what we're doing. And so not to jump in front of Michael Davies, but I think that question is better
suited for me, recognizing my role in the agency. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I'll take a second, too. I think it's actually really important because as we move
forward, Michael Davies and Ms. Johnson and all of our Public Affairs teams need to be able to have
conversations. And I don't want anybody to come back and say, I didn't know we were talking about this
issue. So the point is that these are the things we're looking at. It will evolve over time. And if we get to a
bill level, we will take a position. But I think it's to get us all on the same page as much as we can.
KATE WILLIAMS: I said I'm not opposed to this. I read it. I understand the items that are on here. But no
place in the documents that are provided does it say the Board of Directors. It says the staff will and the
staff will and the staff will and the consultants will. And I'm good with all that. I'm happy that they're going
to do all that. But I've been doing this for six years. And I don't see, in here, that-- there are 15 elected
public officials here, and I don't see it spelled out in this document that those elected public officials have
any input into this plan.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's a very good point. Would you like to make an Amendment?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. I'm going to vote for it. I just want to be on the record that I think that this agency is
not using the elected public officials to the best of their ability, and particularly in this Legislative and
Government Relations Program, which I think would be high on the list of what you would do with your
elected public officials. So no, I'm all in favor. A matter of fact, I'll vote to pass it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. And thanks. I think that's a good point. And I think working with Michael
Davies, he's good about bringing people in. And I think-- we didn't mention it when the public affairs
teams were here, but there, also-- if anybody needs help and wants help contacting their legislative
representatives or others, I think they're all there to help. Ms. Johnson, you have something to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. I don't want to belabor the issue. But I do want to just
state that earlier this summer, there was communication that was disseminated to the entire Board asking

about the legislative program and if there were any specific initiatives and things along those lines. And
the conversation had ensued at the Executive Committee, so I appreciate Director Williams' comments.
I'm not trying to be adversarial with it, but just wanted to qualify that I concede her point. And hence, that's
why we reached out to Board members. And I recall, for instance, Director Catlin asked for some
qualifiers as one of the initiatives when she spoke about public transit being the emphasis and not other
ancillary initiatives. And so I just wanted to qualify that, just for the record. Thank you very much, Madam
Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it was an oversight, but it's well pointed-- well taken. Thanks. Director
Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so a couple of my questions were already answered
earlier by our consultants and lobbyists. But one relates to the federal program number B-- item B-discretionary grants. And I guess as we look at some of the projects that RTD is working on, the Peak
Service, of which there is-- excuse me, there is a couple community forums that I know staff is working on
preparing.
And also, to the extent that-- are we able to get funds for our unfinished extensions, things like that? To
what extent are we collaborating between what our programming is, what are we seeking to do, and what
grants and funding are we looking for, federally, and to make sure that we're taking advantage of some of
what the administration-- the federal administration keeps talking about, that we have so much federal
funding out there. Well, I just want to make sure we're taking advantage of that. And I know you are. I just
want to just maybe get some feedback from you about some of the things that you are seeking funding
for. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. So first and foremost, I want to ensure that
there is a collective understanding of this initiative before us because what we are doing, being more
intentional-- so when we look at our four strategic priorities, I've talked, at previous Board meetings, that
we have three initiatives. And as we prepare our budgets, they are in alignment with those three
initiatives. And more specifically, as we talk about where we are with State of Good Repair, our Transit
Asset Management Plan, all of those things are basically looking at back to basics, and then people
power and welcoming transit environment.
So what we're in the process of doing now is streamlining how we go about grants. And I'm going to
provide this context without trying to disparage the way it was done before, but I think we have an
opportunity to enhance what we're doing now. So oftentimes, this agency would go after discretionary
grants, just because there was money available. But we did not develop a business resource plan. We
did not have an understanding of what type of staffing we need.
Needless I say-- is I had to come before you with the support of my team when we talked about those 17
battery electric buses because there was money readily available, but we had not-- we had not done an
assessment to determine what would be the most prudent course of action. So with that being said, we
are redeveloping how we look at grants-- i.e. having a decision tree, because we need to ensure that we
have a "shovel-ready" project as we move forward. We need to ensure that we have a project manager
readily available. We need to ensure that we have interdependencies.

So when we talk about what's available, this is the lens in which we are now looking at any type of Capital
Programs. There's still a myriad of work to be done, as there are in excess of 100 projects that we have
carried over for years on end. I'd be remiss not to state that I just learned about a project that someone
brought to my attention, saying that, well, in 2013, we said we were going to do this. And I was like, 10
years has elapsed, almost 11. I can't support this going forward.
So I provide that in-depth example to let you know that we are being intentional about how we go about
projects. More specifically, you mentioned Peak Service. I think you were mentioning the North-- when
you said Peak Service, can I just ask for clarification as to what you meant by that?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, my understanding is there's a couple of forums coming up-- one in Broomfield
and one in Longmont?
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, I was asking about the project. Yes, you're talking about the North-West Rail
Peak Feasibility Study.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Right. Peak Service.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you. I just wanted to qualify-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Because the extent that any federal dollars might help with that, I don't know.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Right. So for all intents and purposes, I'm going to step out here and say that, no, not
at this juncture because for all intents and purposes, if we did have qualifying eligibility criteria for various
boardings and aspects of the project, I believe we would have already had a full funding grant agreement.
But things have changed since such time, so we're being intentional as we look at where we are and what
we're doing. But with that, I will yield the floor to Michael Davies to answer the question, more specifically,
about how we're working with our federal partners and our involvement with capital investment working
groups and things along those lines. Thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Madam General Manager. Very helpful. And Director Rosenthal, just to
add a little more context-- and what I do on my end of the process there is that myself and our federal
advocates very actively track grant solicitations from USDOT. And we'll match that up and have
communications with our planning department and see in which instances-- maybe it's an RTD project
that we're putting forward, or maybe, as Chair Guissinger mentioned before, it's a project that's being put
forward by another entity that we can support-- and support monetarily and through just verbal support
from the agency perspective.
And in the case of the $25 million grant for 119, that was that kind of situation. But constantly looking at
Notices of Funding Opportunity from USDOT and seeing where they may fit into available projects that
would qualify for that funding opportunity.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, most of my comments have been very adequately covered by Madam Chair
and Madam CEO. But I just I treat this document as a tool for those of us that are traveling in some of the
same circles of the decision makers. Perhaps it will keep us all singing from the same page on the same
hymnal.

So I tend to think that it's harmless. There's no negative aspect of this document unless we, as a body,
say, oh, by the way, we discovered something, like Director Catlin did last year, that maybe needs to be
brought to the attention of our staff. Most of the time-- 99% of the time-- they're four steps ahead of us,
which is what we want. But I just think this is a tool that helps keep us all heading in the same general
direction. So thank you for the time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Davidson.
JOEY DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. I'll keep it very brief. I had similar comments as Director Whitmore. I
just-- thank you to the staff, for bringing this forward. We've had a lot of discussions, particularly at our
retreats, about big P versus little p, and the challenges we have there. And we've talked a lot about that.
And there's a murky line, especially given that we're unusual-- relatively unusual in that it is an elected
Board and there are 15 of us.
So I just-- I view this as an alignment document. It is a chance for us to align. I think, very frequently,
given that we are elected officials, we're asked to comment. And we have our personal views, but then we
have views that the Board has taken as an entity. So I just-- I appreciate this. I know this is not typical,
that every agency would look at this. I do think it's fairly high level. I think it's useful in that way. And I think
it's as much an alignment document and an opportunity for us to communicate. And the extent to which
there should be additional input on this-- perhaps that's something we could make as a retreat topic in the
future years to come. But thank you very much for the organization of this.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'll call for the vote. Are there any No votes on this? Oh.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, sorry. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to speak one more time and say I didn't quite
understand what Director Williams was referring to at the beginning of this conversation. However, I do
see value in your commentary. As an elected Board that works with this agency and oversees it, it might
behoove the agency to take that into consideration and add a section where you're dealing with this
Board and this body directly. It's important.
We're here. We support you. We are part of you. But we are also distinct from the agency work. And we
are more local than your other local entities listed here, as we meet with you and make these decisions
directly. So I would like to see that change happen in the future. But I support the work that is here so far,
and I'm grateful for all of the work that you do, especially following those USDOT Funding Opportunities,
and all of the specific work that we're looking at doing with intention, so thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What was that? Whatever.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
Director Ruscha, I'm sorry.

JOYANN RUSCHA: That's OK. So most legislators have pulled their bill titles already, and their deadlines
are coming due. And so I guess I was wondering if we have already gotten a head start on this agenda
and we've identified bill sponsors, or if this vote tonight is something that we're doing post-haste.
But to that end, maybe-- and I think this has already been implied-- that the Board should consider like a
policy retreat. We are the policy making body of the agency-- early next spring, and to help set the
legislative agenda for next year. Some of the items in this agenda are proactive. They're not reactive. And
that would have required some lobbying and some conversation that would have started last spring and
carried on over the summer. And I would expect that we have bills drafted.
And that's not to denigrate the work of staff. That's actually this Board's-- it would have been our job to
take a more proactive position if we wanted to. And so I guess I'm putting that on us and saying, hey,
maybe next spring, we get an early start, and we work with staff and also invite stakeholders, like the ATU
and whomever else that we need to, and craft, maybe, a more cohesive or, I should say, more
collaborative policy document so that way we're not in this position a year from now, and we all feel
comfortable-- more comfortable moving forward.
And I hope that our General Manager CEO or Mr Davies doesn't take umbrage to anything that I just said.
I don't want to denigrate your work. But-- so that was my comment. I'll be a Yes tonight, and I do
appreciate the work that you do. I know it's a lot, and there'll be a lot of long nights at the Capitol this
spring, so thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. Seeing no other hands, I will now call for the vote. Are there any No
votes on this action? Seeing no No votes, we have 13 Yes votes, zero No votes, and two absentees. So
the recommended action passes. All right. Next item is a discussion item-- the Board Expense and
Reimbursement Policy. Mr. Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager, the floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Madam Chair. A lot of great work has gone into revising this policy and
bringing forward a set of recommendations that were included in your packet and previously discussed at
the Executive Committee meeting. Just to introduce the discussion here, I want to draw your attention to
some of the things that have changed in this document.
And just as I mentioned last week at your study session, there's been a lot of work on bylaws over the
years in certain places. The same thing can be said about this document. There were revisions, over the
years, to adjust things, but not necessarily a comprehensive, full review of the document. And I want to
give credit to Tai-Shrae, Parish, in the Board Office, for really identifying this as a key area of need. And
when I started here a few months back, we really dove into and put in a lot of time and effort to bring
forward these changes for your consideration.
Generally, the proposed changes to the policy fall into the following categories-- really, revisions to align
the Board's travel policies with that of the agency, additions to drive financial transparency, edits to clarify
language, adaptations of policies to align with current practices and a modernization of business
expenses, and changes to use more inclusive language. We also want to drive clarity and reduce
redundancy.
Some key changes just at a very high level-- probably the biggest changes is replacing out-of-state meal
reimbursements and out-of-district meal reimbursements with a per-diem system. That aligns with what
the agency recently did. We also for years have been tracking on expenses for conferences not

necessarily in a way that Directors could easily understand. So we're putting forward a fourth category of
expenses to cover out-of-district conference fees.
And then the last piece I'll highlight here is we're just putting in deadlines, again, to align with the agency
here around IRS policies regarding expense reimbursements. And I'll use that as a shameless plug that if
you haven't submitted your expense reimbursements, we would be very eager to get those. And with that,
I'll turn the floor back over, and happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks very much. Are there questions? Director Buzek-- or comments?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you so much, and thanks to Board Office staff for taking this on. I remember, as a
new Director, this whole section being one of the most confusing things to try to work your way through,
especially section 5.0 because you had 10 minutes to make decisions on, do I get a phone? What does
that mean? How does it work? And before you knew it, the three months was over, and you're too late. So
thanks for doing that. I really appreciate it. Just one suggestion in 5.0, as I'm talking about it-- when you
take out references to the time limit of three months, you might want to take out the reference to an initial
home office setup package. Just strike, initial, because I might want to set one up now, and I guess I
could. So that's all I have. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Dr. Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm just curious if-- while we're making these, where we're thinking towards the future,
could we also think about non-paper checks and maybe direct deposit?
SPEAKER 10: That is not an issue that the Board office is qualified to comment on. But It's an idea that
[INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: You mean to the Directors? Ian, do you mean to the Directors?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You can do that. I think you must need a process, yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Point of clarification-- Tai-Shrae Parish had a comment, because I was looking a little
down but dumbfounded. We're talking about expenses because there's a check.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, expenses. I thought you meant your-- oh, gotcha. Yeah. Tai-Shrae, did you
have a comment?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: So per accounts payable, they are always issued in a paper check, so they don't do
direct deposit for expense reimbursements. For anyone.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I stand corrected. I thought you meant your paycheck. OK. Would anyone like to
report on your activities for October Oh I'm sorry. Are you done, Jack?
JACK KROLL: That was it? OK.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I think so. I didn't see anyone else. Director Catlin. Wait a minute. Hang on. Oh,
never mind. OK, never mind. All right. Would anyone like to report on your activities for October?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was fortunate to be able to attend the APTA Transform and-- whatever it was-Transform Conference and Expo in Orlando, along with Director Williams and Director Tisdale, as well as
former Board Chair Angie Rivera-Malpiede. And we had the privilege of helping to honor our interim
GM/CEO, Paul Ballard, when he was inducted into the APTA Hall of Fame.
And it was just a very nice ceremony, and also a very nice recognition for someone who served us for
eight months and helped us in the selection of our current GM/CEO, Johnson. And the Denver area was
very well represented. Phil Washington, from Denver, was also inducted into the Hall of Fame. So we
were-- it was just really nice to see that kind of recognition for public transportation in Colorado. Thank
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and congratulations to Paul Ballard and Phil Washington. Director
Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Madam Chair. Just a couple of things to mention, among the many
things I've been doing. But one is-- did a Ride-Along with the folks from Denver Streets Partnership. It
was great to chat with them, hear their perspectives, hear perspectives of some of their members as we
rode along on one of the light rail trains. And so that was awesome.
And then another thing I did in the community is visited with the folks from the Facts Partnership, which is
a nonprofit on Colfax, promoting their small business and their neighbors and the character of their
community. And they have some thoughts, perspectives and suggestions for the BRT that's going to be
going in. And so connected them with staff at RTD so that they could have a nice collaboration, back and
forth. So really been enjoying doing that community work on behalf of RTD. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I have a few things. Director Sloan and I, the other day, went to the mayor's, the mayor's
breakfast. And that was fun. It was good. That was my first meeting with them. And it was great to get to a
lot of people there and start to build those relationships. Also, Director Guzman, Director Ruscha, and
myself have started to have some coalition building, to start having conversations about Vision Zero and
what that looks like for RTD, and also just how to get people to walk and ride more frequently to our
buses and trains, and just general safety.
And then tomorrow I will be going to the Arvada Transportation Committee, and that's what I've got for
me. Oh, actually-- sorry. One more thing. And our Vision Zero meeting is November 7-- the next one is
November 7 at 5:30. Anyone is welcome to come. It's a nice little coalition of groups trying to move this
concept forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is that Zoom or in person?
IAN HARWICK: It is on Zoom.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, great. All right Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just following up very briefly on the APTA
Transform and Expo meeting in Orlando I am pleased to say that I was reelected as the Chair of the
Transit Board Members Committee. You may recall that APTA has what we call three legs to the stool.
We have the CEO Coordinating Council. We have the Business Members Board of Governors. And we
have the Transit Board Members Committee.
So the three of us, together, pull in, harness, and create what we call APTA. And so I have been elected,
again, as the Chair of that committee. And I do want to encourage all of you to remember to participate in
all the APTA events that we have available for Transit Board members. And I'll be sending out reminders
as to all of those in the coming weeks. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And congratulations to you, Director Tisdale, on being re-elected. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. National Week Without Driving was October 2 through
October 8, and I participated fully. And it was a lot of fun and some challenges, and some interesting
things. But the opportunity to participate and go on Ride-Alongs with youth, community members, move
around, get to things with extra equipment on a public transportation system was a challenge and a lot of
fun, but not too far outside of my regular experiences. I don't have my own car. So it was, on one hand,
easy. I also have my Board pass, which is really helpful.
But a lot of thoughtful thinking about, how do I plan out trips and use the RTD app, which is excellent for
planning and getting current and updated information. So I wanted to bring that up as something to put on
your calendar for next year, fellow Directors. There's a whole week to go without driving, and we might
want to participate in that as fully as we can.
I also got to be part of the Denver Children's Festival of Stories and represent RTD at our table and give
out some awesome coloring books to some awesome readers who were getting into the story of the fox
and the bird and rail safety, so I believe it was about the same time. And then I met with several of my
RNOs in my district. Globeville Elyria-Swansea and the historic Bannock Neighborhood groups were
awesome to be with. That's all.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Seeing no other hands, we move to item 20, other matters. Are
there any other matters? OK. Again, seeing no hands and no other discussion, I will entertain a motion to
adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. The meeting is adjourned at 7:36 PM. Please note that the next Board
meeting is scheduled for Tuesday, November 28. Thank you for joining us, and have a good night. I think
you might get to your bus or train before the whole Nuggets crowd does, but it's close.
SPEAKER 11: We're winning.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Are we?

