Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, June 20, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Williams called the meeting to order at 7:45 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Absent

Arrived

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District C
Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Present
Absent

7:45 PM
7:45 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

7:45 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present

7:45 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:45 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:45 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

7:45 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:45 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

7:45 PM
7:45 PM

Directors Anderson, Deadwyler, and Francone were absent. Director Archuleta left the
meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Eric Dunham,
David Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg, Svetlana Grechka, Kim
Heldman, Sheri Le, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews,
Robin McIntosh, Jr., John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara
McManus, Mike Meader, Adam Mounce, Scott Reed, Jenifer RossAmato, Richard Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster, Pranaya
Shrestha, Greg Smith, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Public Present:

Gary Forbes, Sarah Fuller, Anne Herzenburg, William Gross, Dan
McKeehan, Tom Peterson, William Rawson, Holland Schellhase, John
Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• August 2017 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the August 2017 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost
savings of approximately $19,700 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, acting Chief Operating Officer/Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, reminded the Board that last
month his team presented their draft recommendations for the
August 2017 service changes. He explained that RTD hosted
several meetings around the Denver Metro Area for public
comment and stated that staff made revisions based off of
public feedback. He said the proposal to alter the D Line was
turned down and stated that public comment suggested that
RTD needed to conduct more public outreach to explain the
pros and the cons of the changes. Mr. Abel asked Jessie
Carter to go into more detail regarding the meetings and
changes.

Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
noted that there was a good turnout at the public meetings.
He stated that as a result of the meetings, RTD will defer the L
line proposal to have a more robust conversation with the
community and stakeholders. He added that this will give staff
an opportunity to look at the alternatives that were provided
by both constituents and stakeholders.
Mr. Carter further explained that route 206 will not be
eliminated, but the frequency from buses running every half an
hour will be reduced to every hour. He explained that
modifications were made to the Route 0 and Route 0L to
maintain a bus stop at Center Avenue and make an additional
bus stop at Exposition.
Director Menten asked if the cost for the additional bus for the
Golden Call-n-Ride will be covered 100%.
Mr. Abel stated that the City of Golden would fund that
service.
Director Menten inquired if the constituents asked for any
changes to the Golden Call-n-Ride.
Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services, said that the
only request was to increase the frequency of the service.
Director Lubow stated that there were some piteous letters
written to the Editor regarding the 209 and Golden West. She
asked for information on how many people use that bus.
Mr. Carter stated that there are approximately 4 boardings a
day southbound and 7 boardings a day northbound. He said
that if those figures are measured against the 23 trips offered
southbound and the 13 trips offered northbound, it is a very
small number of people per trip. He further stressed that it
would not meet RTD’s deviation standards to provide services
there.
Director Lubow said in total for both directions, there were
only 11 boardings per day.
Mr. Carter confirmed her numbers and said that the level of
ridership had not increased even after marketing efforts were

put into place. He stated that at some point RTD needs to cut
the losses from that route and direct efforts elsewhere.
Director Lubow stated there were a lot of comments regarding
the Route 0 and 0L and wanted to know if they were resolved.
Mr. Carter confirmed that staff kept the Center Avenue stop
on Broadway and added a stop at Exposition.
Director Tisdale congratulated staff and complimented Mr.
Carter on his terrific people skills and ability to engage with
constituents.
Director Folska informed Committee Vice Chair Williams that
her computer was not working and therefore she would
verbally state her vote.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Call-n-Ride Amendment for New Contract
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to
amend the recently awarded ADA paratransit services contracts with MV
Transportation and Via Mobility Services (per solicitation #16-DH-047) to
include the provision of Call-n-Ride services. The amendment to the MV
Transportation contract is for three years for $13,110,752, with two oneyear options, option year 1 is for $4,587,223 and option year 2 is for
$4,797,357. Fuel is considered a pass through. Fuel is estimated at
$1,206,599 for the first three years and with option year 1 at $426,569
and option year 2 at $439,367. The total not to exceed cost for the 5-year
period for MV Call-n-Ride services and fuel is $24,567,867.
The
amendment to the Via Mobility Services contract is also for three years for
$12,700,984, with two one-year options, option year 1 is for $2,642,063
and option year 2 is for $2,753,714. Fuel is considered a pass through.
Fuel is estimated at $671,325 for the first three years with option year 1 at
$237,334 and option year 2 at $244,454. The total not to exceed amount
for the 5-year period for Via Call-n-Ride services and fuel is $13,854,096.

Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel said that when submitting Requests for Proposals,
RTD will first award ADA Paratransit services and then select
Call-n-Ride service providers. He said that this allows RTD to
leverage management teams in the facilities of the ADA
Paratransit Services and it results in lower costs to RTD.
He said that in April, the RTD Board awarded the ADA
Paratransit services contracts to MV Transpiration, Via
Mobility, and Transdev but only MV and Via Mobility were
selected as the Call-n-Ride service providers as reflected in this
action item.
Director Broom asked if the cost of diesel fuel increased by a
dollar a gallon, how would the contract be handled and further
inquired if RTD would have to complete a change order. He
then asked how much of a difference in cost would require the
Board’s second review/approval.
Mr. Abel stated that the proposal is at $2.50 a gallon, and
with gas fluctuating from $2.32 to 2.42 a gallon, he does not
anticipate a budget amendment. He stated that normally if
there is a miscalculation, that particular division would come
through the amended budget process and request additional
funds.
Director Folska asked if RTD locks in fuel prices.
Mr. Abel said that RTD locks in rates for diesel but not
gasoline because RTD does not use enough.
Director Folska asked how much RTD would have to spend on
gasoline to lock in a price.
General Manager Genova said it was tied into whatever the
contract amount would be. He stated that he would research
the item and report his findings to the Board.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Authorization to enter into a contract with M.A.I.O.R. Sri, for a Fixed Route
Scheduling and Run-Cutting Software Application (16DO018)
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to award a contract for the new Fixed
Route Scheduling and Runcutting Software Application to M.A.I.O.R. Sri
(M.A.I.O.R), in an amount not to exceed $4,000,000.00. The price includes
the period of performance base of four years and six one-year options (total
ten years).
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board Meeting.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel mentioned that the Service, Planning, and Scheduling
group had been using the Trapeze Fixed Route program for
over 17 years and there have been a number of changes in
technology and RTD’s services have changed as well. Mr.
Abel asked Eric Dunham, Senior Project Manager of IT and
Jessie Carter to present this item to the Board.
Mr. Carter said that the Trapeze program is used to create
RTD’s public schedules, however, it is out of date and
cumbersome to use. He said that his team is wasting a lot of
time using the program and staff needs a program with a
friendlier user interface that is more time efficient. He
stressed that $4 million is a lot of money, but the return on
investment will net RTD significant savings.
Mr. Abel stated that the new software assists with creating
public schedules and run cutting is used to create schedules in
which the Bus Operators bid on.
Mr. Dunham stated that IT’s role was to help Mr. Carter
upgrade Service Planning’s system by reviewing the proposals

from an IT standpoint and IT interviewed six companies. He
said that through the selection process, M.A.I.O.R. met all of
the 532 requirements. He stated that currently, M.A.I.O.R.
works with large transit systems in Rome and Milan and they
offered the best architecture to meet RTD’s needs. He added
that the data center is located in the United States to ensure
minimal risks and he advised Mr. Carter’s team to move
forward with the contract with M.A.I.O.R. from an IT
perspective.
Director Folska asked where M.A.I.O.R. was headquartered.
Mr. Dunham responded that M.A.I.O.R. is headquartered in
Florence, Italy. He stated that during the bid process staff
was informed that on June 1, 2017, M.A.I.O.R. was bought
by Clever Devices, that operates in Woodbury, New York.
Director Menten asked for clarification on Mr. Dunham’s
comment regarding minimal risks to RTD’s system.
Mr. Dunham stated that there are standard practices and
firewalls, and with the Data Center being in the United States,
RTD has better access to the architecture and security. He
added that it was a requirement RTD put in the Statement of
Work.
Chair Hoy stated that he had heard that Trapeze was a
difficult system and agreed that this is a great change. He
asked how the transition is going to take place and who would
train staff how to use it.
Mr. Dunham stated through the selection process, M.A.I.O.R.
visited RTD to demonstrate an example. He stated that their
program appeared to be very easy to use and intuitive, and
said that the transition will be easy.
Mr. Carter said that the M.A.I.O.R. program is a Windows
based environment and the Trapeze system was D.O.S. based
and not as user friendly.
Mr. Abel said that Bus Operations will budget money to send
staff to user conferences to learn more about the program.
Director Sisk stated that his only concern is whether or not
M.A.I.O.R. has done any business with transit systems in the

United States, and if they have, which cities are using their
services.
Mr. Carter stated that Kitsap Transit in Bremerton, Washington
is currently using M.A.I.O.R. Mr. Carter added that
internationally, M.A.I.O.R. is working with more complex
systems than RTD.
Director Folska asked if they are willing to make certain
adaptions to fit RTD’s needs.
Mr. Carter responded that they are very responsive to do what
RTD needs and they are set up to work with RTD’s rail
system, which Trapeze is unable to do.
Director Folska asked if there was a plan in place in case the
M.A.I.O.R. program does not work for RTD.
Mr. Dunham stated that it is IT’s practice not to transition an
old program until the new program is running efficiently. He
stated that RTD will not decommission the Trapeze system
until the new system is up and running. He stated that as the
project manager of this process, it will be his responsibility to
meet all IT requirements.
Director Folska indicated that her concern is that the new
software may not work and RTD will be stuck with the
program. She said she does not want to go down that path
again with a program that cannot produce what RTD needs.
Mr. Abel noted that he does not want to down play the
transition process, and indicated that his team is serious about
making it work.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Construction Award for RFP 16 DD - 002 - Platte Bus Wash Replacement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to

award a contract to Gilmore Construction Corporation in the amount not-toexceed of $1,402,113 for the Platte Bus Wash Replacement project.
Motion:

Director Tisdale made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 27, 2017
Board meeting.
Director Broom seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Mr. Abel introduced Robin McIntosh, Senior Manager of
Facilities and Richard Rost, Manager of Facilities Engineering
to answer questions.
Director Broom asked if the system would recirculate the
water that it used.
Mr. McIntosh said that 80% of the water will be reused.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten,
Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Tina Francone

Committee Vice Chair Williams declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Lost Service Hours Update
Mr. Abel, reported that for May 2017 there were 185 lost service hours. He
said that it is a significant improvement from last year and it is due in part to
the mandate that employees must work one of their days off. He explained
that Bus Operations is 132 drivers short so his team is working diligently
with Human Resources to bring more people in. He noted that most of the
employees that are leaving RTD are first year employees.
Director Folska suggested a heavy push in advertising on mainstream
television, radio, and all other media outlets to assist with recruiting efforts.
Director Walker said that recruiting drivers and mechanics is a nationwide
problem due to a strong economy.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 1st Quarter 2017
Mr. Abel stated that on-time performance is still a challenge, but he was
pleased to note that it has continued to improve since 2015. He said that
staff is still working on improving on-time performance and focusing on
problematic routes in order to provide better service for RTD’s customers.
Director Folska asked for the Access-a-Ride on-time numbers to be included
in the quarterly report.
Director Walker said that the Executive Committee for Denver’s General
Obligation (GO) Bond forwarded their recommendations and there are some
transit projects that will be beneficial to RTD.
Mr. Abel stated that Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
and his team have been working closely with the City and County of Denver
to put together the GO Bond recommendations. He added that he was very
pleased that the city had been listening to RTD and supporting transit.

• Access-a-Ride/Cab 1st Quarter Update 2017
Mr. Abel stated that the Access-a-Ride and Access-a-Cab reports reflect that
rides have increased slightly compared to last year. He stated that revenue
hours were slightly below budgeted revenue hours and reminded the Board
that in the first quarter, RTD was experiencing a shortage of Access-a-Ride
drivers. He noted that the new operator wage rates went into effect on
March 1, 2017, and since then staff has seen improvements on droppedservices. He stated that the on-time performance goal is 95% and it has
improved from 94.5% in the first quarter of 2016 to 94.6% in the first
quarter of 2017.
Director Menten highlighted that the Access-a-Ride numbers have decreased
by 19%, which she felt was substantial. She stated that she was under the
impression that RTD was going to start veering towards Access-a-Cab and
asked for clarification.
Mr. Abel commented that for this quarter RTD saw a decline in service and
his team was not steering people into that direction, however, there was an
attempt to incentivize people to use Access-a-Cab.
Mr. Buter added that cab drivers will only go for the big tipping destinations
and they do not want to go out of their way for an Access-a-Ride trip. He
remarked that outlying trips are not being completed and there are a lot of
driver no shows.
Director Menten asked for confirmation that there was an increase in
Access-a-Ride service, and a decrease in Access-a-Cab service.

Mr. Buter stated that customers are shifting back to Access-a-Ride.
Director Folska stated that customers use Uber instead of using Access-acab, it will save RTD from spending subsidy costs.

• Special Services Report 1st Quarter 2017
Mr. Matthews commented that there have been technological updates and in
addition to a new manifest, the process is much more efficient for the driver.
He noted that the customer will need to call the driver on their first trip, and
after that they will be able to book a ride on-line beginning in August. He
further added that staff has reduced the minimum trip from two hours to a
one-hour minimum.

• 2017 1st Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
Mr. Abel indicated that the Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring report
was included in the packet for review.

• 2017 1st Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
Mr. Abel explained that the number of complaints have decreased.
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, stated that the
number of complaints have decreased because there has been an
improvement in on-time performance and operator customer service.

• 1st Quarter 2017 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Michael Meader, Chief Safety Officer/Assistant General Manager of Safety,
Security and Asset Management, stated that he would answer any questions
the Board may have regarding the security statistics and fare inspection
summary.
Director Tisdale asked why fare evasion numbers increase when plain
clothed officers issue tickets.
Mr. Meader explained that plain clothed officers do not have a visual
deterrent of a uniform to cue fare evaders to exit a bus or train, and that is
why plain clothed officers are able to catch more instances of fare evasion
than uniformed officers.

D. Other Matters
Director Broom asked if there would be any additional maintenance projects
scheduled for the remainder of the summer.
General Manager Genova said the biggest project was replacing track at Speer and
Stout the weekend of June 9th -12th. He noted that there would not be any
additional projects scheduled for the summer.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 18, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 8:56 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

