Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 10, 2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 10, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 10, 2009
at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:
Board
Members Absent:

Chair Chacon, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck, Christopher, Cohen,
Daly, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen, Tayer
Directors Martinez, Pulliam, and Tayer

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Larry Buter, Carolyn Conover, Rick Clarke, John
Shonsey, Bruce Abel, Dave Genova, Kenn Hardin, Cal Shankster, John
Dawson, Martha Hecox, Daria Serna, Bill Holmes, Tony McCaulay,
Robert Merriman, Todd Nikkel, Paula Perdue, John Tarbert, Caitlin
Magee

Others present:

Roger Sherman, Ty Perry, Jeff Leib
****
Chair Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

Call to Order

Interim General Manager Phil Washington introduced Brian Iacono who is acting Assistant
General Manager of Administration during the absence of Terry Howerter.
I.

Denver Union Station Update – Kenn Hardin gave this update. Kiewit is working with the
Small Business Opportunity Office (SBOO) very closely. Kiewit is making changes within
their organization to improve community relations with DBEs. They have asked the SBOO to
help them develop a mentor/protégé program and they are looking at putting together a
workforce initiative. They want the community to understand their commitment to the
program.
CRL has been chosen as the PI consultant for Denver Union Station. Although their DBE goal
is 15%, they are currently achieving 30% participation.
Director McMullen asked what is the RTD part of DUS and is the financial part secure. Mr.
Washington said that RTD is waiting on the rating agencies to give a rating before obtaining
the TIFIAA and RIF loans. He expects the loans to be finalized by the end of the year in the
amount of $320 million between the two loans.

II.

FasTracks Professional Services Update – Mr. Hardin gave an update on these types of
contracts. The will be a periodic agenda item so the Committee can stay updated on the
status of these contracts. Work order contracts are slightly different from other contracts in
that they are only working as scopes of work have been identified and they have been issued
work orders. So it may look like a contractor is not reaching their DBE goal but you have to

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 10, 2009
Page 2 of 2

look at the work orders that have been issued. Over a period of time, they will reach their
“not to exceed” amount.
a. PE/Design Consultant On-Call Services -Mr. Hardin gave the example of
Huitt-Zoellers. They are about 49.22% of participation. Not every single
work order that comes through will have DBE/SBE participation on it.
They will achieve a total of 25% participation over the three year contract
span. These types of contracts are evaluated on a quarterly basis to
make sure they can meet their DBE/SBE goals.
b. Property Acquisition – University Field Services is one of the District’s
contracts and they are 80-90% complete on that contract and they are a
tiny bit under the DBE goal. Mr. Hardin said that what is remarkable
about this contract is that individuals within the firm broke off and
formed their own SBE companies so they will get some work. They will
meet their goal. RTD project managers have been very helpful on this
contract and helping the prime contractors meet these goals.
Mr. Hardin shared the good news that the Gold Line Environmental project work is 99%
complete. CH2MHill has exceeded the 22% DBE goal and will be completing this project
with close to 24% DBE participation.
III. Other Matters – On November 18, 2009 the DBE Economic Investment Initiative workshop
will be held. It will begin at 3:30 p.m. at the Denver Athletic Club. They are expecting 300
small businesses to attend this event.
IV. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair
Chacon adjourned the meeting at 5:44 p.m.

