Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday October 30 th, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

November 1, 2012

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, October 30,
2012 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tobiassen and Walker.
Director Tayer arrived late.

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp, Directors Gore and McMullen were absent

Staff Present:

Libby Cox, John Elias, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Patrick
McLaughlin, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Gerry
Suazo, John Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

L. Skip Brown, Dana Crawford, Walter Isenberg, Jim Johnson,
Claire Teylouni

****
I. Call To Order
Director Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
II. DUS Historic Building Update (Lien)
Marla Lien provided an update on the key items they have been negotiating
with the Union Station Alliance (USA). She mentioned that they will have an
Executive Session next month and then present to the Board and ask for their
approval on November 20.
Among the issues discussed is the lease term which in the original RFP was
set for 60 years. USA thinks it will be very important for lenders for it to be
for 99 years. They are asking for 60, 20 and 19 years to total the 99.
The initial use is for hotel, food, beverage, retail and transit. They are asking

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday October 30 th, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
for the ability to chase uses over the 99 years if the area/market/etc. changes.
Staff’s recommendation is that we agree to this with certain parameters
allowing hotel, retail and commercial but no residential use.
To address public and Board concerns about making sure that there is always
access to transit, and even though at this point there is no MOU with Amtrak,
the design is including the requirements for Amtrak to be able to have access
to the platform and get luggage in and out.
In the Great Hall they want to make sure that it is always available to the
public and that there is always food and beverages when transit is open.
They will pick a standard like Grand Central Station or Washington DC Union
Station.
The appearance of the Great Hall is also another issue. The tenants will be
able to design their own rooms and lounges, while protecting the historic
fabric of the building. For any changes in the Great Hall they would have to
come back to RTD.
They proposed to make the Great Hall available for special events and close
up to 50% of the Great Hall as long as there is access to transit and a seating
area. They could host up to 48 events a year.
Director Malpiede asked if they would use the entire Hall and have seating
upstairs. Marla responded that they have not determined how they will
achieve that, but they will always make sure that seating is available.
As far as architectural changes they cannot make a structural changes or
changes to the exterior. In terms of maintenance, they will create a capital
reserve account to be funded and maintained to certain levels for major repairs
and replacements.
They are also including requirements for an insurance program that will take
liability and will revisit the limits every 5 years if not more often.
With regard to mortgage and assignment, this goes into change of use. The
team proposes until 2016 to assign leasehold interest to a qualified
management company with relevant experience and no history of criminal
activity and no denial of liquor license.
The lease need to comply with FTA requirements as well as the ADA in terms
of no discrimination based on race, color, etc., and no conflict of interest,
debarment or suspension.
The use of the plaza needs to be safe for everybody. They have asked for
easements and convenience and for each building have a 15’ area that can be
used as outdoor seating and activities zone. USA has also asked that there is

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday October 30 th, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
12-15’ buffer zone with no structures, no kiosks and no parking. The building
entryway needs to be free of obstructions. Amtrak also has the same
expectation.
When scheduling events in evening hours, they need to make sure that they
are mindful that it is a hotel.
Director Deadwyler stated that when they had the initial discussions about the
hotel, the noise level and things that could be a distraction were discussed.
She was under the impression that it would not be a problem. What she
understands is that activities need to end early to avoid the noise. Marla
commented that RTD will not put the conditions in the Great Hall, as they will
have some bars and guests will need to be ready for people coming and going.
Director Deadwyler also asked what they meant by seating availability. Marla
explained there are seating and outdoor activity zones attached to each
bui8lding. The public part of the plaza is part of the DUS project open to the
public and it will have a fountain, trees and build in seating.
Director Malpiede asked what is going to happen with the Model Railroad
piece in the basement. Marla explained that the lease itself does not have a
requirement for any special tenants other than RTD and Amtrak. They have
not specifically provided for the Rail Association. Ms. Dana Crawford stated
that the Model Railroad Association wants to maintain those two projects as
assets to the community and be open more hours. They are in the process of
moving their tracks and they will have some leasing with USA for the use of
the space. A new 21st century approach to invite the public to use and be
able to see their collection.
Director Hoy expressed some concerns about the changes in use. It is his
understanding that because it is a national historic building that cannot be
done. Marla explained that the National Park Service (NPS) takes control of
the inside of the building and the Landmark Preservation Commission (LPC)
manages the outside of the building. The NPS requirement is only for 5 years.
The building is protected from demolition and major modifications. They are
talking about improvements to the building and some changes are acceptable
as long as they are not structural and maintain the Great Hall’s integrity.
Nothing can be done without the LPC approval. The restrictions continue in
the structure but not in the use. Director Hoy asked what kind of control RTD
will have. Marla explained that anything related to structural changes, both
outside and inside, will still have to come to the Board.
Director Malpiede asked about the roof top and the hotel rooms planned for
that area. Marla stated that the NPS did not allow everything USA wanted,
they only allowed for partial modification. Mr. Jim Johnson explained that
they will put some suites in the attic instead of regular hotel rooms and that
they have reduced the number of rooms proposed.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday October 30 th, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
Director James wanted clarification if because the NPS permitted some
modifications in the interior and exteriors, once that is all done any further
significant changes would require the NPS’ approval. Jim explained that the
tax credits USA is seeking require Park Service approval of any changes for
five years after build out. After that it would be under the LPC. Marla stated
that RTD would have some approval of those changes like exterior, structure
and historic fabric of the Great Hall. Other than that the renter can take care
of the interior spaces. If alterations are proposed by the tenant, RTD would
have the opportunity to approve during the 99 years. That is what staff has
asked for. Jim Johnson explained that anytime a permit is required it goes to
the LPC before it goes to the building permit office. In the interior the tenant
will have freedom to do changes as long as they do not alter the structure of
the building or the historic fabric of the Great Hall. In terms of the Great Hall,
RTD will have the opportunity to approve substantial changes to it. Director
James asked if the LPC has the right to approve substantial changes in the
Great Hall. Marla responded that they don’t since their premise is only in the
exterior of the building.
Mr. Walter Isenberg expressed his appreciation for the work the staff has done
and they look forward to moving the project forward.
III. Other Matters
Director Anderson stated that she wants to make sure she is notified of any
community meeting in her area regardless of the issue being discussed,
FasTracks or any RTD meeting. She was not notified about a meeting in
Arvada about landscaping trees held on Monday 29 th. General Manager
Washington will have the staff follow up.
Director Tayer came in late, took over as chair.
IV. Paperless Packet Training-Board members
Training for the new Paperless Packet and eBoardroom was conducted with
the Board of Directors. Paula Perdue, Barbara McManus and Erin Klaas
reviewed eBoardroom, the RTD/IQM2 Web Portal and Hub navigation with
Directors. In eBoardroom Board members were shown how to vote, how to
request to speak, and how the timer would work for public participation. The
rules of engagement for conducting meetings were also discussed. Board
members were shown how to log-in and access the paperless packet through
the RTD/IQM2 web portal.
Director Tayer thanked the Board staff for all the hard work. He also thanked
Director Tobiassen for championing paperless packets. Director Malpiede
mentioned that she has seen the staff working really hard toward these
training sessions. Paula thanked the IT group for all their support.
V. Adjourn

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday October 30 th, 2012
at 5:30 p.m.
Chair Tayer adjourned the Study Session at 8:30 p.m. There is no meeting
next week.

.

