1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
February 28, 2017 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Hoy asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson

Title
Director, District L

Status
Present

Arrived
5:32 PM

Ernest Archuleta
Bob Broom

Director, District C
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:18 PM

Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District B

Present

5:32 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Judy Lubow

Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J
Director, District I

Absent
Present
Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:26 PM
5:24 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:30 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:32 PM

Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present

5:25 PM
5:28 PM
5:31 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:20 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:32 PM

Barbara McManus called role. There were fourteen (14) members present at roll call.
Director Folska was absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

David Ayala, Shirley Bennett, Mike Barnes, Gina Callahan, Jeff
Cluphf, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
Steve Gieske, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Ali Imansepahi, Adrian
Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Scott Reed, Dana Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Marshall Weeden

Public Present:

Homer Anderson, Veronique Bellamy, Meghan Carrier, Camilo
Delvalle, Consuela Delvalle, Doug Gragg, Octavio Green, Veronica
Jimenez, Patty Munoz, Rogelio Munoz, Michael Newman, Haydn
Roberts, Matt Samelson, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van
Dorn, Pilar Vargas, Felipe Viejra, Maya Weatheray, Kay Weeden,
Deya Zavala

Retiree Awards
Chair Hoy noted there were three retirees this month with two in attendance. Gina
Callahan, Deputy Assistant General Manager, of Bus Operations, introduced Steve Gieske,
Assistant General Superintendent, to recognize the retirees.
Mr. Gieske introduced David Ayala, who worked in the Maintenance Division servicing and
cleaning busses for 24 years. He stated that he had the privilege of working with Mr.
Ayala for as long as he has been at RTD. Ms. Callahan added the importance of keeping
our buses clean and appreciated Mr. Ayala’s dedication to his job. Lastly, Mr. Gieske
expressed Mr. Ayala’s desire to always be busy and help others when needed. They both
wished him best of luck in his retirement.
Steve Gieske also introduced Marshall Weeden, Senior Quality Control Inspector, and
congratulated him on 32 years of service. He stated that Mr. Weeden spent a lot of time
away from RTD because he was always visiting manufacturers to make sure RTD received
quality parts; with that he thanked his wife of 38 years for allowing him to be gone so
much. Mr. Gieske said that Mr. Weeden will ski a lot now that he is retired and will
continue his passion of crafting micro-brews. He wished him well in his future endeavors.
Chair Hoy acknowledged Doug Stanton’s 33 years of service as a Manager.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Hoy stated that public participation was open to anyone that wanted to address the
Board. He reminded the audience that each speaker is allowed three minutes.
 Doug Gragg, Denver, informed the Board that he took advantage of the free
ride on the R Line and thought that the train was very slow in travel. He









expressed his heartfelt sympathy for fallen Officer Scott Von Lanken. He
revealed to the Board that he had gotten close with Officer Von Lanken
when he was transferred to Boulder and he admired his great customer
service skills and his ability to talk to everyone. He stated that Officer Von
Lanken will be greatly missed.
Véronique Bellamy, Longmont, stated that she was the Director of Research
and Development at Elysium Studios. She remarked that the studio is
having difficulty attracting new scientists to the labs in Colorado due to the
new presidential administration and added that her efforts are not helped
when there are people who dilute linguistic abilities to serve people. She
accused RTD staff of treating the local Francophone population poorly and
remarked that English is a difficult language to learn.
Patty Munoz, Denver, introduced herself as a tenth grade student at the
Denver School of Science and Technology (DSST), Cole High School, a
Denver Public School (DPS). She stated that she believes that RTD should
provide bus passes to students because the youth today are the leaders of
tomorrow. She voiced her concern that some students have to make a
decision on whether or not they will eat or have transportation. She added
that a bus pass is not just necessary for transportation to and from school,
but it is also helpful to get to the library to do homework.
Rogelio Munoz, Denver, stated that he also attends DSST Cole High School
and he was representing Together Colorado. He indicated to the Board that
their committee currently has 1500 signatures to support RTD providing bus
passes to students. He stated that he has been taking the bus since he was
a small child. He spoke of taking the bus his entire life; from going to the
hospital when he was five with a tumor, to more recent trips to his
internship. He stated that he is committed to this this project because the
recent increase of $0.20 adds up and can be an economic hardship to some
families. He explained that he and his friends did not grow up with a lot of
money, and receiving a free bus pass would alleviate some of the financial
burden from families. He asked the Board to consider working with DPS and
the City and County of Denver to provide Eco Passes to high school
students for the school year. Mr. Munoz did not provide a copy of the
petition.
Hadyn Roberts, Denver, DSST Cole High School explained the importance of
the bus to all economic levels and backgrounds. He referenced a Fox 31
report by Kevin Torres, which stated that, according to RTD sources, an
increase to our bus and rail fares is necessary to keep up with inflation and
rail expansion projects. He agreed that the increase made sense but
highlighted RTD’s mission statement, to provide safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible and cost-effective service. He emphasized to the



VI.

Board that bus fares are not cost effective to students. He stated that a
student’s bus fare increased by $0.20 and with approximately 180 school
days a year times two trips a day, a student is paying out of pocket
approximately $2.60 day or $468 a year, whereas an Eco Pass is $600 a
year. He explained that in order for a person to break even using the Eco
Pass, the person would have to ride the bus 102 times. He asked the Board
if they would commit to working with DPS and the City of Denver to expand
transportation options for students.
Camille DeValle, Denver, stated that he was speaking on behalf of Together
Colorado on an issue that is very important to himself and his classmates.
He explained how important transportation is to all of them and that most of
them use the bus every day, as it is a necessity. He asked the Board to
consider working with DPS and the City and County of Denver to give
students Eco Passes to expand the of transportation services. Lastly,
remarked that a child should not have to choose whether to save money for
transportation or to use that money to eat.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Anderson
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Menten
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Francone
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Broom
ACED – Chair Hoy/Director Lubow
Northwest Parkway – Chair Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Broom/Director Lubow

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Chair Francone said there were no updates at this time.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of January 24, 2017
Motion:

Director Broom made the motion to approve the
Board Meeting minutes of January.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy,

Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams). Director Folska was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
Bob Broom, Director, District F
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Hoy provided the following report:
Attended Events
 January 27th - Parker Area Chamber of Commerce hosted an Economic Outlook
Forecast Breakfast. Director Mihalik attended.
 January 27th - Arvada Chamber held its 92nd Annual Dinner. Director Folska
attended.
 February 2nd - Jefferson County held a Local Coordinating Council meeting.
Directors Francone and Williams attended.
 February 2nd - The City of Arvada held a Grand Opening ceremony for the Old
Town Hub and Garage. Director Anderson and Chair Hoy attended.
 February 6th - Bicycle Colorado held their Moving People Forward conference.
Director Williams attended.
 February 8th - Jefferson County held their monthly Transportation Action and
Advocacy Group. Director Menten attended.
 February 8th - Brandeberry-McKenna hosted an RTD Legislative Reception at the
Cooper Lounge at Union Station. Directors Folska, Francone, Lubow, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams, and Chair Hoy attended
 February 10th - The South Metro Denver Chamber held their Economic
Development Group Breakfast. Directors Tisdale and Walker attended.
 February 15th - The Downtown Denver Partnership hosted a Multi-Modal
Downtown Forum. Director Williams attended.
 February 15th - Ephektiv hosted an Accelerated Accountability and Engagement
Lab. Director Francone attended.
 February 17th - Directors Broom, Deadwyler, and Folska hosted an R Line VIP
Preview Tour. Senator Nancy Todd and former Senator Suzanne Williams
attended.












February 21st – Director’s VIP Tour of the R Line was attended by Directors
Tisdale and Francone.
February 22nd - The Chamber of the Americas held The Americas Executive
Forum Luncheon. Director Solano attended.
February 23rd - The Transportation Solutions Foundation hosted The Road
Ahead: Mobility on Demand conference. Director Williams attended.
February 23rd - The Longmont Chamber of Commerce held The Unity in the
Community event. Director Lubow attended.
February 23rd - The R Line VIP Reception was held at the Radisson Hotel Denver
Southeast. Directors Archuleta, Broom, Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Williams and
Chair Hoy attended.
February 24th - The R Line VIP Grand Opening Ceremony was held at Iliff
Station. Directors Broom, Mihalik, Sisk and Chair Hoy attended.
February 25th - The Hispanic Contractors of Colorado held their 2017 Annual
Awards Banquet at the Grand Hyatt. The R Line was the recipient of their
Public Achievement Award. Directors Francone, Solano, and Tisdale attended.
February 26th – 28th – Chair Hoy attended the APTA Legal Affairs Seminar in
Savannah, Georgia.

Upcoming Events
 The Aurora Chamber will be hosting their 62nd Annual Awards Dinner and Silent
Auction on Friday, March 10th. Former Chair Tom Tobiassen and Former Director
Barry Gore will be honored. Directors Broom, Folska, Williams, and Chair Hoy
will be attending.
 The APTA Legislative Conference will be held in Washington D.C. on March 12th
- 14th. Directors Folska, Francone, Mihalik, Solano, Tisdale, Walker and Chair
Hoy will be attending.
 As a reminder, there is no meeting scheduled for Tuesday, March 14.

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Genova briefed the Board on the following activities:
 Spoke at RTD’s Small & Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Advisory Council
(S/DBEAC) Meeting on Wednesday, January 25th
 Met with Senate Majority Leader Chris Holbert Wednesday, January 25th
 Met with Senate President Kevin Grantham on Wednesday, January 25th
 Attended NATA meeting on Thursday, January 26th
 Met with Dave Britton of Uber on Thursday, January 26th
 Met with Union Executive Board and Senior Leadership Team on Friday, on
January 27th
 Met with Jarrett Wendt, Panasonic Executive Vice President of Strategic
Initiatives, Friday, January 27th
























Attended a State Legislative Town Hall meeting in Adams County on Saturday,
January 28th with Director Solano. RTD Staff presented an update and
answered various questions. Spoke at E3 Boot Camp on Monday, January 30th
and attended the E3 Boot Camp Ignite Presentations on Friday, February 3rd
Attended a MPACT 64 meeting on Monday January 30th
Had a conference call with U.S. Congressional Delegation on Monday, January
30th
Spoke at the City Club Luncheon on Tuesday, January 31st
Attended the Visit Denver Government & Community Affairs Meeting on
Wednesday, February 1st
Had a quarterly Community Update and Media Event on Thursday February 2nd
Met with Denver Public Schools Superintendent Tom Boasberg on Thursday,
February 2nd
Attended the Metro Mayor’s Caucus Transportation Advisory Committee
meeting Friday, February 3rd
Participated in Operating Division Walk-throughs at East Metro on Wednesday,
February 8th, Rio Court on Friday, February 17th, and Platte on Wednesday,
February 22nd
Presented at the North Metro Rail Elected Officials Briefing on Thursday,
February 9th
Met with Colorado State Senator Fenberg on Thursday, February 9th
Attended the APTA CEO Conference on Saturday, February 11th through
Tuesday, February 14th
Attended the Visit Denver Board Meeting on Wednesday, February 15th
Met with DTP Board Chair David Rushton, DTP Executive Director John
Thompson, and Chair Hoy on Wednesday, February 15th
Attended the MPACT 64 meeting on Thursday, February 16th
R Line Media train with Chair Hoy on Friday, February 17th
Attended the RTC Committee on Tuesday, February 21st
Participated as a panelist at the Transportation Solutions Event on Thursday
February 23rd
Hosted the R Line Grand Opening on Friday, February 24th
Met with Colorado House Representative Paul Lundeen on Monday, February
27th

Director Menten asked General Manager Genova for a brief update on the MPACT 64
meetings.
General Manager Genova stated that they were coming together well as a group. He said
that he attended the Denver Metro Mayor’s Caucus Transportation Advisory committee
and the group is supportive of state legislation to bring in more revenue for transportation

throughout the state. General Manager Genova said that MPACT 64 committee is still
researching what that funding source will look like, and that the committee submitted a
letter summarizing their ideas to legislature.
Director Menten asked if General Manager Genova’s meeting with DPS included the school
that presented public comments at that night’s Board meeting.
General Manager Genova said that he was not familiar with Together Colorado but he
stated that he has met with a variety of organizations regarding the topic. He mentioned
that RTD is being asked to consider a pilot Eco Pass program for 10,000 DPS high school
students. He commented that he has met with DPS and several divisions within the City
and County of Denver, such as the Division of Child Affairs. He mentioned that Michael
Washington, Manager of Transit Equity, will be attending a working group with all the
entities involved in the project. He explained that Eco Passes are typically agreements
made with an employer for their employees, so the pilot program would be outside the Eco
Pass policy. He also stressed the cost and revenue impacts to RTD. He stated that an
analysis must be completed to see how this will impact RTD’s fare revenue. He explained
that the agreement needs to be fiscally sustainable for the entire district and what RTD
does for one stakeholder; it has to do for all.
Director Broom offered thanks to all the RTD employees that worked the opening day
event for the R Line.
Director Solano recapped an email that the Board received from Matt Samelson from the
Darnell K. Foundation. He stated that the letter discussed a mill levy, which was voted on
last November for a similar bus program for kids.
General Manager Genova said that the mill levy did pass; although, he was not sure the
exact dollar amount it entailed. He also mentioned that DPS currently purchases a lot of
passes from RTD though the 50% discount program.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Hoy suggested that if there were any questions or need for discussion of an item a
Director should request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda. Seeing no
discussion, he asked for a motion to approve items A and B.

Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to approve items
A and B on the unanimous consent agenda.

Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 14 in favor (Anderson,
Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 0 against.
Director Folska was absent.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Claudia Folska

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
A.
Termination of Lease between the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District and the
Regional Transportation District
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to terminate the Lease between the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District
(FBID) and the Regional Transportation District (RTD) for additional public parking spaces
for RTD transit customers in the vicinity of the RTD Arapahoe Light Rail Station on the
west side of I-25. Proceeds of this transaction will total $1,100,000, which will be
deposited in the Operating Reserve for the base system.
B.

Salaried Trustee Appointments

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution No. ______ appointing Directors Bob Broom, and
reappointing Director Judy Lubow and employees Luong (Lou) Ha and Sylvia Francis, to
terms expiring 12/31/2018 as trustees for the Salaried Employee Defined Benefit (i.e.,
Pension) Plan and Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.
Approval of 2017 - 2019 Granite Paver Maintenance Contract for 16th Street Mall
Transitway Lanes
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to execute the three-year contract for 16th Street Mall Granite Paver
Maintenance with Colorado Custom Rock Corporation, in the dollar amount of
$2,865,102.16. Funding for the first year of this action is $915,680 and is included in the
2017 Adopted Budget.

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the 2017-2019 Granite Paver Maintenance
Contract for 16th Street Mall Transitway Lanes.
Director Tisdale seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Francone informed General Manager Genova that she
was a reluctant yes to this vote. She stated that she hopes
that General Manager Genova and staff resolve the roadway
design dilemma before the end of her term. She expressed
that she is impatient with this process and hopes that this
concludes soon.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson,
Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 2
opposed (Menten, Mahalik). Director Archuleta
Abstained. Director Folska was absent.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:

PASSED [11 TO 2 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Doug Tisdale, Director, District H
Anderson, Broom, Deadwyler, Francone, Hoy, Lubow, Tisdale, Sisk, Solano,
Walker, Williams
Ken Mihalik, Natalie Menten
Ernest Archuleta
Claudia Folska

Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
Chair Hoy recognized Dana Steele, Associate General Counsel who filled in for Rolf
Asphaug, General Counsel, for the meeting.
Director Francone asked General Manager Genova if the Board would soon have an
updated composition from the Pass Program study group.

General Manager Genova confirmed that an update would be provided at the next set of
committee meetings.
Director Williams stated that the Pass Program working group is a good composition of
people from around the community that work with transit. She said that RTD would be
happy with the results from that group.

XV.

New Business
Director Francone asked for Chair Hoy to provide a brief overview of the format and
expectations of Saturday’s Board and Staff retreat for the new Board members.
Chair Hoy advised Board and staff that this is an annual retreat and only 2018 items will
be discussed. He stated that the purpose of the meeting is to defined three goals for
2018.
Director Sisk suggested his fellow Board members meet annually with their district’s
Citizen’s Advisory Council (CAC). He then recommended that the Board gather their
comments and create a compilation of their concerns. He stressed that it is the Board’s
responsibility to meet with the CAC and any Board member that does not is doing a
disservice to their district.
Chair Hoy agreed with Director Sisk. He stated that he is working on an aggregation of
those luncheons and he reminded the Board that it is their obligation to represent the
district well.
Director Menten stated that she does not think the CAC is effective. She asked staff how
many times CAC members have attended an RTD Board meeting.
Chair Hoy said that, when he was the Committee Chair of FasTracks, they were very
active. He stated that in the future Director Lubow would be providing quarterly reports to
make sure that they are effective. Chair Hoy mentioned that Karen Stewart attends often
and said that depending on the topic in question that some CAC members attend.
Director Menten mentioned that there was a good discussion regarding the retreat during
the Executive Committee regarding changes in the processes. She then asked if the Board
wanted to makes changes and what is the best way to discuss those changes.
Chair Hoy stated that if there are changes in the process, they will be discussed for next
year. He followed up by saying everything for this year is already in place and will move
forward as usual.

Director Anderson stated that she attended her neighborhood service change meeting and
discussed the 55S, the special route that the Board recently approved. She shared that
her constituents are not happy that the G Line is still not open and stressed that RTD’s
public relations and communication with that community have not been good. She stated
that information regarding the G Line should be relayed to neighborhood newspaper outlets
to communicate any changes or updates.
Chair Hoy affirmed that Arvada City officials have been very gracious and understanding.
Director Tisdale stated that he went to a CAC meeting and was introduced to some very
engaging people. He believes that they can provide useful information to the Board. He
also shared that he had a conversation with one of RTD’s fare enforcement officer
regarding Officer Scott Von Lanken. The fare enforcement officer suggested the
placement of a memorial plaque somewhere at Union Station in honor of Officer Scott Von
Lanken. Director Tisdale stated that he had promised the fare enforcement officer he
would share the idea with the Board for consideration.
Director Lubow agreed with Director Tisdale and said she was in support the idea of a
plaque. She then stated that she is looking forward to the Board Retreat. She said she
believes that RTD is going through a transition with the completion of FasTracks, the Eagle
P3 project, the W Line, and the R Line. She commented that she believes RTD is moving
into a transition period with Mobility Choice and analyzing how to deal with new
technology. She stressed that it is very important for the Board to assume its
responsibility to make informed decisions on policy. She suggested that there be a
discussion at the retreat about voting and the process of voting for policy goals.
Director Menten handed out a memo with ideas and some proposed goals for future
review. She indicated that she had conversations with many people regarding the memo
and it was well received.
Director Walker thanked the Board for the flowers that were sent to his mother’s memorial
service.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 6:43 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

