August 13, 2019
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: --I will ask our RTD General Counsel to make that telephone call. And any
medically trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist. And, if needed, an
AED is in a glass case located just outside this room on the wall to the right.
And in the event that an evacuation is necessary for any emergency, please calmly exit out the
door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security
desk, and out the door that you likely would have come in the front. And police and security
officers will be there to direct you to a safe meetup area. Anyone needing special assistance in
the event of that evacuation will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.
And while RTD takes every precaution to ensure the security of its passengers, vehicles, and
facilities, the agency relies on both staff and the general public to be aware of and alert to any
suspicious or dangerous activity on buses and trains and around stations, stops, and platforms.
And as such, I would encourage all our RTD employees and patrons to download the RTD
Transit Watch app, which allows users to report suspicious or dangerous activity and
communicate directly with transit security personnel on a real-time basis in the event of an
emergency situation. And this is available on the Google and Apple app stores.
Tonight doesn't happen often. We don't have any actions tonight, but we do have a number of
important updates. The first one, I will yield the floor to you, Mr. Chairman, to walk us through
that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. For the sake of the record, we
previously submitted to the Board the-- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- description of what
we have for shorthand called the Litigations Ad Hoc Committee, a committee that the Chair has
appointed himself and the First Vice Chair, too, as Chair and Vice Chair respectively of the Ad
Hoc Committee.
Pursuant to and consistent with the obligations of the Chair in doing so, we have drafted a
committee charter. This committee charter has been circulated amongst a number of board
members who had expressed an interest in it. And we believe that it captures all of the necessary
requirements of the rules and addresses any issues or concerns that Directors may have.
This is not something that comes before the Board for approval. But because I have made an
effort at all times to make certain that we have communicated and collaborated fully with all
members of the Board, we bring this to your attention, and we'd be happy if you have any
comments to take those comments. And if further revisions might be appropriate, I would be
happy to consider those and draft those with the Board Office.

But my hope is that this captures the spirit of what we're trying to do, which is to be able to come
back to the Board on a regular basis and say, OK, here's what's going on in these major
litigations, and give you an informational report typically in executive session but perhaps not.
So that's what we have presented. And to the extent that you do have any comments, please feel
free to share them with me or with First Vice Chair Catlin at any time, and we'll see about
incorporating those. And I'd be happy to answer any questions. Thank you very much, Mr.
Chairman.
KEN MIHALIK: I see one question. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. And thank you, Chair Tisdale, for doing this work. I
appreciated being kept informed and actually having some ideas incorporated in this. A question
that I had is that from what you were describing, the purpose of it would be to come back and
talk to the Board about what's happening. But we get that from our General Counsel, too. So
could you distinguish? Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the question, Director. Mr. Chair, if I may respond,
that's an excellent observation. Because, no, we are not here to provide the general update as to
the litigation, but to provide the oversight to say, all right, two independent people have looked
at what General Counsel is doing and what the attorneys are doing.
Gosh, we think we have an issue with attorneys' fees or no, we don't have an issue with attorneys'
fees or some reporter has made some allegation about something. We've looked into it. We don't
think it's grounded. So more as-- I guess you might even think of it as an ombudsman role rather
than the regular reporting because the General Counsel is obligated to provide regular reporting
and does so.
But it was suggested that two independent people might also provide an oversight, have a direct
communication with General Counsel relative to these matters, and then be able to report to the
Board so that the Board has assurance that other eyes other than just the General Counsel have
looked at it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. And I want to reiterate that this isn't a decision-making body in
any way. OK, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I think we say that actually three or four times in the charter. Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you both. Director Folska, I'd like to recognize you if you have any
questions or comments on this update.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Thank you, Chair Mihalik. No, I do not.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. I don't see any other questions on this topic. So we will move
on to our next item, and it is the third draft of the mid-term financial plan. And Mrs. McKillop, I
understand you're going to be here for the next several of these, and so I will let you proceed.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, with that, I'll be glad to turn it over to Jannette Scarpino, and she's
going to walk us through the latest update to the mid-term financial plan.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. Good evening. I'm going to skip a few slides here because
this is not new material. I thought. So I said. Yeah.
KATE WILLIAMS: You have to say click.
JOHN MCKAY: Turn it on.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Oh.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just say click it.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: I think it is on. It looks it's on.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I know it is.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yeah. Oh, OK. Thank you. OK. We're getting there, yeah. We're
getting there. One too many. Sorry. OK. All right, I just want to touch on some areas of new
information.
We mentioned that we may have the opportunity for a diesel fuel lock. Today, I received a price
for 2020 for diesel of $2.10 should we lock today. However, the price is fluctuating rapidly. So
this will likely not hold. I'm just presenting this for informational purposes.
The third draft is balanced. And really, we got there because of the next section, and that is that
we have been prioritizing our capital and expense projects. And the third draft for the Base
System-- I'm only talking Base-- solves for the $32 million gap that you saw in the previous
version. And we did that basically by deferring the bus fleet from-- we deferred a whole group
from 2020 and 2021 to 2022 and then again from 2022 and 2023 to 2024.
We are also as part of the plan issuing 30 million of new COP debt in 2022 to finance purchases
of buses. That is the maximum amount of debt we can issue and still maintain our debt service
coverage. So while the plan is balanced in this third draft, I need to say that it may require further
changes in the final draft. We may have to move additional components and elements around. So
the final draft may look different.
Uh-huh. There we go. OK. I also want to touch on the revenue assumptions as regards passenger
fare revenue. We have assumed a 10% fare rate increase in 2022 and 2025. Also, in this draft, we
are adjusting for the delay in implementation of the past program price increases. And that had
an effect, as you might imagine.
With respect to sales and use tax, the forecast is a 4.4% increase in 2019. Through May, we have
seen our collections rise 3.3% over last year. And June, the number is 3%. So we are going to
have to make up some ground here. You've seen this before.

OK, again, debt financing, we are looking at issuing new COP debt in 2022 to finance fleet
acquisition. And we also have opportunities to refinance our existing debt, and we are beginning
that effort.
Reserves, I want to touch on this. We, of course, are looking to reach our goal of three months of
operating expenses in our reserve balances. The Base System reaches the goal, we think, in our
current plan. We're still working with the long-range plan. But that will happen beyond the year
2025. FasTracks maintains this goal through this six-year plan. Also, the FasTracks Internal
Savings Account, we will likely have to draw down funds from the FISA in 2025 to support
corridor operations.
Oh. Sorry. So if we look at the cash flow here for the Base System, the only lines I want to point
out to you are line six, which the adjustment to balance is now blank. That indicates to us that it
is a balanced plan. And also line 38, the unrestricted year-end fund balance, it is either positive-well, it is positive. We strive for a $2 million dollar minimum balance there, which the plan
maintains through 2023, and then the plan is able to generate cash flow beyond that level in '24
and '25.
Here, we graph the sources and uses for the Base System for the year 2020. FasTracks update-again, we are using the FISA for FasTracks operations in the years '24 and '25. But we expect to
be able to repay the FISA over the term of the long-range plan, and that repayment takes place in
2026 through 2031. We'll talk about that next.
The summary cash flow for FasTracks. Again, if you look at line 27, that is the unrestricted yearend fund balance, a little bit stronger than the Base. And then finally, the next steps, in
September, we will present the final mid-term financial plan and the second draft of the longrange financial plan.
We're presenting the first draft of the long-range financial plan tonight. We will bring the first
draft of the 2020 budget forward. On September 24, we hope for adoption of the mid-term
financial plan. On October 29, we hope for adoption of the long-range financial plan. And then
finally, November 12, we will present the final recommended budget for 2020. Can we take
questions from anyone?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Broom, you are first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a couple of questions. When will we get our next update
on sales tax from CU?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: That will be in September. We will incorporate that into the 2020
budget.
BOB BROOM: OK, and then could you speak to how much we are funding our pension
obligations? Has that increased from last year? And do you have increases built in in future
years?

JANNETTE SCARPINO: We anticipate about a million, million and a half increase from 2019,
and we will build that into the plan. So it may be a change that needs to be made yet.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's for salary.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: For the salaried pension plan.
BOB BROOM: Right. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Hi, Jannette. Thank you so much for the
presentation. I have a question about the capital expenditures. Are we going to see what they
look like at the final presentation? How does it work?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Yes, we always present a list of the capital projects that made their
way into the mid-term financial plan, and included with that is a project description. And we
show the dollars over the six-year period. We have traditionally also given a list of deferred
projects, those that we could not fund in this plan. I think someone else asked for that. So we can
provide that as well.
JUDY LUBOW: So we will get that as we vote.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Correct.
JUDY LUBOW: We'll see it as part of the process-JANNETTE SCARPINO: It'll be a part of the final presentation.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you so much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. A couple of questions. So assuming 10% fare rate increases, we're
looking at 3.30 in 2022 and 3.63 or something like that in 2025. Usually when we have a fare
change, some fares go up, some fares go down.
So this is like a two-parter. One is, I'm wondering if staff is looking at ways that that will happen
in these next coming fare discussions about what rates might fall, which region or pass
supplements or new passes or fare structures might occur. I'm wondering if that's being discussed
now.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, it is. So for purposes of this document, we just do the flat
percentage. We don't make those assumptions at this time. But as we get closer to that process,
we're looking at that. We're also looking at it in context of moving from our current system of

collecting fares and ways of paying for it. We're moving to the account-based system, which also
will have us look at that fare structure.
And we've also been asked, and we're all going to have that conversation next month in
September, about the policy on having fare increases every three years. So all of that will have
an impact on this. But this plan will be approved prior-- we need to have that approved prior to
that discussion taking place. And whatever the Board decides will affect the budget going
forward and the mid-term financial plan going forward.
JEFF WALKER: OK, thanks. And then I'm also wondering-- because it says fare rate, I'm
wondering if that should be changed to fare revenue because not all rates increase. It's actually
the revenue that is-HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is true. As you mentioned, sometimes the local goes up
differently than the regional, differently than the airport at different rates and that type of thing.
So yes, it's actually the fare revenue that we're anticipating increasing by that percentage.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: But that's a little bit of a semantics discussion because there has been
a Board member who thought that fare revenue increases corresponded to higher ridership. So
we've tried to say we're talking about rates, OK? What we pay to take transit.
JEFF WALKER: OK, and thanks for the explanation. I had forgotten that. And then one other
thing, in summary cash flow fare revenue 2020 and 2021 under FasTracks, it goes up by $2
million. And in fare revenue for Base System 2020, 2021, it drops by $0.3 million. And if you
explained that, I missed it. But I'm wondering how can it stay flat for Base and increase for
FasTracks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So it's depending on where the ridership is. So our ridership increases
are occurring mainly due to North Metro projections in those years because we're going to open
North Metro in 2020. Those are a result of that. We're not expecting those ridership increases on
the Base System as much. And also, the shift between where people are riding and the more
revenue is being generated on the FasTracks than the Base System proportionally.
JEFF WALKER: Yes. Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I don't think I quite followed that. But Director Guissinger, you're
next.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you-Sorry. Thanks. This is great. I'm always amazed at how much goes into this, and I apologize if I
missed this in here. But if we're assuming a rate increase in 2022 and 2025, what's the ridership
assumption? Does it stay flat?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you want to answer?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Largely flat for the Base System, largely. We will see increases in
FasTracks in accordance with corridor openings for the most part.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And this might be a rookie question. But a couple of places in this
and in the long-term-- page 17, I think, it says, "Continued growth through savings from rubber
tire service increases." Can you just tell me what that means, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is the conversation we had as part of the unfunded corridors for
FasTracks. So there is a transfer-- I don't know if it's a transfer. But there is basically a transfer-an offset probably is a better word, yes, whoever said that-- of funding that the money that was to
go for growth in rubber tire service is being capped basically.
And that money is then being put into the FISA. And that decision was made, I believe, in 2012.
Is that correct? Right around that time frame. So that when we reference the rubber tire service,
that's what we're referencing. And there's actually a line in each of the charts that show that
offset occurring.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. And then on page 23, it says the TABOR exemption on
the Base System expires 12/31/2024. I know it's a moving target. But is there something we're
calculating in here as a result of that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. We have tried to make that calculation, but it's virtually
impossible because we need to know what the property values are the year before that occurs.
And then based on that, we're able to do the calculation. So we can make some assumption about
property growth. But if we happen to have a down year between now and then, that could change
the entire assumption from going from a non-refunding situation to a refunding situation. So we
won't know that till we get much closer.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Chair Tisdale, you're next.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just very briefly, if you look at-- there
are two summary cash flow charts, one on page 18 for the Base System, one on page 22 for the
FasTracks. And I just want to confirm, because there are perhaps some who might be confused
by this. And I thought, let's put it on the record so we know.
The one for the Base System is the third draft, and that was because there was additional work
that was needed in order to balance that out. The one under FasTracks is labeled as the second
draft, and that's intentional because that one did balance out in the second draft. So there's no
mistake about that. There is no confusion in our minds, that it's simply the Base System took
three drafts to get to that and FasTracks took two, and there may be further revisions beyond
that. Is that correct?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is a correct statement.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that clarification. Director Rivera-Malpiede, you're next.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Just two things. The first one is, what
are the rider projections then, piggybacking on Director Guissinger, for light rail?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: What are the ridership projections? I don't know have those in front of
me, but we can get those for you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great. And then the second one is, can you talk a little bit
about the cost for fuel? Because you had said 2.20, and I'm seeing that there might be some
challenges in '20 to '25.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Mm-hmm.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And when do you lock that in?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Right. The budgeted price that we're using in the plan is $2.30. That is
also the lock price for 2019. What we're seeing for 2020 right now is if we were to lock today.
We don't have a contract in place. We would have to take some steps to effect that.
But if we could lock today, we could possibly lock at $2.10. The difference in the forecast is not
insignificant between those two amounts. Could be anywhere between $17 to $20 million dollars
effect in the first year of this plan, OK?
The other question you asked, when do we normally lock? That really is a decision that's made
by the General Manager and senior level. It would not be unusual for us to lock now, for
example, if we found a particularly good opportunity. We tend to really focus on that in the
fourth quarter. Tell me if I'm wrong. If you want to add to that, that's fine. But it is a decision that
is made by the General Manager.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll just add, we tend to look at it after September, after the Labor
Day holiday because prices tend to drop after that period of time. But like last year, it was so
volatile. It was moving day by day, which is what it's doing right now if you've seen the market.
So we'll continue to monitor. If it gets close to $2, we'll probably seriously discuss pulling that
trigger now prior to that date. But typically, we see prices go down after the Labor Day holiday.
The problem with the last couple of years is that they have gone down, and then we've had some
kind of natural disaster like a hurricane or something else that has affected crude oil production,
which has then driven the price up again. So it's a interesting process we go to monitor that. But
our procurement staff monitors that daily for us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Catlin, you're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Heather or Jannette, either one, I noticed that you said that the
goal for reserves is three months of O&M cost in three reserves, one of them being the
unrestricted fund balance. And for the Base System, it's quite a bit more than for the FasTracks
system. Can you explain why?
And then a second question I have is that for the FISA, we are actually drawing down the
savings account to support corridor operations. And are those tied at all together, the unrestricted
fund balance and the FISA savings account?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: The operating expenses on the Base System are quite a bit larger than
what we see on FasTracks. So the Base tends to incur-- it is the Base System, the existing system
prior to FasTracks-- tends to incur the bulk of repair and maintenance, capital expansion, that
sort of thing outside of FasTracks.
So the costs of actually operating FasTracks are lower than what it takes to manage the Base
System. Most of the overhead is captured in Base, for example. So that's why the numbers are
larger. So that target is going to be larger and more difficult to reach. OK? OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And then let me answer the second question for you. Is it related to the
FISA? And the answer to that is no because the FISA has very distinct lists of things that we use
to fund it. And so based on that, we then move the money. So whether it's from a property sale,
which is one of the big areas besides the bus piece of it, those are the two main funding sources
right now for the FISA. But we don't move unrestricted reserve money into the FISA or vice
versa unless we need those funds to cover operations or construction.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, that did answer my question. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I've got two kind of sticky educational questions, if
you don't mind. And you addressed both of them, but I'd like it a little deeper because I didn't
understand it that much. This is about the FISA and the cap on the rubber tire money. Could you
explain where that comes from? Was it statutorily required that money go from FasTracks to
rubber tires? Or what is it?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we provided that. There's a really good explanation in the unfunded
corridor report. So I think that'd be probably better to read that. But basically, the mechanics of it
was in the FasTracks plan, it discussed a fact that there would need to be rubber tire service. And
it was a percentage increase of 1% per year, and then I believe it was 2020 when it went up to 1
and 1/2%, something in that time frame. Like I said, it's spelled out in the report a little bit better.
The Board made a decision to cap that rubber tire service and put the difference, the inflation-the amount-- I'm sorry-- and grow it by inflation. And then the difference from what it would
have been if you'd follow the formula and what it is once it's capped is moved into the FISA, and

that's significant. It's somewhere between $10 and $20 million each year as you go out in time.
So that is the main funding source for the FISA account.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I ask, was that like a statutory requirement in the statute that was passed or
is it a policy requirement?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, it's in the FasTracks plan, which was approved-JUDY LUBOW: By the public.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, the voters approved the voter initiative. They did not approve
the FasTracks plan. That is a Board-approved document. The Board also approved the diversion
of that money to the FISA. So both of those are Board-approved actions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, so they were both-- one could call them policy.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: And that's statutory. OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They're not statutorily required.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, good. Thank you. I just couldn't understand what was happening. Thank
you. And the other one is-- oh, yes, the TABOR exemption. I believe that it's supposed to stop
for the Base System at the end of '24 or '25. Is that-HEATHER MCKILLOP: 2024.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Could you very quickly, if possible, explain what that means? We get a
bucket of money from the state for the Base sales tax, right? Or how does that work?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, well, we get sales tax. It just happens to be the state collects it for
us. That money has been exempted from the spending limitations since we passed the T-REX
vote. So as part of the T-REX vote, not only did we get authority from the voters to issue debt,
but we also exempted the Base System from those spending limitations.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the bonds will be paid off in 2024. As soon as those bonds are paid
off, that is a trigger under that voter-approved bonding and TABOR exemption that we no longer
have that exemption available to us.
So what that means is then we have to do a calculation every year that shows us whether or not
we have to do a refund or we're within the limits of being able to keep those sales tax revenues.
And that piece of it's just for the Base. There is a different exemption for FasTracks for the 2004

vote, and that also expires when we've issued and paid off all of the FasTracks bonds, which
won't be till after 2050.
JUDY LUBOW: We'll be long gone. OK. Thank you so much. And you dumbed it down
appropriately. I could understand it. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Could you give us a little refresher on the TABOR reserve? I
think that's 3% of the total budget. And then how does that compare with the target of having
three months' maintenance and operation funds on hand?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the TABOR reserves a little more complicated than that. It's 3%,
but then you get to deduct federal funds and other things like that. So we do the calculation-- I'm
sorry?
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Of revenue.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Of revenue, yes. 3% of revenue. I'm sorry. Yeah, not expenditures. 3%
of revenue. But then there's certain things that you can deduct from that revenue, such as federal
funds. And so you do that calculation each year. And then we're required to have 3% put in a
reserve. That reserve, we can't use that towards anything. So we can't apply that towards our
three months' operating reserve because we can't touch it.
And we have chosen in that reserve and the Board has approved in the past that a portion of that
reserve is also funded with property. So it's not all cash at this point in time. A portion of it,
approximately half of it I believe now, is property. But there is a portion that's still cash in there.
But we don't include that towards our three month because we can't access it in a case of an
emergency or anything. It would not be available to us.
BOB BROOM: OK, then where are we at in having three months' worth of operational expenses
in the reserve? Are we halfway there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're about a month and a half.
JANNETTE SCARPINO: Mm-hmm.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So about a month and a half. So about halfway there.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, I'll let you have the last word on this mid-term
financial plan debate.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Thank you. Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Nope, that sounds
great. Thank you very much. No question.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Chair?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes, General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: If the Board's done, I just want to reiterate one point in the plan to date. So
the finance team has done a great job getting us to a zero balance on the SPP-- or the mid-term
financial plan, excuse me. But there's an item in here I want to point out because we are still
vetting what the impacts will be on this, and that is pushing out the bus fleet in this case another
couple of years.
So we're still meeting on that. There's trade-offs when you do these kinds of things and what it
does with the maintenance costs, what it does with reliability, and those kinds of things. And so
we've got a robust asset management program. So we know our condition assessments, and that
helps us in managing our risk and making decisions, data-driven decisions because we have data
around these things.
But I just want to make sure you understand that this is still a bit fluid for us right now. So there
could be changes in how it looks when it comes back to you. It'll come back balanced. But there
could be some of the trade-offs that we might be talking about until we actually get through our
complete vetting, at least on the rolling stock issue. And then there's a couple other items, too,
that we're still working through. So I just want to make sure that's really clear. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we'll bring back the detail. So anything that's changed since last
time, we make sure to point that out to you so you know where we made those changes.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. I'll let you ladies go on now to the-HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, so next item up is the long-range financial plan. And this one
does not look quite as pretty yet in that it's not balanced. The FasTracks portion's pretty close,
but the Base, we're quite a ways off. So I'm going to let Susan walk through the process that
we've been going through and where we're at. And we had typically try to have the mid-term and
the long-range approved at the same time next month in September.
But we feel we need a little more time to work on the long-range plan. So as the previous
schedule showed you, we're looking at adoption of this probably in the October time frame so
that we have a little more time to come back next month and say, hey, these are some of the
things we've done, let you digest those before we give you a final version because it might have
some significant changes in it. So with that, I'm going to ask Susan Cohen to please present on
the long-range plan.
SUSAN COHEN: OK.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: You've got to go up and hit the-SUSAN COHEN: What am I-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Do you see the little thing behind Director Whitmore?
[LAUGHTER]
There you go.
SUSAN COHEN: Hey, it worked.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You're going too far.
TROY WHITMORE: A little complication-SUSAN COHEN: I'm Susan Cohen. I'm presenting the first draft of the long-range financial
plan. The long-range financial plan is kind of what it sounds like. It's an overall long-term
financial plan for RTD. It includes both the Base System and FasTracks. It's essentially an
extension of the mid-term financial plan. In fact, the first six years of the long-range financial
plan are the mid-term financial plan.
It's submitted to DRCOG to be included in the regional transportation plan. Essentially, if any
project in the region wants-- if anyone wants any federal funding for any project in the region,
whether it's RTD or anyone else, it has to be incorporated in the regional transportation plan, and
they have to have one adopted in order for anyone to receive federal funding.
So our time horizon on the financial plan that will be presented tonight is 2040, which is the
current time horizon for the regional transportation plan. We also have a model that extends to
2050, which is concurrent with our outstanding debt. Our last outstanding debt on FasTracks is
paid off in 2050. Oh.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You got it, but the wrong way.
SUSAN COHEN: Good?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Hold it up a little higher. There you go. Excellent.
SUSAN COHEN: There. So what's in the long-range financial plan? First of all, we have the
FasTracks corridor construction. After the mid-term financial plan, we have commitments after
openings through 2040. We have ongoing operations and maintenance on both the Base System
and the FasTracks, including annual operating and maintenance on our service, capital
replacement, and rehabilitation costs.
And we also have ridership forecasts and farebox revenues in there. Revenue sources besides our
operating revenues include sales and use tax, federal grants. We also have some local and third

party revenues for FasTracks, at least in the mid-term plan. And we also include reserves. This
went a little too fast.
So start with what we assume for operating and maintenance cost. We look at projecting out the
Base System based on the final year forecast from the mid-term financial plan. FasTracks costs
assume operations and maintenance of all our completed projects. The Eagle is based on the
concession agreement. The concession agreement runs actually through 2044, which is past the
time horizon of adoption of this plan.
We have light rail and bus costs projected using RTD's O&M cost model and our forecast
service levels. We also have North Metro commuter rail costs, and those are based on the RTD
operations, which you'll hear an update later tonight. All our costs are escalated to future year
dollars at the Denver-Boulder CPI, consumer price index.
We also include capital replacement and rehabilitation. Our capital replacement is based on our
current asset inventory and on replacement schedules, including both Base System and
FasTracks. We adjust our current asset inventory for major assets that are purchased, procured in
the mid-term plan period to make sure we're not double-counting.
We also include an annual allowance for major rehabilitation, which would be the kinds of
projects you would see for expense projects in the mid-term plan for the Base System. Because
the Base System assets are older, we have an allowance based on half a percent of the installed
cost of the existing asset inventory. FasTracks ranges from basically 3/10 of a percent to half a
percent based on the age of the corridor. Once again, all these costs are escalated at CPI.
So other side of that is revenues. We use the Leeds school sales and use tax forecasts. The most
recent ones are March 2019. We have grants. We take our formula grants forecast based on our
historic appropriations, and they're also adjusted for inflation at CPI. We also get fixed guideway
grants from FTA, and those are appropriations for corridors that have been in service-- fixed
guideway corridors that have been in service for seven years or more.
And we assume in the long-range plan and actually in the later years of the mid-term plan that
we're going to see those grants increase based on added mileage of FasTracks corridors.
Although the grants are based on seven-year mileage given the lag between reporting seven-year
mileage and receipt of the grants, we actually won't get the funding until the ninth year after the
quarter opens because of the reporting lag.
And we do not assume any discretionary grants in the long-term because we want to be
conservative. While we have historically gotten some in the past, we don't want to be predicating
programs on grants that we don't know if we're going to get.
Actually, this may go through. So here are our sales and use tax forecasts through 2040, Base in
the blue, FasTracks in the gold. Ridership and farebox revenues-- [SIDE CONVERSATION]
The Base System ridership and farebox revenues are forecasted with a fare model. The
FasTracks ridership is forecast using regional travel model in cooperation with DRCOG. And the

farebox revenues are forecasted using the ridership forecast and our current data on average fare
paid. And once again, as with the mid-term plan, we have assumed fare increases per the current
Board policy, which in the long-range plan is actually tied to the CPI. So fare rates are moving
pretty much in lockstep with costs.
Here, we're going to go through some of the major changes that we've seen since 2018. Sales and
use tax forecast to have dropped quite a bit from the forecast used for the 2018 long-range plan.
When we presented the unfinished corridors materials in June and July, we highlighted that. We
saw about-- cumulative total of almost $1 and 1/2 billion dollar decrease between the March
2018 and the March 2019 forecasts.
Farebox revenue forecasts were basically identical, other than the adjustment that Jannette
mentioned for the mid-term plan. We saw a decrease in operating and maintenance costs because
we incorporated budget reductions from the 2019 amended budget. And the long-term CPI
forecasts for Moody's were slightly lower this year than last year. That's offset by increased
capital replacement costs. We're also looking at issuing COPs to fund vehicle replacements.
So there, you can see the blue-- this is the sales and use tax forecast comparison by year. And the
blue is last year. The orange is what we're forecasting this year. And you can see there's a
decrease, and the gap gets wider as time goes on.
O&M cost. The blue is last year. The orange is this year. They're pretty much in lockstep, but the
orange is slightly lower. Eventually, this might actually move. Oh. I'm sorry. Sorry, I'm having
trouble with this.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll just go through.
SUSAN COHEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: There you go.
SUSAN COHEN: I think I skipped one. There's also a chart of the-- what?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: [SIDE CONVERSATION]
SUSAN COHEN: OK, that came out? OK. FasTracks Internal Savings Account, if I can focus
back on that. As in the mid-term, we talked about the continued growth of FISA based on the
savings from the rubber tire service increase. However, we would need in the early years of the
long-range plan to continue borrowing from the FISA to fund operations and maintenance on
FasTracks.
We would be borrowing funds from 2026 through 2030. We would be able to restore the full
balance by 2035. And through 2040, the FISA would be fully funded and would be at about-balance of about $563 million at year end 2040.

So eventually, we get to the long-range plan-- the Base System cash flow. And see, if you go
down to the bottom line of year-end balance, it's negative. In the year 2040, we still have a gap
that we have not been able to solve for. And we still need to be working through that.
FasTracks, on the other hand, maintains a positive unrestricted fund balance and a positive FISA
balance in every year through the term of the long-term plan. By 2040, as we mentioned before,
we would have a balance of $563 million in the FISA. That would be augmented by an
unrestricted fund balance of about $215 million under our current forecast.
Our net revenue is 1.20 or greater starting in 2022. As Jannette mentioned in the mid-term plan,
the certificates of participation that were assumed for the buses in the mid-term plan are sized
where they are, and we could not issue more. Because if you look here, we have net revenue
coverage of exactly 1.20 from 2023 to 2025.
Here is another chart of the cash flow. The black line would be revenues. And as you can see in
this, basically all of our revenues above what we have to maintain for debt service coverage is
spent on capital in this plan.
Our opportunities-- if I can get there. [LAUGHS] Eventually, I'll figure out how to use this.
Opportunities-- we have potential long-term funding available for some additional projects
further out. Our biggest challenge right now is that the Base System is not balanced. Our
unrestricted fund balances are negative starting in 2027.
We would need to make adjustments. We can't even issue certificates of participation to cover
deficits because our year-end balance 2040 is negative. We have nothing to borrow against.
We're looking at how we can construct and operate our unfunded FasTracks corridors while
maintaining our assets in a state of good repair.
Mentioned sales and use tax volatility. Jannette mentioned earlier that our sales tax this year is
coming in below forecast. And if you look at what we were forecasting at this time last year
versus this time this year, there's a significant difference. So sales tax forecasts go up and down
by year. And we're not sure where we end up.
Once again here, in the long-range, we also have the funding constraints and financing
challenges with the TABOR exemption, which for the Base is going to be expiring at the end of
2024. Until we get a lot closer to 2024, we won't know what impact that would have on our
revenues. You've seen debt service coverage. If you remember, the Base System isn't balanced,
and we still have some long-term service needs outside of the FasTracks corridors.
Our next steps will be to come back here next month with a second draft of the long-range
financial plan. And we are hoping we will have it balanced on both the Base and FasTracks by
then. On October 22, we will present a final and hope to have something that will be adoptable
on October 29. And at this point, questions?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Susan, your hair looks good longer.
SUSAN COHEN: [LAUGHS] Thanks.
[ISIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[LAUGHTER]
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. OK, I have what I think are some related questions, and I'll give you
some. The first one is real simple. Can you give me some examples of what third party revenues
are?
SUSAN COHEN: As part of the FasTracks plan, the local governments and private entities in
each corridor were required to provide 2 and 1/2% of the cost of the corridor. We've also had
arrangements with outside entities that wanted improvements to be built as either part of our
project or in conjunction with our project while our contractor was in there and have reimbursed
us for the difference between what we would have built without their contribution and with their
contribution.
KATE WILLIAMS: Cool. OK. That makes sense. OK, then on page 35, there's a line about a
decrease in operations and maintenance costs. On page 38, there's a line about savings from
rubber tire service increase.
And I'm just wondering how all of those are reflected in our ability to maintain a state of good
repair, which we have done a great job of historically and are working all the time toward
maintaining. So I just wondered if you could speak a little bit to those two lines.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. So there are two different things. So the rubber tire service that
we discussed is the amount that's frozen, and the difference goes into the FISA. So that really
affects service, right? So if that money wasn't going into the FISA, that money could be used to
offset service in the Base System and funding there. So that's more of a service-related item,
which then, in turn, comes to costs and those type of things.
The operating and maintaining, a lot of that is operations, but some of it is maintaining our state
of good repair projects. So we have done an analysis in this and determining what that would
look like. And Susan ran through the formula that we're using to determine how much we should
set aside for those type of activities.
Next year, we will be moving to a new methodology, which we'll be using our asset management
plan to help us further refine those numbers and be more specific. And we'll be applying those in
there. So those numbers might change a little bit.
Because right now, we're using a formula to do it versus looking at every individual asset and
determining, OK, this is its useful life, but these are other things that go into it. Right now, from
our perspective, we're looking at just the useful life of that particular asset and when it is up and

then assuming we're going to replace it. And then we use that formula for the expense type
projects.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I think that helps a little bit. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. You have a graph that shows debt service coverage. And in
2025, it shows 1.20 coverage. And in 2034, it shows 2.25 coverage. Is that just a function of debt
being paid down?
SUSAN COHEN: Yes, it is. At the end of 2024, as we mentioned, we would have paid off all the
T-REX debt. We also have certificates of participation for existing fleet that will be paid off over
time as well.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Susan, thank you so much for that presentation. It
was very thorough. I have a few questions. For those of us who want to see the FasTracks
corridors finished, this is not a source of great celebration, this long-term plan.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can I say something to that? It doesn't differ much on the FasTracks
ride from what we presented in the unfunded corridor report that we gave you. So I wouldn't say
that it's much different on the FasTracks ride. And we had pointed out in the unfunded corridor
report that we had a significant shortfall that we had not addressed in the Base System. So it's
pretty consistent with that report.
JUDY LUBOW: It's not new, but it's still not a cause for celebration.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. That's a good way of saying it.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, OK. Unfortunately. So I just have some questions. You mentioned that the
FISA funds are going to be drawn down between 2026 and '30. Could you say how much money
that is? I'm sure it's somewhere in there.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can you -SUSAN COHEN: We'd have to get back to you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, all right, that'll be fine. OK. And then also, I think it’s page 16. You had it
up there, the debt ratio or-- you called it something else, revenue.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Net revenue coverage-JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: --through 2040.
JUDY LUBOW: But isn't that also though like the 1.20, which is what we would need? That's
the minimum to issue bonds in order-SUSAN COHEN: Correct.
JUDY LUBOW: So it looks like, as we're moving along, that that goes up. And so that makes us
more attractive, but there's just no money to bond, right?
SUSAN COHEN: Correct. We would have the debt service coverage. But because of the-uhmm-- capital expenditures, we wouldn't have any money to actually repay the debt.
JUDY LUBOW: Right, OK. So the one hand, it worked nicely, the other hand, it's taken away.
So that raises the last point for me, which is that I would like to see-- in the cash flow chart,
there's all this pink that indicates capital expenses.
And is there's some way for us to get notes that would just show, OK, in this year, this is what is
going to be expended? Because all the money that used to-- it was the white that showed all the
revenue that we had, and now it's nothing but pink and capital expenditures.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we have that information. It's going to be quite a large amount of
data. But, yes, we have it available.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, I'm just wondering if it could be summarized. Because I think-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes we could summarize it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Because I think it would be important for the Board to be able to
tell our constituents, well, we're not building FasTracks because in such and such a year, we have
this capital project and that capital project.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we could do that.
JUDY LUBOW: And if it could be indicated those projects that are Base and those that are
FasTracks. Thank you very much. I know its extra work. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi there. Continuing on the FISA, it's in the next agenda item or maybe two
down, the current monthly financial status. They do have the FISA account budget. So I thought
it might answer some of that, if we can clarify on the packet page that shows the uses. Packet
page 38, you talk about the additional use of the FISA for FasTracks operations.
And then on packet page 62 where it shows that, it mainly seems to be for the current year, US
36 project draws. Is that true, 2019? And then for the 2025 to 2030 period, it looks like it's US 36

project plus debt service and operations funding. Am I reading that right? Is that the drawdown
you're talking about there?
SUSAN COHEN: Yes. Yeah, the current is actually from probably about 2015 commitment to
provide pieces of US 36, which were originally to be deferred till after opening. And we're still
working on completing those.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And then this looks like it took place previously. But it shows a
reduction in the FasTracks operating and maintenance fund balance from three to two months.
And that resulted-- or maybe that was in a different fund or something.
SUSAN COHEN: That actually was part of the FISA from 2013 through 2016 when we
basically only had the west quarter operating. In 2017, we presented and the Board approved
removing that and returning to a three-month balance in reserves given that we had at that point
opened the Flatiron Flyer and most of the Eagle. And we're projecting to open R Line and G
Line.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And is the debt service and operations funding mentioned in 2025 to
2030? Which debt services that and operations funding?
SUSAN COHEN: That would be the operations funding for FasTracks. The numbers in the
monthly financial status report are based on the long-range plan that the Board adopted in
October 2018-SHELLEY COOK: OK.
SUSAN COHEN: --at this point. Once the Board adopts the long-range financial plan 2019, that
report would be updated to reflect whatever drawdowns and repayment are projected in this plan.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it.
SUSAN COHEN: But for right now, they're what's adopted.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And then just to drive that point home about how this account is funded,
if the funding increases for bus and paratransit are limited to CPI-- and CPI has been very low
for the past several years, correct? We really haven't been able to expand bus and paratransit
much at all. And to the extent that we are then diverting money into this account, it really is at
the expense of service for areas that have increased in population and/or workforce, et cetera,
correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That would be a true statement, yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: So that's a really tough choice. I don't know if there's some calibration we
need to do. But thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, and thank you, Susan, on this. Just a quick question. You said
that you don't include any discretionary grant funding, which makes total sense to me. But I'm
wondering if you can give us a sense. I see grant numbers in the mid-range plan. But for
discretionary grant funding, about how much is that ongoing now? Or is it a number you can-SUSAN COHEN: It's really project-related. So you would have to submit a project that met the
criteria for whatever grant that was out there. In the past, we've received full funding grant
agreements for, starting with our southwest quarter, Southwest, T-REX, West, and Eagle. We
also got a small starts construction grant for Southeast rail extension. We've gotten smaller
discretionary grants for bus purchases, electric vehicles.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and one of the reasons we don't put it out there is currently, we
just don't know if that money will be available. Those programs change considerably. And
currently, the projects we've identified, the unfunded corridors on FasTracks as well as the state
highway 119 projects that's in the Base System, our analysis is they wouldn't qualify for those
type of discretionary funds. So they might qualify for something like a CMAQ, a grant or
something like that. But that's through an application process that we do through DRCOG, which
is very uncertain.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thanks so much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, for the future, could we possibly change-- and I'm giving an example
off packet page 38 or the document's page 13 with the line item, which you've all heard already
so you don't really need to go there-- savings from rubber tire service increases?
This'll be the, I think, fifth, sixth question this year in the few presentations. Could we just clear
that up to make it more clear? Because the average citizen out there is thinking that means
somehow they had savings from increasing bus service. Could we make it more clear, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We can try to figure out a different name.
[LAUGHTER]
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. A slower growth of the promised or we didn't fulfill all the
promise. We took it and shifted it. However you would like to word it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: You're even clearer.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Folska, any questions or comments on the long-range plan
to date?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Yes, thank you, Chair Mihalik. This is slightly off, and I'll
just ask it. I don't know if this is the appropriate time for it or not. But I started thinking, listening

to the presentation, that it really is important for us to look at other revenue streams, and we've
talked about that ad nauseam.
And I'm wondering, for example-- I mean, we have a lot of different types of property that we
own, some that we own like Union Station, some that we've acquired through eminent domain or
a nice way of agreeing to buy the property from someone. And so there could be some fine legal
depending on exactly how the property was acquired.
So let's just take 29th & Welton, for example. If we were to do a ground lease, would that be
possible to generate revenue from that? And I know there are other places that we have property
that we could lease to someone for 50 years, 99 years or something. And have you thought about
that?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, we do think about that and work on that quite a bit. It's really probably a
matter of more of those kinds of development deals coming to us. So 29th & Welton, I think we
gave an update just last week on where we are with that project. So in fact, I had a call today, and
I haven't been able to return it yet from Denver Office of Economic Development on that project.
So that's still an active project for us in terms of one of our pilot programs under TOD. So that's
an example of a property where if the right package or the right deal came together, that could be
a ground lease. And there's probably a few other parcels that would qualify. But we've really not
been able to put any particular packages together just yet that have penciled out.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Uh-huh. And I'm wondering-- so I guess my question
probably would be better asked as, are there properties that RTD owns that we would not be able
for legal reasons to make money off of it?
DAVE GENOVA: If I understand the question. Are there properties that we own that we'd not be
able to do that?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Yeah. for example, if you just right now went across the
street and did eminent domain and took all the buildings on the other side of the street, but it was
only for transit, and you decided you didn't need it, and then you wanted to build new buildings
on it and make a bunch of money, is that legal?
DAVE GENOVA: Not really necessarily. We can only acquire property for transit uses. So if we
had surplus properties, say we acquired a piece of property and we didn't need to use it all for the
transit use and the owner didn't want to retain the non-transit use part, then those are
possibilities.
We have a few parcels that are probably large enough that could be looked at for different
activities. But I have to say that that's largely driven by local land use by the counties and
municipalities on what they want to do in their area. So all of these kinds of things are rather
complicated, and we're not necessarily in direct control of them.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Right. That's what I wanted to know. Thank you so much. I
appreciate it. That's all, Chair Mihalik. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Folska. I have just one question. And if it's been
mentioned before, forgive me and remind me. On packet page 37, those drops in O&M-- and it's
also on 42, I believe. You can see it in the graphs. Those drops in O&M costs, is that just
following like a substantial vehicle replacement period?
SUSAN COHEN: No, they're actually more related to change in the CPI forecast. And we also
had some decreases in this year's budget, which would manifest over time. And as you see, the
difference is pretty steady.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. They just had these regular spikes and drops, and so I just wasn't sure
what that-SUSAN COHEN: Yeah, we do have certain costs that are cyclical, the biggest one being the
Eagle concession agreement, which has periodic renewals in it.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, I think that's all the questions on this one. And we will move on to
the quarterly investment report.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll just do a quick recap. We are still trending pretty close to what
our benchmarks are. And for the year, earnings are about 2.3%, which are slightly higher than
before, although we would expect with the interest rate changes that perhaps our earnings might
not be as nice as 2.3, even though we're-- hard to be excited about 2.3. But it's better than 1,
which is where we've been in the past. So with that, Brenden Morgan, our head of debt and
investments, is here with me, and we'd be glad to answer any questions you may have.
KEN MIHALIK: I don't see any questions or comments for this quarter.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Poor Brenden got off easy.
KATE WILLIAMS: I really liked it.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE GENOVA: Good presentation.
[LAUGHTER]
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The report was so thorough that there were no questions. That's how
I'm going to interpret that.
BRENDEN MORGAN: If I can--

KEN MIHALIK: Sure.
BRENDEN MORGAN: I'll just highlight the fact that we've earned over $10 million through
June of this year. So it's been a very good year, well ahead of budget, as Heather mentioned. So,
so far, so good.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for pointing that out. $10 million. OK, we will move right along to
the-- oh, yes, Director Folska, any questions or comments on the investment report.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): No, thank you, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. So it's unanimous. We will move on to the June 2019 monthly financial
status update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather again. I'm going to turn it over to Doug MacLeod to
walk you through the monthly financial status.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Heather. Good evening. This is Doug MacLeod. So these are
the June financials. So we're halfway through our fiscal year. Pretty much everything compared
to budget, as you can see on the left side, is our actuals are under budget, indicated by the red.
But on the right-hand side, we're all green for the most part, except for ridership.
Sales and use taxes through June have performed fairly well. You may recall that we were given
a budget or we forecasted and budgeted for this year a 4.4% increase based on the CU-Leeds
School of Business forecast. And we're coming in at a 3% increase over the prior year.
That means we're falling-- it shows 1.7% short year to date. So the sum of those two is 4.7. Some
of that budget is front loaded towards the end of the year. So we should maybe make up some of
that ground going into the end of the year. But if the trend continues, we'll still be short of our
budget.
Looking at the details of sales and use taxes, there's nothing really that stands out that short. It's
to budget. It's really just across the board. Our top five industries are full-service restaurants, new
car dealers, hotels, limited-service restaurants, and warehouse clubs.
And I wanted to point that out because two of the top five producers of our sales taxes are
restaurants. There's been articles lately talking about how people are spending more at
restaurants than they spend on groceries. But I do point that out because some of those items are
fairly sensitive to economic conditions, hotels included. So those are significant contributors to
our sales and use tax revenues.
I'm going to speak just briefly to start about our ridership situation, then come back to it. I just
want to mention a few things in detail. [SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[LAUGHTER]

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, just scroll down.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, to the second page that talks about ridership. Yeah, perfect. One of
the things I wanted to point out-- and, like I said, I'll talk a little bit more about these numbers
because we had a pretty lengthy discussion last month with the May numbers. But in the graph
down at the bottom, what you can see is the blue line is our actual ridership trend, green line is
prior year, and red line is budget.
So in the last three months-- April, May, June-- you can see we're right at budget, right at prior
year, same trend. But those first several months, we were below. Part of that is due to the fact
that we had forecasted an increase in our budget from the opening at the beginning of year of
certain lines. But we're also below last year significantly for those first few months.
So I'll talk about that just a little bit. But I wanted to point out that graphic before we got to the
table of numbers. And then if you could scroll down to the next page, which is our fare revenue.
So fare revenue, you can see at the top that we're falling short of budget by 4.9% or $3.8 million.
But we're over last year by 5.-- sorry, my glasses-- 5.4% and $3.8 million. Most of that increase
is due to the fare increase. But with ridership being down, that's driving us a little bit below
budget. Same kind of scenario as last year.
If you could scroll down just a little bit to that same graphic for fare revenue. So on this line
chart, what you can see is it's-- the blue line, again, is actuals. And if you follow that left to right,
you get to May. It's pretty close to our budget. Then it drops off.
That's the same trend that we see in the prior year from May to June where the green line drops
down a little bit, although this is a little bit more severe. And we had budgeted on the red line for
that to actually increase with additional service being added on. So we've got some things being
driven by-- or most of that is being driven by some of our ridership trends.
So now moving on to-- if you could scroll down, I think it's two or three pages further, where it
shows ridership by load. So this is packet page 61. I think it's the next page. Yeah, there we go.
So you'll recall last month that we had a pretty lengthy discussion about some of the data
anomalies we were seeing, especially with light rail. And we also said that we had done a lot of
checking of those numbers and to that point ruled out a lot of issues. And we said we would
continue to dig through the data to see if there were any other things that we could find.
Well, we did find a couple of other things. So these numbers have been restated, and we're more
confident in these numbers where we stand now through June than what we had presented
previously. But we still see some of the same trends that we were seeing.
One thing that flipped is if you look at the total bus service. Last time we talked about that, it
showed a positive year to date increase over 2018. What we discovered is Flatiron Flyer within
the software was being double-counted, both as fixed route and Flatiron Flyer. So rather than
being slightly positive on bus, you can see we're down 3.8% on bus ridership.

PEGGY CATLIN: Wow.
LYNN GUISINGER: Which page?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, packet page 61. All the way over to the right, it shows a negative 3.8%
ridership. Then you'll recall on light rail, we had a double digit percentage decrease or we were
showing that with those preliminary numbers that we spoke about through May. We went back,
and we found what the issue was there. And as you can imagine, there's a whole lot of detail that
comes through because we get ridership from every trip throughout the month, literally millions
of data points in there.
So our great staff in the Service Planning Department found another anomaly to do with light
rail. What was happening is as these new light rail vehicles were being put in service, that had
been starting to be put in service as of March-- March? April? March-- the software was picking
those up as if they were buses. So rather than extrapolating from the APCs on those new light
rail vehicles across the entire consist, it was looking at it as if it was one single vehicle, if that
makes sense.
So those numbers weren't being factored up for the length of the entire train consist. So it was
depressing the numbers from March forward. Once that issue was resolved, you can see that now
for light rail we're down 6.8%. So still, we're down. And particularly in the C and D Line, you
can see those ones are still double digits but not as bad as they were reflected before.
So anyway, we wanted to just point out those issues. We feel pretty comfortable with the
numbers at this point through June. And we expect, as you saw in that graphic, that if the trend
continues, we'll be closer to budget going forward. We did see a bit of an uptick in the last three
months from April through June.
That concludes my comments on the financial statements. One other thing I wanted to follow up
on, too, is we did have a few requests from the Board members asking about when the 2018
service performance data would be ready. That's the family of services that shows the breakdown
by route and by mode of service between revenues by route, expenses, and then the subsidy.
So we're very close. It took a little bit longer to sort all that data out. And it will be presented at
the September Operations Committee. With that, we'd be happy to take any questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Could you speak a little bit about the two different
components of sales tax, one being sales tax, the other being used tax? Is the use tax on autos and
building materials where we projected them to be or were they behind?
DOUG MACLEOD: I don't have that breakdown. I don't have the forecast with me the way that
CU-Leeds have broken it down. But generally, what we tend to see is use taxes make up about
10% or so of our total sales and use taxes. So it's not a huge number, but it's significant enough
that it's big dollars. So when we see those variances, they aren't super significant on the use tax

piece since it only makes up 10%. And when we see these 3% variances to budget overall, it's
mostly on the sales tax side.
BOB BROOM: OK. And then the other question-- typically, there's a rule of thumb, which, of
course, gets you into trouble. But when you raise fares, it's the old supply and demand thing.
Prices go up, your demand goes down. And, say, normally you see about a 5% drop in ridership
because of the fare increase. But that over time, maybe the latter part of the year, that ridership
will come back. Is that what we're seeing? Or is it just a matter of we've had so much trouble
with our counting methods that's why it's so hard to get a handle on what's going on with
ridership?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So-[MIC SHIFTS]
Oh, sorry. So our ridership forecast as well as our fare revenue forecast took into consideration in
our model that there's typically a dip and then they come back again. So the numbers that you see
assume some of that dipping and comeback. But as you can see in the chart that is in your
packet, we tend to see it going down about now and then starting to come back up again with or
without the fare increase about this time of year.
So we're seeing that in June, the numbers are back up, starting to go back up again. But the
overall trend for in particular light rail is down from ridership much more than what we would
normally expect whether there was a fare increase or not. So we continue to investigate what's
going on there.
With the recent numbers that we were showing you, we're able to pinpoint maybe where we
should be looking at a little bit more, those specific lines, the C, D, and L. But, yeah, we
expected that. But we expected the ridership to not be as low as it is and maybe rebound a little
faster than what we're seeing.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I want to make sure I just go over where we had these anomalies. So
with the Flatiron Flyer, it was essentially being counted twice. Once, it was in the line item as
Flatiron Flyer, but then also doubled up in fixed route line.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Correct? And then with the light rail, let's say we had an example of two
or three cars on that set. Is that what we call it, a set?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Consist.

NATALIE MENTEN: A constant, OK. Never knew that, six years later. All right. And you have
a passenger stepping into the third car and somebody stepping in on the second didn't matter.
That set, the constant said we're only counting one.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: One of those counters. And somehow the computer, the setup formula,
said, I don't care that I read somebody coming in the second car. I'm only counting the third car.
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. Because as you recall, there's only about 30% of our light rail
vehicles have APC counters on it. So if you have a three consist train with only one APC vehicle,
the software knows how that vehicle was assigned and how many vehicles had APCs versus not.
So the software knows how to extrapolate the data it collects from that one train car to all three.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then thank you. My next question would have been, when
are we going to get the family performance report? So you've answered that. That's September. Is
that like guaranteed?
DOUG MACLEOD: [LAUGHS] Yes. And I apologize for it being late. It takes a little
coordination between several departments coming up with the information. We typically have a
little bit earlier. So, yes. In fact, I just talked to all the parties that are involved in this, and we
will for sure have it at the Operations Committee next month.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then based upon these anomalies, how much faith should
we have in the 2018 report?
DOUG MACLEOD: So each of these issues with the ridership happened in 2019. The new light
rail vehicles came on in 2019. The bus issue was something that happened crossed years with the
software-- was something that we had to indicate within the software that we wanted the Flatiron
Flyer broken out separately. Because within the software, our Flatiron Flyer or what we call BRT
is not considered true bus rapid transit by FTA.
So when we do our filings with National Transit Database, we include Flatiron Flyer with our
regular fixed route bus. So we have to take these extra steps. And so that was one of those
anomalies that happened also with the change in the year. So 2018, we feel very confident with,
and it ties out to what the auditors had looked at and what we also filed with the National Transit
Database.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And the reason it's really important to me is that in our second
committee tonight is Operations, and they're coming to us with the 2020 service changes. And
having that data, having those numbers, having the breakdown, I hope it's gone back to the old
style where it has the subsidy, the cost per route, the revenue per route. Does it have all those-DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: --like we used to have?

DOUG MACLEOD: Same format.
NATALIE MENTEN: Same format. All right, wonderful. Because that helps me to know better
when Ops and Customer Service says something, go in to look at that. So thank you. That's all
my questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. And, Doug, could I ask that you help explain that APC
randomization rationale? I found it helpful when you explained it a week or so ago. Just for the
benefit of others, the APC rationale, like the randomization of it.
DOUG MACLEOD: In terms of extrapolating the data?
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, there's only one per multiple cars. Yep.
DOUG MACLEOD: Great. Yes, and thanks for pointing that out. So as I was saying with the
light rail vehicles, there's only about 30% coverage with the automatic passenger counters. We're
working our way to be up to 70% in the next 18 or so months.
That's going to be through a combination of getting new vehicles already equipped with APCs
and the Board-approved funding for retrofitting some of the existing rail cars with APCs. So
that'll give us a lot more confidence in the numbers for APCs out there and relying less on the
extrapolation factor.
The other issues with rail vehicles versus a bus is with a bus you typically only have one
entrance point, one door with APCs on it. On one light rail car, you have eight doors. So it
requires eight APCs, if there's an issue with any one of those APCs, some of the data can be
thrown out. We'll see data that comes through that doesn't make sense-- may have way more
riders for a trip than the actual car will hold.
So there's a lot of data cleansing that has to go on and a lot of validation that goes on, too. We
actually have ride checkers that get on to the trains, and they validate our APCs. So when the
Board authorized to get certified with our APCs to shift to that method of ridership counting-get certified with-- use that methodology, we had to submit a plan as to how we were going to
make sure that we were 95% confident that the numbers we were reporting were within a 5%
error rate. That's what we committed to.
With FTA, we also have a maintenance plan associated with that that we have to follow. So if we
have APCs reporting incorrectly, we basically decertify those APCs until they are looked at by
our technical team in IT. So there's a whole lot of things that go on in the background, but it's
even more complicated with rail just due to the sheer number of doors and the shortage that we
have in APC coverage right now.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you for that. And I'll just add that I found it interesting that because
there may be a bias for people to ride on the first car that they randomized that and have a
function to-- so it's not always the first car, and there's a function to account for that.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Did I get that right? OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: You're an expert now.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lewis, you are next.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Hey, Doug, the last time you were here, we talked about
the ADA modifications and that that could be potentially impacting the ridership on the L Line.
Were you able to find any correlation or connections?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, I don't know that we've gotten any data back on that yet.
DOUG MACLEOD:
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS] [LAUGHTER]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Maybe Dave knows. I don't think we have any information on that yet.
DAVE GENOVA: This was one of the items or variables that we thought could be impacting
ridership. Because with fewer seats, I mean, we have had complaints about fewer seats in the
vehicles because of that modification. And it is in every light rail vehicle we modified at both
ends because we wanted to have the flexibility to be able to put them anywhere in the train
consist. So we simply listed that as a possible factor. And so there's really no way to quantify
that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. The second question I have, I know that at some point the D Line-- or
the L Line was previously the D Line. And have you seen any correlation between ridership and
the reduction of that line in terms of cars just by chance?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, as we continue to look and analyze ridership, we're laying over like all
of the service changes over time so that we can see if we're seeing any ridership changes that
happened when we did a change in service, whether that was when we changed the D to the D
and the L, and then, of course, having a one-car consist predominantly on the L. Another impact
that that could be is if a person was taking the D Line, the previous D Line, and they were going
further than the downtown loop, they have to transfer. So that could be an impact as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Catlin.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I had a question with regard to-- you 30% roughly of the APC on
vehicles. Is that spread uniformly across the district? Are there some lines that have a larger
percentage of APC than others? And would that make any kind of a difference in your numbers?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, it definitely makes a difference. And that's one of the things that we've
struggled with. Because as you can imagine, it's very difficult to place those APCs exactly where
you need them. So our Service Planning folks work very closely with our Operations people by
reporting.
Our main standard is that we want to get at least an APC count of every trip during the month.
So every end of trip, every route at each time in the month, we want to get at least one count to
give some credibility to our methodology. So as we go through the month, we continue to report
to our operations folks, hey, we need to get an APC train out on this particular trip. So they
follow that pretty closely and at least try to get those out there.
What we've done recently is as we've gotten a few more APC-equipped vehicles is we've tried to
put them on an entire consist. Rather than having just one APC vehicle, we've asked Operations,
hey, can you put three together to get this trip just so we can validate that what [AUDIO OUT]-have one APC vehicle can be validated by putting APCs on all vehicles. It's kind of a test.
PEGGY CATLIN: So kind of a calibration issue?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And then my second question. I don't have the visual in front of me of the
zones, the fare zones and the number of stations that are regional trips as opposed to local trips.
Those are different based on the line. And would that have any bearing on the ridership on some
of these underperforming lines?
DOUG MACLEOD: Possibly.
PEGGY CATLIN: Due to the fare increase, yeah.
DOUG MACLEOD: One of the things that we looked at back when we had the initial data that
showed such sharp decreases in ridership was we looked at average trip length to compare year
over year to see if that was having something to do with it because we were concerned that
maybe some of these new services like Uber and the scooters may have been taking away some
of the shorter trips. But at least on a system-wide basis, our average trip length did not change.
So without going down to each-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Station.

DOUG MACLEOD: --section, yeah, it would indicate that we're not seeing it as much across the
board, both regional and local trips that were experiencing that.
PEGGY CATLIN: It was just a hunch. The third thing is just sort of a little joke. For your
August numbers on the Flatiron Flyer, you might want to take a look at that. I actually saw a
Flatiron Flyer bus on Ken Caryl Avenue and the interchange of C-470 yesterday. That trip
probably wouldn't count for the Flatiron Flyers. Anyway.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, luckily we don't go by the bus. We go by the route. [LAUGHS]
That was a really comfortable trip, though, for somebody.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know if this goes to you or goes to Dave. Does the APC count a
service dog or a stroller or a bicycle? Or does it specifically only count people?
DOUG MACLEOD: They're actually a little more sophisticated than just like a door dinger that
you pass through when you go into a business. They actually know which direction you're
taking. I believe they work off a heat signal. So I think they know if you're a person or an
inanimate object. Not sure about the dog question. I would think maybe. But it also counts our
drivers, too. So if our drivers or our operators are getting on and off to take breaks, it also picks
them up. So there's a lot of-- it's not an exact science, I would say.
KATE WILLIAMS: So on the cars we're getting that come equipped already, are they going to
be more technologically sophisticated to be able to know some of those things?
DOUG MACLEOD: I probably shouldn't be answering these questions.
KATE WILLIAMS: Dave looks like he wants to get out of his chair over there.
DOUG MACLEOD: Dave.
KATE WILLIAMS: The other Dave.
DOUG MACLEOD: Dave Jensen.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry.
DAVE JENSEN: No, it's OK. Good evening. This is Dave Jensen, AGM for Rail Operations.
And I was wanting to get out of my seat the whole time. Just one thing I think might help add
perspective as well, as Doug was talking about, the getting an APC on every single trip. We're
running about a thousand train trips a day. So that's an awful lot. In terms of your question, the
newer vehicles, the sophistication for the APCs is better. Should not pick up a dog as a human,
but we can't always guarantee those things.

KATE WILLIAMS: Super. That's what I wanted to know. Heather, yeah?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I would just say that's why we have the ride checkers, too,
because that's part of our agreement with FTA that we will validate some of those with human
beings doing their counts, too. So that way, we can tell.
KATE WILLIAMS: Can we get the Citizens Advisory Council to go do ride check for us at the
time, too? Never mind.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Folska, any questions or comments on
the monthly status update?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): No, thank you, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Thank you, Doug. We will move on to the smart card and
mobile ticketing update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Tonya Anderson's on her way up. But I think we put it in your
packet, just a couple things, and I'll have her talk about mobile ticketing because it's pretty
exciting where we're going with that. Not that smart card isn't exciting, but it's not as exciting
because we're actually winding down our smart card. That's why you see more and more greens
and yellows versus reds.
We're trying to close out that project, and we've now already ramped up our new account-based
ticketing project that we're moving to in the future. So we'll probably just report data on use of
smart card and not the project status, as the project will no longer be in existence. And we'll
focus more on starting to report on our account-based ticketing progress and continue to report
on mobile ticketing. So with that, I'd like Tonya just to do a quick update on mobile ticketing,
where we're at, and where we're going over the next few months.
TONYA ANDERSON: Good evening. This is Tonya Anderson. I'm the Manager of Electronic
Fare Operations. As Heather mentioned, the smart card system, we're closing down the base
contract. There's been no significant changes to our EcoPass, CollegePass, NECO, or MyRide
sales or utilization. It's pretty stable since the last update.
And in an effort to redirect resources to the new account-based fare collection system, we have
canceled many of the projects on our smart card product backlog. And we're only completing
those projects that are absolutely necessary for operations, as well as for compliance purposes.
In addition to closing out the contract, Conduent and RTD, we've reached an agreement to
conclude the platform validator screen testing this summer. As a reminder, those are the platform
validator screens that are going dark because of the excessive heat and direct sunlight.
Unfortunately, the Conduent recommended platform validator screen solution has failed. That is
the primary reason why we have essentially canceled the testing.

14 of the 17 screens exhibited the darkening issue, and it was both Conduent and RTD's
expectation that all of the screens would eventually fail during the testing period. Conduent has
agreed and will continue to replace all of the failed screens at no additional cost for the
remaining life of the smart card system.
All right, and then moving on to mobile ticketing, sales continue to exceed expectations. As of
June 2019, 12.4% of fare revenue is from our mobile ticketing app. In April, RTD conducted a
mobile ticketing customer satisfaction survey, and overall, users rate the app favorably. They're
still very happy and essentially love the app. 91% of our users reported that they would likely
recommend the app to someone else, and that's really impressive. That's a great network effect.
Although overall rating remain high for the app, we did notice that users have rated the app's
ease of use slightly lower in 2019. There are some friction and issues with using the app that our
customers have reported to us last year. Those were not fixed this year.
This is pretty much what happens in mobile apps. If you don't address customers' issues and
concerns fairly quickly, that usability and the favorable rating will drop. In response to that, we
have provided that feedback to Masabi in hopes that they will include some of those fixes in their
product backlog so that we can increase that rating for ease of use.
Continuing in the spirit of excellence, in May, RTD became the first transit agency in the world
to sell mobile tickets in the Uber app. This collaboration was made possible by our amazing
mobile ticketing vendor Masabi, and they are more than just a mobile ticketing vendor to us.
They are truly a strategic partner.
As of July, RTD mobile ticketing sales in Uber app have been over 3,500 tickets. And we took
the world by surprise by collaborating with an unlikely partner. And I think about those National
Geographic and those memes where they have unlikely animal friendships.
[LAUGHTER]
I'm sorry. That's the picture that comes to mind.
[LAUGHTER]
But when we have shared goals and we focus on providing great products for our customers,
those unlikely collaborations can be successful. And so I just hope that Uber is wildly successful
in their Uber transit platform and have other transit agencies adopt ticketing for their cities.
Because when they are successful, we will be successful as well.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I just want to emphasize that 3,500 tickets are about what it is-- is
those are 3,500 times that somebody went into an Uber app to hail an Uber and instead bought an
RTD ticket. So I mean, we're still amazed by that number and the fact that that has given us a
whole new outlet into a different customer base potentially than we had before.

TONYA ANDERSON: And then just finally, real quickly, there is a couple other projects that
are in the works. We are also working with Transit, the Transit app, to begin selling our tickets in
their app as well, as well as a project which will start hopefully this year and continue into next
year to digitize cash, meaning someone with cash at an RTD sales outlet potentially at another
retail outlet would be able to purchase a mobile ticket using cash so that we can support our low
income customers with the LiVE program that we just launched successfully and the unbank and
the underbanked. And that's all I have. I'm ready to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So I think only those of us elected in 2012 would remember
the long struggle we had with the smart card.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, we all remember.
NATALIE MENTEN: Ah, there's some people who don't have a clue here. But what was our
total investment in smart card? $35, $38 million, $40 million?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, it wasn't that much. So I have to get the exact number for you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I want to say it was $24.
TONYA ANDERSON: About $25.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: $24, $25 million total.
NATALIE MENTEN: $25 million. So I have to admit, I have been hearing what you been
saying with this transition now to the account-based. But we're going to just get rid of the smart
card, correct?
TONYA ANDERSON: Yes, that's correct.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah.
TONYA ANDERSON: No part of it will exist. when we transition.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: With that vendor. Now, there might be a smart card product or a card
product that you can use. But it will not be with the Conduent vendor.
DAVE GENOVA: It's the back office, right, and the processing that will look different.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.

DAVE GENOVA: So there's still may be smart cards out there.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm just wondering, I'm trying to figure out how many years we got out of
a-- let's say it's a $25 million investment.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I can give you that number. But I think it was 2008 or 2009 when
we first began that.
TONYA ANDERSON: Right, MyRide, 2008, 2009. But we did launch EcoPass-- our pass
programs in 2013. Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. If you happen to have those numbers around, that would be-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll get them.
NATALIE MENTEN: --good for me. And that's all the questions I have about that. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi there. On the Uber app, have you approached them or can you approach
them to see if they can, in addition to doing either or, taking Uber or Transit, combine them?
Because-DOUG TISDALE: They do.
PEGGY CATLIN: You can.
SHELLEY COOK: Do they?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: So they say Uber plus Transit. We'll get you to the-PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, excellent. How is that?
TONYA ANDERSON: They actually brought that up. And we did have some very early
discussions. It's unfortunately not part of the initial scope of the launch for Masabi. And there are
actually a lot of challenges. And so right now, we're focusing on the cash digitization and not on
this multi-modal payment integration, which is the buzz word when you take two payment
methods and combine them. But it has come up in conversations, and it's something that Uber is
very interested in doing with us.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, but they're not doing it currently.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But you can buy an Uber and a-- so it'll tell you that you can buy on
Uber and an RTD ticket. But when the transaction actually comes through to your credit card,
you're going to see an Uber transaction and an RTD transaction.
SHELLEY COOK: But does it offer up, OK, this trip will be faster because we can get to the
train station and then you'll avoid the traffic? And so it tells you the total travel time for the
combined trip?
TONYA ANDERSON: Oh, that's a good question.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, not necessary for the combined trip. So let me give you an
example. You're at DIA-- I'm sorry, DEN-- and you're wanting to go to Union Station. When you
pull that up, it'll tell you this is how much your transit trip is and the time it will take you. This is
how much you're Uber trip will be and the time it'll take you. And then there's multiple Uber
choices, like Uber shared and BLACK and all these things. So it tell you those choices and then
how much it costs to do that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. If you're at-- I don't know-- DIA, DEN, and you want to get to
Washington Park, does it give you Uber to Washington Park, the A Line to DUS, then Uber to
Washington Park? Or how does it do that?
TONYA ANDERSON: Currently, it is separate. So they don't combine the ride hailing with the
transit option in a single trip. You'll either get the transit trip without the ride hail or just the ride
hailing trip. But I don't know if that's part of their enhancements or plans.
SHELLEY COOK: I hope we can pursue it because ultimately, I think that will result in a better
outcome for everybody.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But you can go to DUS and then get the option from DUS, too.
TONYA ANDERSON: Yeah.
SHELLEY COOK: But it wouldn't calculate it for you to figure out the best trip overall.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. Not yet. Not yet.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks, Chair Mihalik. Hi, Tonya. Are we talking to the other guys?
TONYA ANDERSON: To the what?

KATE WILLIAMS: The other guys?
TONYA ANDERSON: Oh.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, so-TONYA ANDERSON: Yes, we have.
KATE WILLIAMS: Lyft, that would be Lyft.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, so we did do a project with Lyft regarding journey planning.
But they have not been pursuing the other option of selling tickets at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: So my understanding is that it has to do with their software. It's because we
share a platform on Masabi with Uber.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, they have the ability to enter into a contract with Masabi also if
they'd like to.
KATE WILLIAMS: Right, but they don't have that yet.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, and they have not pursued that to our knowledge.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. And are we interested in helping them pursue that? I mean, we are
looking at as many mobility options as we can get, right?
TONYA ANDERSON: It's really up to them. It's really up to them to decide who they want to
partner with for ticketing. It may not be Masabi. They may choose to partner with a different
ticketing fare collection vendor to do the same thing.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And strategically, they may choose to do it in a different city since
Uber's already here, the things that drive them from a profit or not-so-profit standpoint. But from
a business standpoint, it's been very interesting to see how they do that and how they compete
with each other, where we have been very interested in those people that want to partner with us
like Transit app, like bus staying, like some of these other things. So people have been coming to
us, and so we've been embracing that as they come to us.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have one more. So here in Denver, our new NEMT provider is IntelliRide,
and they are a portion of Transdev. And I think that we do business with Transdev now as a
subcontractor. And I'm just wondering if we're talking at all in all of that service with Transdev
about how we interface with that group of riders.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll have to check with some team members on that.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think we have something going on with Transdev as relates to
paratransit. I don't know. We need to check on that. There might be something with one of their
subsidiary companies. I'll have to look at that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Just because since we're already in bed with them in some ways, and there
might be some advantages to the fact that they are going to be one of the primary providers of
service in the Denver area as the new HCPF contractor for NEMT Medicaid Services. And so
that might be worth-- since we already have a handshake with them to step into something that I
know we have not done in the past. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to correct a perception that
may be out there that Lyft is not interested in and is not pursuing creating a ticketing option with
us. Because I've had conversations as recently as today with them, and they are. There are some
issues that arise. And I think that our Chief Financial Officer has alluded to some of those.
But just for the sake of the record, because I think the impression could go out and I think it
would be a very negative impression that Lyft is not interested in pursuing more vibrant trip
planning and ticketing options, they are. It's not going to happen immediately or perhaps even in
the near future. But it's being pursued. So to the extent that there's a sense that, well, no, they just
really don't want to do this, I think that's an unfair perception. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you for clarifying that. I did have one question. The validity of the
mobile tickets, is that 90 days before they expire?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: 45 days.
KEN MIHALIK: 45 days. My concern is just that the very first bullet point on package page 67
is just that they're using infrequently. And I don't know if-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, what that means when we say they're using frequently is these
are not riders that commute everyday to work or something using the mobile ticketing app.
KEN MIHALIK: Sure. I just don't know if we've tracked how many have had that lapsed over
the 45 days.
TONYA ANDERSON: No, I don't know.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'd have to see if we can get that data or not.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I hope it's a small number. But I don't know. Maybe on the next update,
we can have how many have lapsed.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll look into it and see if we get that.

KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. And I think that's all unless-- Director Folska, I'll check in real fast
if you had any questions or comments on-CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): Thank you, Chair Mihalik. No, I do not.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you for staying with us. We will move on to the LiVE program
update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Monika is on her way up. But I'll go ahead and just do a quick
overview. So LiVE went live, and we're really excited about that. So we've had some really good
statistics as far as number of people that have made it through the system.
As of Sunday, 222 were categorically eligible and were approved. That means they were already
receiving benefits, and they just had to go in and apply for this particular program. And then as
soon as they have a photo in, then they're approved.
We had 18 that were approved by Denver Human Services, which means they were not in the
system before and they had to fill out the full application and go submit their income
information. So they've made it through the process. So that was 240 as of Sunday. So we're still
working on the card printing and getting that vendor. And I'm not sure if we have an update as of
right now whether they're printing cards and mailing them or-MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: Yeah, actually, in the mail, they sent us a picture.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: [LAUGHS] So we have a picture that the cards are getting mailed out.
So people should be able to start receiving those very shortly and using that and then buying
their discount on product and being able to do that. We have had various meetings with the
nonprofits. As we have mentioned in previous updates, they are not as thrilled with the program.
But we have been meeting with them. And I think we've been able to address some of their
questions and concerns. And we continue to meet with specific groups. I have a meeting coming
up with State Corrections on some of their particular issues and people getting cards and being
incarcerated and those type of things. So we continue to try to work through those type of issues
and see if we can make any adjustments going forward.
We're hoping probably in the beginning of September, mid-September, when we're assured that
any bugs are worked out that we'll do a major push from a marketing standpoint on this project.
And Pauletta's group has been working on that with us as to what that would look like and when
exactly is the best time to make that push. So with that, Monica, do you have any that you want
to add to that?
MONIKA TREIPL-HARNKE: No. We'd be glad to take questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. And you said-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're excited.

KEN MIHALIK: --the participation pace so far is ahead of what you would have forecasted.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. And we'll continue see-- because it was really, really, really high
the first week, and then it's tapered off just a little bit in week two. But we're still seeing quite a
few coming through. So we'll just continue to monitor that. And I think we'll see once we push
out a lot of media around it that we'll get a lot more responses, too.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. What kind of photos do you allow? I mean, do you have to go
get a passport photo or can you do it on a smartphone?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, you can take it on a smartphone.
BOB BROOM: OK, thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I was concerned that there were a couple of articles
about nonprofits basically saying that some of this program is really off of the backs of the
really, really poor because I guess they were giving a 50% discount and the discount we're giving
now is 40%. Is that the source of the anguish about this?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I would say that's not the source of the anguish. I mean, some people
are concerned about that. Remember, the actual recipient tends through a nonprofit to get that for
free. So it's the nonprofit that's absorbing that 10% discount. I think more what we've heard is
around those people that are not here lawfully, and they're concerned about putting their
information into a state program database. And I think we've been able to alleviate some of those
concerns as far as our privacy policies. And we've been publicizing those. There are still going to
be people that are concerned about that.
And then I think the other's around the immediacy is what we're hearing of getting that card, that
a lot of the nonprofits help people that are very transient. And so how can we help provide
information as to how they get their card, where they can mail their card instead of a home
address, those type of things? And so we're working through some of those issues also.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Because I am concerned. What they had been raising is that the
very poor to be having trouble with this. I don't know if-HEATHER MCKILLOP: We're not seeing that from the numbers that we're seeing. But, again,
we're only two weeks into this process. So I think it will take some time to see what our numbers
are as far as uptake. And we'll continue to have consistent conversation with various nonprofits
and their particular individual needs.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. We all know this is close to my
heart. And I want to thank Heather, your team, Michael Washington, Teresa, and Danny. You
guys have really done amazing outreach work in meeting with the nonprofits who've had some
serious concerns. I would just state that in Globeville, Swansea, and Elyria, there are 12,000
households with a median income of $24,990.
So we're talking really, really poor. We're also talking an immigrant community where they're
very fearful of doing anything and providing pictures or any additional information. So I think
that this has been a real interesting transition. And I think it's going to take all of us to just keep
talking to each other and working things out. And I'm seeing that happen, and so I'm very
pleased about the process that we're making.
I still have a lot of concerns. But I think that calling the team and being willing to come out and
meet with us has been instrumental in terms of talking. I'm really pleased you're talking with the
State Corrections Department, the Homeless Coalition, all of those folks who are dealing with
some really serious issues with their constituent basis.
And so I was reading all of the stats. I think they're great. I really appreciate the information
about who was denied, why they were denied, how many of those numbers are going because
those are factual pieces I can take out into the community. But more than that, I think that this is
now representative of the spirit in which this came to fruition, number one, and the outreach that
is happening and that things are now in Spanish. And I'm going to think we're going to need
more in different languages.
But that outreach is really crucial at this point. But I guess my comment is really just to say thank
you for being on this ground with us and being willing to hear and be flexible and change things
up or give us the information of why it can't. So thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. And I would add, I know you've been close to this issue.
So we've been trying to work right. I just want to make sure people know I don't think we're
going to be able to solve all of the concerns. But we're trying to figure out which ones we can
work through.
I did want to bring up one thing that we thought is quite interesting is that the majority of people
who are getting denied are because of age. So it means that they're eligible for a better discount
than what we can offer them through the LiVE program. And we also have heard that for Denver
Human Services, they're getting a lot of questions about, oh, I didn't know this, that there was
other discounts.
And so one of the things pointed out to us in just two weeks is that we need to do a much better
job about promoting our senior and our youth discounts, which are higher discounts, because
there's a lot of people that apparently don't know about it. And so that's one thing that we've
gotten out of this process so far is that we want to make sure people are aware that there are other
discounts available to them depending on what situation they're in.

KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just want to affirm what Second Vice
Chair said. I think it's absolutely wonderful in terms and the spirit of transparency and
communication packet page 70, that description of who applied, who was denied, why they were
denied, who was approved immediately, how it all worked. That's fantastic. It's great information
for all of us to have. Thank you for providing that information. Keep it up going forward. It will
be very useful to us. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. And thank you, Heather and your whole team. I
was over at CDPHE this morning to their advisory council, which was about 25 nonprofits of a
variety of types with Michael and Teresa.
And it was very interesting to me that, yes, that was one of the things that happened is that they
did not know about the youth discount or the senior discount. They did not know that you did not
have to have some kind of a formal portrait in order to qualify. They were grateful to learn about
how simple it is, actually.
But the biggest complaint of all oddly is that they think that the PEAK system itself is unpleasant
and unwieldy and not user friendly and that that had kind of rolled over onto us. And
unfortunately, I can't sit in the back room and be quiet. And so we had some discussion about the
fact that that is PEAK's problem and that we had saved a lot of time and effort by contracting
with those people who are already doing benefits and about the fact that we are, in fact, not a
human service agency, but we are, in fact, a transportation company.
I asked the room how many of them had mechanics. And nobody there had a mechanic. So I
pointed out that RTD didn't have any social workers and that they were the human service people
and we were the transportation people and that we needed their help to make it work.
And we had some good conversation about that. So I think, as Angie was saying, as we walk it
and everybody learns how it works together. But I think you guys have done a phenomenal job.
It was a great presentation this morning with good information. So thank you all very much for
that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They thought it went well. So that was good. I can't say enough about
Denver Human Services, too, and the Office of Information Technology and the state, too,
because they've been wonderful and they have been responsive to bug issues that we've come
across when people report them, and we've been testing.
And Denver Human Services is actually looking at every application that we get, those that are
rejected for whatever reason, just to make sure that there is no errors in what's being processed

and bringing those forward. So we won't be doing that forever. But for a period of time, they're
doing that and looking at every application.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thanks. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I was going to say the same thing that Kate was
going to say, that transportation is our core mission, and we are not social service providers. So I
just wanted to reiterate that. But I also wanted to say that you mentioned, Heather, that there are
some glitches and there are some concerns in different areas.
But to quote our Chair, don't let the perfect be the enemy of the good. And I think that there are
so many people that have benefited and will benefit. And in spite of some of these misgivings or
challenges, I think that in balance, it's shown to be a good program. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Thank you, ladies. I think we-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: --will move on to-- oh, thank you. I will check with Director Folska to see if
she has any questions or comments on this.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA (ON PHONE): No, thank you. But well done.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, we will move on to other matters this evening. Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I have another, other matter that I'll
bring up during the second committee meeting at the end. But I wanted to recognize, if I may,
and yield the floor to our General Manager relative to the transportation transformation survey
that you may not have had a chance to look at yet. If I may yield to our General Manager.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So earlier, right before the meeting, I sent an email to
the full Board regarding a very brief survey to help us take a look at some suggested guiding
principles for the Reimagine RTD. So you'll recall that we talked about that last week at the
Planning and FasTracks Committee that we were going to be sending out a very brief survey.
So it's an anonymous survey. So you're not identified in it. So I wanted to make sure that was
clear. I put that in the email. And basically, when you open it up, we have about 10 suggested or
proposed guiding principles that we want to get your feedback on in terms of what you think of
those particular 10.
We're asking you to select five of those, not to rank them or put them in a priority, but to select
five of those 10. And it's always challenging to do that, right? Because they're all important. But
we just would like to get your feedback on that.
And then the second part of it is for you to provide suggestions if there's a guiding principle or
value that you have in mind that you want us to consider before we come back and talk about

these at the study session later this month, that you could provide that feedback. So if there's
something that's not on that list of 10, then we want you to feel free to suggest what you may
propose as a guiding principle.
And so that's about the state of the survey. We'd like for you to complete it by next Tuesday, and
that date was included in it. And so it's just a Survey Monkey, pretty simple format. If you have
any questions about it, Bill Sirois is the contact person. So his email and phone number are in the
email that I sent to you earlier. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK, thank you. Any other matters? Not seeing any, we will meet next month
on the 17th. And we will call this adjourned. Five minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Seven--

