Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 24 th, 2012 at
6:30 p.m.
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Assistant

Date:

July 27, 2012

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 24, 2012
at 6:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, and Walker.
Subject:

Board Members
Absent:

Director Williams

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien,
Doug MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Barbara McManus, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jeanette Scarpino, Daria Serna, Cherie
Sprague, Jim Starling, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Bobbie McGinnis, Steve Gieske, Richard Lobato,
Terry Emmons, John Dawson, Sherman Hamilton, George
Kuzirian, Tina Jaquez, Danielle Smith, Chuck Culig, L. Skip
Brown, Joni Goheen, Marta Sipeki, ZJ Czupor

Others Present:

Marilyn Ababio, Walter Allen, Debra Baskett, Josh
Benninghoff, Bryan Blakely, Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos,
Brian Cohen, Lee Davis, Joyce Downing – Mayor of
Northglenn, Dave Erb, Nancy Freed, Maria Garcia-Berry,
Michael Gifford, Barry Gore, Yuriy Gorlov, Lucky Highfill, Dick
Hinson, Rich Himmel, Tommi Himmel, Steve Hogan – Mayor
of Aurora, Dave Holst, Erika Kampe, Brad Langner, David
Lewis, Tim Mackin, Kat Middleton, David Mitchell, Wendy
Mitchell, Jon Moellenberg, Michael Newman, Jim Paulmeno,
R.A. Plummer, Gene Putman, Jacob Riger, Brad Rodenberg,
Rick Romig, Roger Ryburn, Erik Sandstrom, Nate Schnabel,
Jeanne Shreve, Jason Simmons, Ed Slattery, Karen Stuart,
Chris Taylor, Jeff Thompson, Monte Whaley, Martin Willie,
Suzanne Wilson

****

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 24 th, 2012 at
6:30 p.m.
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 6:36 p.m.
II. MAX Program Readout
Carla Perez explained that RTD has had eight employees participating in the
multi-agency exchange program.
She informed the Board that George
Kuzirian, who has helped formulate the program, as well as seven MAX
participants were present at the meeting. She also explained that they were
still in the process of documenting lessons learned and trying to put together
measurables with regards to the investment made in the time and money that
has been invested and showing how it is impacting RTD to make it better.
Each member present introduced themselves.
Steve Gieske began by thanking Chair Kemp, the Board members, General
Manager Washington, and Senior Leadership on behalf of himself and all the
members of the MAX program for the opportunity to represent RTD in the
program and to b e able to show off RTD to other participants which were LA
Metro and DART. He explained that the point of the MAX program to him
was to help build future leaders for the industry. He felt that the MAX
program did that and also helped build colleagues in other agencies that they
can now work with. He does this now on a weekly basis and feels the
colleagues have been very good in sharing information. For him one of the
biggest take aways was a surprise and was what he learned about RTD and
what we do.
Bobbie McGinnis started by thanking everyone for the opportunity to build a
great networking system. She explained that they now can call other
organizations and be able to trouble shoot with agencies that have
experienced these things already. Bobbie stated that sharing is very hard and
they have had the opportunity to share the good and the bad and RTD has a
lot of the best practices. She said that they had the opportunity to explore
new programs. They looked at a computer program for tracking bus
schedules and operators. It would eliminate all the issues RTD has with
payroll and DOT. Bobbie believes this is something we should investigate and
it would replace our Ties 2 program. She also discussed a beta program that
has OCI operators which are communication people that are in the SCADA
department. They take care of all the emergency phone calls. This frees up
the SCADA operators so they can just focus on the train movement. Bobbie
believed this was a very good program. It allowed the SCADA controllers to
switch positions and not experience burnout. She also discussed a Ross and
Boss program was is similar to RTD’s Group 2 program but it was a little more
detailed in education, testing, interviewing and assignments. She felt it was a
great program and you bet the best of the best with education and testing
programs. Bobbie believes that we need to look into this program through our
education department. She stated that this was an education experience that
we will never be able to pay for and expressed again how thankful she was

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 24 th, 2012 at
6:30 p.m.
for the opportunity.
Richard Lobato thanked the Board of Directors, General Manager Washington,
and the Senior Leadership Team for this opportunity. He also thanked his
colleagues who worked with him on this project. Richard recognized that
from the safety department he interacts with all the groups: operations,
finance, marketing, etc. He explained that this was an opportunity for him to
network internally and with other agencies. Richard stated that the goal of
safety is to support the agency. He recognized that their purpose is to get
everyone safely and reliably from point A to point B. The MAX team
discussed what their purpose was: are they finding lessons learned, are they
networking, are they promoting future leaders? The team determined that
they were doing all of those things and more. Richard also explained that next
he focused on how safety fits into this. He focused on safety and how we
get safety into every part of the organization without reacting. He stated that
we want to be active and out in front so that safety isn’t seen only when
there is an accident or incident that happens. The last thing Richard looked at
was training and communications, specifically how we train our employees
and look at the next group of employees to move onto the future. He believes
that communication is a key point that goes hand in hand with safety.
Henry Stopplecamp also expressed his appreciation for this opportunity. He
explained that since transportation organizations are not direct competitors
like Coke and Pepsi, sharing best practices benefits everyone.
Henry
discussed that we are looking at doing some of the things DART is already
doing, specifically composite ties, CMG gas, and experimenting with smaller
busses and regular coaches. He also talked about how both DART and LA
Metro have split the position of signal and power maintainer into two separate
roles. In doing so this has made it easier to find manpower, easier to train the
individuals and allows them to focus on their specific role. Henry stated that
one of the things they learned is that there are a lot of things we do well
within our agency and neither LA Metro nor DART does a lot of the things we
do. He explained that the big problem this brought to light is Workforce
planning. He believes it is critical we do our own training because there is no
other company like us in the Denver Metro area. Even if we bring people in
from the outside, the will not know our history and the culture of the Denver
Metro area. He recognized the fantastic presentation put together by the
Senior Managers and that they are working to make them available to the
entire organization. He also expressed his support for this program and his
commitment to mentoring the next group.
Carla Perez closed the presentation by expressing her belief that we have
accomplished our goal of training a group of our emerging leaders to really
understand not only our organization but other similar organizations. She
stated that we will be selecting new participants soon and we will also be
selecting an additional agency to participate in the program.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 24 th, 2012 at
6:30 p.m.
Director Malpiede thanked the MAX program participants for sharing their
knowledge and leadership. She recognized that they are the emerging leaders
in the industry. She believes that as an agency we need to celebrate this
accomplishment publicly. Director Malpiede stated that she feels that as an
agency, we do not praise the things we do well and one of the things we do
well under the leadership of General Manager Washington is that we really
support our staff’s growth. She thanked General Manager Washington for his
continued leadership, willingness to try new things and commitment to his
staff and the Board.
Director James expressed that he thinks this is a fantastic program and asked
how it got started. General Manager Washington stated that is started
through a conversation he had with the General Manager from LA Metro. He
recognized staff’s dedication to implementing the idea. General Manager
Washington explained that the program was originally was going to be with
LA Metro and another organization. The other agency decided not to
participate because they did not want their employees getting recruited. He
explained that we are trying to develop and create a sustainable organization
and this creates a sustainable work force and individuals move out and retire.
General Manager Washington also informed the Board that we have applied
for a grant and we will receive notice of its award in the next few weeks.
Director Deadwyler acknowledged her opposition to this program when it was
first presented because of its timing and cost. However after hearing from the
participants she expressed that she was very pleased they went through this
program. She asked what the next steps are for these participants. Carla
Perez explained that the participants had take aways both in their own areas
as well as things they saw that can have positive impacts in other parts of the
organization. She explained that the participants will not only document these
take aways but are each committed to implement things that they can
improve in their work environment. Carla also stated that none of the
participants want to just walk away from the program now that it is complete.
They will have a relationship with the next eight that are selected. There will
be two from bus, two from rail, two from capital programs, one from safety
and one from administration. Carla also informed the board that they are
evaluating the suggestions made by the team and working to determine how
we might re-director resources.
Director Hoy stated that he liked and supported the program. He expressed
that he believes we are a great organization but he thinks there is always
room for improvement no matter how good we are. He also commented that
he worked for an organization whose personnel left our region and went all
over the nation. Director Hoy explained that it created a sense of pride and
accomplishment for our region.
Director O’Boyle remarked that he participated in a leadership exchange
program a number of years ago that was very beneficial.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 24 th, 2012 at
6:30 p.m.
Director Bagley informed the Board that he went to a reception that was held
last August for this group. He encouraged all the Board Members to attend
the reception for the next class. He stated that he was very encouraged by
the participants and recognized that the issue of leadership is critical.
Director Walker stated that it is one thing to meet and talk to counterparts
from other agencies but it is something different to get in there and really see
how it works. He thinks it is great that this program exists. He explained that
in his experience it is much more meaningful to actually do a job than just read
about it. Director Walker stated that he believes we had a lot to offer and the
other organizations were willing to reciprocate. He thanked the team for their
participation.
Director Daly recognized Henry Stopplecamp and a Railroad 101 class that he
offers every year.
He recommended it to the Board and stated his
appreciation for the class.
Carla Perez stated that in feedback from the participants they thought George
and Richard really build into the curriculum the opportunity to see how our
organization works. She explained that sometimes we are so busy in our own
jobs that our employees have not had the chance to see how other programs
work and are linked to each other. That has proved to be a very invaluable
portion of this program.
Chair Kemp recognized George Kuzirian’s work on the program. He stated
that George did an excellent job in making sure this program was a meaningful
exchange of information. Chair Kemp was in LA when our participants where
there as well as in Dallas. He stated that you could definitely tell the
exchange was working really well. Chair congratulated the first graduating
class on a job well done.
III. Other Matters
Director Walker thanked Dave Genova for his assistance in fixing a problem at
the bus stops along Broadway. There was a problem with people walking into
branches while entering and exiting the busses. Dave worked with the city to
correct the problem.
Director Tobiassen thanked the Board for their sincere notes and condolences
for the people in Aurora that were affected by the tragedy that happened last
Friday. He also thanked Chair Kemp for his involvement as a victims
advocate.
General Manager Washington shared with the Board that we did have several
employees that were impacted by the tragedy. He stated that we are
extending employee services and programs to them through our wellness
office.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 24 th, 2012 at
6:30 p.m.
General Manager Washington also mentioned that it was the last night of the
COMTO convention. He shared that Chair went to the reception, several staff
went to workshops, and Director Malpiede will be heading up a workshop.
General Manager stated that we have a very vibrant chapter in Colorado that
we’ve helped establish and it has been a very successful conference.
IV. Adjourn
Chair Kemp adjourned the Study Session at 7:17 p.m.

