April 2, 2019
Civil Rights Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: The Civil Rights Committee will now come to order. I understand that
Director Lewis is under the weather right now, and she's the Chair of the Committee. So I'm the
Vice Chair of the Committee. And I'll be introducing our presentation today.
We don't have any recommended actions today. We just have a presentation by Zamy Silva, the
Director of Civil Rights, on an update of our process for-- well, I'll let you describe what the
process is. So, Zamy, if you will.
ZAMY SILVA: OK, is it on? Thank you, Director.
PEGGY CATLIN: Is it on?
ZAMY SILVA: It's on.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
ZAMY SILVA: OK, thank you, Director. OK, I will make this very quick and painless. So this is
just a quick update. Every three years, RTD is required to submit a DBE goal methodology to
FTA. And that process is long and arduous. What we are doing in terms of the DBE program-that's a federally funded program. Or that's a federal program that is required as a result of RTD
receiving federal funds.
And so every three years, we look at projected funding that we will receive from the federal
government. And we do an analysis to look at where the opportunities for disadvantaged
businesses would be. And we also have to look at the census numbers. And we do a number of
analyses. And we come up with a proposed DBE goal for the next three years.
This process includes community engagement and consultation. We will meet one on one with
every organization that represents small businesses and contracting organizations. And then we
also must host a public meeting and explain how we arrive at the proposed goal. And then we
have a public comment period, which is 30 to 45 days. And then we have a submission date of
August 1.
So we have already started that process right now and looking to have a public meeting May 30
of this year. So when we arrive at that number, I will come back before the submission to FTA to
talk about that proposed goal that will go to FTA for their review and approval.
Currently our DBE overall goal is 24%. And within the past two federal fiscal years, RTD has
exceeded its DBE overall goal. That's something that is always very exciting for RTD. And so I
wanted to share that number with all of you.

And the rest of the presentation, I just really wanted to give you some updates on contracts that
we monitor and where we are with DBE and SBE participation. You should know that SBE is
our Small Business Enterprise program that RTD created and the Board adopted a few years ago
before FasTracks. And that's for our race and gender neutral firms.
And again, this is on our Base Systems contracts. You can see there that currently we have over
65 million being tracked in my office. And 17 out of the 44 projects are being primed by DBEs
or SBEs, which is an amazing number, such as we have Construction on Call. We have
Construction Materials Testing contracts. We have the Construction Management Project on the
FasTracks, all being primed by DBEs.
We also have a number of contracts that we have with other jurisdictions and other
municipalities. Because we are the primary recipient of federal funds, we are required to monitor
those projects as well. So we set goals on them. 16th Street Mall, for instance, is going to be one
of them. And currently, again, we have 12 of those. And these are the numbers. There's over $12
million going to small businesses.
This is just a FasTracks update. A couple years ago, we talked about the $1 billion being spent
on small businesses. We are at $1.1 billion now and with over 612 DBEs and SBEs participating
in that project. So it's huge to that community. And over almost 3,000 subcontracts to small
businesses. So these numbers are very telling.
RTD does have a model program recognized by the FTA. And we get a number of agencies
throughout the country that reach out to find out how we administer our program and best
practices as well. And then these are just in terms of FasTracks and the corridors where we are.
You can see that's Southeast Extension. We had a 20% goal on the design. We are currently at
26%, and that project is almost over. So almost every single project on the FasTracks side, we've
exceeded our goals. So that means it's great partnership between RTD and the contracting
community, as well as the small business community. And with that, I will open it up for any
questions that you may have.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairwoman. You know, Zamy, you guys are
amazing, and you continue to be amazing. I want to congratulate you and your team in really
exceeding my wildest expectations. I just think that this is so telling about the outreach that RTD
does really, really well. And it's a story we need to be bragging about in the community, because
this is quite extraordinary. So thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to add my congratulations to you for a job
very well done, and my thanks for the same thing. And I'm curious, if we were to compare

ourselves with other similarly sized transit agencies around the country, do you have any
information on how we compare with them? Because I would guess that we must be a cut above
some of them, maybe not all. But do you have any information on that, or is that something you
could find out?
ZAMY SILVA: The only thing that I have-- so RTD is considered one of the 50 grantees in the
nation in receiving FTA funding. And they publish on the FTA website all of the 50 grantees and
the goals as well as attainments. And so I can get that information. although it is not up to date.
They are a couple of years behind. I would be more than happy to share what they have posted.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you. And not to make it as a burden. If it's easily done, that's fine.
If you could share it with the Board Office so that everyone would have access to it, I think
there's some bragging rights there. And I appreciate it. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Before I get to Director Walker, I wanted to comment that I saw this
presentation earlier, and I too am very impressed. But it should be noted that those comparisons
really would only be with the DBE program. Am I correct, Zamy? Because RTD's own program
of SBE is also a story worth telling, because it augments the DBE program very effectively. So I
just wanted to make that point, that that comparison would just be for the federally funded
programs.
ZAMY SILVA: Correct. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, the numbers are great. The effort is great. And that effort is
reflected in the numbers. I'm wondering if you're seeing an uptick in people starting their own
businesses, small businesses, because of our low unemployment-- I'm sorry, low, yes, low
unemployment rate in this region. And if so, do you expect that to continue through whenever
the next recession is?
ZAMY SILVA: So at the start of FasTracks, we had multiple companies start businesses. And a
lot of them have succeeded as a result of FasTracks. We've seen them on West Corridor and
Denver Union Station, I-225. And they've built capacity. That's why a lot of them are able to
prime contracts directly with RTD.
Recently we have seen a little spike on firms getting certified with RTD as a SBE. And I don't
know how new they are. I think it's more-- it could be as a result of what's going on, but I
couldn't tell for sure. But once we built our database and once FasTracks was well underway,
there was a decrease in terms of the firms coming to get certified. And now we're seeing that
number rise a little bit. And so I'm just not quite sure why that is.
JEFF WALKER: OK, all right, thank you.

ZAMY SILVA: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Folska, do you have any questions for Ms. Silva? I guess not. Thank
you very much. We look forward to seeing your presentation. And I would encourage any
Director that wants to attend the public hearing to do so at the end of May. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other matters? Seeing none, the next meeting date is in
October, although I believe you're coming before the Board before that. But the official meeting
is October 8. And with that, we are adjourned. Thank you.

