1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Vacant, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 20, 2011 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

SWEARING IN OF NEW BOARD MEMBER-DISTRICT K

III.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
Robert Bobby Aragon, Distribution Clerk – External, 25
Christopher Bellairs, Bus Operator, 16.5 years
Rudy Trujillo, Bus Operator, 26 years
Michael Krogh, Bus Operator, 20 years
Michael Dearman, Train Operator, 21 years
Charles Corson, Division Supervisor, 26 years
Alphonso Johnston, Division Supervisor, 27 years
Alphonso Erving, Sign Maintenance, 23 years
Catherine (Kay) Fiser, Payroll Practitioner, 28.5 years

V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle

ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
VII.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 22, 2011

IX.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 29, 2011

X.

CHAIR’S REPORT

XI.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

XII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
A. FasTracks Citizen Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors
reappoint three members of the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint three
new members to the Committee to a three-year term.
B. Property Acquisition for Eagle P3
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass
the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain additional properties as
necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and the associated
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff to proceed with all requisite legal
process under state eminent domain law.
C. Recommendation for the approval of the five (5) year option and additional fee request
for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative Service
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager approve the option to extend the period of performance of the
contract for five (5) years and to add an additional $500,000.00 to the option price to Marsh
USA to provide Professional Services for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative Services on
the Rolling Owner Controlled Insurance Program (ROCIP). Funding for this contract in 2012
is included in the 2012 Adopted expense budget for the FasTracks program, and funding for
this contract in future years is included in the FasTracks financial plan.
D. Extension of Street Improvement Contract with Manion Construction
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract amendment to initiate the third and final year of a three-year option contract for the
annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for
$334,834.00. Funding for this contract amendment is provided in the 2012 Adopted Capital
Budget in the Street Improvements and Bus Shelters projects.
E. Parking Easement – 6,206 sq. ft. of land below the Light Rail Bridge structure and
appurtenances in the West Corridor at West 6th Avenue, approximately 685 feet west of
Quail Street, in Lakewood, adjacent to the former Kacey Fine Furniture
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to grant

a 6,206 sq. ft. parking easement for customer and employee parking below the light rail
bridge structure and appurtenances on the West Corridor at West 6th Avenue, approximately
685 feet west of Quail Street, in Lakewood, Colorado to KMH Investments, LLC. RTD would
receive $42,000.00 as consideration for the easement.
F. Termination of Lease Agreement between Fiddler’s Business Improvement District and
the Regional Transportation District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
terminate the Lease between the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District and RTD for
additional public parking spaces for RTD transit customers in the vicinity of the RTD
Arapahoe Light Rail Station on the west side of I-25.
G. Approval of 2012 Contract Award to Virtegic Group Incorporated for the FasTracks
Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a one-year contract award with
four one-year options, negotiated annually between RTD and Consultant Staff, and awarded
annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD, to Virtegic Group
Incorporated, to serve as the FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public
Outreach Consultant, for an amount not to exceed $451,459.20 for the year 2012.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2012 FasTracks Budget.
H. Recommendation for Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreements with the City and
County of Denver for the Eagle Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to negotiate and amend the existing Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (City) for the East Corridor for RTD to,
as part of the Eagle Project, (a) add sufficient additional track to facilitate one additional
station, such station to be paid for by an entity other than RTD; (b) amend the design of the
structures along Peña Boulevard to allow an additional track and a second additional station
to be added in the future with both of these future elements to be paid by an entity other
than RTD; and (c) grade separate Tower Road and Green Valley Ranch Boulevard (also known
as 48th Avenue). The agreement shall also include provisions that require the City to make
certain drainage improvements in the area of 31st and 36th Streets, and to provide fiber optic
connections from each grade crossing on the Eagle Project within the City and County of
Denver to the City and County of Denver control center, all at no cost to RTD. Furthermore,
the IGA will address funding of the described improvements.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
negotiate and amend the existing Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver on behalf of its Department of Aviation for the East Corridor/Denver
International Airport that responsibility for construction of certain areas at Denver
International Airport (DIA) be submitted to binding arbitration if the parties cannot agree on
that responsibility.
I. Approval of Proposed 2012 Internal Audit Schedule
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors approve the proposed schedule of internal audits to be performed in 2012.
J. Parking Management
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of

Directors authorize the General Manager to modify the 2008 Parking Management Program to
eliminate the provisions for 50% demand management discounts for low demand facilities
and to retain all other provisions.
K. Award of “Group 23” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of “Group 23” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit, Inc. This
contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed $60,745,747 with two (2) one-year
options in the amount of $21,417,815 (option year 1) and $21,855,925 (option year 2), for
a total five year amount not to exceed $104,019,487. In addition, RTD will reimburse the
contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be approximately $12,195,466 for
the initial three year contract term, $4,328,399 for option year 1, $4,444,350 for option
year 2, for a total of$20,968,215 for the five year period. This results in a total contract
amount not to exceed $72,941,213 for the initial three year contract period and
$124,987,702 for the five year period. This proposal represents the most responsive and
responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 11-DH-028, to
provide “Group 23” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective with implementation of the May, 2012, service changes on May13,
2012.
L. Award of Local Government Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to enter into Contract No. 11-DX-001 for Local Government Liaison
services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) for one-year (January 1, 2012 through December
31, 2012), at a cost of $90,000, and for four (4) additional one-year options to renew at
prices specified in the Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the Board of
Directors pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
XIII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

 M.

Denver Union Station Historic Building Re-Use Developer Negotiations
The Financial Administration & Audit Committee recommends support of the Staff
recommendation, which is consistent with the recommendation of the evaluation panel,
for the DUS Historic Building RFP and requests that the RTD Board authorize the General
Manager and/or his designee to begin negotiations with the Union Station Alliance (USA)
team for purposes of establishing a contract for the re-use of historic Denver Union
Station. Upon successful completion of negotiations with USA, the General Manager
and/or his designee will bring those terms to the RTD Board of Directors for approval. If
negotiations are not successful, the General Manager and/or his designee will inform the
Board and provide alternatives for proceeding forward with the re-use of the historic DUS
building at that time. As a part of the negotiation process, the General Manager wants to
acknowledge to the Board that he will be seeking to hire outside legal counsel to assist
with the negotiation process at a not to exceed limit of $200,000. This amount is within
the General Manager’s budgetary authority as authorized by the RTD Board of Directors.

XIV.

OLD BUSINESS

XV.

NEW BUSINESS

XVI.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f) Personnel Matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation

XVII.

RESUME FROM EXECUTIVE SESSION TO BOARD MEETING

XVIII. RECOMMENDED ACTION
RESOLUTION ___________ SERIES OF 2011, General Manager Performance Evaluation
XVIV. ADJOURN

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

