1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Kathi Williams, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
DECEMBER 20, 2011 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

SWEARING IN OF NEW BOARD MEMBER
Chair Kemp read a resolution from the Adams County Commissioners appointing Kathi
Williams to the vacancy for District K created by the resignation of Kenneth Riley. He also
read the press release for this appointment. Marla Lien, General Counsel performed the
swearing in ceremony.

III.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board Members were present at roll call. Director O’Boyle arrived after roll call.

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present. However, the Board wanted to recognize and acknowledge
the retirees for their significant years of service and contribution to the Agency.
Robert Bobby Aragon, Distribution Clerk, 25 years
Christopher Bellairs, Bus Operator, 16.5 years
Rudy Trujillo, Bus Operator, 26 years
Michael Krogh, Bus Operator, 20 years
Michael Dearman, train Operator, 21 years
Charles Corson, Division Supervisor, 26 years
Alphonso Johnston, Division Supervisor, 27 years
Alphonse Erving, Sign Maintenance, 23 years
Catherine Fiser, Payroll Practitioner, 28.5 years

V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
There were a significant number of people signed up to speak. Chair Kemp noted that a
number of them were in favor of USA and offered up the opportunity for a USA
spokesperson who could speak on their behalf.

Tom Grushka, Littleton, indicated that he was an independent film maker making a
documentary about the visually challenged. He noted that RTD had recently approved some
significant service changes, especially on routes 401 and access-a-ride services. He wanted
to know the rationale for this level of cut in light of $17M that RTD would be giving to
private business to remodel DUS.
Josh Runningwolf, Northglenn, represented the Rocky Mountain Indian Chamber of
Commerce. He stated his preference for USA for job creation at DUS and referenced several
other minority Chambers that were also in support.
Tom Carlisle, a designer of chandeliers for DUS, spoke to the quality of product that he was
designing. He demonstrated some of the lights and spoke about their historical design as well
as incorporation of high technology for efficiency. He left a sample of the product along with
letters for the Board of Directors.
Ann Heyes indicated she had been selected as spokesperson for the people in favor of USA
(approximately 54 people). Ann stated they were fully in support of USA as the right team to
get the job done. She noted that the alliance had taken into consideration all the
requirements from the stakeholders group and that their proposal would generate more
revenue and tax money while activating the building 24, 365 days, 7 days a week. She
envisioned this place as becoming a tourist attraction with significant draw across the nation.
The USA team love Denver, there is a generosity of the spirit of Denver and this will be a
welcoming center of hospitality. The USA is supportive of any call for public outreach and
they embellish the good public process. This will be a huge revenue generator for the City.
Floyd Jones, Denver, identified himself as a small businessman, downtown resident and
membership director for the Colorado Black Chamber of Commerce. He spoke to the
diversity in procurement and the opportunity for maximum participation in this project. He
asked for a timely move forward with USA.
Nathan Batchelder, spoke on behalf of Judy Montero, City Council Woman in District 9.
Nathan read a statement from Council Woman Montero in favor of USA. A copy of that
letter is included with the Board minutes in the Board office.
Larry Rushing, Aurora, identified himself as hostage of RTD. He explained his situation where
he is a property owner off I-225 corridor whose property will be taken by RTD but at present
is part of an unfunded corridor. He spoke of his struggle for 7-years to unload this property
but has had 3 contracts to back out when they determine the property status. He stated he
has met 4 conditions for hardship and urged RTD to do something to purchase his property.
David Heninger, Centennial, spoke as a supporter of USA. He represented 38 years at
Bayaud Enterprise, a non-profit organization, that has benefited from the partnership with
Sage hotel in 2008. He spoke of job opportunity for the disabled and homeless where of 113
people serviced, 71 obtained employment and 44 are still working today. These are real
opportunities for real people.
Landri Taylor, former RTD Board member and current president of the Urban League of
Denver, commended the committee for recommending USA. He spoke of the FasTracks
vision for DUS starting back in 1993 and evolving to today where the plans put forth by USA
embodies the vision of today and embraces the vision of tomorrow-a good marriage.

Elbra Wedgeworth, DUSPA President also endorsed USA and stated that Jerry Glick was
their point person on the DUS Historical Building evaluation team.
Bruce Johnson, Denver, also supported the USA plan and talked about the 24 hour, 7-day a
week, 365 day availability. He stated his perspective that the lobby for this hotel should be
on the main floor.
Tom Wooten, Alameda Station LLC, stated they have worked tirelessly in the redevelopment
of the bus barn site and thinks the selection of USA is good.
Colleen Brave, Centennial, stated her passion for the minority community and believes USA
provides this community with opportunities for employment.
Walter Eisenberg, Sage Hospitality and on the USA proposer team, thanked all the
supporters, the selection committee, and the RTD staff. He looks forward to negotiating a
reasonable contract for all the people. They take the responsibility of this landmark very
seriously and will make RTD proud.
VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Director Daly noted grammatical omissions on the study session, finance, and operations
minutes. Corrections have been made.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Committee Chair Bagley reported that the full Board would be going into Executive
Session later this evening to discuss the General Manager’s performance review. They
would resume back into open meeting for a vote on the resolution.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 22, 2011
MOTION:

Director Anderson moved for the adoption of the November 22,
2011 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

IX.

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 1
abstain (Director Williams)
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

APPROVAL OF SPECIAL BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 29, 2011
MOTION:

Director Tobiassen moved for the adoption of the November
29, 2011 special board meeting minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in favor (Anderson,
Bagley, Cohen, Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, Kemp, James, Malpiede,

McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker) and 1
abstain (Director Williams)
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.
X.

CHAIR’S REPORT
Chair Kemp reported that on December 15th, the Board wrapped up its telephone town
hall meetings. This was a phenomenal experience with reaching close to 60,000
residents and providing great interaction with the constituents.
Director Hoy stated he was happy to have new Director Kathi Williams onboard to
address the questions from District K.
Chair Kemp reported that staff did a stellar job in presenting the new information for
Northwest Rail to the US 36 corridor.
Chair Kemp reported the Metro Mayors Taskforce meeting went well. Chair Kemp,
Director Anderson and Director Williams, who had not yet been installed, were in
attendance.

XI.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 General Manager Washington reported he will be in attendance at the Transit Agency
General Manager Seminar in January 2012. He will be taking one of his AGM’s, Bill
Van Meter as part of his leadership development. He tries to rotate this each year as
part of his succession planning.
 Success of Operation Give-a-Gift-- RTD has been doing this program for over 10 years
where employees provide toys/gifts for non-profits. This year the program was
expanded to include 7 or 8 agencies and roughly 1700 gifts were provided. This
program was extremely successful and the agencies and recipients were extremely
thankful. Director Cohen served as Emcee and a number of other Board members
including Directors McMullen, Tobiassen, Walker and Daly attended this event.
 Annual Program Evaluation-Staff is in the process of updating, conducting workshops
with experts on material costs, etc, working with LEEDS school and providing various
levels of validations on assumptions, etc. They plan to bring this to the Board in
January and February for approval.
 Pertaining to the question asked by Tom Grushka on the rationale associated with
service cuts and giving 17M for remodeling of DUS, General Manager Washington
stated these are two separate pots of monies. Staff will follow-up with Mr. Grushka
to provide more explanation.
 General Manager Washington introduced the new PI team led by Sherman Hamilton of
Virtegic.

XII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp indicated he will entertain the motion for approval of the unanimous consent
agenda, items A through L minus B. Item B, Property Acquisition for Eagle P3, will be pulled
for discussion under recommended action.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
approve the unanimous consent agenda,
items A through L minus B.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON

MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen Walker and Williams) and 0
against.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

A. FasTracks Citizen Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors
reappoint three members of the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint three
new members to the Committee to a three-year term.

C. Recommendation for the approval of the five (5) year option and additional fee request
for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative Service
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager approve the option to extend the period of performance of the
contract for five (5) years and to add an additional $500,000.00 to the option price to Marsh
USA to provide Professional Services for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative Services on
the Rolling Owner Controlled Insurance Program (ROCIP). Funding for this contract in 2012
is included in the 2012 Adopted expense budget for the FasTracks program, and funding for
this contract in future years is included in the FasTracks financial plan.
D. Extension of Street Improvement Contract with Manion Construction
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract amendment to initiate the third and final year of a three-year option contract for the
annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for
$334,834.00. Funding for this contract amendment is provided in the 2012 Adopted Capital
Budget in the Street Improvements and Bus Shelters projects.
E. Parking Easement – 6,206 sq. ft. of land below the Light Rail Bridge structure and
appurtenances in the West Corridor at West 6th Avenue, approximately 685 feet west of
Quail Street, in Lakewood, adjacent to the former Kacey Fine Furniture
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to grant
a 6,206 sq. ft. parking easement for customer and employee parking below the light rail
bridge structure and appurtenances on the West Corridor at West 6th Avenue, approximately
685 feet west of Quail Street, in Lakewood, Colorado to KMH Investments, LLC. RTD would
receive $42,000.00 as consideration for the easement.
F. Termination of Lease Agreement between Fiddler’s Business Improvement District and
the Regional Transportation District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to
terminate the Lease between the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District and RTD for
additional public parking spaces for RTD transit customers in the vicinity of the RTD

Arapahoe Light Rail Station on the west side of I-25.
G. Approval of 2012 Contract Award to Virtegic Group Incorporated for the FasTracks
Public Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve a one-year contract award with
four one-year options, negotiated annually between RTD and Consultant Staff, and awarded
annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD, to Virtegic Group
Incorporated, to serve as the FasTracks Public Information, Communications and Public
Outreach Consultant, for an amount not to exceed $451,459.20 for the year 2012.
Funds for the award are contained in the 2012 FasTracks Budget.
H. Recommendation for Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreements with the City and
County of Denver for the Eagle Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to negotiate and amend the existing Intergovernmental
Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of Denver (City) for the East Corridor for RTD to,
as part of the Eagle Project, (a) add sufficient additional track to facilitate one additional
station, such station to be paid for by an entity other than RTD; (b) amend the design of the
structures along Peña Boulevard to allow an additional track and a second additional station
to be added in the future with both of these future elements to be paid by an entity other
than RTD; and (c) grade separate Tower Road and Green Valley Ranch Boulevard (also known
as 48th Avenue). The agreement shall also include provisions that require the City to make
certain drainage improvements in the area of 31st and 36th Streets, and to provide fiber optic
connections from each grade crossing on the Eagle Project within the City and County of
Denver to the City and County of Denver control center, all at no cost to RTD. Furthermore,
the IGA will address funding of the described improvements.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
negotiate and amend the existing Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver on behalf of its Department of Aviation for the East Corridor/Denver
International Airport that responsibility for construction of certain areas at Denver
International Airport (DIA) be submitted to binding arbitration if the parties cannot agree on
that responsibility.
I. Approval of Proposed 2012 Internal Audit Schedule
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors approve the proposed schedule of internal audits to be performed in 2012.
J. Parking Management
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to modify the 2008 Parking Management Program to
eliminate the provisions for 50% demand management discounts for low demand facilities
and to retain all other provisions.
K. Award of “Group 23” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of “Group 23” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit, Inc. This
contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed $60,745,747 with two (2) one-year
options in the amount of $21,417,815 (option year 1) and $21,855,925 (option year 2), for
a total five year amount not to exceed $104,019,487. In addition, RTD will reimburse the

contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be approximately $12,195,466 for
the initial three year contract term, $4,328,399 for option year 1, $4,444,350 for option
year 2, for a total of$20,968,215 for the five year period. This results in a total contract
amount not to exceed $72,941,213 for the initial three year contract period and
$124,987,702 for the five year period. This proposal represents the most responsive and
responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 11-DH-028, to
provide “Group 23” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this service is
scheduled to be effective with implementation of the May, 2012, service changes on May13,
2012.
L. Award of Local Government Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to enter into Contract No. 11-DX-001 for Local Government Liaison
services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) for one-year (January 1, 2012 through December
31, 2012), at a cost of $90,000, and for four (4) additional one-year options to renew at
prices specified in the Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the Board of
Directors pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
XIII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
B. Property Acquisition for Eagle P3
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors pass
the attached property acquisition resolution certifying certain additional properties as
necessary for construction of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and the associated
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff to proceed with all requisite legal
process under state eminent domain law.
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve
property acquisition for Eagle P3.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Walker indicated that he has a conflict
of interest from his job with a couple of the
properties listed and would abstain from voting.

VOTE ON MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp, Malpiede,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Williams) and 0 against. Director Walker
abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

 M.

Denver Union Station Historic Building Re-Use Developer Negotiations
The Financial Administration & Audit Committee recommends support of the Staff
recommendation, which is consistent with the recommendation of the evaluation panel, for
the DUS Historic Building RFP and requests that the RTD Board authorize the General
Manager and/or his designee to begin negotiations with the Union Station Alliance (USA)
team for purposes of establishing a contract for the re-use of historic Denver Union Station.
Upon successful completion of negotiations with USA, the General Manager and/or his

designee will bring those terms to the RTD Board of Directors for approval. If negotiations
are not successful, the General Manager and/or his designee will inform the Board and
provide alternatives for proceeding forward with the re-use of the historic DUS building at
that time. As a part of the negotiation process, the General Manager wants to acknowledge
to the Board that he will be seeking to hire outside legal counsel to assist with the negotiation
process at a not to exceed limit of $200,000. This amount is within the General Manager’s
budgetary authority as authorized by the RTD Board of Directors.
Director McMullen indicated he wanted to make the motion on this item but preceded it with
this statement. Both he and Chair Kemp are term limited in 2012. The decision on DUS will
be one of the biggest decisions the Board will make as a group. We have gotten some
amazing input from our constituents, stakeholders and the public in general. We are
fortunate to have had two excellent choices-the USNC proposal and the USA proposal. RTD
has always enjoyed a reputation of making good and sound decisions and being united in our
efforts. He believes it is very important to continue to move forward with a collective vote, a
collective voice on this issue. One of the comments made by Patton Boggs, the Federal
Lobbyists, is RTD has enjoyed a reputation in Washington for making good decisions which
does impact on being the recipients of numerous funding sources. The Board needs to show a
united front on this issue. We need to do the right thing.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve
the Denver Union Station Historic Building ReUse Developer Negotiations.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Several of the Board members provided
comments. Director O’Boyle stated the hotel
option is the right thing to do. It will have a
vibrant presence with 24 hours/365 days
access, and will be the hub for transit activities.
This decision has financial implications and is the
fiscally responsible thing to do.
Director Daly reflected on his objection in
committee based on lack of competition but
thanks Phil Washington for explaining the
process to him. He attended the Platte Valley
Model Train Open House where he knows the
stakeholders took this into consideration for its
educational impact. He was impressed by the
fact that after reviewing new information, the
evaluation team still recommended USA and the
hotel option. He will support that decision
tonight.
Director Anderson commended staff for the
great job they did with this analysis and she
looks forward to the restoration process.
Director Malpiede thanked staff for their
professionalism and how they conduct
themselves even in tight situations. She thanked
the community for their love and involvement in

helping to scope the future of the Denver Union
Station. She is overwhelmed with pride as she
sees the diversity in the support for USA. DUS
will be the “grand ole dame” for the
transportation center and she will be providing
her support to this recommendation.
Director McMullen commented that he
discovered there used to be another wing on
DUS-this could be food for consideration.
Director Deadwyler commented she had done a
lot of reflecting on this issue. As she completes
her first year on the Board, when she reflects on
the reason why she ran for office, she ran to be
the voice of those who are afraid to speak up or
who speak up but do not get heard.
She is very supportive of the RTD mission to
provide safe, clean, reliable, courteous,
accessible and cost-effective service throughout
the District.
Yet When she looks at this
proposal, it looks like RTD is moving into the
hotel business but not just any hotel business, a
boutique hotel business which may not be
accessible to all. In this last year, RTD has
experienced great success such as in the FFGA
1.3B grant, and the WorkForce Initiative Now
(WIN). In these successes, RTD has listened to
the voice of its citizens but her concern now is
that this voice may be compromised for the
elitist. Nevertheless, she has listened to the
proposer talk about job opportunities as well as
many of the public speakers tonight who spoke
on the opportunities for the disabled,
disadvantaged, and the minority community to
get work on this project. While she remains
skeptical, she too will vote yes on this
recommendation in the hopes that her
perspective will be proven wrong and the
disadvantaged, disabled, African American
communities and WIN participants will realize
true job opportunities.
Director Hoy restated his support of this
proposal for a hotel and stated he looks forward
to the grand opening where he can spend an
evening at the hotel.
Director James stated he is quite pleased with
the process and the process does work. He
thanked staff, the evaluation team and the USA
proposer. He believes there will be an activation
of the great train hall and everyone will get to
experience that Denver “living room”. RTD
received two great proposals and he thanks

everyone for the tremendous effort that went
into making this happening. Unfortunately, he
has a conflict of interest related to his job as a
real estate appraiser and will be abstaining from
this vote.
Director Cohen stated both teams provided
excellent choices.
He had noted in his
comments at the committee meeting that he
wanted to be a voice for others and that is why
he had voted against this recommendation. His
personal preference however, is in support of
this recommendation and he will be supporting
that recommendation tonight. He has been very
encouraged by USA responsiveness to the
concerns expressed by the RTD Board and
citizens.
Director Kathi Williams, who had been newly
installed, talked about the steep learning curve
she is under and what a great job staff has done
leading up to this vote to educate her on the
issues surrounding this recommendation. She
also has had an opportunity to tour DUS and to
ask questions. As a former commercial real
estate person, she knows one of the key tests of
commitment levels is show me the money or
how much skin do you have in the game. She is
convinced that USA has skin in the game.
Director Walker stated that staff has done an
outstanding job in presenting both proposals. He
feels as a Board member, he is responsible for
being a good steward of the public funds.
Director Anderson thanked the public and the
wonderful community for their involvement. She
stated the remodeling of the historic DUS will be
a great and wonderful experience.
Director Bagley thanked Chair Kemp and the
Board for his appointment to the DUSPA Board.
It has been a pleasure to serve for these past
two years. He receives regular once a month
updates on matters related to the use of DUS.
RTD has engaged an extremely vibrant public
outreach and the staff has kept the Board
informed for the past 8-9 months. He feels all
the issues have been well presented and he will
support the staff recommendation.
Director Tayer expressed his thanks and
appreciation to the staff and the evaluation
committee for their work. He also thanked the
public for their outpour of support. However, he
wanted to be clear on what his vote means. He
commended the two proposers for their great

outreach and commended RTD for a great RFP
process. Part of the debate is based on a lack
of understanding which is the reason he argued
for additional public process. He believes this is
appropriate given the significance of this decision
on such an iconic landmark. He plans to vote
first in support of his fellow Board members and
as a statement for furtherance of this process to
move to the next stage of negotiation. His vote
however is predicated on four things he will like
staff to attend to:
1) DUS building is accessible to all (i.e.
everyone’s living room)
2) Conducting a full expert analysis of the pro
forma of this proposal
3) Address challenges to proposed adjustments
in DUS
4) Significant input from the public process is
visible and transparent.
He believes the restoration of DUS will be a
symbol of great success that emulated from a
great process.
Director Tobiassen dittoed Director Tayer’s
comments. He wants this to be inclusive of the
disabled, homeless, WIN and the common man.
Most of all, this will be a major transportation
transit hub providing a long term sustainable
project.
Chair Kemp thanked staff, stakeholders,
evaluation team, community and his fellow
Board members for the time and effort they put
into making sure this was the best decision for
this agency and the regional community.
VOTE ON MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, Kemp, Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, Walker and Williams)
and 0 against. Director James abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIV.

OLD BUSINESS
There was no old business.

XV.

NEW BUSINESS
There was no new business.

XVI,

EXECUTIVE SESSION

Chair Kemp asked for a motion to move into Executive Session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)
(f) personnel matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation. He indicated that the Board
will resume from executive session back to the meeting to vote on the resolution, General
Manager Performance Evaluation.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to
move into executive session to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) General Manager
Performance Evaluation.
Director James seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

A hand vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler,
Hoy,
James,
Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against.
Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

The meeting adjourned into executive session at 7:15 p.m.
The meeting adjourned from executive session at 8:25 p.m. and resumed the meeting.

XVII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
Chair Kemp read into the record, resolution_______ series of 2011, General Manager
Performance Evaluation and asked for a motion to approve.
MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to
approve resolution______series of 2011,
General
Manager’s
Performance
Evaluation.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 15
votes in favor (Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer,
Tobiassen, Walker and Williams) and 0
against.

Chair Kemp
PASSED.

declared

the

motion

XVIV. ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 8:32 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, December 20, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
Kathi Williams
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Brian Iacono
Shirley Bennett
Austin Jenkins
Bob Brown
Marla Lien
Rick Clarke
Patrick McLaughlin
Carolyn Conover
Barbara McManus
Libby Cox
Doug MacLeod
John Dawson
Robert Medina
Mike Gil
Anthony Menendez
Terry Howerter
Brian Middleton

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District N
District B
District J
District A
District E
District G
District F
District D
District K
Jerry Nery
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Roger Sherman
John Shonsey

Greg Smith
Errol Stevens
Walt Stringer
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Dale Atchison – CBS4, Nathan Batchelder – Council District 9, Ferd Belz- USA, Anna Bogler – Urban
Neighborhood, Colleen Brave, Michelle Brier – Virtegic Group, Jeff C. – Chandler Films, Jenny C.,
Kim C., Tom Carlisle – USA, Valerie Castro – CBS4, Steve Chester, David Cole, David Cohen, Wes
and Dianne Chowen, Steve Cook – DRCOG, J. Czapor – Virtegic Group, Brent D. – Chandler Films,
Josh Davies, Aaron DelGrosso – Chandler Films, Liz DiLorrenzo, Monnie Elliott, Chris F. - USNC, Ayn
Fox, Vicki Godbey, Joni Goheen, David Goldberg, Carlos Gonsalez – First Transit, Tom Grushka –
Chandler Films, Betty H., David H. – Oxford Hotel, Nehemiah Hall – National Federation of the Blind,
Sherman Hamilton – Virtegic Group, Anne Hayes, Larry Hazzard, David Heninger – Bayand
Enterprises, Jeff Hermanson, Dale Honor – Virtegic Group, Diane & David Huntress, Margaret
Jackson – Denver Post, Walter Isenberg – Sage, Jorgen Jensen, Bruce Johnson, Floyd Jones,
Walter Jones, Dr. Jordan – Metro State, Kathy Kaley, Christopher Kirkland, Bill Lucas, Pat McHenry,
Mike McPhee, Gabe Martinez, Rebecca Merrett, Kyle Miller, Suki N. – Sage, Ed Nichols, Luke
O’Kelley, Michael O’Shea – Sage, Elizabeth Orr, Kim P., Rick P. – First Transit, Peter Park, Michael
Pecot, Rebecca Peralt, Philip Rhoades – Sage, Josh Runningwolf – Rocky Mountain Indian Chamber
of Commerce, Larry Rushing, Marta S. – Virtegic Group, Justin Salvia – Chandler Films, Ken
Schmidt, Josefina Schnaith – Sage, Alisia Sera – The Oxford Hotel, A. Simmons, Jake Sloan –
Trane, Susan Spry – First Transit, Amy Stansberg – Sage, Ron Straka, Chris Taylor – Spectrum AV,
Landry Taylor – Urban League, Christopher Tyrba, David Tryba, Stephanie Tryba, Joe Vostrejs,
Ellsea W., Martin W., Katrina Wert, Cody Wertz – USA, Al Whitehouse, Mikki Wilder, Tom Wooten –
Alameda LLC.

