Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
June 16, 2020 at 5:30 PM
REMOTE MEETING
Conference Dial in # 855-962-1128

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

III.

Recommended Action
A.

Approval of Accountability Committee Proposal

It is recommended by the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board of Directors
adopt the attached document titled “RTD Accountability Committee Proposal.”
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #2: Strong & Ethical Leadership
Core Goal #5: Effective Communications & Community Outreach
Task Goal #1: Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/Collaboration

IV.

Other Matters

V.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

3.A

BOARD INITIATED ACTION ITEM
To:

Board of Directors

Date: June 15, 2020

From:

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Board Chair & Director,
District C

GM

Date:

June 15, 2020

Board Meeting Date: June 16, 2020

Subject:

Approval of Accountability Committee Proposal

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Chair of the RTD Board of Directors that the Board of Directors adopt the
attached document titled “RTD Accountability Committee Proposal.”
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #2: Strong & Ethical Leadership
Core Goal #5: Effective Communications & Community Outreach
Task Goal #1: Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/Collaboration
BACKGROUND
The Board Chair and the Chair of the Communications & Government Relations Committee have been
working with representatives of the Governor’s Office and the chairs of the Senate and House
transportation committees of the Colorado General Assembly to develop a plan to create the RTD
Accountability Committee. A proposal outlining the committee’s composition, implementation, operation,
and objectives is attached to this Recommended Action and has been shared with the members of the
RTD Board. This Recommended Action will memorialize the official approval of the Board in moving
forward with our executive and legislative partners.
DISCUSSION
The RTD Board, in collaboration with the Governor of Colorado and the respective chairs of the
transportation committees of the Colorado General Assembly, will create the RTD Accountability
Committee, which Committee will be fully independent from RTD. The Committee’s mission is to provide
feedback and a set of recommendations for improvement to the operations of and statutes related to
RTD, to the RTD Board and staff of the RTD, the Governor, the General Assembly, and the public.
Details are provided in the attached proposal.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The parties will enter into an interagency agreement or letter agreement that allocates up to $200,000
for staffing and resources such as consulting for the committee. The committee will endeavor to use
existing resources when possible. If $200,000 is determined by the committee to be inadequate to fulfill
the work, the committee and RTD will work in good faith to find other potential funding sources.
ALTERNATIVES
1.
To adopt the proposal.

Packet Pg. 2

3.A

2.

To reject the proposal. Given current discussions with Governor Polis’ office and our partners in
the legislature, this is not the preferred alternative.

ATTACHMENTS:
•

RTD Accountability Committee Proposal

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Lynn Guissinger, Director, District O
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

3.A.a

The Regional Transportation District (RTD) board, in collaboration with the Governor of Colorado and the
Transportation chairs of the General Assembly, will create the RTD Accountability Committee (the
“Committee”). The Committee will be fully independent from RTD.
The Committee’s mission is to provide feedback and a set of recommendations for improvement to the
operations of and statutes related to RTD, to the board and staff of the RTD, the Governor, the General
Assembly, and the public. The Committee will be appointed by July 15, 2020 and will hold its first meeting
by July 31, 2020 and will continue for one year. If the Committee decides additional work is needed, the
Committee may continue its work for a second year, or may recommend other action to continue this
work.
Pending additional arrangements, the Committee will be hosted by an independent agency. The
Committee will be staffed with resources provided by RTD. Using resources, the Committee may contract
with services of a third-party consultant with expertise in transit authority operations.
RTD, the Governor’s office, and the leadership of the General Assembly will jointly announce and commit
to the process through a joint press release and/or press conference.
The Committee may issue a preliminary report by December 31 of 2020, and shall issue a report with
recommendations no later than July 1, 2021. It shall submit the report to the Governor, the chairs of the
transportation committees in the Senate and House of Representatives and the RTD Board of Directors.
The Committee will hold one or more public hearings on the report and will consider public comment and
adopt these recommendations as appropriate.
The District shall make each report issued by the Committee available to the public on its website. The
RTD Board shall, within 45 days of issuance of the report, either adopt the recommendations or issue a
report stating its reasons for not adopting specific recommendations.
The Committee will consist of eleven members. Appointing authorities may receive suggested names and
input for the committee from RTD, DRCOG, Metro Mayors, community organizations and members of the
public; however, it is essential that the committee is perceived as independent, and free to do its work
without interference. The Governor will appoint five members of the Committee and the transportation
chairs of the House and Senate will appoint six members of the Committee. The Committee composition
should reflect the diverse political views and partisan makeup of RTD’s service area. The RTD board chair
will appoint two ex officio members from the RTD board.
The table below shows the recommended expertise for the board, although the goal is to appoint
qualified, respected community members; actual members’ expertise may vary.

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee Proposal (4236 : Approval of Accountability Committee Proposal)

RTD Accountability Committee Proposal

3.A.a

Accountability Committee Makeup (11 members)

Four Local Government Representatives within
District
At least one member with economic development
expertise
At least one member with expertise on issues facing
transit riders with disabilities
At least one member with human resources
expertise, preferably for transit agencies
At least one member with transit services expertise
or multi-modal expertise
At least one member with transportation equity
expertise
At least one member with financial planning and
management expertise
At least one member with urban planning expertise

The Governor will make the following appointments:
·
1 member with financial planning expertise
·
1 member with transportation equity expertise
·
1 member with urban planning expertise
·
1 member with economic development expertise
·
1 member who represents a local government served by RTD

The chairs of the House and Senate transportation committees will make the following appointments:
·
1 member with expertise on issues facing transit riders with disabilities
·
1 member with human resources expertise, preferably for transit agencies
·
1 member with transit services or multi-modal expertise
·
3 members who represent a local government served by RTD

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee Proposal (4236 : Approval of Accountability Committee Proposal)

Members

3.A.a

The parties will enter into an interagency agreement or letter agreement that allocates up to $200,000
for staffing and resources such as consulting for the committee. The committee will endeavor to use
existing resources when possible. If $200,000 is determined by the committee to be inadequate to fulfill
the work, the committee and RTD will work in good faith to find other potential funding sources.
The Committee shall elect a Chair and Vice-Chair at their first meeting, and shall meet as often as
necessary to complete its tasks.
The Committee shall perform a comprehensive review of the District, taking into account the perspectives
of the staff, board, employees and the public. The District will provide the Committee access to board
members, employees, consultants and documents.
The work of the committee should include a review of at least the following:
• A review of recent financials from the district, including any recent audits and a thorough
review of the agency’s use of CARES Act stimulus funds;
• The structure of RTD governance and executive leadership
• A review of the district’s short-term and long-term prioritization of resources to maximize the
district’s limited dollars for the benefit of taxpayers;
• How RTD can better serve all riders including those with disabilities, how it can better serve
transit-dependent populations, a review of the district’s plans for how to expand ridership,
how the district is addressing coverage gaps, how the district is prioritizing route planning,
and how the district is serving its entire service area;
• A determination of the long-range financial stability of the agency, and how the agency can
achieve stability and growth while still meeting its core mission.
In issuing its report and recommendations, the Committee may consider but is not limited to including
the following topics:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.

District’s partnerships with local governments;
Use of CARES Act and other pandemic-related funds to support RTD’s mission;
ADA compliance and accessibility of District services and facilities, including paratransit;
Equity in services provided to the District, analyzed in terms of geography, social equity,
fare structures, and needs of transit-dependent populations;
Organizational assessment (financial health, human resources, work culture,
management and governance of the District);
Services provided by the District, plans and criteria for expansions or reductions in service;
Review of current state audit, including with respect to staff management, retention, and
hiring;
District’s efforts to address the state’s climate change goals;
District’s role in fostering economic development

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: RTD Accountability Committee Proposal (4236 : Approval of Accountability Committee Proposal)

Committee Scope and Organization:

