Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
January 9, 2020 at 6:00 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Executive Session
Personnel Matters, CRS 24-6-402 (4)(f)(I)

IV.

Recommended Action
A.

Selection of Finalists for Interim GM Position

The Selection Committee of the Whole for the Interim General Manager (Selection
Committee) presents to the Board a motion to approve as finalists for the Interim General
Manager position the following individuals identified by the Selection Committee during the
Special Board Meeting held on January 9, 2020:
Paul Ballard
Amy Ford
Michael Ford
Mike Meader
Jackie Millet

V.

Other Matters

VI.

Adjourn
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

4.A

BOARD INITIATED AGENDA ITEM
To:

Board of Directors

Requested
by:

Selection Committee of the Whole for the
Interim General Manager

Date:

January 8, 2020

Subject:

Selection of Finalists for Interim GM Position

Date: January 8, 2020

Board Meeting Date: January 9, 2020

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The Selection Committee of the Whole for the Interim General Manager (Selection Committee) presents
to the Board a motion to approve as finalists for the Interim General Manager position the following
individuals identified by the Selection Committee during the Special Board Meeting held on January 9,
2020:
Paul Ballard
Amy Ford
Michael Ford
Mike Meader
Jackie Millet
BACKGROUND
During a Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, December 3, 2019, the Board adopted preliminary
procedures for designating an Interim General Manager/Chief Executive Officer (Interim GM) and
authorized the Executive Committee to conduct a preliminary screening of applicants.
During a Special Board Meeting held on Thursday, January 2, 2020, the Board, acting in its capacity as
Selection Committee, identified five individuals, of the more than 40 internal and external applicants who
submitted application materials, to move forward as preliminary candidates for the position of Interim
GM.
The Selection Committee, convened in executive session during a Special Board Meeting held on
Thursday, January 9, 2020, interviewed the five preliminary Interim GM candidates and identified which
candidates would move forward in the process as “finalists”, as that term is defined in CRS §24-6-402
(3.5).
DISCUSSION
In adopting this Recommended Action, the Board of Directors, acting in its capacity as the Selection
Committee of the Whole for the Interim GM, is designating finalist candidates for the position of Interim
General Manager.
The Selection Committee will designate and authorize the publication of the names of the finalists for
the position of Interim General Manager as reasonably soon as practicable after the Special Board
Meeting on January 9, 2020.

Packet Pg. 2

4.A

Following the formal approval of the Interim GM from among the finalist candidates during the Board
Meeting on January 28, 2020, the Board of Directors will promptly negotiate an employment agreement
with the Interim General Manager.
The Interim General Manager will assume all duties delegated to the General Manager according to the
Board Bylaws, existing resolutions, and previous Board actions, unless otherwise terminated by the
Board of Directors.
If the Board of Directors has not appointed an Interim General Manager by January 20, 2020, as of
January 21, 2020, an acting Interim General Manager shall be designated in accordance with the
Succession Plan currently in place: Michael Meader; then Michael Ford; and then Heather McKillop;
except that any person who is a finalist candidate will not be designated as the acting Interim General
Manager. The Succession Plan, including designation of the acting Interim General Manager in
accordance with that Succession Plan, shall remain in place until such time as the Board of Directors
formally appoints an Interim General Manager.
ALTERNATIVES
1) To approve as finalists for the Interim General Manager position those individuals identified by the
Selection Committee during the Special Board Meeting held on January 9, 2020.
2) To postpone the selection of finalists.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action is as previously
discussed.
ATTACHMENTS:


Succession Plan 2018-03-15

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: Succession Plan 2018-03-15 (4078 : Selection of Finalists for Interim GM Position)

4.A.a

Packet Pg. 4

