Aug 14 2018 0530 PM Financial Administration &
Audit Committee
KEN MIHALIK: --changing up the order in the meetings tonight. So, yeah. It's 5:30. I'll call this
meeting to order. We don't have any recommended actions tonight. But we do have several
handful of updates. And we are going to depart from the schedule of updates. And we're going to
start with the Fare Study update. And I will leave it to Mrs. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to do some introductions. Before
we get started, first, you know myself, Heather McKillop. And then, Michael Washington's with
me. We've been doing this as a team for the last few months. And then, with us from BBC
Research and Consulting, who conducted the telephone survey-- we have several slides
regarding the results from the telephone survey-- so Sameer Bawa from BBC and Holly Earls
from BBC will be presenting in the middle of the presentation regarding the telephone survey
results. We have several slides on that. So we wanted to introduce them ahead of time, so when it
comes time for them to talk, you'll know who is talking. So with that, I'm going to start with
Michael. And he's going to lead you through the first part of the presentation. And then I'm going
to talk a little bit about a straw-man option that we're considering and get your input from that.
And then, Michael will wrap up the presentation.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Hello. This is Michael Washington, Transit Equity Manager. And
we'll try to keep this brief as possible. So with the public meetings in the public engagement
period that we went through here in July and into August, frankly, we set out to seek public
comment with some guiding principles in mind. That being that we be community centered,
culturally and linguistically inclusive, that we be strategic in our stakeholder partnerships and
engagement, and that we set out to educate, as well as measure results, of the engagement
activities and the public comment that we were seeking.
And we wanted to make sure that we reached as many people as we could and that we were
indeed informing people, not just on our affairs, but RTD as a whole and how fares fit into all of
what it is that we're considering and that we do here at RTD. We also really wanted to make sure
that we identify public preference for the options that we put forth. And we wanted to inform
people about the actual process that we've gone through and what it means for them and what
they can expect in the coming months. And then, we still want to follow up as we conclude this
process.
So the actual tactics that we deploy to achieve those objectives, and in line with those guiding
principles, was to do a telephone town hall that we did district wide. And we really used the
telephone town hall, in particular, to help drive people to the open house meetings that we had,
which we had eight of those open house meetings throughout the district, geographically
dispersed, where we knew that there was interest. And we actually looked at past meetings that
we had, particularly, as it relates to fare changes and where we saw high attendance. And we
tried to go back to those same locations so that we could maximize participation.

We also collected comments and provided information on the RTD website, as you would
expect. And we collected quite a bit of comments online. And of course, we did a telephone
survey that we had advertised and, I guess, informed you all of when we had come to you back
in May. And again, Sameer and Holly will actually go over the details and the outcomes from
that survey here shortly. And so here are just some numbers regarding the open house meetings,
in terms of the number of attendees and comments.
And we actually had decent attendance. The meeting that we had here at Blake was actually the
most heavily attended. And the thing I would say is that even though it says that there was just
67 people, it was actually more than that. We couldn't get everybody to sign in. Because
everyone was just so engrossed in the material. And the thing I really want to stress about the
open houses, in particular, is that this was a great way for us to break down a very complicated
subject matter. And it gave people a real opportunity to engage with Board members, like
yourselves, those that were able to come, as well as our executive level staff.
And so I mentioned the telephone town hall. We had about over 9,000 callers tune into that. And
then, with the website, we had about 271 comments that we received there. And then we also had
a special meeting that we held with the Advisory Committee for People with Disabilities
(ACPD), as well as the Access-A-Ride Paratransit Advisory Council (APAC). And that was to
really talk about Access-A-Ride fares. Because that really ended up being a hot topic at the open
house meetings and in general. And so, we actually did seek some feedback from those folks.
And they gave us a lot of good feedback that we have to consider and that we hope to fold into a
final recommendation for you all. But at this point, I'll go ahead and turn it over to Holly and
Sameer to talk about the telephone survey and what those results were.
SAMEER BAWA: Thanks, Michael. Good evening. My name is Sameer Bawa. I'm a Director
with BBC Research and Consulting. And our firm has just completed-- although we still have
some steps to take with the final report and so forth-- a district wide telephone survey to assess,
at its core, how potential fare changes might affect Denver area residents, as well as RTD users,
in particular. So the survey was built around two populations. What we call, although it's a bit of
a misnomer, the general population, which was made up of a little over 600 participants-- these
are folks who are basically non low income residents. So 71% of them are riders. 23% currently
use RTD discounts. 7% use free or reduced fares from another government organization or
nonprofit. And 8% receive financial assistance from the government.
Then we had a low income population, which was specifically defined as those who meet
household income thresholds below the national poverty level, based on their household size.
And we had 342 participants falling into that category. So 67% of them are RTD riders. 35%
currently use RTD discounts of some sort, whether that's a student discount, a senior discount, or
discount for persons with disabilities. 10% use free or reduced fares through another government
organization or through a nonprofit. And 41% of them reported receiving government financial
assistance.
So as part of the survey, we asked a number of questions related to participants' insights about
RTD. So we asked a number of questions about their satisfaction with RTD, the quality of our
RTD services, household characteristics, things like that. But the core of the survey was really

built around asking them choice questions about preferences for potential changes in RTD fare
so that we could understand what factors of those options resonated most with different
populations.
So the comparisons you see up here basically compare low income participants to those
participants-- the general population-- who are not low income. So one choice question we had
was, would your preference be for RTD to maintain its current fares and reduce service or
increase its fare and maintain its current levels of service? And what you see is a delineation
between low income residents and general population. So whereas low income residents
preferred maintaining the current fares, even if it meant reducing services, the population at
large-- or everyone else-- preferred increasing the fares and maintaining the current service,
which may speak to the sensitivity around fare amounts among low income residents.
We also asked participants to choose their preference between the current 50% discount for
seniors and disabled, coupled with a 50% discount for students or increasing the discount for
students up to 70% while maintaining a 50% discount for seniors and persons with disabilities. In
both cases, in both segments of the population, you see an overwhelming preference for 50%
discounts for students, seniors, and persons with disabilities and not having a special increased
discount for students.
We also asked whether participants had a preference between having the same fare across all
income groups or using a more progressive fare system where you have lower fares for low
income households or low income individuals and higher fares for high income individuals.
There wasn't much preference one way or the other. So it was about 50/50 regardless of the low
income population or the general population.
And then, finally, we asked participants to state their preference between RTD offering many
ways to pay fares or to actually simplify the process and reduce the ways in which riders can pay
fares. And again, there was substantial preference for offering numerous ways for riders to pay
their fares.
So just a quick summary of those data. Low income participants prefer the same fares that RTD
has now, even if it means reducing services, whereas everyone else prefers the same level of
service even if that means increasing fares. There's a strong preference among both populations
to maintain current discounts. There wasn't much of a preference in either population between
flat fares or progressive fares based on income. Strong preference for more payment options,
making it easier for folks to pay their fares.
And then finally, data that you haven't seen, but we'll show in the next slide, a moderate
preference for a discount for low income riders. So one of the preference questions we asked,
which we're saving here for the end, because it's a bit more complicated. And it's not in your
packet today. Because it was a late addition. But you'll get an updated packet, which will include
these data.
So we asked participants to, basically, choose between one of three options. As part of option
one, RTD would have its current $2.60 fare for a one way service. But the free and reduced fare

would be the same for low income residents through nonprofit and government organizations.
Option B is to increase the fare to $2.90 and maintain current service levels. And then, offer free
and reduced fare for some low income residents through nonprofit and government
organizations. And then, option C was to increase fares to $3 across the board and maintain the
current service, but also offer a 40% discount for all low income residents through RTD who
show an indication that they receive government financial assistance.
So by and large, there wasn't much of a preference one way or the other among the three,
although there was a slight preference in both populations for option C, which is to increase the
fare to $3, maintain current service, and then offer a 40% discount for low income residents who
also receive government assistance.
Now one important point to make about this is that although we don't have data on it today, there
are some nuanced affects of what option C would have on low income residents. So if you think
of all the low income residents that we considered as part of the survey and that are
representative of the low income residents throughout the service area, roughly 52% of them-- so
a little more than half-- already receive a student discount, a senior discount, or a discount
because they have a disability. So they wouldn't be affected by option C. They would continue to
pay the same discounted rate they already pay because of those existing discounts.
Of the remaining, let's say, half, of the low income population, about half of those-- so a quarter
of total low income residents-- would actually benefit from option C. So they receive
government financial assistance, they don't have an existing discount through RTD. So that 40%
discount would actually help them. However, that remaining 25% would actually end up paying
more for RTD fares because they don't have government assistance. And their discount would
actually be less under the new plan-- or under the new fare structure-- than it currently is. So they
would actually end up paying more for their RTD fare. So, something to consider in that option
C wouldn't necessarily help all low income residents pay a lower fare.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: All right. Thank you, Sameer. So as it relates to the public
comments that we've heard and the major themes that we heard-- and these themes weren't
actually ranked in any particular order-- but the thing to note as it relates to option 3 in the
feedback that we heard, we actually heard very enthusiastic support when people were in favor
of option 3, saying that they really support the notion of a low income program and youth
discounts.
And we also heard a lot of positive feedback about the PPWG (Pass Program Working Group)
process, even from those individuals that didn't necessarily agree with the outcome of the
recommendation. But then, there was definitely some concern about us promoting the potential
for cross-subsidization, as well as the potential for option 3 to provide RTD with the highest
fare-- one of the highest fares-- in the nation. And this is just people's perceptions, not
necessarily what's true.
Under option 2, there was limited support and interest in option 2. But those that did support
option 2, definitely said that they generally liked the idea of people paying the same for their

fares. And they did express a understanding that there is a need for RTD to increase fares and to
essentially meet our revenue targets to be able to provide the services that the district demands.
The general opposition that we had to fare increases is nothing new, especially for Board
Members who have seen this process before, and that people generally are adverse to paying
more. That's not something that they're looking forward to doing. And there were a lot of calls
for us to look for alternative sources of funding. And people definitely expressed some concern
about the airport fare. But I will also note that there are some that are saying that we're not
charging enough for the airport and that they they think it could be a real cash cow, which is
interesting.
And as it relates to the base fare products that we have, we definitely heard a strong preference
for the three hour pass. That was received very favorably, essentially, by all that I talked to, at
least, and that a lot of the comments that we received. There was definitely some interest in
maintaining the MyRide and 10-Ride discounts and saying that, particularly, there are some
people that really are drawn to those products as it's a halfway between the cash fare and the
monthly passes. So there's definitely some eagerness for us to keep those discounts.
And then, there was some concern about us even talking about a $2.90 fare, in that individuals
were saying, who's really going to carry around dimes? You really should round to the nearest
$0.25 or $1.00.
As it relates to Neighborhood EcoPass and CollegePass, there was a general acceptance of the
fact that utilization-based pricing seems fair, but to make sure, program participants would really
like to see utilization data. We heard that a lot. With Access-A-Ride, we definitely heard some
sensitivity to price, there, as I communicated with the general public, especially since this is a
population that is more likely to be on a fixed income.
But there were some that were saying that they would be interested in RTD potentially exploring
charging for fixed route service, in that this is a potential to avoid some of the abuse of AccessA-Ride that we see. The thought is that there are some individuals that are seeking to be certified
for Access-A-Ride just so that they can have a fixed route service free to them. But generally
speaking, in our conversations with the individuals with disabilities, we heard a lot that people
generally understand that RTD has to increase its revenue to be able to keep up with costs.
As it relates to senior and disabled fare, we definitely heard that, why isn't RTD prioritizing
senior and disabled individuals and giving them a higher discount? And they are definitely
struggling with understanding why we were considering increasing that youth discount. And this
is where Heather and I tried to actually elucidate the fact that youth don't represent much of the
population. And so it's not really as impactful as it may seem.
The objection-- or the concern-- with the youth's discount would really pertain to the concept of
lost revenue. People are just generally concerned that RTD would be losing revenue. They
weren't necessarily opposed to providing youth with a greater discount, in general. The youth
discount was highly favored among those that commented, by and large. And there still was

some concern, though, that this really just seems like the district subsidizing particular school
districts, as opposed to all youth, in general.
And then, finally, nonprofit programs. Nonprofit program and nonprofit organizations were
generally concerned about the fact that they would be losing the 50% discount and instead have
to see a decrease, essentially, by 10% going to a 40% discount. But what we generally saw was
that people were in favor of the fact that that 40% discount would be more available to a wider
net of low income individuals.
But there definitely was some concern about losing the option to purchase monthly passes and
10-Ride tickets. And then concerned about the accessibility of the MyRide in the mobile
ticketing option. And so now I'll turn it back over to Heather to talk about how we're planning to
use that feedback, right now, as we're going into our final stage of modeling.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So part of what we wanted to do tonight was talk about what's in the
options and some additional things that we heard that we might be able to incorporate in some of
the options. And I just wanted to talk a little bit about each of these boxes. Because I know, last
month, we gave you some very detailed information about each of these-- what the current
program is and what the new one would look like, based on the alternatives.
But just to emphasize a little more about some more detail on each of these, and some additional
things that we're having to consider as we move forward, we want to get your feedback, tonight,
based on what we've heard through the public process, including the telephone survey. And then,
what we're looking at tonight, we will need to do some additional modeling. And that will take
us a little bit of time. So we, at this time, plan to come back with the final recommendation in
September.
But with that, I want to just spend a little bit of time talking about each of the boxes. So, starting
with the three hour pass. Currently, hopefully you know that we just offer a three hour, one-way
right now. So you can travel in one direction. But if you turn around and go the other direction,
then you need to buy another ticket. What was proposed was a three hour pass so you can ride
multi-directional, in any direction, for a total of three hours. And then, once that three hours is
up, you'd need to buy another ticket.
As was mentioned online and in the open houses, this was a very popular option. If we do
nothing else, they would like us to do this and provide people a lot more options, as far as being
able to run errands within that three hour trip without purchasing another ticket.
Regarding the Eco, Neco and CollegePass, let me just talk about that a little bit. As you know,
the recommendation has been, and we have, in each of the alternatives, a discussion around
utilization-based. And that means, basically, paying for the trips that are taken by each entity,
whether it be a College, EcoPass or a NecoPass.
What we're proposing, as a staff, is that we look looked at the SLAs and adjusted for service
levels. So our current service level areas under the EcoPass program have not been adjusted
since the West Line opened. And since then, we've opened the University of Colorado A Line,

the B Line, and R Line, as well as had some service changes in other areas. So with that, we
needed to update those, anyhow. And we'll be doing that on a regular basis as new service is
provided.
We looked at moving any entity that was over 3,000 employees plus into their own bucket. And
by that, I mean, when we looked at the current process, we have about eight extremely large
employers that participate in the program. Those employers significantly skewed the pricing for
other employers that were smaller employers. And they had been lumped together with the 1,000
to 2,000, all the way up-- 3,000 plus. So when we looked at fairness and equity, it was
determined that it would probably be best to move the 3,000 plus into their own pricing matrix,
so they would be priced on their trips alone.
We have been meeting individually with each of the large employers to discuss what that looks
like for them and provide them with the utilization data for their particular areas so they could
figure out what the pricing would look like. The information we've been providing to them is
based on 2017 utilization data, because that's the full year that we have available to us. And
we've been having some very good conversations with them on that.
One of the things we've talked about previously was the recommendation was to phase increases
over a three year period, if any year's increase exceeds 20%. So if your increase is, for instance,
60%, you would see a 20% increase in year one, 20% increase in year two, and 20% increase in
year three. If it was a 40% increase, you would see the whole increase taken by the year two.
Any decreases-- and we have considerable decreases in some areas-- will be taken in year one.
And that's the current recommendation that we're using for modeling.
We did send out new matrices for all of the other SLA (service-level agreement) A, B, C and D.
There were under 3,000 employee businesses. And I sent a copy of that to you yesterday, so you
could see the comparison of what they're currently paying now and what they would be paying
based on those alternatives. Now, years two and three, as we've mentioned to those that we've
been meeting with, might change, because your utilization data would change. We're going to
update utilization every year. So that would, potentially, affect two years two and three. But at
least you could see the changes between what you're paying now and that.
We plan on sending utilization data to those individuals by SLA. They will not receive individual
information. Because the model is set up as an insurance model so that you can see what the
realization data is for that particular SLA but not any one individual organization. And that's
done, because we have organizations that cross subsidize other organizations. And that's how it's
been since the beginning of the program, in I believe, the or 70s or 80s.
It doesn't matter if the number of employees changes anymore. So they used to be billed on a per
employee basis. It will be on whether they have a change in utilization. So if they have less
employees, but they tend to ride more, they may be paying more than an organization that has
more employees but ride less.
Let's see. I think that's all I wanted to mention on the EcoPass. On the NecoPass, it's a very
similar situation. The recommendation is to be based on utilization. The current policy, which

we're recommending continue, is that the neighborhood must be represented by a county, a city,
or an organized neighborhood group, like a homeowner's association or something official, so
that we have a coordinator that we can go to to collect the money and make sure that people are
doing what they're supposed to be doing.
The annual price that we will be providing them is based on per household. So, unlike other
programs, you can have one person in your household, and you'll, say, for instance, pay $200 a
year. Or you may have 10 people in your household. And you'll be paying $200 a year. So that's
how the NecoPass model works. Again, any price increase would be phased in over three years,
similar to the EcoPass I mentioned. And we're planning on meeting. We've been invited to a
meeting of NecoPass coordinators, at the end of the month, to walk them through the changes
and how it'll affect the individual neighborhoods.
On college passes, again, utilization-based. Any increases phased over three years. Any
decreases taken in year one. And that's the same for NecoPass-- would be the decreases taken in
year one. We currently have a unique way of pricing. CU Boulder and Auraria are currently
based on old ridership information, pre Smart Card. And then, all the other colleges are based on
a survey. Both are not accurate. And so, going to the utilization-based model does enhance the
accuracy of determining who's riding and who's not.
The thing that's a little different about the CollegePass is the CollegePass goes from a school
year. So, an August through July versus a calendar year, where the rest of them are based on a
calendar year process. We've already are in the process of signing all the contracts with colleges
for this year-- so this fall and next spring. So anything that we do moving forward that affects
colleges would have an impact starting in their next fall term. So that would be August of 2019.
When we modeled everything to present this through the pass working group options and then
the options that staff added, we assumed that everything would be implemented January 1,
except for the low income program due to the complexity of the means testing process. And that
would be July 1. So anything that we do to move those dates would affect the amount of money
generated.
So that's the Eco, Neco and College. We've been working really, really hard on that over the last
few months, because we've been having one-on-one meetings with colleges, as well as the large
EcoPass, answering questions for those other 100s of employers that we have. I think we have
800 something employers in the EcoPass program, and then, the neighborhood. So we've been
spending a lot of time addressing concerns there.
On the low income, we've had a lot of conversation about low income and probably where we
spend a majority of our time, trying to address some of the questions that people have there. Just
to remind you that we currently have a nonprofit program, which is capped at $6.8 million. They
receive a 50% discount. That was changed a couple of years. We had various discounts for the
nonprofit program. And the Board adjusted that to 50% a couple of years ago.
The PPWG recommendation is to replace the nonprofit program with the low income program,
which would change the discount to 40%. And as you saw previously, approximately 10% of our

low income riders now, based on the telephone survey, take advantage of the nonprofit program
today.
Some of the things that we considered when seeing whether to do a low income or move away
from the nonprofit, the concern was, currently in a nonprofit, you have to be affiliated with that
specific nonprofit, which have specific missions and purposes, and don't typically serve the
whole population. We are looking, as was mentioned, and we got some feedback on this, having
the discount available on the following fare media-- the three hour pass on MyRide card, and the
day pass on Mobile Ticketing. We are currently working on how we would distribute that to the
nonprofits. Because their concern is they're heavily reliant on paper products right now.
We are trying to steer away from paper products, due to the timing, in that we will not get paper
products available near-term in the beginning of '19 and the amount of cost that's associated with
paper products that we have now. Significantly less costly to do it on the mobile ticketing or the
MyRide card.
We have looked at the issue of means testing. I know that's the elephant in the room. We are still
working on the specific methodology. However, we are looking at a different approach than what
Seattle and some of the other entities have taken. We are actually looking at partnering with the
State of Colorado-- has a very extensive database-- I should say, databases. Their web interface
is called the PEAK system. Some of you might be familiar with it. The verification, we hope,
would be done electronically, with the card issued through a methodology other than coming into
the RTD office like you do now if you need to get a discount card.
We hope that would result in a much lower cost than what some of the other entities have
experienced. We did get specific cost information from Seattle, where they estimated $2.7
million for implementation. And they pay about $1.1 million, on-going, each year, for validation
purposes. We don't have a better cost at this time. Because the state of Colorado is waiting for us
to submit a requirements document, which we do have prepared. But once we submit that, we
will start incurring costs. And before, the Board made a decision on how to move forward. We
prefer not to incur that additional cost at this time.
The state has seemed really receptive to working with us, although we don't have a signed
agreement. So we know how that might change. But right now, we're getting a lot of support
from them. We even-- and this goes to address one of the things we saw in the telephone survey
where he said, some people in the low income would not be able to take advantage of that,
because they're not affiliated with a government program at time, you would not need to be
affiliated with a government program. You could go into the PEAK system. They are able to
modify it for a box just for RTD that says if you're interested in receiving low income pass from
RTD, then you would be able to check that box, do the income verification. Once you do that, we
can verify you electronically. So that might help with that particular situation for those of the
population that are not currently receiving a discount-- not necessarily aren't on social service
programs now, or they'd automatically be in the system-- they would be able to still access that
particular discount.

The youth discount currently is 50%. As you know, the proposal is to increase that to 70%. The
PPWG recommended 12 and under be free. That is not the staff's recommendation, nor do we
think it's going to be our recommendation in September. However, we have had lots of
conversation with people in the pass working group who have given us ideas about how we
might be able to operationalize that particular discount for 12 and under to be free.
Our issue, right now, is an operational issue, not necessarily a cost issue. It doesn't really add that
much additional costs. You wouldn't be able to tell. However, from an operational standpoint, we
are concerned about the interaction between the drivers and kids. And Operations has expressed
a big issue with that. And so, until we can figure out a way to minimize those negative
interactions, we are most likely recommending that we keep with the current 5 and under free
and 2 children for every fare paying adult. That is a deviation from the pass working group
recommendations.
Again, we're looking at having the discount available on MyRide for three hour pass and mobile
ticketing for the day pass at this time. It doesn't mean that's where those would stay indefinitely.
We have options, particularly in mobile ticketing, to move to a three hour pass on mobile
ticketing and a monthly pass fairly rapidly. We don't have that option on the MyRide card to do
it rapidly or cost effectively. And we're still looking at the paper products.
FlexPass. This is one that we get some questions on. Because most people don't know what this
is. This is really an alternative to the EcoPass. So if you are an EcoPass holder, or if you aren't,
we get a lot of inquiries of, how can I provide a pass for just my employees that want the pass? I
don't want to pay for every employee, but I have a few employees that I would like to have be
offered that benefit to. This is for them. They can be customized to meet the needs that allows
employees to choose their service level-- vary passes from month to month.
So, most popular is the monthly pass. And they can enter and leave the program. So one month,
they can buy a monthly pass. And one month, they don't have to buy a monthly pass. Currently,
there is a discount if your business decides to subsidize a portion of the FlexPass. RTD will
match that amount up to 10%, with your savings passed on to the employee. There was a pretax
discount for the employee and a tax deduction for the employer. The tax deduction for the
employee went away at the end of December 2017. But the pretax discount for the employee still
exists. They would, currently, under our current program, receive a 5% discount.
And then, there's a quantity discount. For every business that purchases 200 passes or more, we
provide a 5% discount. The recommendation is to eliminate those discounts, but still keep the
program as an alternative for those people that don't want to participate in EcoPass.
And remember that the discounts were all eliminated in this recommendation. And all three
recommendations-- or alternatives, I guess, is the better way to say it-- was eliminate on the
EcoPass. So the EcoPass is not based on a built-in discount, but on utilization.
The recommendation on MyRide was to eliminate the $0.25 discount. As Michael mentioned to
you, we heard quite a bit of feedback on that, probably more feedback than we have riders using- no, I'm just kidding-- using the discount. But there was a good amount of input asking us to

retain that discount. And there's benefits to that in that they're not using a paper pass, which is,
like I said, more expensive.
So one of the things we're considering and want to get feedback, also, tonight, is on keeping that
$0.25 discount. The other one we heard a lot of feedback on was the 10-Ride ticket book.
Currently there is a 10% discount on that. Our recommendation is to retain it, but keep the same
discount as the MyRide discount and don't make it a higher discount. We don't want the 10-Ride
ticket book competing with the MyRide. We prefer people to go to the MyRide card than use the
10-Ride ticket books. But we know there are enough people out there that use the 10-Ride ticket
books, that we need to retain it at this time.
Access-A-Ride, we discussed briefly. It was not discussed with the pass working group, other
than to say, our policy is double the amount of the base fare minus the MyRide discount of
$0.25. We're still working on that recommendation. As was mentioned, we had a really good
meeting with that group. I think we probably had 20 plus people at that, as well as a considerable
number of people at open houses. That's why we had a separate meeting. We received some very
helpful feedback, as far as what that population can pay and would be willing to pay, recognizing
that that service is costly. And we're working on a recommendation based on that feedback. We
don't have that yet.
And then, a Value Pass is a 12 month pass that could be purchased for a cost of 11 months. The
recommendation was to eliminate that from the pass working group. We support that, because
the usage is extremely low. And that's most likely due to you have to have all the cash for one
year up front not knowing how you're going to use that during the course of the year.
We have been providing to our EcoPass, NecoPass, and CollegePass an analysis of what it costs
an individual to pay if they were to go out and buy a monthly pass, and have compared that to
what it is under the new programs. And so, because of the insurance model, they're still getting,
per employee, a pretty good deal. But as you may have heard, and you're going to hear, that
some people's costs are going up. And some people's costs are going down. And a lot of that is
not only related to the utilization, but really related to the fact that we had not adjusted the
service levels areas for service for a considerable amount of time.
And so with that, I will turn it back to Michael to wrap up.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yeah. So I covered all of this really earlier in the presentation, just
stating that the open house format really did work well for us, considering the complexity of this
topic and the amount of attendees that we had at our meetings. The telephone town hall really
turned out to be a great way to advertise the public meetings and introduce the public to the
topic. We had a lot of people that attended the open house meetings tell us that they first heard
about all this through the telephone town hall. So that was positive feedback.
And, in general, people, again, were very complimentary of the PPWG process. They seemed to
really gravitate toward the transparency of the way in which we actually studied this topic and
still have all those meeting materials up for the public to view today. And so, literally, during the
public meeting, I would pull up certain documents when people had questions about, hey, did

you take a look at this? Did you take a look at that? I was able to show that to people, on the fly,
right there on their phone or mine. And so, that was very helpful for folks.
So with that said, you know that we're here talking you now, giving you the summary of public
comment. And we're hoping that we'll be able to come to you next month with a final
recommendation for you to accept or reject or do whatever you would like to do. So with that,
we'll open it up for questions.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, both. A lot of good information. I know we'll have some
comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Just one.
KEN MIHALIK: Everyone's just waiting. Director Lubow, you have the floor.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Thanks, once again, for all the great work that you
folks are doing. It's exhaustive and exhausting to listen to. But, very impressive, thank you. I
have a bunch of little questions and comments.
I believe that you wanted some feedback about the two discounts that had been originally
requested to be deleted. And I had said before, and I'm saying it now, I really would like them to
be retained. Because it hits people that may be low income that are above the cutoff. So I think
it's very important.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Just to double check, MyRide and 10-Ride discounts?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Correct. And one question that I had concerns what the surveyor said that
about 25% of the low income folks would not benefit from the low income fare. It confuses me
about why that's so. Is it because they don't make the cut off of our low income discount fare? Or
what?
HOLLY EARLS: No. That was based on the riders. It was 25% that did not have government
assistance. So, as was said later, it would require having more than just showing that you have
government assistance in order to include them in the low income discount.
JUDY LUBOW: And Heather was talking about that we're planning on doing that. Is that
accurate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. We are working on a mechanism where just-- so in this
assumption, they were asked, do you have government assistance? So in that category, they
would already be in the system, so to speak. So if we did a match against it, they would be there.
The 25% or so-- about 1/4-- currently don't receive that assistance or already get a discount from
us. So they would need to take some additional action to be qualified.
And the survey didn't go into that detail to say, would you be willing to take that additional-- if
I'm correct-- action to do something to get qualified for that low income? But we would make

that provision available for somebody that currently does not get government assistance that
there would be a mechanism for them to apply to be means tested.
JUDY LUBOW: So that means that maybe that 25% will go away.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. Potentially, I think, the other thing we have to keep in mind-and this is something we've been grappling with what that looks like-- is, what is the ramp-up
period? So we know not everybody, day one, will go in and take advantage of it. A lot of our
numbers have been predicated on that. And so, we just received, late Friday, very specific
information from Seattle's program that we're looking at now to see what that ramp-up period,
which may change a little bit of our recommendation. But I can't tell you what that would look
like right now, because we're still analyzing that information. We just got it late Friday.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. Can I continue, Ken, with this?
KEN MIHALIK: Please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I know that the Board Members received a letter from CU (the
University of Colorado) saying that they support the program, but really wanted to receive
utilization figures before they could say they really agree. Has that been given to them?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So we met with CU Boulder on last-- they're all days running-Thursday, was that Thursday?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Friday.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Friday. We met with them. And met with some new players that they
have, too, there, that are involved in the program. We met on both the EcoPass and the
CollegePass and gave them their utilization data on both. I would say they were happy with
getting the information. I'm not so sure they're exactly thrilled with the pricing structure we gave
them. But they wanted to take some time and go talk about it, look at their budget, how it fits in.
And get back to us with any questions. We're also soliciting from them, as well as other EcoPass,
Neco, and College, things that they would like to see in more detailed reports. Because we plan
on giving more detailed information.
We did mention to them that they would not be getting information about individual students or
particular information about where students are boarding and getting off, for security reasons.
And so, several of them understood that, that they would not release that information,
themselves, to us. So I think, overall, we had a pretty good meeting. We're still waiting for
feedback from them and what that would look like and encourage them to provide that feedback
to us, as staff, and also, if they want to come next week to talk to the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: So it's theoretically possible that either CU or any of the other Eco, Neco, or
Peco-- whatever-- would come back and say, you know, it's higher than we thought. And we
don't support it anymore.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's very possible. I think a lot of them recognize that they have
been paying quite a bit less than, perhaps, their ridership and availability of services called for.
And so, we're seeing that tempered reaction that, yes, we're not going to tell you that we're happy
about a fare increase. We didn't expect people to be jumping up and down. But there's an
understanding that there's a reason for it and that there's documentation to support that.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: The only thing I would is that people definitely still see a lot of
value in these programs. And a price increase alone doesn't seem to be enough to deter their
desire to participate in these programs.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Great. And another couple of things. I went to one of the open houses.
And I, apparently, learn better from hearing rather than seeing things on boards. And I've
enjoyed, in the past, having a presentation, as well as the boards. And I would urge folks to do
that, at least as a pilot project, to see which people like more.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That's a good point. We actually got a lot of positive feedback that we
did not do a presentation and that we let people meander and ask questions and be walked
through. Because we had people that would walk them through every board if they wanted to.
But, yeah. It's interesting you say that. Because, I think, it really is an individual preference. And
we'll have to work on, in the future, how we accomplish both things at one time.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. And one last thing. I know that we have a process where,
every three years, the Board reviews the fares. And Doug Tisdale and I wanted to find out, well,
where was that policy in writing? And we asked Barbara McManus. And, so far, we haven't
found it in writing, where it came up.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Actually, I can give it to you in writing. I gave it to Barbara. It's in our
fiscal policy that you adopt every year. And I think Barbara's working on providing that
documentation. Every year, you adopt it. I believe we went back to 1998 or '89. And you found it
in there. So it's been a policy that's been in place for a considerable amount of time. And that's,
again, something that's in your fiscal policy that we have you adopt every October or November,
right before the budget.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh. I just must have forgotten reading it, then. I'm really sorry.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: But, yes. I know she's putting together all of it, dating back to the 80s,
I think.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, and the reason I'm raising it is that I resonated with people's comments
saying, you've got one of the highest fares in the nation. This is really getting too high. And I
think there is a point where we're just pricing ourselves out of the business. And I really would
request that we not, automatically, every three years, raise rates. I think we're getting to a point
where that's not good.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, remember, it's not automatic. We're just supposed to show an
inflationary increase to keep up with inflation. And the Board goes through this public process to

be able to get there. I do understand. I think we see where you're coming from, as a Board. But
also, keep in mind that the cost of us doing business, it does go up significantly and higher than
the CPI, which is what we use to raise fares. The cost of our products and materials actually goes
up significantly higher. There are also times when it's not. And there are inflationary times
during the 2009 after-recession where you chose not to do a fare increase, also, due to the
economic downturn at that time.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. It's just something that I think is important to not assume that every three
years, we're going to have a 10% or whatever increase.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we'll be bringing that policy back to you in October. So I'll bet
we'll have a lot more conversation then.
JUDY LUBOW: Sounds good. Thank you, very much. And thank you for your work.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director. I'll go to Director Walker next.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I was surprised to hear that service reduction was preferred over
fare increase. How specific was the service reduction? If you said it before, then I apologize for
missing it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll let them answer that. But it wasn't specific. And remember, that
was for low income, was their preference. Yeah. But I'll let them talk about.
SAMEER BAWA: Yeah. So, Holly's pulling up the question right now. So we weren't actually
specific about how much reduction would take place. So the survey question, as it appeared,
Option A was, "Would you prefer that RTD maintain its current fares and reduce bus and train
services or increase its fares and maintain its current levels of bus and train service." And it's
important to recognize, as Heather just pointed out, that among low income residents, the
preference was to maintain current fares, even if it meant a nonspecific reduction in services.
And the general population-- or everyone else-- preferred to increase fares in order to maintain
current levels of service.
JEFF WALKER: Right. I caught that difference. And I also notice that the low income
population also rode the system by about 4% or 5% less than the general population. So that
might contribute to that.
SAMEER BAWA: Yeah. Something like that. And it's also important to note that if you have
representative sample, which we do, but we just didn't show the data that way, low income
residents probably make up something like 15% to 18% of it. So the majority of a representative
sample of the Denver population would probably prefer increasing fares to maintain current
service. But when you focus in on that low income population, which is one of the points of
interest, that's where you see that preference to keep fares from increasing anymore.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yeah. And, I guess, that makes a lot more sense to me now that I have
that other information. So that's helpful. So, thank you. And, I guess, the conversation about us

having higher fares always comes up. But we have a flat fare. We don't have a peak period fare
anymore. Lots of districts do. We don't.
We have one agency that covers 2,400 square miles instead of several agencies that cover a
commensurate. So Seattle is only about 1,000 square miles. Texas or Dallas. Phoenix.
Cleveland's only 400 miles. Cincinnati is about 400 square miles. So, cross that border, that's
another fare, often, because it's another transit system.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The other thing you have to keep in mind is we have a three hour pass.
And a lot of entities have an hour or an hour and a half. So also, the length of time, in addition to
the distance, is something you need to consider when you hear that we have the highest fares,
too. Because if you really did analysis of how long they can ride, we tend to let people ride a
much longer period of time for the fare that we charge than other of our comparative peer
agencies.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Yeah. And I've lived in a few other large cities. And this is a pretty
generous system, as far as I'm concerned, to the extent that I use it, and from what I understand
now, being a part of it, at this level. I am happy to see the MyRide and the 10-Ride discounts
being considered for retention. That was one of my concerns. I'm sure I expressed it to Mr.
Washington and to others, that those on the cusp who don't qualify for the 185%, but are still
making it work somehow, that they would lose that discount. That was a concern of mine. I'm
glad to see it's being considered for sticking around.
And also, the FlexPass discount doesn't necessarily affect the employees. It affects the company's
discount. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Actually, no. The FlexPass can be designed where the employee or the
employer. And what we see the most of in the FlexPass is there's usually a sharing of cost. So the
employer authorizes certain employees, every month, to buy through there. And they'll pay for
offset the cost. Or if they don't, whatever the employee pays, can be done tax deductible. So we
do see tend to see more about of a cost sharing arrangement in that particular product line.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And I used to participate that at my day job. But it doesn't necessarily
have to affect what the employee spends. Because the employer can [INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Make up the difference. Yes.
JEFF WALKER: So that's something that I'll be considering as we go on. And I think that's it. So
thanks for a great presentation. Thanks. There was a lot of good stuff in there. Thanks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Catlin, you're next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. Just briefly, MyRide and 10-Ride ticket book
issues were something that was brought to my attention last week when-- I actually travel
downtown every day for different purposes. And I did my own little private survey as I was
talking to other passengers, both ways. And almost all of them utilized the 10-Ride ticket book

and were very appreciative of that. And I avoided saying anything that that might go away. So,
I'm glad I didn't. But I do know that those are quite popular, at least on the routes I took. So,
thank you, for reconsidering that.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Going next to Director Solano.
PAUL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. I'm happy to see that Option 3 is
enthusiastically supported in District K. 12.9% of Adams County residents are below the poverty
level. And 18% of those people are under five years old. So I think Option 3 would be the
preferred choice in District K. That's all.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Anderson, you have the floor.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. Thanks for such a great presentation. I'm really curious.
Because, from the survey, it sounds as if we're doing an OK job. I'd love to have a survey like
[INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'd, actually, like to-- just a couple of things about-- I don't know if
you're talking about the safety one and another one, but overall, our results match several other
surveys that we had done regarding people feeling safe on our system. So, I think you have that
handy. I'm not sure if you have that one.
HOLLY EARLS: I don't have the actual numbers. But I just wanted to say that, yes, overall,
according to our survey, people think you're doing a pretty good job.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: OK. Well, I appreciate that. And so, I thought I had my mind made
up. So this opens new windows for me. I have a question about the people serving on the pass
working group committee. How many of them are actual riders? Or what percent? I'm trying to
reconcile what they did and the overall feeling toward our fares. And we can do this offline if
you'd rather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We probably can get that for you.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Because I'm just having a hard time reconciling what people are
saying and what the pass working group recommended. So I'm trying to understand the why of
the recommendation and what it was related to. OK. That's all I have. And, thanks for doing a
good job, all of you. Tough, tough work.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Broom. You're next.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. At the public meeting in Aurora, several people made the
comment to me that our fares are much higher than they are in other cities around the country.
And I've never seen any comparative fare data. You alluded, earlier, to the fact that there's
reasons why maybe our fares are higher because our district is so spread out. But we cover the
entire area and that you don't have to take two different systems and pay two different fares and
that type of thing. But it'd be nice, if you do get that information from APTA (American Public

Transportation Association) or something that does compare fares, to share it with us. I'm in no
hurry to get that information, but just so that when that question comes up in the future, I'll be
better prepared to at least talk to them about it. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And we'd be glad to get that to you. We have one from 2017. But we
can get that updated for 2018 information that was presented as part of the pass working group
deliberations last year. But it was early 2017. So we'll get that updated and get that out to the
entire Board, for your information.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Sisk.
CHARLES SISK: Thank you, Chairman Mihalik. And, again, thank you so much for the
involvement and also the statistics that you provided us. I think having attended an open house
certainly gave us a flavor of the way in which people participated. And Michael and Heather, I
know you've been on the ground for a lot of this. And, again, thanks to you and the staff for your
involvement. And this goes way back.
I was concerned about the GP (general population) and the LIP (low-income population). Could
we put some numbers on the responses rather than percentages? That would really be helpful.
Because I truly don't see a large segment here. If I'm reading it correctly, we had LIP of 342
participants. And I'm not a very good statistician, but I just wonder if that's a valid sampling,
especially given what we know.
SAMEER BAWA: Yeah. So, essentially, for a population the size of the RTD service area, a
sample of 800 gives you about plus or minus 3.6% or so on any percent differences. So that's
what we aim for as part of our sampling. So we had a general population sample. And, again, the
slide is a bit of a misnomer. But we had a general population sample of 800 folks. And then, on
top of that, we wanted to oversample low income. Because low income is a relatively small
portion of the general population. And we wanted enough completes in there so we could say
something about low income, as well.
The way we presented the data are really meant to compare low income against everyone else.
But in both cases, we have a sample that is equal to or exceeds what you would find in popular
press polls and things like that. It's about a margin of error of-CHARLES SISK: Presidential polls from two years ago?
[LAUGHTER]
SAMEER BAWA: I don't want to be-- I'd rather not draw comparisons to presidential polls from
two, three years ago.
CHARLES SISK: And I will stay within the two questions that we ask, Director [INAUDIBLE].
So the other question is this. You answered the question to Director Lubow about the lower
income population and why they were opposed to what really looked like to be a pretty
significant savings, in terms of the 40%. And you talked about 25% of the people would, in fact,

not realize this savings. And, I guess, I just need to know a little bit more about that and, in fact,
if, in the questioning, they really understood how that would be impacting them.
SAMEER BAWA: Yeah. So let me clarify that result. Really, if RTD only used government
financial assistance social service programs as its indicator of who would get a discount, then
25% of those that are below the poverty line for their household size would actually end up
paying a higher fare. But, as Heather pointed out, there are already considerations being made
about different mechanisms to make sure that low income folks have a way to qualify for that
40% discount outside of just having government assistance. So that would eat into that 25%,
pretty substantially, depending on the uptake and the communication and so forth.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I think it's key to note that about 50% already take advantage of
some senior or disabled type assistance through us already, as mandated by the federal
government in what we offer. We don't expect, and have never expected, to get 100% the low
income population, nor could we probably afford that. But there is, like from Seattle, a ramp-up
period so we would know how many we could expect, potentially, over time, even though their
program is slightly different.
The point he was making is, of that 25% that potentially would pay more because the base price
would go up, they are not currently taking advantage of an assistance program. If we only
allowed people to take advantage of it that were in a social system somewhere that were already
getting assistance, then that statistic would keep true. But our goal is to make it more
widespread. That would not be the only way that they would be able to receive it. It be a way that
would be easy for them to validate themselves. But it's not the only way to be able to be means
tested. So that could change that outcome. We just don't know exactly to what extent, if that
helps.
CHARLES SISK: No. Thank you. Chair Mihalik, that will be my two questions. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, very much. Chair Tisdale, if you'll indulge me- if I go to the phone
very quickly and see if Director Williams or Director Folska has joined us this evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. This is Director Williams. I'm here.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And I'm Director Folska [INAUDIBLE], as well.
KEN MIHALIK: Oh, good. You're both here. Director Williams, do you have any questions or
comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: I do. Thank you, very much, Chair Mihalik. Heather, I'm wondering if you
guys would make sure that we get the updated SLA maps?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: What's interesting as for that, Director Menten asked for that. I got it
this afternoon. It has to be in a PDF format. Because I can't pull it right out the GIS system. So
we will provide that for you with an explanation that matches the information I sent you the
other night.

KATE WILLIAMS: Super, and that's what I was looking for it. And here's another one that
maybe nobody will like. Are we looking at how our service is going to be affected if the City and
County of Denver implement their own service, which they are increasingly talking about?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we have not looked at that. I'm not sure what that would look
like. And so, no. We have not looked at anything about our service area and how we would be
impacted if Denver started their own service. Now remember, they can't do a mass transportation
service within the Denver metropolitan areas. That's a statutory privilege given to us. But they
could start shuttle services or connector services or something like that. But, no. We have not
looked at that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. They already are partnering with Chariot to offer one. And they're
talking about doing more. So that's something, as we move forward, we might want to take into
our planning considerations and be aware of.
KEN MIHALIK: Anything else, Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: That's all I got. No. Thank you, Chair Mihalik, that's all.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Folska, do you have any questions or comments for
us tonight?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes, Chair Mihalik. Thank you, very much. I see we have a lot of
feedback. Are you hearing that feedback?
KEN MIHALIK: No feedback. You're clear.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Good. All right. Great job. Great presentation. As far as reviewing
our fare structures, this is really the best I've ever seen since I've been on the Board. I really
appreciate everybody's time and effort and your thoughtful, mindful way of reaching out to the
community and responding to what the Directors on the Board have asked you to do by
increasing the number of community meetings to eight. And I really found it interesting.
Now, I will say I'm a little bit confused. Because, I thought-- Heather, please correct me if I'm
wrong-- we have been operating under the assumption that the majority of people that use our
system are low income people. Now what I just heard is that's not the case. The majority of
people are not low income. So did I miss something there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is a correct statement based on the poverty level that we are using
for the low income population for purposes of this 40% discount. It is between, I think, 17 and
20-something percent, based on the telephone survey. But, again, I think we did the classification
for them. Right? We didn't ask them if they were low income. We placed them in a category.
SAMEER BAWA: That's right. We asked their household income and their household size and
then placed them in the category, accordingly. I don't want to interrupt your response. But there's
one thing I do want to point out in that, I think what may cause part of the confusion is the

percentage that we report as RTD riders. So that's a little different from looking at, for example,
who's riding the trains and buses at any given moment or on any given day for RTD. Because, as
part of the survey, we asked, in the past 12 months, which RTD services have you used, if any?
Which doesn't take into account the frequency of ridership, which, I think, makes a huge
difference, obviously, on who's riding day to day.
So, for example, you could be a non low income resident who rode the light rail, wants to get
into town for a night out or something like that. And you would be considered a rider, according
to the data we showed. So it may just be a difference in how we're classifying versus ridership on
any given day.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: So to add to that, basically, what Sameer is saying is that when
you actually look at this in terms of representation of boardings, low income individuals at 185%
percent of the federal poverty level account for 38% of our total boardings.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I would just emphasize again, too, and that's based on our
definition for purposes of the 40%, as to low income. As you can imagine, depending on what
you're looking at, there's a lot of different definitions and a lot of different levels under the
federal poverty level, ranging from 200% plus down to 138%, 100%. So it's across the board.
But for our purposes, we were trying to get them within that category that would be eligible,
potentially, for the low income 40% discount. And I'm sure we have other data. Dennis and Jeff
are here. And we'll go back. And we have a lot of other survey information on our populations.
And we can look at that across the board.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. And we're still waiting for you guys to come back with some ideas
regarding the disability fares accessibility stuff. Is that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. We had a meeting with them just last week, Thursday. And,
like we both mentioned, we thought it was a really good meeting. Instead of just getting, we
don't like the fare. It's too high. We got some really constructive information about, maybe, how
to price it and what the tolerance would be. There was lot of agreement that they understand that
that's an extremely high cost product for us and that there needed to be an increase. But the level
of increase for the local versus regional versus airport-- we had a lot of discussion on. So we're
still reviewing that information. It was just last Thursday. And then, we'll be incorporating some
of that into our final recommendation.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. That's great. Thank you so much for your good work. That's all,
Chair Mihalik. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, very much. Chair Tisdale, we'll go back to you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, very much, Mr. Chairman. First of all, again, I share the
appreciation and thanks of everyone that's already been expressed for the great work done, not
only by Heather and Michael and the rest of our staff and by our consultants, but also by the pass
program working group-- a dedicated group of individuals who gave tirelessly of their time in

order to assist in our efforts that have been part of a very long and extended process in looking at
all of this.
Also, for the sake of this record, I reserve the right to revise and extend my remarks by
incorporation herein of the broadcast email that I sent out earlier today-- this afternoon-- to all of
the Board Members so that I need not burden the record with reciting all of that here. But this
reference is made in the record so that people will have an indication of what was communicated
therein.
I do have a number of questions. Concerning the Access-A-Ride fare itself, there is obviously a
concern that has been expressed by many people. And, I think, we, even as recently as minutes
ago-- relative to the fact that someone qualifies for an Access-A-Ride fare, and they ride our
fixed route system, then, for free. As opposed to people with disabilities who have a 50%
discount for riding the fare. And there is an apparent, maybe not a real, but an apparent
inequality associated with that. And so I'm wondering if, at some point, that's something that has
been considered or that you anticipate will be considered?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes. So one of the things I would say citing the inequalities, that
there is also an inequality, as it relates, to one's ability to access our services, hence the reason
why these individuals do qualify for curb to curb service through Access-A-Ride. And with
Access-A-Ride being a more expensive service, we wanted for us to provide, to incentivize, the
use of fixed route service, which is much cheaper for us to provide. We allowed for Access-ARide users to essentially be ride or fixed route cost free to lower our costs, as well as to, just in
general, have a more sustainable system. And that's the reason for that policy. But it is something
that is being considered, as we did hear a lot of feedback from the accessible community.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And, in fact, I believe it's the APAC group that will be talking about it.
I'm not sure at their next meeting, but their following meeting, I know, they're trying to put that
on the agenda, so they can have a much more in-depth discussion about what that would look
like and make a recommendation to us. Probably will not have that particular issue resolved as
part of the final recommendation to the Board. But it's being worked on. And actually, it was
brought up by the APAC-- some of the members there-- as well as the ACPD group that works
with us.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I think Michael's articulation of a response was very good
and, I think, something that is worthy of sharing with people who raised the question. Because
you're trying to drive people to one modality, because it's cheaper for us-- should they do that
rather than the other. So, better that we take more of a haircut and save those dollars.
One thing that you're aware of is that I have raised the question in the past. And we haven't had a
lot of discussion about it tonight. But I know it's something that we're going to continue to
explore as we go forward. And that is, in lieu of a low income program, would it be better simply
to remove the cap on the nonprofit program, which accords, presently, a 50% discount and have
the administration, relative to the income verification, handled by the nonprofits?

And I know that's a discussion that continues. And I know that you've got some information and
numbers on that. I don't see that here. But I do know that, as we go forward, it's going to be
important that we share that information with the Directors so that they have those numbers and
understand why there is a push toward the low income program, as opposed to simply removing
the cap on the nonprofit program and either keeping the discount at 50% or, perhaps, lessening
the discount to 40%. But we've discussed that. And I just want the record to reflect that I think
that's information that we're going to continue to desire and need as we go forward.
I was intrigued by the fact that one of the initial charges to the password on working group was
to simplify the fare structure. More honored in the breach than the observance. I don't know that
we've really simplified things here. But we've certainly explained some things. That's right. And
relative to your request for feedback on the MyRide and the 10-Ride discount, I'm a believer that
it may serve that middle ground that many people are concerned about. If you're over 185% of
the federal poverty level, you just go right up to a full fare. And is that something that perhaps
could be addressed? And, for that matter, people who can afford to pay the full fare-- you know
what-- if they're smart enough to buy 10 rides, why not give them a little discount to incentivize
that? So I don't think that's a bad idea.
Here's a softball for you. Because I think I know the answer. Have we conducted the FTA Title
VI Equity Analysis for the fare change?
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: So that is currently under way. And the reality is that it doesn't
make sense to do the equity analysis while you're going through so many different iterations in
the beginning. Now that we're closer to the end, we've begun the quantitative analysis.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Thank you. I just need to make sure we had a record that, yes, of course,
we're proceeding with that process, as we are required to do.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: I appreciate all softballs. I'll take them.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: On the presentation on page 16, there is a timeline. And it does reflect Board
action in September. As we know, the days grow short when you reach September. And I think it
could possibly, in fairness to all, be October before we have sufficient information to be able to
take final action on this. And that's one Director's view, only. But I do indicate that, by virtue of
some of the financial modeling data that we've requested and so forth, that it's just possible that it
could be October.
The observation that has been made in some of the comments received that we could possibly-at least, there is a perception that we have the highest fares in the nation. It's intriguing when you
realize that Seattle's at $2.75 to get on board. Portland's at $2.50. Pittsburgh's at $2.75. Miami's
only $2.25. But it costs you $4.50 a day to park in their parking lots. San Francisco's $2.75. New
York's $2.75, and so forth. Detroit's only $1.50. So if you want to go to Detroit, you can get a
bargain there. I think that's worthy to mention. I was born in Detroit.

But it's also fair to say that no matter what you do, no matter how well you communicate, you
will never have people say that you've communicated enough. And they will never hear all of the
message. It's not their fault. It's just we are bombarded with information. And so it's
understandable that maybe they don't know that. But I think it is appropriate for us, periodically,
from time to time, to point out that no, we are not.
I do want to echo the thought that the open houses were absolutely terrific. The outreach was
great by our staff, not to mention, the separate meetings that were put on by Director Menten,
Director Catlin, and Director Anderson, to have outreach to people in their districts, as well. So I
think that's great. I will pick a bone, though, with our survey research people. The sample size,
respectfully, is 0.03% of the population of the district. Because if we got 800 people, and you got
3 million in the district, that's 0.03%, not 3%. That's a difference of two orders of magnitude.
I want to thank Director Williams for mentioning Chariot. That's a great segue-way. Because
we're going to mention Chariot later on in one of the updates. That's actually being discussed in
the TNC (transportation network company) update. And lastly, the Eco, Neco change to a
utilization model rather than an availability model, I think, is overdue, and, I think, an
exceptional piece of work.
So as we continue to cooperate and collaborate in this process and communicate about it, I
applaud the efforts of all. And, thank you, Mr. Chair, for allowing me to go on so long.
KEN MIHALIK: You are very welcome. And I'll just say, I think they were referencing the
margin of error, I believe, in that 3% figure.
SAMEER BAWA: That's right. I certainly did not want to make the claim that we had
represented 3% of the entire population, but that it represented 3.5%, give or take, of margin of
error, plus or minus around any percentage we present.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That makes so much more sense. And now I feel so much better.
SAMEER BAWA: Oh, good.
KEN MIHALIK: All right. With that cleared up, Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. So I think I heard you say-- I think it was Heather-that the implementation of a low income program would be $2.7 million and $1.6 million to
maintain. Something like that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So we don't have any specific information, yet, because we
haven't moved that far in the process. But we have been using Seattle's information. When they
implemented, it cost them approximately $2.7 million for implementation and $1.1 million
ongoing.

LARRY HOY: And my question is, it seems like early in the game, we talked about somebody
else vetting. But, by your statement, I'm assuming that money is our real money that we're
spending. And we're doing the vetting.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we may not be doing the vetting. But we may be paying others
to do the vetting for us. We haven't finalized that yet.
LARRY HOY: Do we have an idea of how long somebody stays vetted? How long do they get
reviewed? Could they be vetted today and tomorrow get a new job?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: They could. But we're looking at a yearly process.
LARRY HOY: OK. And then, one of the things that's been eating away at me. And Chair
Tisdale almost got there, if we assume that it costs us $1.6 million to maintain that vetting
process, and our nonprofit program-- which, I believe you said is going away if this gets
implemented. Is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Being replaced. So I can clarify that a little bit.
LARRY HOY: OK. So the nonprofit is being replaced by the low income. But I've always
wondered why we just don't increase the nonprofit amount. And, quite frankly, you've told us it
will cost us $1.6 million to maintain the low income pass. Throw that in the non profit pile of
$6.8. So then, you at, nearly, what? $8.5 million. Did I do that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And I think I mentioned a little bit earlier, but so there's a
couple of issues with nonprofit. So they do currently do means testing. We will have them
probably continue to do that, if they want to buy fare media from us. We will change the amount.
Because its different than what the means testing is now. So that may provide some
complications for some of the nonprofits. And we would like to continue to have them do that, as
another option. If people already are going to a nonprofit, they don't have to do something else to
get the 40% discount.
That is something that's different than what Seattle has. They don't have that. They didn't have a
program at all, before, that already had some type of following. The concern about keeping the
nonprofit and just lifting the lid, to a certain degree, is non-profits are there for a very specific
mission and purpose-- that they would not be able to serve the wider need that's out there for a
discounted program. They would not appreciate us advertising that they're a nonprofit that gives
out free or reduced media. Because that's very specific to their purpose and need.
And so, they fulfill an important part. And that's why we'd like to keep them in the system and
allow them to buy media for their current constituents and clients. But we don't foresee that they
would be able to expand to the degree that it would allow them to serve the larger population that
might be out there and be qualified for a low income type program.

LARRY HOY: You've said something that just confused me. I thought we were talking about
replacing one with the other. But then, it sounded like in your answer here, just now, you were
talking about continuing.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, they'll be able to still buy media, but at the 40% discount, not the
50%.
LARRY HOY: So we would have both programs.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, it's just an extension of the low income rate.
LARRY HOY: With different numbers, but both programs.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And different means testing and a different methodology for issuing it,
yes.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: And I'd like to just offer a point of clarification. It wouldn't be,
necessarily, both programs as much as it is that that's another outlet for people to be able to
access the 40% discounted media. Not necessarily operating the programs in the same way. So
it's not the same.
LARRY HOY: So the nonprofit program may have access to whatever product we come up with
for the low income.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Absolutely. Yes.
LARRY HOY: So they'll both be selling the same product.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Yes.
LARRY HOY: Or giving it away.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Depending on what they do. Some recoup some of their costs.
LARRY HOY: Depending on what we do.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. But also depending on what they do now. Because every
nonprofit is different on whether they give their product away or whether they charge an amount,
whether they give a monthly pass or whether they just give one ticket at a time, and you have to
come back. That's the other issue we've heard is that people have to come back every day to get
that free pass, depending on what they're doing.

So they might be just going to a doctor's appointment, so they need a round trip. Or they may be
going to something where they get a monthly. So it really depends on that particular nonprofit
and how they run their own program, which we're not going to ask them to change. They just
have to make sure that if they're giving out low income product, if we end up going that
direction, that they meet the qualifications.
LARRY HOY: OK. That's was interesting. I'm glad I asked those questions.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And remember what we said, that of the low income population, they
only serve 10% of that population now. So it's a very small amount of that population that's
served with a nonprofit program. The idea behind this would be to expand it to a much larger
population.
LARRY HOY: I don't want to go down a rabbit hole here. But, Mr. Chair, can I just ask a little
other nuanced question?
KEN MIHALIK: Sure.
LARRY HOY: Are we still under our non-profit plan allowing some customers to get 50% off of
50%?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct. And that would end under this program.
LARRY HOY: Yeah. Well, I was debating whether to ask that question or not. But, thank you.
OK. That's all I have.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Let me start with, first of all, besides the conversation that we
had the night at the Englewood study session where there were three individuals who were in
mobility devices and stated that they were interested in seeing some sort of a fare for Access-ARide users using fixed route service, there was then a follow up discussion with a meeting
involving the two different groups. But then, you're going to have another meeting to get more
feedback from more than just the three specifically that I talked to that night.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. We actually had quite a few other people besides that one
meeting that we had that conversation on that came up and had some issues concerning that. We
had enough issues around the Access-A-Ride and not focusing on that, specifically, at the open
houses, that we decided to have a separate meeting. At that meeting, really what we were trying
to get feedback was on the pricing structure and other things related to what we were proposing
as far as it following the normal practice that we have-- how we price Access-A-Ride.
The other issue came up, as part of that meeting at the end, but time was scarce. So they decided
that they wanted to have further meetings to talk about what that would look like.

NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So if I can fit it in my schedule, I would like to attend that, if
possible. Would you please note that? And I do want to understand the background. Now we had
the meetings. And I attended a handful of the fare PPWG meetings.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I think all but one.
NATALIE MENTEN: No. That was the fare outreach.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, yes. You're right. The open houses.
NATALIE MENTEN: And, you're right. And that's only because we were down south. And we
had our own meeting that night. You were out in Aurora. And then, there was that horrible
storm. But, otherwise, I had 100% attendance. Yes. So we got to see each other a lot that week-two weeks. OK.
But back to the actual working group meetings-- the ones from starting at three or whatever it
was. We had Michael. I don't know his last name. We've had him in multiple times. He was the
facilitator.
MICHAEL WASHINGTON: Michael Hughes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And then we got BBC here. So I'm not clear when the survey was
done. Because the lady I normally saw at the table during those meetings is not the lady that's
sitting there now.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. They're a whole different company.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So what are the three companies? We had Michael and his
consulting firm. Did that lady work-- I don't know what her name is.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Laura [INAUDIBLE] and Andrew.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Did she work with Michael? Or was she a separate company?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: She's a separate contractor. She reported directly to us.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then BBC did a survey.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: A telephone survey we contracted the same time we were doing the
open houses.
NATALIE MENTEN: And was the survey-- the only purpose was the PPWG? Or is this like a
quality of life or something-HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. The only purpose was to get impact and feedback on the fare
study.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So can I get the raw data on that? And then, I would like to
know the dollar amounts, at this point in time, for the cost of those three entities, please, and the
raw data on the survey data. Next item is, then, with the Eco utilization pricing-- and there are
some things that are going to make it, I think, a little more work in keeping up with that-- are we
expecting to have add on employees-- FTEs-- anything like that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: To add on for the Eco, Neco and College?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. In fact, going back to the simplification piece, we hope that this is
one of the things that will be simplified is the Eco, Neco, and College. Right now, its extremely
complex. It does not do away with the coordinator issues in the loading and unloading cards and
disabling. But it does, hopefully, reduce the number of questions that we get on a regular basis
about how the program works.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And from what I'm reading in here, this will be better for companies
within-- because I don't have the map, yet. But I've got the pricing. This will be better for the
companies. Let's say the range was 1 to 24 employees, it didn't make much sense for the person
who had 1 to 10 employees. It did for 11 to 24. Because now you're getting rid of that contract
minimum. And you're just going to do the 12 months times [INAUDIBLE].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, we're still going to have a contract minimum. But it's going to be
lower than the current contract minimum. I don't remember the numbers for that. We'll have to
get those for you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Because all it says in that brochure that you sent us is 12 times a fare.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. And there's very few that are on the contract minimum. So we
are working with those individuals that would fall in that category.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Well, I'm interested in knowing that. Because my district would
be A, and it makes a difference. It makes a difference in all of them, but I'd like to know for my
own area. I will say this. In the survey that we did, which results in comments on page 8, it
would have been lovely to see-- I can't get it up there. It's the one that said you got LIP and GP
and, do you prefer A or B, which would be A, maintain fares, reduce service, B, increase fares,
maintain service.
You all know me. So I would have preferred to have seen an option with reduced overhead at
RTD, including salaries, as an option for the public. Because as I look at the latest payroll, we've
got over 208 people that make over $100,000. And that should be an option, I think, for the
public when they're looking at public services is simple business. Reduce cost of overhead, and
you reduce the cost of the purchase price to the consumers. So, as I said, you all know me. So not
surprised. I will also be interested in the Neco meeting when that comes up, please.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: I can give you that. The issue-- I know you've asked for that-- is that is
not our meeting. We invited to attend the meeting. So that's a little sticky situation, as far as
having the Board posted and be invited. So we'll have to work with them. Because that is not our
meeting. That is a meeting we're invited to present information each year.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. That's all the questions I've got. Thank you.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you, very much. And, yeah. Just some final comments, seeing no
other speakers, on that same page of the page 8 with the two columns. I just think it's interesting
that when you break it down, depending on which income group you're in, you either wanted to
reduce service or increase fares. And regardless of which group you were in, you didn't want to
increase the student discount. And you wanted the same fare for all incomes. So I just don't see,
at this point, even a minor preference, let alone an overwhelming preference, for the low income
pass. And I'll just say that as the closing comment. Thank you very much for the update.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you very much. We'll move right into-- if we can go back to the
first item-- the Represented Employee DB (defined benefit) pension plan.
KEN MIHALIK: Absolutely.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: All right. With that, I'm going to turn it over to Doug. And he's going
to introduce our guest. And then, we'll go ahead and work through this presentation. The next
few items, we'll be going through rather quickly, just because you've had that information in your
packet. And I know we spent a lot of time on the first. We knew we'd be taking a lot of time with
that one. So with that, I'll turn it over to Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Heather. Good evening. Doug MacLeod. Tonight, Leslie
Thompson is with us from GRS Consulting. Our actuaries come each year to give an update to
the Board on both the Salaried Pension Plan and the Represented Pension Plan. Leslie does
actuarial work on the represented plan. We usually do these reviews with the Board in the
February time frame, but due to the contract negotiations for the Collective Bargaining
Agreement, we weren't able to have a trust meeting until July, in which Leslie had to present the
numbers to the trust before she could present them publicly. So Leslie is here to present what she
would have presented in February and also give an update on what's changed since that time.
Leslie.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Thank you. Good evening, everybody. We'll be going fast, because you'll
note that this is as of January 1, 2017, so it's stale. Quite stale, in fact. Let me go through the
status, as of that point in time. You'll see my cover line. The plan is in funding peril. And, again,
this is the represented plan. So the contributions coming in are not sufficient to cover the
liabilities. And the peril is that second bullet. The plan is actually projected, at that point in time,
to be fully depleted by 2040. And the prior year, it was 2035. So we've really only got about 23
years of life left. And then, we run out of money.
The depletion date, actually, we lose five years if it turns out we only earn 6%. Right now, we're
assuming a 7% rate of return. So that gives you an idea of the sensitivity. Accrued liability is

increasing in this plan. And, in 2016, because, again, this was 1/1/17, the assets returned 6.35%.
So they were short of the 7%. Obviously, since then-- and you'll hear a report when I come back
in February, if that happens-- you'll have different news-- better new, in fact.
The unfunded liability increased. And that's what you don't want to have happen in a plan. You
want to be paying off that debt. But we've got a couple of things working against us. One was the
returns being lower than expected. But the other is that the contributions just don't meet the
minimum required amount. The Actuarial Determined Contribution-- that's the ADC. It
increased from the prior year. There were gains. Because what's happening is, as new people
come into the plan-- these are people hired after January 1, 2011-- they enter the plan and earn a
much lower benefit than people who were there prior to January 1, 2011. And that is bending
down the cost curve. But that's a slow process. Because that only happens as new people are
hired.
The other thing, losses occurred because contributions were less than the actuarially required
amount. And we had to upgrade the mortality assumptions, because people are living longer. So,
good for you, not for the pension. Now, the normal cost it's just the true annual cost of the plan.
Right now, this is a 10% of pay plan. That cost curve is bending down. And over a longer period
of time, it's going to level out at about 5% of pay. But again, that happens as we hire the new
people.
You're actuarially determined contribution did decrease. And part of that is because we had an
influx of quite a few new people that come in at that much lower benefit. And so, the
contributions are the same. But their benefit amounts are lower. OK. I wanted to show you the
history of the funded ratio. And those of you with binoculars should be able to read this clearly.
Back in 2002, we were over 100%. And you can see it drifting down since then. Again, this is
the ratio of the assets to the liability. And you can really see the meltdown in 2008-- the
beginning of the great recession-- really began to hurt the plan. And the plan has continued to
decline ever since. And now it's less than a 50% funded ratio.
And one of the biggest contributing factors-- the capital markets were not kind to us. But also the
contributions, you can see, back in 2002, that was the last year that the contributions made to the
plan met the required contribution amount. And since then, it's drifted away. And there's always
been a shortfall.
There were reforms taken on. I mentioned this earlier. January 1, 2011-- if you're hired after that
date, you get a benefit that is 1% per year of service times your final pay. People hired prior to
that date get 2.5% per year of service. So, for example, if you work for 30 years, if you're under
the old tier, you walk out with 75% of pay. Under the new tier, you get 30% of pay. So you can
see, that's a big difference. That took the cost of the plan from a 12% of pay plan down to the
5%, as those new hires come in.
So that solution is bending down the cost curve. But, again, it's not fast. And what we saw is that
it's not fast enough. The plan is projected to run out of money. Because the drawdown-- the
benefit payments being made-- are heavy. There's quite a few retirees. Again, because this is

stale data, this is the old Collective Bargaining Agreement that occurred back in 2013 spanning
five years that improved the contribution.
So in summary, that Amendment 22 helped, but didn't help fast enough. We've had asset losses
over the last few years, as well, and then contribution shortfalls. So we've had a perfect storm of
events. And, again, get out your binoculars. But what this is showing, for those of you who can
get close enough to see it, the asset column shows the assets going negative in the year 2040.
And, I'm sorry this is so small. But they show the assets going to-- that's when there's no more
money in the trust to make benefit payments. But there was an agreement struck earlier this year
that injected funds into the plan. And this shows the $6.2 million. I believe the first payment was
made in March of this year. And that's an annual.
So what I did here is I put a payment in for those four years. And here's where you can see what
became the good news in all of this is that you don't run out of money. That new influx of capital
has made it so that the assets don't deplete, they don't hit 0. They do decline, still. We know
we're not totally out of a perilous situation. But then, they begin to come back up. So that was,
from the plan's perspective, a successful outcome for salvaging this plan. And that concludes my
remarks.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. I was going to give it a second, see if anybody wanted to comment
on that. I do see that Director Anderson has a comment.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: It doesn't quite sound like it, but I think it's good news.
LESLIE THOMPSON: I know. Yeah. It's better when I'm back in February, because you had a
great year of earnings, as well. But, yes. It's much better news than it has been for many years.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Right. Well, that's good. So, I'm pleased. And, thank god somebody
else will be here in February.
[LAUGHTER]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Not you. She was talking about her.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Oh, my god. I'm like, wow.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: No. I didn't mean you. I meant me.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Gave here a heart attack.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I didn't know you were leaving.
[LAUGHTER]
LESLIE THOMPSON: All righty, then.

KEN MIHALIK: Oh. I didn't see you, General Manager. You have the floor.
DAVE GENOVA: Mr. Chair, thank you. Just so the Board will recall that that little more than
the $6 million capital contribution was something we renegotiated as part of the three year CBA
(collective bargaining agreement) that we have. So that will happen-- that amount-- this year, the
next two years. And then, of course, will be open for renegotiation of future CBAs. But we plan
on doing that contribution. And, I think as we'll see in the next iteration of the update, it'll be
looking better.
KEN MIHALIK: All right. Seeing no more questions.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Thank you. I look forward to seeing you in February.
[LAUGHTER]
KEN MIHALIK: Well, don't leave just yet. I see that Director Lubow has a comment or
question.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, very much. And I look forward to seeing you in February, too.
[LAUGHTER]
So, is the assumption that it will continue to be good as long as we make the $6 million extra
contribution each year or something similar thereto?
LESLIE THOMPSON: The assumption-- well, the outcome is that you will not be running out of
money in a 30 year period. So if you consider that good-- I would consider that good-- then, yes.
I had scheduled four $6.2 million payments. And I realize that things can be renegotiated. But,
yes. Yes, it helped quite a bit.
JUDY LUBOW: So does that mean every year?
LESLIE THOMPSON: Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you, very much.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Chairman Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I just wanted to say to Ms. Thompson, you have to understand, apropos,
Director Anderson's remark. Around here, we like to shoot the messenger.
LESLIE THOMPSON: (LAUGHING) Got it.
KEN MIHALIK: It's catching on. Director Broom, you have the floor.

BOB BROOM: Thank you. I think you said that the normal cost was 5% for this. And what does
the employee pay in? And what percentage does the employer pay in [INAUDIBLE]?
LESLIE THOMPSON: The employees are paying 5%-- all employees. The employer is paying
13%.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Plus the $6.2.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Yeah. So employers pay 13% plus $6.2 million.
BOB BROOM: OK. So this should come out of the tailspin, then.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Yes. That's a great way to put it.
KEN MIHALIK: And I'll just add a caveat on that-- assuming 7% returns in perpetuity, which
has never happened. I will go to the phone now. Director Williams, do you have any questions or
comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. Thank you, Chair Mihalik. I'll pass.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. Director Folska, checking in with you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Mihalik. No, thank you. I have no questions.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. I guess we'll see you in February. Thank you, very much.
LESLIE THOMPSON: Yes. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Mr. Chair, I would just offer, in the essence of time, because I've
probably taken up a lot more than my time tonight, can we just take questions, potentially, on the
next two-- the Quarterly Investment Report and the Monthly Financial Report? And I'll be glad
to answer.
KEN MIHALIK: I think that's a great idea. Let everyone cue that up.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Nobody.
KEN MIHALIK: I'm looking around on the Quarterly Investment Report. I don't see anything.
Director Williams or Director Folska, any questions on the Quarterly Investment Report?
KATE WILLIAMS: No, thank you, sir.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you, Chair Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Thank you. We'll call that one complete.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK. And then the Financial Report.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. This is for the month of June. Same thing. Director Williams or Director
Folska, anything on the June Financial Report?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And, Mr. Chair, I think we had moved the next one to a future
meeting, because we don't have anything-- we were expecting things to maybe move through the
process related to the RRIF (Railroad Rehabilitation and Improvement Financing) loan and the
credit risk premium. And nothing has really moved.
KEN MIHALIK: Noted.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I think we want to come back next month and hopefully things
have [INAUDIBLE].
KEN MIHALIK: Yes. General Manager Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. I'll just remind the Board-- it was in one of my GM reports. But, when I
was in Washington D.C, it was the last FRA (Federal Railroad Administration) Headquarters
meeting. I think I had three different meetings. One was Senator Gardner's office. And then, two
other meetings with staffers at various committees that actually work on the language that was in
the 2018 omnibus that was favorable towards us and the credit risk premium. But, unfortunately,
now, they're looking at doing a language change that will not be as favorable. Because it will
allow them to expand the cohort to their own definition.
But we haven't seen any of the proposed language, yet. And as we see that, we'll bring it back.
But we just wanted to let you know that that was the latest we're hearing in our conversations
there.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And I even checked on that today. And there was no update from
Washington on that.
KEN MIHALIK: So the earliest would be next month.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. Or before. We'll put it in the report if we get information prior
to that.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Very good. And I think we're on to other matters. We're really speeding
up on the back half here. Seeing no other matters, our next meeting will be September 11th. And
I'll call this meeting adjourned. Take five minutes.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

