July 9, 2019
Civil Rights Committee
ZAMY SILVA: And this is a required action by the FTA as a condition for receiving federal
funds. Every three years, we are required to do a DBE goal methodology. So we start that
process by looking at the projection in terms of federal funds for the next three years, how many
projects we anticipate we will award with federal funds. And we pretty much break each project
apart to look for opportunities for the disadvantaged business enterprises.
And so we did that process. And we identified where the opportunities were. There is a number
of processes that we have to follow before we submit the methodology to the FTA for their
review and approval.
One of those is the public engagement in consultation. We met with 12 community organizations
to get feedback in terms of where they think discrimination exists and whether RTD is doing a
good job or not good job in engaging the small business community. That consultation piece
included myself and my staff members and we also had Director Lewis and Director Catlin
attend some of those engagements. So here is a listing of the organizations that we visited.
In terms of the feedback that we received-- overall, very positive feedback. The community feels
that RTD keeps the small business engaged in terms of opportunities. And they really like our
prompt payment provision, which is one of the best ones in the country for small businesses.
They recognize RTD and respect us for best practices and encourage us to share those with other
organizations.
Let's see. We had our required public announcement of the proposed goal, which was on May 30
at the Summit Event Center in Aurora. The Chair, Doug Tisdale, the Vice Chair Catlin, and the
Vice Chair of the Civil Rights Committee, as well as the CEO, also were in attendance. We had a
little over 50 attendees.
And we went over the entire methodology. And we announced what the proposed goal would be
for the next three federal fiscal year, which is 20.3%. So the way that we arrived at that is by
looking at the opportunities within the projects that we anticipate we will award with federal
funds within the next three years, and also looking at the market in Colorado, looking at the
census, and how many companies we have in those areas in Colorado. And it's a mathematical
thing that we do. And the exact number is 20.3.
We can adjust that number if we see fit. However, we could not do that at this time or elected not
to do so because we've exceeded our overall goal two consecutive years. Which is good and bad
in the sense of if we exceed the goal, then they would ask us to reduce race conscious.
So 10.3 is race conscious. Race conscious means any time we put a project goal. And race
neutral means any time we anticipate that the DBE will compete fairly on the market for a

project and will win the contract fair and square. It is also race neutral when the prime goes
above and beyond the goal.
So this is the proposed. It's due August 1 to the FTA. The anticipation is that we get an approval
so that we can start this October 1 of 2019. That concludes my presentation-- if you have any
questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Well, it looks like we have a few folks who are interested in speaking.
Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lewis Thank you, Zamy. That was wonderful. Of the
people that you spoke to, were they all ready-- did they already work for RTD as DBE SBEs?
ZAMY SILVA: Are you referring to the consultation piece?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right, at the summit. The 50 people you had there. Were they already
people you've worked with?
ZAMY SILVA: No. It ranged from a few businesses that have never done business with RTD,
some that have done, and organizations in the community that represent small businesses.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I was kind of wondering what you can do to outreach to more DBEs
and SBEs that have never worked with RTD in the past. Do you have an initiative for that?
ZAMY SILVA: Yes. RTD, because of FasTracks, we initiated a committee which is called
Disadvantaged Business Advisory Committee. And that meets every other month. And with that
engagement, we have-- even though the FasTracks is at the tail end-- we have now-- kind of have
a topic where we encourage small businesses from different arenas to come in and talk about
future opportunities and how to do business with us. And we've seen a fair amount of
engagement in terms of the community. The other piece is that we recently hired an outreach
coordinator within civil rights, which is engaging with the community to re-establish that and
bring more folks to RTD.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And that's wonderful. And what is that person's name?
ZAMY SILVA: That is Vivian Morales.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh. All right. OK.
ZAMY SILVA: Yeah.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's great. And then you might remember-- this is a little bit off topic.
But we've gotten some questions about it, regarding mechanics and getting them into the pipeline
for RTD. And I'm wondering if you remember when we had a meeting in General Manager
Genova's office with Director Broom and some folks at Aurora Community College, where what

they do is they have a pipeline where they train mechanics specifically to supply trained people
for Wagner.
And they wanted to do something similar with us. And I think at the time we turned them down.
Do you know where we're at with that, or can you revisit that to sort of build that pipeline for
RTD?
DAVE GENOVA: Madam Chair?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Mhm.
DAVE GENOVA: I'll respond to that if I may.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Go ahead.
DAVE GENOVA: This is Dave Genova. So the groups that are now working with the
community college are largely between Michael Ford and his team and then also with our human
resources group. And they're actively working with a number of the community colleges now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: But what specifically about Aurora Community College, because they
came to us and asked us. They wanted to build that pipeline for us. Are we doing anything with
them?
DAVE GENOVA: We're engaged with direct conversations with them on how we can work
together with the programs they have available now.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, great. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: And just to add to that, we also have the same partnership with Front Range
Community College at RTD for that same reason, where we are creating pipelines that way.
They take classes here at RTD. And they have the option at the end of it to apply for jobs. And I
believe a number of those applicants have gotten positions with RTD.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Zamy. Director Folska, do you have any other questions?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. The new proposed target is 20.3. What is the current target?
ZAMY SILVA: The current is 24%.
BOB BROOM: 24 or 20.4?
ZAMY SILVA: The current

AUDIENCE: RTD overall goal is 24%.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
ZAMY SILVA: You're welcome.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Zamy. Both the Chair and I participated in some of the outreach
meetings. And I can attest to the fact that most of the organizations felt that RTD was really
proactive and very good at setting and achieving DBE goals. I met with the Hispanic contractors
and the ADC. And it was positive feedback.
Zamy, would you please cite the example of the DBE firm that has been selected by RTD to do
prime work? Because I think that is a really good example of how we've built capacity and
encouraged DBE to not just be a sub or a commodity, but actually perform as a prime. Can you
cite that example for me?
ZAMY SILVA: Sure. Thank you. So RTD actually has been a catalyst. Pretty much has assisted
so many small businesses and in building capacity with those with FasTracks project. And so
there are a number of projects, including the management contract on the FasTracks
We have Tri Unity, which is a joint venture between Tri Unity and Hill. They are one of those
businesses that started with RTD and now are priming projects throughout the nation. We have
Gilmore Construction, which is another black-owned firm who got their start here at RTD. And
now they prime a couple of projects with RTD, and they open doors to other small businesses.
So they're not only meeting their goals by them being a DBE, but they also hire smaller firms
and do joint ventures and mentor protege.
We have Data Man, who primes contracts on the IT side of the world. 15 L project, that's a
recent contract that we awarded. The improvement construction project-- that is also another
DBE.
So there's a number of small businesses out there that got their start here on the FasTracks and
now are priming projects. And I think part of this is, again, due to FasTracks But also due to how
we do business. Not only we help them with bonding and those kinds of things, but we open the
door to how it is that we want them to do business with us. So it's been a great success.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lewis. So that just brings up another exciting thing that
you have going on there, Zamy. And you know, Tri Unity, I remember approving all of their
contracts when they came. And they're a really great firm. And I'm wondering, are they local?
ZAMY SILVA: Yes.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So have you considered maybe sending some of those DBEs and SBEs to
be nominated for great business of the year for the MLK luncheon and that kind of thing? We go
there every year. And it seems like that would be a really wonderful place to highlight that and to
tell that story. Because it's a great story.
ZAMY SILVA: Absolutely-- and we also have a video showing their success story. And there's a
number of them that their story is very compelling. And they talk about RTD and how impactful
RTD was to the success of their business.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I think that's a great story to tell. So that's all, Chair Lewis. Thank
you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Folska. I'm seeing no one else in the queue-wonderful. Other matters-- lovely.
[LAUGHTER]
Our next meeting is October 8, 2019. And we are adjourned.
[GAVEL BANGING]

