Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, November 14, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Remote
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:55 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

6:53 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Remote

6:57 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:56 PM
6:55 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

6:51 PM

Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:55 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present
Absent

6:54 PM
6:55 PM
6:54 PM

Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present

6:55 PM
6:55 PM

Directors Anderson and Folska participated via phone. Director Tisdale was absent.
Director Anderson left the meeting early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Steve Bodie, Nicole
Carey, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps, Nate Currey, Joey Davidson,
Aprajit "Jeet" Desai, Terry Emmons, Bob Grado, Jeff KayBrian
Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara McManus, Mike
Meader, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Todd Nikkel, Tai-Shrae Parish,
Tegan Rice, Jannette Scarpino, Cal Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp,
Mark Tieman, Monika Treipl-Harnke, Christina Zazueta.

Others Present:

Dan Dent, William Gross, Dave Sachs, John Thompson, Joe Triplett.

B. Recommended Actions

• 2018 Fiscal Policy Statement
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves and adopts the revised Fiscal Policy
Statement for 2018.
Motion:

Director Walker made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 28th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis, stated that a redlined version of the amended policy
statement was included in the Board Packet and asked
whether the Directors had questions.
Directors Anderson and Folska both said that they had no
questions and would support the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
ABSENT:
Doug Tisdale
Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• 2018 Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”),
attached.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 28th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Brendan Morgan, Senior Manager of Debt and Investments,
stated that the purpose of the recommended action was to
specify the Board’s policies and procedures that support a
prudent and systematic investment program for operating and
reserve funds. He said the priorities for the agency’s
investments were safety, liquidity, and yield. He said that the
only change to the policy was the addition of a rating by the
Fitch credit rating agency.
Director Broom asked whether RTD bought Yankee bonds as
part of its investment portfolio.
Mr. Morgan said that the agency did not presently buy Yankee
bonds but did own supranational bonds, such as those issued
by the World Bank, that were denominated in US dollars and
backed by the federal government.
Director Broom then asked whether the agency purchased
Canadian bonds.
Mr. Morgan confirmed that RTD did not purchase Canadian
bonds.
Directors Anderson and Folska both said that they had no
questions and would support the motion.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• 2018 Recommended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the
adoption of the 2018 Budget, Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the
2018 Budget Appropriation and Resolution No. ___, Series of 2017 for the
appropriation of 2018 Previously Appropriated Capital.
Motion:

Director Mihalik made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the November 28th,
2017 Board Meeting.
Director Archuleta seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ms. Scarpino presented the overview of the recommended
budget and noted that the Board had already discussed the
Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and the Strategic Budget
Plan (SBP). She said the total appropriation for 2018 was $2
billion, with a capital carryforward of $743 million. She stated
the budget contained three major changes since the requested
budget was presented to the Board in October: the inclusion of
$13 million in expense projects approved in the SBP, an
expense project carryforward of $41 million, and the startup
costs for the RTD operation of North Metro. She said that the
total district operating expenses for 2018 were $13.6 million
higher than in the 2017 amended budget. She reported that
overall FasTracks project expenses were diminishing. She said
the agency budgeted diesel fuel at $1.80 per gallon, compared
with $1.69 per gallon for fiscal year 2017, and she stated that
fuel prices had recently been above $2.00. She said the
agency would move to lock in fuel prices in the near future
and added that gasoline prices in the budget were projected to
be $2.65 per gallon. She indicated there would be no change
to interest expense or principal debt payments and stated that
no new debt would be issued in 2018. Regarding capital
expenditures, she said the budget contained $59 million in
new capital for the Base system, which included the purchase
of 40’ transit vehicles, the Burnham Yard Lead purchase, and
the Colfax transit priority project. She noted that the fleet
would be financed through previous debt issuances. She said
the capital carryforward on the Base system was $105 million.
For the FasTracks system, she stated that new capital totaled
$129 million, which included North Metro projects, and the
capital carryforward totaled $639 million. Regarding budget
assumptions, she stated that sales & use tax revenues were
projected to be 4.9% over 2017, farebox revenue was

projected to be 3% higher, and grant revenue was expected to
be $13 million lower, largely due to drawdowns in 2017 rather
than 2018. She stated that FasTracks accounted for most of
the ridership growth.
Director Broom asked whether the budget anticipated any
forthcoming proceeds from the Volkswagen settlement and
whether RTD budgeted the personnel costs for filled positions,
rather than the actual headcount.
Ms. Scarpino said that the budget did not contemplate any
proceeds from the Volkswagen settlement and that the agency
did budget for filled positions, meaning that the agency would
experience vacancy savings for the duration of any vacancy.
She noted that any new positions created must first go
through the SBP evaluation process.
Director Sisk said it was alarming that the agency had not
locked in the price of diesel fuel at a time when prices were
over $2.00 per gallon.
Ms. McKillop said that fuel prices were still seeing the effects
from disruptions caused by hurricanes and that the agency
would lock the diesel fuel price once it reached $1.80 per
gallon.
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations, said that RTD received
reports from the fuel supplier and had placed an order for an
automatic lock on diesel fuel once prices reached $1.80 per
gallon.
Director Sisk asked whether fuel prices were lower before the
hurricane season.
Ms. McKillop said that fuel prices had not been below $1.80.
Mr. Abel added that fuel prices were in the mid $1.80 range
and were experiencing declines.
Ms. McKillop said the agency would be better off not to lock
prices too early.
Director Lubow stated that the Board Report mentioned higher
than estimated service payments for operations and
maintenance on the Eagle project.

Ms. Scarpino answered that the higher costs were associated
with performance metrics for Denver Transit Operators (DTO).
She said that they received a higher payment due to a high ontime-performance rating.
Ms. McKillop said that DTO would earn a bonus for reaching
an on-time-performance rating of 95%. She said the budget
was adjusted because DTO was approaching the 95%
threshold.
Director Lubow asked about the $5 million contingency
reserve contained in the budget.
Ms. Scarpino said the contingency reserve would be used for
emergency needs and project overruns. She said the reserve
was created in an effort to reduce overbudgeting in certain
projects. She said the General Manager controlled
disbursements from the reserve and that requests would go
through him for approval.
Ms. McKillop noted that General Manager Genova’s approval
authority had limits and that request amounts exceeding his
authority would be sent to the Board. She said staff changed
the way they budgeted operating costs to look at different
factors for the allocation of costs, which were applied to the
operating budget. She said that the change was made both to
temper the budget and to allow flexibility, while at the same
time building trust with budget managers. She said that the
new process would be monitored and could be reexamined the
following year.
Director Francone asked whether the capital carryforward
projects identified in Attachment C were incomplete projects
for which funds had been appropriated.
Ms. Scarpino said that was correct.
Directors Anderson and Folska said they would support the
recommended action.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
Ken Mihalik, Committee Vice-Chair
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Anderson, Archuleta, Broom, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone,
Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale

Committee Chair Menten declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• September 2017 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug McLeod, Controller, presented the monthly financial report. He said
sales and use tax continued to perform better than budgeted. He said that
revenues had been projected to increase 4% over 2016 but actual revenues
were 2.7% higher than expected, yielding $11.7 million over expectations.
He noted that the agency was still receiving $200,000 per month in
marijuana sales tax revenues, despite the fact that vendors were not
required to collect the tax beginning July 1, 2017, and that the total loss of
revenue to the agency was $800,000. He said that the higher than expected
sales and use tax revenues were attributable to sales in certain economic
sectors, such as car dealerships, full service restaurants, hotels, and home
centers. He said the agency experienced an increase in revenues from
internet sales of $600,000.
Ms. McKillop said that vendors who remitted marijuana sales and use tax
revenues after July 1, 2017, were entitled to a refund upon their request.
She said some vendors would not ask for a refund and noted that the
agency had received $500,000 in additional marijuana tax revenues since
July.
Director Menten asked for more information regarding internet sales.
Mr. MacLeod said that RTD could collect sales tax from vendors who had
nexus in the district. He said that Amazon had created nexus in the district
and that the agency had begun to receive taxes collected on Amazon’s
sales. He added that ridership was 9.9% lower than expected and that fare
revenue was down 8.9%. He noted that the 2017 budget had contemplated
higher growth in ridership from the R and G Lines. He said that ridership was
down 4.4% year-over-year for the month of September and down 1.5%
overall year-to-date. He noted that ridership on non-revenue services, such
as the 16th Street Mall Shuttle, was down as well. He noted King Soopers
had returned unused 10-ride ticket books purchased in 2017, which resulted
in a credit of $300,000. He said fare revenue was up 5.6% year over year,
which was largely attributable to the University of Colorado A Line and the

increased ticket price for that line. Overall, he said that total revenues were
$11.1 million, or 2%, over budget.
Chair Hoy asked whether it would be fair to assume that retailers who
remitted marijuana sales and use taxes and subsequently received a refund
would have difficulty locating the patrons who had paid the tax.
Ms. McKillop said that retailers who received refunds would not need to
return the tax to the consumers.
Director Francone asked about the $29 million refund that resulted from the
Denver Union Station refinancing.
Ms. McKillop said that the bill that would facilitate the refund had stalled
because Congress was operating under a continuing resolution. She said a
bill could pass in 2017 and noted that staff regularly spoke with
representatives from the City and County of Denver because of Denver’s
own financial interest in the refund.

• SmartCard Project Update and Mobile Ticketing Demo
Ms. McKillop stated that the mobile ticketing smartphone application (app)
went live on November 1, 2017. She said that users could purchase day
passes through the app and that the agency was looking into offering other
types of fare media. She said that the option to purchase and store tickets in
advance would be rolling out in the first quarter of 2018.
Tonya Anderson, Manager of Electronic Fare Operations, showed a
demonstration of the app, which she said could be downloaded on the
Android and Apple mobile platforms. She noted that the app offered options
for local and regional zones, as well as full and discount fares, and she
stated that, as with other day passes, the electronic tickets expired at the
end of the service day, 2:59 a.m., even if they had not been activated. She
said the app could store payment methods and split payments among
different cards and that storage for tickets for future use would be
implemented soon. She stated that RTD was working with the vendor,
Wasabi, to correct minor technical problems with the app, such as an error
encountered when using American Express cards. She said that, based on
their last update, the fixes would be implemented by the end of the week.
She noted that the electronic tickets were similar in appearance to paper
fare media, which meant that users and operators would be familiar with
them, and that the electronic tickets featured security features such as QR
code and a scrolling date and time bar with colors that changed based on
the time. She said that operators and fare enforcement officers would use
visual validation, rather than hardware authentication. She said the app
included access to the RTD Trip Planner and NextRide platforms, with future
access to the Transit Watch app planned for the first quarter of 2018.

Director Deadwyler said she was impressed with the app and could not wait
to show her family members who frequently use RTD services. She stated
that many emergency services and restaurant employees were excluded
from using the app because the day passes expired at 2:59 a.m. She asked
whether it would be possible for day passes to expire 24-hours after the
time of purchase.
Ms. McKillop said that the current fare policy dictated the expiration of day
passes at the end of the service day at 2:59 a.m. She said RTD’s system
was unusual in that respect and that Wasabi typically worked on systems
with a rolling 24-hour schedule. She said staff was contemplating changing
the policy as part of the upcoming fare changes. She said that staff was
required to implement current policy for media purchased through the app.
Chair Hoy said the Board could reconsider the service day policy. He said he
could not remember the reason behind the policy. He thanked the staff who
worked hard on the app rollout, which he said took only five months.
Director Anderson note that the app was not custom-built, as opposed to
the SmartCard.
Ms. McKillop said both the team that worked on the app and the vendor
were great and stated that the app looked as though it were custom-built
even though it was not.
Director Williams said she liked the app and that her constituents were
excited. She commended staff for showing that the agency was moving
toward the 21st century.
Director Menten asked whether the app would work for people who were
sight limited, and Ms. Anderson responded that it would.

• Fiscal Sustainability Update
Ms. Scarpino stated that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force was formed in
2010 and presented recommendations to the Board in 2011, many of which
were implemented. She said that the completed items were contained in the
Board Report, including policies on naming rights, ongoing partnerships, and
privatization. She said the fiscal sustainability report was given twice
annually and that she would report any further progress.
Director Williams questioned whether anyone had looked at the University of
Colorado A Line running through the Colorado State University campus at
the National Western Complex.

• Quarterly Investment Report
Mr. Morgan presented the investment report for the third quarter of 2017.
He said the year had been good for the agency’s investments, which were
performing ahead of benchmarks. He said short term interest rates were
good, having experienced two rate hikes so far in 2017 with a potential for
a third. He said that year-to-date earnings for all funds was $6.1 million,
performing well to budget.
Director Broom asked about the duration of the portfolio.
Mr. Morgan said the agency did not review all of its portfolios in aggregate
and noted that the agency held portfolios for individual projects. He said that
bond proceeds were the largest items held in the portfolios. He said staff
managed the portfolios for cash flow rather than for duration and that
project managers were expected to spend from the cashflows. He stated
that one year was a typical duration, though some portfolios went out
further, such as those for reserves required under the Taxpayers Bill of
Rights (TABOR).

D. Other Matters
Ms. McKillop reported that RTD hired a senior manager of human resources, who
started with the agency that day. She said he would be introduced during the
following month’s committee meetings and said he had more than 20 years of
experience in human resources and spent 13 years in the Air Force.
Director Menten asked about the implementation costs of the SmartCard and
mobile ticketing programs.
Ms. McKillop said that the SmartCard rollout had cost $30 million and the mobile
ticketing app had cost $46,000. She said that Wasabi did not make money on the
distribution of its app but rather received a percentage of the sale of each fare
purchased though the app.
Director Menten likened the fee to a credit card processing fee.
Ms. McKillop agreed and noted that the vendor was responsible for PCI compliance,
processing, and liability.
Director Menten said that, during the recent Transportation Legislation Review
Committee (TLRC) meeting, the legislators discussed a proposed bill regarding a
vendor fee change, and she asked for a briefing on the bill.
Chair Hoy said that Sherry Ellebracht, RTD’s Government Relations Officer, would
prepare a bill summary.

Ms. McKillop said the bill dealt with a proposed low-income program that would be
supported by a reduction in the processing fee vendors were allowed to retain
when collecting sales tax. She said that the legislature had in the past changed the
amount allowed to be withheld. She noted that RTD presented information to TLRC
about the pass program working group, and she stated that RTD was not directly
asked for information regarding the vendor fee, though the agency’s presenters
mentioned the vendor fee reduction was an option considered by the working
group. She added that staff does not take positions on bills without Board’s
approval but noted that the bill did not pass out of committee.
Director Menten asked when sales tax remittance forms were printed and
submitted.
Ms. McKillop said they were printed in the last quarter of the state fiscal year and
distributed in the summer. She said vendors of a certain size were required to remit
taxes via an online form.
Director Lubow said she would be interested in learning if the vendor fee would be
a good source of funding for low-income passes.
Ms. McKillop reiterated that TLRC did not pass the bill in question. She said the
vendor fee had been a contentious political issue and stated the funding source was
not an appropriate topic on which RTD should weigh in. She noted that a lowincome program was being considered by the pass program working group.
Director Lubow asked whether the pass program working group was looking at
alternative funding sources.
Ms. McKillop said the pass program working group was evaluating broad proposals
and had not yet considered funding. She said that each proposal contained a lowincome component.

E. Next Meeting Date - December 12, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 8:15 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

