2021-02-02
FAA Committee Meetings
NICOLE CAREY: You guys can go ahead.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: We're ready?
NICOLE CAREY: Yep.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Nicole. Good evening. I'd like to call to order the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting. It is now 5:31 on February 2, 2021. We are-- I
would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute your phones or your computer unless you
are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio and video record. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minute minutes of
the meetings will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please visit RTD-Denver.com
and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on the phone, press star 6.
Note that we will not be taking any public comment during this committee meeting. Members of the public
interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meetings
at the end of this month. So for future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal local
located at RTD.IQM2.com. Once again, that's RTD.IQM2.com.
At RTD-- this is the first committee meeting of the evening, and at RTD, safety is our core value. So I'd
like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. According to the Denver Post, Colorado ranks 13th
in COVID-19 vaccine doses administered and has the eighth fewest new COVID-19 cases in the US.
That said this is not the time to let your guard down. We must all continue to follow established health
guidelines to keep ourselves and our loved ones safe.
Please continue to practice social distancing. Six feet is the minimum. Wear a mask at all times in public
spaces. Get tested if you're experiencing symptoms or if you have been in contact with someone with the
virus.
Using your smartphone, you can also now use the Colorado exposure notification tool. By opting in, your
Android or iPhone device will share anonymous tokens with others in your immediate vicinity via your
phone's Bluetooth connection. If another user you've been near test positive for COVID-19 within a 14
day period, the service will notify you. If you test positive you can easily and anonymously notify others to
stop the spread of COVID-19. These services do not collect personal information or location data. Thank
you.

We have no action items on tonight's agenda. There is one discussion item, however, and that is
regarding the CRRSA grant, CRRSA as it's known, funding. The write up of that is found on packet pages
three, four, and five that Nicole will scroll down for reference. But for this item, I'd like to ask our CEO and
General Manager Debra Johnson to start the discussion. Ms. Johnson, the floor is yours.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening to you
committee members and to all who are virtually assembled. I am Debra Johnson, General Manager and
CEO of RTD. I am before you to provide a report on the agency's plans to utilize federal funding made
possible by the coronaviruses response and release supplemental Appropriations Act of 2021 known as
CRRSA which was signed into law on December 27, 2020.
I am joined by Doug MacLeod, RTD's acting Chief Financial Officer, who will discuss the allocations
amount that were determined internally that are outlined in the discussion item report as well as the
procedural and process flow with the Federal Transit Administration. As you are aware, this is the second
round of stimulus funding the agency will use to support the continuity of transit services, the first being
the Coronavirus Aid Relief and Economic Security Act commonly referred to as CARES funding. The
CARES Act funding aided RTD in sustaining its workforce through calendar year 2020.
In November of last year, RTD 2021 budget was approved by this body, which addressed $140 million
budget deficit. Measures taken to address the deficit included budget reductions that contained the
decreasing of the agency workforce, implementing furloughs for salary non-represented employees, as
well as leveraging additional funds through the CARES Act.
The employee impacted budgetary measures, including the reduction in force, was effectuated last month
on January 10. The following day on January 11, RTD received notice of his CRRSA apportionment of
$203 million. In following the intent of the CRRSA Act, my top priority has been to restore the agency's
workforce.
The operations team has to work cooperatively with the union over the past few weeks to recall full-time
front line operations employee who were laid off as part of the workforce reductions. Those callbacks
have concluded. The team began the process of recalling part-time bus operators yesterday.
The CRRSA Funding Utilization Plan will vastly be used for the restoration of service and will be
leveraged incrementally for service change. The agency traditionally has three service changes per year
January, May and September. The plan includes the full roll up of designated Revenue Service hours,
which means the mechanics time to ensure the vehicle is in a state of good repair for pull out, the fleet
supervisor who supervises this work, the service and cleaning employees and supervisors who are
ensuring the vehicle is properly sanitized and clean, the dispatcher who is ensuring the appropriate
vehicle is assigned to the right block and run, the operator who is ensuring that essential workers get to
their essential jobs, the street supervisor who is overseeing street operations and ensuring that we are
making good on our commitment to get our customers where they need to go when they need to be
there. The add back of service will be based upon data and feedback. Staff are constantly reviewing data
that come from automatic passenger counters, street supervisory observations, customer, stakeholder, as
well as operator feedback in determining whether additional resources need to be allocated, such as
deploying additional vehicles in response to overloads for current COVID level service, recognizing
current social distancing protocols, school trippers based on return to class instruction, and covering open
runs based on operator availability as well.

As you know, salaried non-representative employees endured compensation impacts in 2020 through
nine mandated furlough days and were primed to endure additional impacts in 2021. In adherence to
CRRSA, the six planned furlough days and salary reductions for non-represented salaried employees as
part of the 2021 budget have been repealed. The remaining funds will be used for implementing
recommendations from the most recent state performance audit and the RTD Accountability Committee.
Pertaining to the state audit, we have two critical areas in which we have a laser focus, one of which is
RTD's internal audit function. There is an American Public Transportation Association, i.e. APTA, peer
review that the agency is leveraging that is getting underway in March. The recommendations coming
from that effort will inform the agency's decisions as we go forward.
There are some key recommendations from the state audit we are addressing regarding bus and light rail
operator attrition, front line operations supervisory practices, operator rest breaks, as well as shift
scheduling. Our first steps are working with peer agencies, the National Transit Institute, and APTA as
well as ATU to identify best practices, including but not limited to such things as emotional intelligence
training, leveraging a robust recruitment process, as well as run cutting and leveraging our extra Board.
Moreover, moneys may be leverage for accountability recommendations.
I will now yield the floor to acting CFO Doug MacLeod, who will round out the CRRSA presentation and
speak more directly to the application of funds for the elements I outline. Thank you. Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. This is Doug MacLeod acting Chief Financial
Officer at RTD, and good evening. If we could turn to packet page four please.
So I would like to spend a few moments just discussing each of the individual items that we've identified
for use of the CRRSA. However, I'd first like to just discuss some housekeeping items as far as the grant
itself goes. So earlier today, we actually had a call, a monthly call with the FTA Region Eight office. They
have not received specific guidance regarding the use of those funds.
However, there is general guidance available on the FTA website, and there are frequently asked
questions. So we do have a pretty good idea of how this funding may be used. We just are waiting
specific guidance from the regional office. In addition, the Region Eight office will assist us with that
application. So we expect that process to be expedited when we're ready to apply for the grant itself.
A few items specific to CRRSA, the grant, it's very similar to the CARES Act in that it's on a
reimbursement basis. So any funding that we receive, we must first spend that money first then request
reimbursement for eligible expenses. Those expenses may be applied going back all the way to January
20, 2020 just like with the CARES Act.
In fact, in an earlier discussion today an APTA member discussed how many agencies have not yet
drawn down their CARES funding. So this allows some flexibility to agencies to draw additional funding
going all the way back to January 20, 2020. However, RTD has drawn its entire CARES apportionment
with the final draw occurring in December of 2020.
This grant, the CRRSA Grant will also be 100% federally provided. There will be no matching
requirements. The only provision that we know about so far is similar to the CARES Act in which any
reimbursement expenditures that are applied towards the grant must first be reduced by any fares
collected.
So with those items covered with a general discussion about the CRRSA Act itself, we have bullet points
in the Board memo listing out what staff, the senior leadership team, and General Manager Johnson have
identified as uses of those funds. The first bullet point is $180 million of the $203 million. So that equates

to approximately 88.5%. So the overwhelming majority of this funding has been designated as being
made available to restoring service and providing funds for operations.
As General Manager Johnson noted, we would be pricing the use of that fund based on the fully loaded
cost of providing service. So it includes all the ancillary support services, such as cleaning, supervisory
expenses, et cetera. The way we broke that $180 million down is that we discussed how since this is just
a one time funding, we did not want to spend it right away. We wanted to make it last and be as efficient
as possible with this funding.
So our intent is to take that $180 million and break it down over 6 run boards. As General Manager
Johnson mentioned, we have 3 run boards each year. So six boards would stretch this funding over
three-- or excuse me two years. So 6 run boards at two years starting with the June 13, 2021 run board.
Moving to the second bullet point, we have identified some additional costs that were taken out of the
2021 budget as cost reduction measures that necessitate being put back. The second bullet item is one
of those. $4 million 447,000 is the cost of reinstating extra shift and over time that was removed from the
2021 budget.
So in the recommendations that came out of the COVID task force, one of the recommendations was to
eliminate all nonoperational extra shift and overtime. So therefore, we budgeted for the overtime that was
scheduled into operator shifts. However, we removed all the overtime for other services, such as
mechanics, supervisors, street supervisors, dispatch supervisors, et cetera. This $4.4 million would be
used to restore that, and it's necessary to ensure that our operations are fully staffed. Next page, please.
This third bullet item $1.7 million is the estimated additional budget needed to cover the six days of
furloughs that were originally budgeted for non-represented employees. We did have employees-- nonrepresented employees take nine furlough days in 2020. This $1.7 million was the budgeted amount that
was reduced from the 2021 budget for those six furlough days in 21. However, those days are being
rescinded.
The fourth bullet point, $886,550, in addition to the furloughs, there were also tiered pay cuts that were
instated in the 2021 budget. The total for those was $886,550, which is just 0.4% of the CRRSA funding
that would be used to eliminate those reductions. Therefore, people would be restored at those-- nonrepresented employees would be restored to their prior salary levels.
Second to last bullet point, $2.4 million is the estimated cash cost to non represented employees to cash
out any excess paid time off, vacation or sick balance that they have. In the budget for 2021, it was
contemplated that in order to save cash for one year we would not allow non-represented employees to
cash out their excess hours. That has created several hardships for many employees who have been
unable to use their PTO, vacation, and sick due to the fact that they also had to take furloughs and
resulted in them losing those balances.
So RTD still would owe this money to those employees should they leave RTD. However, the intent of
this removal from the budget was to just delay the cash payout of that by temporarily not allowing those
cash outs to occur in 2021. This $2.4 million, which equates to 1.2% of the CRRSA funding would
reinstate the ability for employees to cash out certain levels of PTO vacation and sick above required
levels that they must keep by policy.
The final item is the amount remaining after subtracting the aforementioned amounts. That's just under
$14 million so $13 million 898. That represents 6.8% of the CRRSA funding. That amount is General

Manager Johnson has been set aside to use to address issues and recommendations coming from the
accountability and the state performance audit.
So in total, the total CRRSA funding is shown there in the financial impact. RTD's total apportionment is
$203 million 367,528. We intend to draw that money as quickly as possible just as we did with the
CARES Act. Will use expenses that are incurred from January 2021 forward, and we anticipate drawing
that within-- the entire amount within 2021. And with that Madam Chair, my comments are concluded.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Thank you, General Manager CEO Johnson.
Before we open it up for questions or comments from Directors, I neglected to ask for Ms. McManus to
call the role so for the record we understand how many directors we have on this call. Ms. McManus,
would you please call the roll?
MS. MCMANUS: Yes, Thank you. Director Broom?
DIRECTOR BROOM: Present.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Boake?
DIRECTOR BOAKE: Present.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
DIRECTOR BUZEK: Here.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Cook?
DIRECTOR COOK: Here.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Davidson.
DIRECTOR DAVIDSON: Here.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Dishell?
DIRECTOR DISHELL: Here.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Guissinger? Director Guissinger?
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: I'm here. Can you not hear me?
MS. MCMANUS: Yes. Director Lewis?
DIRECTOR LEWIS: Present.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Rosenthal.
DIRECTOR ROSENTHAL: Present.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Sloan.
DIRECTOR SLOAN: Here.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DIRECTOR TISDALE: Present.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
DIRECTOR WHITMORE: Present.
MS. MCMANUS: Director Williams.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
MS. MCMANUS: And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
MADAM CHAIR RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm present.
MS. MCMANUS: We have a full quorum with 15 Board members in attendance.

MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. McManus. I just wanted the record to reflect that. Now
if you would like to ask a question or make a comment, please raise your virtual hand and I will call you in
turn. Are there any-- I see Director Dishell.
DIRECTOR DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you General Manager and CEO Johnson and
Mr. MacLeod for your presentation. I know that the state audit was quite recent, but I'm wondering if you
have any idea if the 14 million or just under 14 million that is set aside if you think that will be sufficient to
implement the recommendations from the Audit Committee.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson, would you like to respond?
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and Thank you
very much, Director Dishell. In reference to what we're doing going forward, we do feel optimistic that we
would be able to utilize those funds to implement the recommendations set forward specifically speaking
as relates to some kind of changes that need to be made to the bylaws relative to the board. If we were to
leverage any other type of auditing function relative to securing contracts or things like, it would not total
that amount. So we're looking holistically as it relates to what we need to do on the operations side of the
house as well as to the auditing function, and we do feel comfortable that we would be able to do that
within the confines of the dollars that we have referenced.
DIRECTOR DISHELL: Great. Thank you.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: I saw that Dr. Rosenthal had his hand raised, but it's no longer raised.
Would you like?
DIRECTOR ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Actually maybe my question would be better under
other matters. It relates to the executive order from the president on transportation. Should I ask my
question now, or should I wait until other matters?
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Maybe we can hold off until we get to other matters. So we can just
address this presentation. Thank you.
DIRECTOR ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale please.
DIRECTOR TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Question for Mr. MacLeod. Your
presentation indicated that the first bullet point would be spread out over six running boards over the
course of two years. But at the end, you indicated that it was our intention to use all of the CRRSA
funding in 2021, and I'm just trying to meld those two statements. Can you help me with that, please?
Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MacLeod: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. Yes, that's a great question. I'm sorry
it wasn't clear. So that is correct. We intend to draw down the funding as quickly as possible using our
ongoing expenses. So RTD's policy is always to draw grant funding as quickly as possible to get cash in
hand and to utilize it or invest it to get the small yield that are available right now until we actually use
that.
So what we would do is we would use ongoing actual operating expenses throughout 2021 to draw the
full 200 million. Those funds would be-- those funds would-- as we're not spending those, those would
accumulate into our reserves and carry forward to future years to be used for those additional run boards.

DIRECTOR TISDALE: Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Did that answer your question?
DIRECTOR TISDALE: Yes, Madam Chair.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook? Director Cook?
DIRECTOR COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair and from questions prior to the meeting, I know-- and in
fact, from the back up-- I know that you're considering the broad array of needs based on the cuts that we
had made. I'm glad for that. I'm just saying I support that. We had-- and to the extent that the guidelines
support facets of operations that include, for example, maintenance, I'm hoping that some of the deferred
maintenance items can be reinstated. And again, I think you're doing that. So I just want to say thank you.
As we look to restore service in the between now and the June service change if we're able to deploy
people in ways that help say the populations that we have who are most dependent on transit even if the
ridership doesn't yet justify that, I hope that we can do that rather than having them serve, sort of, mainly
as extras or something like that. So just putting that comment out there. I've got some folks who rely on
RTD to get to work, and their commute has lengthened so considerably that if we could find a way to add
service in areas or for people or in ways that are appropriate but don't yet meet that threshold, I think
that's worth looking at. Thank you very much.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you Director, Cook. Director Guissinger?
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just was curious the $30 million for each of the next 6 run
boards, does that allow-- what is it your thinking in terms of bringing back service? I'm assuming as we
start to do that, those are going to become more and more expensive.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, if I may, yes. Thank you and
Thank you Director Guissinger for that question. And so as we looked at this, recognizing that this is an
ever growing process as we look at the data and as circumstances change, i.e. with vaccinations,
holistically what we're trying to do is ensure that we're being nimble as we go forward. So while we did an
approximation over six service changes, there could be a point in time where we leverage more going
forward as we gear up, or it could be the reverse on the end.
So holistically, as we talk about the allocation that was made, there could be some juggling as relates to
the need of service. So that's what we're intending to do, because we want to ensure that we're looking at
the need and assessing it appropriately as we go forward. And please know that as we go through this
process, it's my intent as well as Mr. MacLeod to ensure that we're updating you all on a continual basis
relative to what's actually happening. So this will be ever growing.
DIRECTOR GUISSINGER: Thank you. That's great. And then just, sort of, along the lines of what
Director Cook was saying, I'm starting to hear people who are-- it's the chicken and egg. Do you bring
service back when people are there, or do you bring people back by bringing in service?
And I know that you all are very familiar with that issue. That's something I hope we can talk about more
and kind of learn your thinking as we go along. Thanks.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Guissinger. Director Rosenthal?
DIRECTOR ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so I guess if I can drill down a little bit on the
topic, and this question's probably for General Manager Johnson, what are some of the conversations
you've had with other stakeholders, for example, Transdev, the ATU, and other stakeholders? What's the
feedback that they're giving you about is this something that they can work with? Is this something they

have questions, comments, concerns about the speed to which we are restoring the drivers to being
recalled back to service, back to work? So perhaps, just a little bit about those conversations and what
their opinions are. Thank you.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: So Thank you very much Director Rosenthal with the
question. So as it relates to doing the recall, we are working in tandem as relates to our union partners.
As we were working, as I stated, about the part-time operators, I commend Michael Ford and to Lance
Loganbaum, who is the union president, in reference to working to come up with our recall effort so we
can ensure that we have flexibility to adjust as we go forward and service the needs that we have
collectively.
So they have been partners in this recognizing that we went forward as an agency not knowing what our
apportionment was for these CRRSA funds. I know that from the outset they had hoped that we could
retain people, but we are here and we're doing the recall effort. And we have not been doing this in silos.
We have been doing this in partnership as we've gone forward.
So I would say collectively that the approach has been well as we look to see where we have the needs
and how we're doing that going forward.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Did that answer your question, Director Rosenthal? I think you're on
mute.
DIRECTOR ROSENTHAL: Yes it did. Thank you very much.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: You're welcome. Dr. Cook, your hand is still raised. Did you want to
add anything? Nope. I had-- I don't see any other directors in the queue. I-DIRECTOR LEWIS: Director Catlin, I'm sorry to interrupt you. This is Director Lewis.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Yes?
DIRECTOR LEWIS: So I've been chatting online with staff. My hand raising screen does not actually
exist, and so I wanted to intervene but I didn't want to interrupt you and so I would like to get in the queue
to speak, but I don't have the ability to do so quietly.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead. The floor is yours.
DIRECTOR LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate it. I actually had one question for you General
Manager Johnson, or maybe it's for you, Doug. Early on we had some conversations about looking at
early retirement as an opportunity to potentially save some dollars, and the reason I'm bringing this up in
this moment is because it does look like we are looking at some things that we had previously settled on
and maybe changed our minds after getting additional information. And so I wondered if we had the
opportunity to revisit the early retirement conversation for our staff?
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager Johnson?
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, so thank you very much Madam Chair and Director
Lewis for that question. As it relates to where we are collectively, we approached this from utilizing the
CRRSA moneys to actually retain staff going forward. So we have not looked at all those elements.
We looked at the ones relative to ensuring goodwill, garnering a better understanding of what we were
doing with the money since the legislative text spoke toward furloughs and the continuity of transit
services, whereas what you stated talked about relinquishing staff. So that's something that we have not
explored at this juncture. Perhaps, as we go forward and we have a better understanding relative to the
guidance that we anticipate getting from the Federal Transit Administration and we see how we are

managing our fund flow, perhaps that is something that we look at-- we can look at going forward. But
right now at this juncture it was primarily on lessening the financial impact on our valued employees,
because they have more financial burden through the course of this pandemic.
DIRECTOR LEWIS: Thank you so much, General Manager. I appreciate it. And then one more question,
on the very last page, packet page five, the dollar amount, $13 million, I just wanted to clarify that this
remaining funding is available for recommendations for the Accountability Committee and the State
Performance Audit but is not specifically. It is not just for those two things, that there might be other
reasons or priorities that you might bring to the Board or staff might bring to the Board where we would
use those funds for other reasons. Am I understanding that correctly?
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Director Lewis. That's a very good
point. And yes, your assumption is correct.
DIRECTOR LEWIS: OK, thank you so much.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
DIRECTOR LEWIS: Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Before I call on Director Williams, Dr. Lewis have you clicked on the
Participants icon?
DIRECTOR LEWIS: I did, and it's-- oh, there it is. It was not popping up earlier. Thank you so much. It
was not working. I promise.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: OK, well, we got that solved now.
DIRECTOR LEWIS: Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Director Williams.
DIRECTOR WILLIAMS: I put my hand down. I was just going to tell Director Lewis how to do that.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Aha, are there any other comments from directors? I did have one
observation that I was going to ask Doug MacLeod to explain. I don't know if other directors noticed that
the proportion of funds that came to RTD as part of the CRRSA Act was greater than the proportion of
funds that we got through the CARES Act, and you had a good explanation for that the other day, Doug,
and I was wondering if you could share that with the Board.
DOUG MacLeod: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, and actually that was General
Manager Johnson that had that knowledge about that. So I'm going to steal her thunder. And yes, that is
correct. And so that's-MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: My apologies.
DOUG MACLEOD: No, that it a great point. So yes, this latest round of funding with the CRRSA Act was
less in total than the CARES Act was. RTD's apportionment was a higher percentage of that total that
was allocated for the CRRSA Act in this instance, because certain limitations were placed upon this most
recent funding.
And what happened is there were several agencies or apportionments that were more highly allocated
with the first CARES funding. So this CRRSA funding seeks to even the playing field in terms of getting
everybody up to that same percentage apportionment when you talk about adding both the CRRSA
funding and the CARES Act together. So we were fortunate in that respect, and thank you for pointing
that out.

MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Are there any other directors that have comments or
questions? Seeing none, we can now move to other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss? I
know Director Rosenthal had something. Go ahead and see if-- and then we'll see-DR. ROSENTHAL: Thank you. I have two buttons to unmute, because I'm calling in by phone. So thank
you very much, Madam Chair. And my question is actually for General Manager Johnson, or it could be
for Doug MacLeod. So it's regarding the executive order from the president in regards to transportation
and transit, and it's regarding the face mask requirement for all transit agencies.
And first, I thought I had heard that it was for if there was a transit agency that went interstate, and then I
read that it was actually intrastate as well. And so I've heard from some constituents asking, well, what
are you doing at RTD to enforce this, because he's saying that he hasn't seen some people wear a face
mask. And so I thought I'd ask the General Manager and see what she had to say, and what are some of
her thoughts on that. Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson?
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. thank you, Madam Chair, and thank you, Director
Rosenthal, for that question. And so yes, you are correct in reference to what has transpired as of late
regarding the face mask mandate. And keeping in mind that we here at RTD had already been adhering
to local ordinances, executive orders, and state ordinances. So for us it maintains what we were doing.
But holistically, as we talked about, what has been put forth, putting the onus on our front line operators to
ensure that people are adhering to the face mask mandate, the position which I hold and I've had
conversations with staff holistically as well as with other stakeholders we want to ensure that our
operators are basically in an environment where they can maintain their health and safety. There are
polycarbonate shields by which they sit behind, but more so as we talk about what we've seen as of late, I
do not want any employee putting him or herself in harm's way by trying to mandate this if we have
somebody who's not in compliance.
So where we sit is we want to ensure that they can quote the regulation relative to what should be done,
and if they run into a problem they should call dispatch. And as we work with our partners holistically
speaking about the FTA and TSA, we're still awaiting guidance as we go forward. Because recognizing
for all intensive purposes, we have an operator who's serving as a franchisee out on the road enforcing
these rules.
And we want to ensure that they leave the division-- they return to the division in the same manner in
which they left the division. So I am as an individual placing their safety above what needs to happen,
because I do not want anybody assaulted due to the fact of being placed in a precarious position because
we have people that aren't complying. Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek?
DIRECTOR BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I just wanted to follow up on the mask enforcement thing. I
know it's been a touchy subject, but our operators are de facto enforcers of all RTD rules-- I mean,
everything from turn your music down to get your dog off the seat and put them on the floor. And the
mask rule is one that could potentially save lives.
So I'm hoping that we can find a middle ground where we can ask our operators to act reasonably and
responsibly in the enforcement side of things but not get involved in altercations. I mean, call security.
Call our Allied Security, our police to come help them if necessary, but I'm hoping we can find some
middle ground there. Thanks.

MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Buzek. And I know I read the articles that were in
our hour clips this morning about how other transit agencies are handling this issue all the way from
telling a passenger that doesn't comply that they need to get off at the next stop. And then if there are
some issues, calling law enforcement. So there are a number of strategies that other agencies are using.
Director Cook?
DIRECTOR COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I agree with Director Buzek. It seems like the
guidance on enforcement and the responsibilities of the agencies is pretty spelled out in what I've seen
from the CDC. I wonder, though-- here's another thought for the people we've brought back on who aren't
yet involved in operating a route. Could they be pulled in to help with some issues? I don't know handing
out masks or something. I'm just encouraging some thinking about that, since we have folks who have
been brought in but who aren't yet on the road I guess as it were. So just wanted to second what Director
Buzek had said and then add that thought as well. Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis.
DIRECTOR LEWIS: Look at that. It worked. Thank you so much, Director Catlin. I just-- I just wanted to
lend my voice to this conversation, because I do think the enforcement piece is important.
But I think there is opportunity for us to have some discussion about maybe why-- what are some of the
barriers that might exist for the reason that folks aren't wearing masks. Because it may be because they
don't have one or can't afford one, but it might just be around compliance and a desire not to do so. And
so I do hope the conversation that we have is robust and doesn't go straight to call security, call the folks
who-- call security or call the police to deal with folks who are not wearing their masks but really digging
into why that might be happening in real time. Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Boake?
DIRECTOR BOAKE: Thank you just on this topic. Well, first off I'm glad it was brought up. I'm just kind of
curious to General Manager Johnson just, kind of, if there's been a survey given out or to our operators
regarding how they feel about enforcing the rule, and if they aren't comfortable with enforcing it, how
quickly can our security show up to help enforce that?
Has there been any feedback given back from our operators regarding that specifically for their safety,
because their main goal is to be operating the vehicle? And I feel like having security present would be-that's going to be falling into their hands. They're the ones trying to enforce if people are wearing masks
or not. So I'm just curious if there's been a survey given out to our operators regarding how they feel their
own safety is during these times.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson?
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Director Boake, thank
you for the inquiry. One thing I do have to say is that as relates to operators, we did have masks. We
were distributing masks if somebody were to Board a vehicle and didn't have one. So I was remiss in
stating that earlier as relates to where we are.
And this is anecdotal, and I will yield the floor to, for instance, Mr Ford if he has something else to add,
but at this point in time we haven't done any formalized survey whereby we have asked them. But
anecdotally, as I've spoken with operators, oftentimes they don't want to put themselves in harm's way.
Most individuals have complied then when they've been asked to wear a mask. No statistical research
done as of yet, but when I've been in the system the vast majority of people have been wearing masks on

board. But with that, I'll yield the floor to see if Mr. Ford has any other information that he may add relative
to the inquiry that Director Boake posed. Mr, Ford?
DIRECTOR FORD: Yes, thank you. Can you hear me OK?
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DIRECTOR FORD: OK. Yes, I appreciate the comment. We do try to work this concern out we want to
make sure that we're not putting our operators in harm's way, as been mentioned. But there are
resources out there like supervisors and our security, and we try to strategically put them in locations
where we may have higher propensities of these problems.
So we do track. We do communicate with our operators and our security people out there, and there are
designated locations where we might have much more activity where we try to have a presence there to
help reduce the problem that this might create. I know that there's been some data that has been put
together from some of our town hall visits that we did earlier on, and I think Pauletta Tonilas could speak
to that about mask wearing and something like that, but that happened I think when we were doing the
outreach meetings to the different districts. And I think there may be some information that came out of
that. I don't know if she has that available right now, but I think we could at least garner that information to
you at another time.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I don't-- I just think letting our operators know
when they make a request that it is now a federal mandate gives them a little bit of extra ammunition, if
you will, to just appeal to somebody who's noncompliant. Chair Rivera-Malpiede
CHAIR RIVERA-PALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know what? This is a really, really complex
issue. And this afternoon Director Tisdale, Director Lewis, and I attended the APTA Board Talk about
security and safety on all of our transit system, and this came up a little bit. But I think this is really
complex.
And one of the things that I was thinking about was the mission of our RTD is to move people from point
A to point B, and the way that it is structured it's to the second on how buses get from one route-- one
place to the next place. And that is the most important thing. And I'm wondering if we can't utilize some of
those folks who are being called back to be transit ambassadors to provide masks at those bus stops. If
we could just do a little survey of bus operators saying here's where I'm running into these issues and
maybe having some transit ambassadors there to help disseminate masks.
But the other part of it is there may be people who cannot wear them because of some kind of medical
issue that you cannot see, and that's the other piece that I have a concern about. And so I think it's
something we really need to, kind of, gather together and figure out how we move proactively together
that's respectful of folks. But I just think that this is our opportunity to think outside of the box and to try
some new things. Thank you, Madam Chair.
DIRECTOR BROOM: Madam Chair? Director Broom.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Please, Director Broom.
DIRECTOR BROOM: How big of a problem is this? It's like 1% of the people that ride buses or trains are
not wearing the masks? And if that's the case, I mean are we making a mountain out of a molehill, and by
the time we go through the process of figuring out how we're going to police this then the requirement for
wearing a mask will have gone away and we will have just wasted a lot of time. Thank you.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: General Manager Johnson or Michael Ford, would you like to respond?

GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, I would like to say thank you very much, Madam Chair
and Director Broom and all the directors for the comments. Greatly appreciate it. And I think basically that
we do need to ascertain if, in fact, we have a problem.
Because oftentimes collectively as we're in these different spaces and having conversations with our
other peers, as I indicated, when we look at the various incident reports-- and I will say we have had
altercations with operators trying to ensure that a customer on board a vehicle is wearing a mask. And we
had a situation as recently as last week where there was a circumstance that involved physical contact.
And so when I speak from the vantage point of recognizing what it is, we have to keep in mind as Director
Buzek said that we do have an operator that's supposed to be an enforcer of all things, but we also have
to ensure that we have an understanding with our front line operators that they need to make a
determination as it relates to their safety. And I think that is paramount, because I am not sitting in an
operator seat. I do not have to discern whether or not somebody that is engaging with me may be a
violent individual, may have mental illness or other things that I have not been trained or equipped to deal
with.
So I think we do need to step back and we need to look at it holistically, and basically have an informed
approach. And I as the leader of this organization take it upon myself with my team to ensure that we
could ascertain what we're trying to deal with at this juncture, because right now I do feel like it's
speculative as it relates to what it is that we need to do, because we haven't had a plethora of issues as
relates to the non-mask wearing issue that we've been discussing. Because as I stated before, we have
actually had something in place, and I recognize that we can say, OK, this is a federal offense. AGM of
Safety and Security Mike Meader and I were speaking this afternoon. If you have a scofflaw, and you say,
oh, you're going to get a warrant, you're going to get a citation, that individual who's already a scofflaw will
basically scoff at that.
So as we go forward. We have to discern what our path forward is, and we will ensure that we do that and
report back to you in a systemize fashion so we have an understanding of what it is we're trying to
address. So thank you very kindly for the opportunity to opine on this issue.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think you have a good approach going forward. Director
Cook, your hand was raised, but then it was dropped. Did you still want to make a comment?
DIRECTOR COOK: No. Thank you, though, Madam Chair.
MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I don't see any other virtual hands raised. OK, our next meeting
date will be actually next Tuesday, February 9th, which is a study session. So that will be going forward. I
think we have quite a bit to discuss at that study session, and Ms. Johnson has asked that we delve into
some of those issues. Would you like to elaborate a little bit on that agenda, Ms. Johnson?
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Excuse me, Madam Chair, in reference to next week's-MADAM CHAIR PEGGY CATLIN: Study session.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, yes. I'm sorry. Thank you very kindly. I was thinking
about the finance committee. So Yes, thank you very much for the opportunity.
So next Tuesday, February 9th as a special study session, we will be having Northwest Rail 101. And
basically the purpose of that is to acclimate all of ourselves, including myself as being a new person to
this region, having a collective understanding of where we are. And we are going to have Bill Van Meter,
who is our AGM of planning, and Henry Stopplecamp, who is our AGM of Capital Programs and Fast

Tracks take us through a session whereby we can collectively have an understanding of where we are so
we all have the same information.
And we look for earnest dialogue as we go forward, and we want to encourage our stakeholders and
elected officials to partake in this discussion as we go forward. I think this will inform our decisions as we
look collectively of how we create a path forward. And I'm looking forward to earnest dialogue. And I
would ask our Chair of the Board, Madam Chair Rivera-Malpiede if, in fact, she has anything else to add
as relates to the study session that we are embarking upon a week from today.
MADAM CHAIR RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not General Manager.
GENERAL MANAGER DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, thank you. Thank you Miss Johnson. I just wanted to,
because we have a great number of attendees on the line today, I just thought it would be good to
introduce that topic. So seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 6:24 PM, and we will be
entering the other meeting unless somebody would like about a 3 minute break. Why don't we do that
before we get set up for the next meeting?

