Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 19, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

January 19, 2012

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January
19, 2012 at 12:00 a.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference
Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Pro Tem Cohen, Secretary Malpiede, and
Treasurer Bagley,
Other Board Members
Present:
Board Member Absent:
Chair Kemp; Director Tayer
Others Present:
Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington
Subject:

Chair Pro Tem Cohen called the meeting to order
at 12:10 p.m.

Call to Order:

I.

January Board meeting Agenda Review
General Manager Washington asked if there were any questions pertaining to
this agenda.
Motion:
Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the January Board Meeting Agenda
before the full Board at the regular Board
meeting on 1/24/12.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
Vote on the
Motion:

The Motion PASSED.



Unanimous Consent



Award of Three Year Contract to Synamon Systems (Network Security
Consultant)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to
award a three year contract to Synamon Systems, an SBE firm, in the
amount of $456,000 to provide network security support. The
contract is being brought to the Board because this is a Personal

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 19, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 3
Services Contract per RTD Resolution No. 27, Series of 1983.


May 2012 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed May 2012 Service
Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.



APE FINANCIAL PLAN
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors direct staff to perform additional technical/financial
analyses for Options 2 and 3 described below prior to taking formal
action to approve the 2012 Annual Program Evaluation (APE):

II.



Option 1 (Base Case): Delay completion of Northwest Rail 3 - 5
years to match RTD’s cash flow requirements (results of
technical/financial analyses of this option presented during
January 17, 2012 FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting);



Option 2: Delay completion of Northwest Rail 3 - 5 years to
match RTD’s cash flow requirements, but accelerate select capital
projects and increase funding for bus service for Northwest Rail
and U.S. 36 Bus Rapid Transit Corridor Service Areas. Would
require delaying all other partially-funded FasTracks corridors by
approximately 6 months;



Option 3: Remove Northwest Rail from the FasTracks plan and
commit remaining Northwest Rail project funds, capped at $894.6
million (YOE), for expanded/enhanced Bus Rapid Transit in the
Northwest Corridor area to be completed by 2020.

Upcoming Board-Staff Retreat
Paula Perdue shared that Chair Kemp has asked to have this on the agenda to
see if members of the Executive Committee had any items they would like
added to this agenda. Thus far, agenda items include TOD real estate asset
management, conflict of interest, governance versus management, and
vision/mission statement.
The committee needs a little time to think about this. General Manager
Washington indicated he has asked his team to think about this and they may
have a couple of white papers similar to last year.
Director Cohen asked if we could consider some team building exercise
geared around board-board-staff interactions and relationships, rules of
engagement, etc. There also needs to be some discussion around the role of
the Board.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 19, 2012, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 3
III. Other Matters
General Manager Washington indicated that President Obama is scheduled to
do his State of the Union on January 24 th with focus on job creation. He
will disperse his Secretaries into the field as part of this focus. President
Obama is scheduled to be in Denver on January 26. This is coordinated
through DOT and RTD does not yet know what role, if any we will play. A
special guest is scheduled to be in Denver on February 1. RTD has offered
the Decatur Station in the West Corridor.
Director Malpiede inquired about WIN. General Manager Washington
indicated that all but 9 of the applicants have been placed in a job or job
shadowing position across the program.

IV. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Director Malpiede made the motion to move onto executive session
for the purpose of discussing C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f) Personnel
Matters, Executive Manager of the Board.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
The Committee moved into Executive Session at 12:22 p.m.
V.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 12:43 p.m.

