RTD Board Meeting Recording 08-18-20
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good evening, everybody. I will now call the Tuesday, August
18, RTD board meeting to order. We are convened as a 5:31 Mountain Daylight Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute your phones and set your ringers on
silent. Please note that under current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
During this time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. The audio recordings, along with
the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website. Please visit RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the
Board of Directors page. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the Board during the
public participation portion of tonight's agenda, please press star three now. You will be placed
in the queue and I will call on you at the appropriate time.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your name and
wait for me to call before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to
the record and to the proceedings. Please note that at the appropriate time during the discussion
and in the voting processes later on in this evening, I will call on each Director in turn. So please
know that your time to speak will come, and, if possible, please hold your comments until that
time. We will dispense with tonight's Pledge of Allegiance for the time being, and now I would
like to ask Miss McManus to do the roll call.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here. [AUDIO OUT]
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present. Thank you, Miss McManus. Thank you so much. At
RTD, safety is our core value. And I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing.
Frequently and thoroughly wash your hands. Continue to practice physical distancing. Six feet is
the minimum. Minimize time spent in poorly ventilated, indoor public areas, especially when a
large number of people are present. And wear a mask at all times in public spaces, such as in an
office space, grocery stores, and while using public transportation.
I'll mention this again. If anyone on the phone would like to engage with the board during the
public participation portion of tonight's agenda, please press star three now. You will be placed
into a queue and I will call on you at the appropriate time. This evening, there are no retirees for
the month of August. We will now move to our public participation, which is open to anyone

who wants to speak. As is our custom, we allow any of our elected officials present to speak first
so they can get back to their meetings and attend to business.
If you've indicated you would like to speak to the board dialing star three on your phone, I will
call your name in order in which you signed up. Each speaker is allowed three minutes. And
please also bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being audio recorded. So if
you do not wish to be audio recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing
and you will not have the opportunity to speak this evening. If the speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the board, please email those materials to the Board Office at the
following email address, board.office@RTD-Denver.com.
The public participation period is not the appropriate venue for back and forth discussion among
speakers and the Board. Please do not anticipate that the Board will respond to questions and
comments at this time. For this reason, it is important that you state your name and address so
someone may follow up with you at a later time. For anyone just joining the call, and if you
would like to speak to the Board, you can press star three on your phone now and you will be
placed into a queue. When it's your turn to speak, I will call you by name. And the first person on
our queue is Shannon Hoffman. And Shannon, for the record, if you wouldn't mind stating your
name and address for the record, and then you may proceed.
SHANNON HOFFMAN: Thank you. My name is Shannon Hoffman. I live at 3604 4th street
Denver, Colorado, 80207. Last week, I called into the RTD Board meeting to listen to the vote
for the resolution titled Prioritizing Alternative Safety Measures to be moved from committee to
a vote for board approval. I listened because I'm concerned for my safety and my community
safety. I know that poorly trained security officers hired by a company with a national record of
abuse do not keep me, a white woman, safe, and they do not keep those most targeted and
harmed-- Black and Brown people-- safe. I was so disappointed to hear this board choose to
align itself with a corrupt supposed security company rather than align with the community.
Additionally, it was not just your vote that disappointed me, but the way in which you did it. You
speak condescendingly to representative Lewis, telling her you appreciate her work, but you do
not support her. You did not allow her to respond to her colleagues in the way other board
members are allowed. And when she asked to respond to each person, you told her I'm sorry if
it's hard to keep up. Finally, I question your collegiality and consideration toward representative
Lewis when none of the rest of you can be bothered to approach her privately with amendments
to the resolution that would have earned your vote, but instead chose to share those publicly and
vote the resolution down.
You are all what our hero Martin Luther King refers to as a white moderate who is more devoted
to order than to justice. Who prefers a negative piece, which is the absence of tension, to a
positive piece, which is the presence of justice. Who constantly says, I agree with you and the
goal [AUDIO OUT], but I cannot agree with your methods of direct action. Who paternalistically
believes he can set the timetable for another man's freedom. Who lives by a mythical concept of
time. And who constantly advises the Negro to wait for a more convenient season. Shallow
understanding from people of goodwill is more frustrating than absolute misunderstanding from
people of ill will.

Is this how you want to go down in history when your story of civic duty and public service is
retold? Surely not. I implore you all to develop a community working group now that examines
and interrogates RTDs safety and security and develops a new operation that allows all of us,
especially Black and Brown people, like George Floyd for whom you allowed eight minutes and
46 silence at a board meeting, to feel safe and secure.
And as Representative Lewis said, let this group not be lukewarm, put funding behind it so what
the community recommends can come to fruition. And finally, it took me 45 minutes on the
phone talking to two RTD representatives, talking to your Office Director John McKay, who told
me the call-in line fell off the agenda for me to get on this call. This is not accessible and you are
trying to block public comment. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Shannon. Next, I have Megan Frank. And Megan, if
you could please state your name and your address for the record.
MEGAN FRANK: Forest Street Colorado, 80207. I would like to voice my approval of a
community accountability committee, as supported by several RTD Board members after a
disappointing vote down of the resolution brought last week by Shontel Lewis, my
representative. I would like to ask for that committee to include community members, operators,
as well as board members. Also, I really do believe that there should be some budget for this
committee to ensure that accountability will stay accountable and move beyond lip service into
action.
I would also like to say, after listening to the RTD board members last week respond to Mrs.
Lewis's proposal, I found many responses stick to the narrow interpretation of what safety and
security can actually look like. Last week, several board members said that mental health
services as proposed would be a mission drift for RTD. Black, Indigenous, and People of Color
experience a lack of safety through armed security and law enforcement in their everyday
existence in Denver. And I do not assume that safety and security would look and feel the same
for all people on RTD. I hope you don't feel the same as well.
What did the resolution mean by hiring mental health officers? And what might this
[INAUDIBLE] action? Mental health based services and intervention is not going beyond the
scope of RTDs mission as safe and secure transportation. It would go to training and hiring folks
in de-escalation and trauma-informed tactics. It is agreeing to start at a place of listening and deescalation instead of starting at a place of armed and escalation, such as Allied Security has a
record of doing.
I hear from operators on these calls that safety might look like adequate COVID shields for
operators, hazard pay, and more support on a regular route. I hear from citizens such as Rivera
that safety would look like being protected and not being beaten and profiled, but is hired to
ensure safety and security. It might look like a combination of officers that can be adaptable to
situations, and that is why a committee of accountability is of vital importance.
And especially a broadening of each of yours perspective and a deep and personal examination
of your own biases is necessary to think about safety in a comprehensive way. Please examine

your own assumptions of these words and ideologies before dismissing them as mission drifts. I
want a new resolution that feels good for operators and riders of RTD. I want a task force that
ensures that money goes to Rivera for his recovery and is able to take action through budgetary
means. I want an in-depth dealing with Allied Security. And I want this board of elected officials
to help it get there. Thank you very much for your time.
JOHN MCKAY: Chair is your phone on mute right now?
JUSTIN DAY: Hello?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It must be. I'm sorry. Justin, if you could state your first and last
name and your address for the record, please.
JUSTIN DAY: My name is Justin Day at 770 29th Street, apartment 711, Boulder, Colorado,
8030. I'd like to address a concern brought up by several directors at the operations and customer
service committee meeting on August 11. Directors Menten, Mihalik, and Williams brought up
the concern that RTD is a transit agency, not a mental health organization. I don't see the
employment of mental health professionals as being equivalent to being a mental health
organization. Nor do I see the employment of mental health professionals as being contrary to
the role of a transit agency. By the logic of those directors, RTD should not employ security
officers either because RTD is foremost a transit agency, not a policing organization.
Of course, safety and security is important to RTD and any transit agency, but safety can come in
many forms. Many other transit agencies have found security practices in the use of transit
ambassadors and mental health professionals. TriMet in Portland, Oregon, for example, has
eliminated the regular use of armed personnel for routine fare inspection. And LA Metro is
looking to community based approaches to safety, including social workers, mental health
professionals, and transit ambassadors. There are alternatives to Allied.
To this end, I would like to see RTD from a task force to develop and re-imagine security
practices and get funding to these alternative approaches to safety. The discussion and work that
Director Shontel Lewis started cannot die out or be ignored. And we must work toward structural
change to have justice for Rivera Stinett. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Justin. Next, I have Jeff Campbell. Sir, if you could
state your name and your address for the record, please.
JEFF CAMPBELL: Hello, my name is Jeff Campbell. I am at 1105 South Cherry Street, Denver,
Colorado, 80246. Thank you so much for allowing me to have the opportunity to speak to the
board. I stand in solidarity with drivers, who seem to be collateral damage for a mismanaged
mission of safety and security as a top priority. I stand in solidarity with Shontel Lewis and her
forward thinking. In honor of another Director of Transit, Harriet Tubman, she reminds me of
someone that is looking forward to the possibility of all citizens being protected.
It was stated by Director Kate Williams that the mission of RTD is not to provide a health care.
And I agree that, however, the culmination of unhoused citizens at Union Station is the symptom

of a larger problem and a task force must be agency wide as well as citizens to the table to
rethink our position on criminalizing poverty as a city. Now, I know that that is beyond the scope
of what RTD does in transit, but this may be the beginning of de-criminalizing that poverty.
This may be that first step in which we take in looking to building a city government in a holistic
sense, instead of one hand not talking to the other in these separate silos to address a problem
that affects every single agency. So with that said, I would like to be kept in the loop and
volunteer as a citizen to participate on that task force. I want to step up and do my part and let
my voice be heard. And I appreciate your time. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Jeff. Next, I have Lucy James. And Lucy, if you
wouldn't mind stating your name for the record and your address, please.
LUCY JAMES: Well, thank you very much for letting me speak. So my name is Lucy James.
My address is 1081 Marion Street, Denver, 80218. So I think RTD Board may explore a new
model for cultivating safety for drivers, of course, but also for passengers. And I think it needs to
be steered by the voices at risk in the currently flawed model, which is maintained by your
millions of dollars contract with Allied Security.
In my mind, Black and Brown people are being disproportionately targeted. Homeless people are
being disproportionately targeted. And this model has to be closed down before it can be
transformed in the way that some of the other people have been saying. So I sat in on here last
Tuesday and I was actually shocked that all the directors took against exploring Director Lewis's
resolution further.
And I was shocked not least because Director Kate Williams had previously thanked me for my
support on this resolution, making a point of telling me and many of [INAUDIBLE] that she had
cosigned it. I was also shocked that Director Walker also said he was in favor of it right up to
that meeting. So my question is, what happened before that meeting? Was that just politics? Just
pressure applied to make everyone conform or come down in opposition to Director Lewis? I
really hope I'm wrong. But from sitting where I was linked to it [INAUDIBLE] to make of it, to
be honest.
What I do know is that Allied Security are part of a legacy of centuries-old racist system of
violent law enforcement work that they're not trained to do much of the time. Not everybody is
an armed criminal that travels on the RTD. Personally, given what they did to Stinnett Rivera, as
well as other incidents coming to light, I think there might be reform to rethink public safety on
the RTD. Passenger safety hangs in the balance.
And also, there is no question that Director Shontel Lewis values the safety of the drivers as well
as of the passengers. She in fact promoted, for example, rear door boarding, PPE. She is on the
side of the drivers. So implying the opposite, which two of you did your meeting, is just simply
not correct. If safety and security are a top priority to you, as you say, then why you align
yourselves with Allied Security, a company that does neither.

It strikes me that Director Lewis's resolution, as a first step, is about how to do better for
everybody, even if that means making some effort to think outside the box. It doesn't have to be
easy, but it does have to be done. The core mission of public safety, I believe, needs to be more
care, more community, less criminalization. What incentive is there for Allied to behave if you
just pay them $30 million or so a year, no questions asked?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Miss James. Your time is up.
LUCY JAMES: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Next, we have Latoya. And Latoya, if you could just state your
first and last name and your address for the record, please.
LATOYA PRANTE: Yes. My name is Latoya Prante, and my address is 538 Grey Court,
Lakewood, Colorado, 80226. I'm in District C and my Director is Angie Rivera. My intake of
RTD is moderate. There are three things that I would like to touch base on and that's security,
shields, and high blocks. Now, all three of these have the same two things in common, and that is
protection and safety.
For security, protection and safety means you are protecting the riders and the drivers from any
situation that could possibly escalate into something bigger. Safety because of the riders are
riding and the drivers are driving, they can all feel safe when they are on RTD services. For
shields, protection and safety means that during the COVID-19, the driver is staying safe from
any potential exposure to the coronavirus and protection to the riders who are already at high
risk.
Having them staggered out on the bus allows all the riders to stay safely distanced from each
other. It allows riders to have a safety net that they need to feel secure enough to go in and out of
the RTD busses and trains because the drivers are being protected by the shields. Because if you
care about your driver's safety, why wouldn't you care about the riders safety? This has to do
with health protection and healthy, and safe environments.
For high blocks, protection and safety means though you guys have made the high blocks for
wheelchairs only, mothers and strollers and people with bikes need to utilize that same block in
some sense. Now, I'm not sure if this is going to mean you need to put another high block or
another area for those who do have strollers and bikes, but something needs to be done. And it's
for the protection of RTDs liability for any injuries that could occur because they are trying to
get their children and the stroller and their groceries and their bags and their other kids all on the
light rail before it closes in enough time to not leave a child behind. This is a safety issue.
And if the mother with the child in the stroller feels safe enough to get on your services, then
they might just ride a little bit more frequently. But personally, if I was trying to get on a bus and
I was told to take both my children out of the strollers and fold it up and hold onto my two
children, the stroller, the diaper bag, the groceries, and who else knows what I have-- I might
second guess on how I'm going to get to and from where I need to go. If the mothers and the
strollers and the people with bikes cannot physically lift them items onto the train, then how are

they supposed to ride your train? The point is, you guys want to increase ridership, but if you
don't keep them protected and safe, you're not going to get ridership to increase. If anything,
you're going to lose riders quicker than you'll lose money.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Latoya.
LATOYA PRANTE: If the riders-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Next, we have Michael Ramming on the line. Mr. Ramming, if
you could just state your name and address, please.
MICHAEL SCOTT RAMMING: Yes. This is Scott Ramming. I live at 3356 North Franklin in
Cole neighborhood, District C. I'd like to acknowledge the directors who at last week's
operations committee meeting were thanking Director Lewis for bringing up some very
important issues, but strangely enough, apparently the issues weren't important enough to take
any action on. The 14 Directors could have offered an amendment to Director Lewis's motion,
making it more palatable to the broader Board.
They could have offered a substitute motion during new business, or formed an ad hoc
committee as was done with the passenger code of conduct. And likewise, I find the argument
that RTD is in the transit business and not in social services to be hollow. As another member of
the public pointed out, RTD is not in the security business, but we see that. RTD is not in the ID
and credentials business, but issues thousands of Eco passes, college passes, live passes. And the
reason for all of these create a more comfortable and conducive environment to passengers as
they make their trips. So I hope I'll be able to see more action tonight. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Dale, you're next. If you wouldn't mind saying
your first and last name and your address, please.
DALE AMBROSIO: This is Dale Ambrosio. I live at 9906 East Arizona Drive in Aurora,
Colorado. I'm a representative of the ATU Local 1772, Chief Second Steward. And my question
is, RTD takes and limits passengers to 15 on the bus. How did they get that number? Why is the
driver not included in the passenger load on the bus? Are we not humans too? Do we not count
as humans?
I support Shontel Lewis and her decisions. The ATU International was pivotal in getting the rear
door boarding on these buses, and RTD reverses that and puts us back at risk by having this front
door boarding. I drove a bus with a shield on it the other day. I felt a little more comfortable
about being assaulted. But as for being protected from the coronavirus? No. I did not. I still wear
a full face respirator mask and will continue to do so until there is a vaccine for this coronavirus.
I support Shontel Lewis and her decisions as she has been pivotal in supporting the drivers and a
safe service. Again, why do not the drivers count as humans on these buses? We count 15
passengers and then have to send the signal through as a full bus. But we are not counted in that
count. Are we not human? That is all I have.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Next, I have Bobby Pixel. Bobby, if you
wouldn't mind stating your name and your address.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Sure. My name is Bobby Dishell, D as in David, I-S-H-E-L-L. And I
live at 1579 South Lincoln Street in District D, where I'm actually also a candidate for our RTD
Board and currently the only candidate who has qualified for the ballot. And I hope to the extent
we get to work together in the future that it will be a productive relationship. Last week, I heard a
lot of interesting comments that ran counter to why I chose to run.
And I just wanted to read out the legislative declaration to put that on the front of mind for folks
who might have said that last week's resolution around public safety was not included in that. So
329102 states that the creation of the Regional Transportation District will promote the public
health-- which is listed first-- safety, convenience, economy, and the welfare of the residents of
the district and the state of Colorado. That, to me, is a really strong underlying mission to
provide and promote the public health and safety for our members and for our riders.
Additionally, the operations and customer service charter lists safety and security separately,
implying that they are two different things. If they weren't, they would be listed just as safety or
security. I wanted to take the time to introduce myself. I've had the pleasure of speaking with
some of you. And I hope to the extent that we are colleagues in the future, we get to continue to
work together.
And I look forward to holding everyone on their commitment, and that it was not just politics, to
really work on re-imagining what safety looks like, and exploring, really, for many people what
the history of police is, which could help inform the future safety and security should look like
with those biases that people might have in mind in the systems and structures that we currently
have. Thank you so much for your time this evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. With no other callers in the queue, I will now
close the public participation period at this time. Our next agenda item is committee reports. The
committee minutes were included in the board packet. Are there any corrections from Directors?
Hearing none, those committee reports will stand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't have a question, but it's more of an observation. We had our general
manager oversight committee meeting that ran an hour over on August 7. It's at 8 AM and in
marks me as absent. And I know there have been concerns about my absences. And I just wanted
to call this to the attention that I actually was in attendance for the full meeting, but we did go
over an hour early and so it shows that Director Broom and I were, indeed, absent. But I wasn't
absent for this meeting. I was-- it went over the time that we had originally allotted. So I just
wanted to state that for public record.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director Lewis. OK. So I will go ahead
and just say that I'm hearing no other comments regarding the committee minutes. So those
committee reports will stand as submitted and will become part of the permanent record. Next on
our agenda is the GM Executive search and the GM oversight and performance update.
Committee Chair Catlin, if you would like, at this time, please share with us your comments
regarding the GM Executive search and Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Very, very busy over the last-- just flown by. And
our primary activities have been around the GM CEO search. We conducted the first round of
interviews with six candidates on August 6, I believe, or August 7. And then we narrowed it
down at that point to three highly qualified women. They are Adalee Legrand, Deborah Johnson,
and Tina Quigley. Yesterday, these candidates videotaped presentations that will be made
available after final interviews are held tomorrow.
As we did for the interim search, there will be an online survey for the public, for employees,
and key stakeholders to provide input. And I do apologize for the quick [AUDIO OUT] the
results. We really only have about four days, and that includes the weekend days, for turnaround
of these surveys. But the Board needs to get the information back on Monday the 24 so that it
can hold its special meeting on the 25 to make our final selection. We've also talked about
timelines moving forward and our next GM CEO search committee we will be discussing the
process going forward. That's all I have for now, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you First Vice Chair Catlin.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Lynn Guissinger. I just wanted to be sure that the minutes for the
GMOC were corrected as Director Lewis had pointed out that she was there. We've passed it but
they need to be corrected.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Miss McManus, if I could ask you to correct the minutes
showing that Director Lewis was present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. We are already going back and verifying that. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. OK. Next, we have the approval of the board.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, sorry. Director Menten, go ahead, please.

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I have a question regarding the General Manager oversight process-not oversight-- General Manager search process, and that we'll be taking public comments. We
have had discussions, but very limited, about whether we will be publishing that as a open
record. And I would like to know a legal opinion on whether that is public information? I tend to
believe it is, but since we're on this topic, I would like to know if we have an answer.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So my
understanding is that Director Menten is asking whether the public survey results would be
considered a public record?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: I believe it would be considered a public record. My understanding is that
those are going to be anonymous and so individual respondents won't be providing their name.
We can look-- if and when we ever get an open records request about that, we'll look at those
survey results just to see if there's any other basis to withhold. For example, if anyone were to
provide any confidential information in the comments field, that's the only thing that comes to
mind right now that could be a potential basis to withhold portions of the survey results.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, does that answer your question?
NATALIE MENTEN: I got a response. I would like to say that my preference would be that we
would publish those without requiring somebody to file a quora, which, potentially, especially
with RTD and our leg in providing public records at times, that it could be days or months
beyond this timeline. So I would hope we would take the proactive step of publishing those on
our website, especially since in 2019, this Board said our 2020 top goal was transparency and
communications.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would have to confer with that. I know we've
talked about transparency, but we also initially had discussion about having the candidates do a
Q and A with the general public. And since we aren't able to do that, I would concur with
Director Menten that we could proactively put that information out so that folks can fairly-- not
fairly-- can be informed in determining which candidates they'd like to select. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Director.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
MELANIE SNYDER: This is Melanie Snyder. I just wanted to be clear. Certainly, the Board can
decide that they would like to publish the results. I just wanted a clarification about the whether
it is being requested to publish all of the individual comment fields or a summary of all the
results.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Duly noted. Thank you, General Counsel. Are there any other
comments?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, what that a question was that a question from legal counsel?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm not sure. Director-- General Counsel?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Madam Chair. I was just saying-- I just wanted it to be clear, if there
was a request for the posting from the Board, that's certainly something within the Board's
authority. But I just want a clarity on whether what would be posted would be an overview of the
survey results, or whether the request was to post all the individual comments that the Board
would receive?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten. Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Word-for-word-- word-for-word on the public comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You would want all word for word-for-word on the general
comments to be posted, correct? Publicly?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Yes, go ahead, Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, Madam Chair, I was just wondering if this is an action item or if two
members of the Board are directing staff to take action on behalf of the Board. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would love to cite it under our number one goal for 2020 was to
improve and be better at transparency and communication in the Regional Transportation
District. And I think that this would be proactive under that. Is this an actual agenda action item
for tonight? No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.

NATALIE MENTEN: But as we go into this process, I would like to think that our daylong
retreat in strategic goals of what's best for the Regional Transportation District, because we have
heard from the community that communication and transparency is lacking, that this would help
us. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. OK. With that, are there any other
comments?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. General Counsel did bring up a valid point regarding comments
that might in fact have confidential information. And so before-- I would ask that before this be
considered, that we make sure that those comments are looked at for anything that might be
sensitive.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel, I'm wondering-- I'm sorry. I'm wondering if,
as we send out this survey for the community to participate in, that they know that by
participating, it is not confidential information and will be published. Might be a way for us to be
able to be transparent, not only within RTD, but within the community. So that everybody knows
that whatever they're speaking, they're going to be-- we could report it if someone does the
quora.
MELANIE SNYDER: And Madam Chair, I think that's a really good option, for sure. I do think
that we would still want to make sure that we looked through and reviewed the comments just to
make sure before they were posted.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. OK. Thank you, very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin. I really appreciate that suggestion. I think
that would-- I think that would go a long way toward achieving the goal of transparency. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. OK. I'm going to just call one more
time to see if anybody has anything else before we move forward on adopting the approval the
board meeting minutes for July 21 and the special board meeting minutes for August 7? OK.
Hearing none, do I have a movement?
SHELLEY COOK: I'll move-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll move.
SHELLEY COOK: --with the correction noted earlier, Shelly Cook.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And who seconded?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Guissinger. OK. What I'd like to do is, I'm not hearing any other
comments. I'm going to stay quiet for about 30 seconds. And if I hear none, then I'm going to
assume that the motion is adopted and the minutes approved. So here we go. If anybody has any
other comments, please bring him forward now. OK. Hearing none, the motion is adopted and
the minutes are approved.
Next is the chair report. And what I'm actually going to do is, this evening, I'm going to defer to
my colleague, Second Vice Chair Cook and Treasurer Guissinger and Director Whitmore to
speak to the topics I would be covering this evening. And we'll be hearing their updates during
old business, which will be a little bit later on. I would like to now call on Mr. Ballard. Would
you please share with us your report, sir?
PAUL BALLARD: Well thank you, Madam Chair. And I'm pleased to report we're continuing
the countdown to the start of the North Commuter Rail Line on September 21. We are working
on modified public events that will be appropriately socially distanced. And we'll also live
stream whatever events we do. Paulette Tonilas is finalizing our plans and will be sharing those
details with the board members shortly.
I continue to be very pleased with the condition of the North Line Railroad it's probably in the
best shape of any railroad startup that I've ever done in the past. So it's something that you can all
be very proud of. And we're looking forward to September 21 for that start startup. Since the last
board meeting, Madam Chair, I have been working quite a bit with the committee and the Board
Members as a resource in the selection process for the new General Manager and CEO.
And I do want to say that it's been a professional and superbly managed process under our
committee leadership, Chair Catlin and Vice Chair Guissinger. I do not envy the responsibility of
this board to make a selection. We have three outstanding candidates. It's going to be a
challenging decision. Each is extremely bright, experienced, and has done a superb job in the
interview process. So I'm very excited about our candidates. We have three wonderful choices
before the Board.
The task force under Bruce Abel has essentially wrapped up its work and will be in touch with
each of the Board Members starting tomorrow for individual briefings, preferably to members at
a time, if schedules permit, for us to fill you in on where we're at and to get your feedback prior
to the formal briefing to the board after Labor Day. So that work has been intense. It's been
going on for several weeks. And I think you will be impressed with the quality of the work that
the committee has done. So we'll be in touch with you tomorrow to start that process.
Update on the driver barriers-- we have completed all of the driver barriers on those buses that
are operated by RTD employees. For the contracted services, we've been delivering materials to
them. The contractors themselves will do the installation and are doing the installation on the
contractor buses. So that's moving along. Our stretch goal is to hopefully have all of those done
by labor day. It'll be close, and I will keep you posted.

So through these challenging times, we've been trying to keep in touch with our employees more
frequently than ever. I think you've all seen the outreach materials that Paulette Tonilas and her
staff have been distributing to employees through an outreach effort. A lot of us are trying to do
that, even in the time of COVID. I met with the employee engagement committee two weeks ago
and had a good discussion about what's going on.
Michael Ford has just completed his second round of visits to all of our properties of this
calendar year, where he gives everyone an opportunity to ask questions, comments, and has
really done a fine job in maintaining relationships with our employees in the field. Last week, I
led a delegation of commuter rail personnel to a meeting at the Commuter Rail Facility to meet
with the DTO staff and employees to try to build better relationships between the DTO division
of the Eagle Partnership. And I think that is paying dividends. There's a natural divide between
the concession process and RTDs management process, but I think that we really covered some
ground and are building good relationships there.
I've been continuing to meet with the Federal Transit Administration and the Regional
Administrator Terwilliger to make sure that all of our funding operates in the pipelines are open,
and that we are constantly exploring any additional opportunities for revenue. So Madam Chair,
those are the highlights of the last 30 days, and I'll turn it back to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Are there any questions of Mr. Ballard?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I caught something-- we're going to be-- staff will be meeting with Board
Directors with only, like, two at a time, but I didn't quite catch the subject.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. That's on the task force that Bruce Abel has been sharing. We
want to share with you-- Bruce Abel and I will be briefing you directly on where we're at, get
your input, prior to discussing it with the Board as a whole after Labor Day. So we'll be calling
you to schedule that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is that-- where does it come in, the decision to do that one-on-one or twoon-two versus just having us all together?
PAUL BALLARD: I made that decision.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. I'll just wait to get that communication, then. Thank you.
PAUL BALLARD: Thank you, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Any other questions? OK. Hearing
none. This evening, under unanimous consent, there are no items on unanimous consent agenda
this evening. But under recommended action, do have two recommended actions this evening.

They are listed as Item 12, Actions A and B in your agenda. The first one up is the Citizen's
Advisory Committee appointments. Do we have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved Director Williams.
JUDY LUBOW: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. Say that again.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, Judy Lubow, so moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Is there any discussion on this motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I had a number of inquiries from constituencies within my
district and outside of my district regarding my vote regarding the Citizen's Advisory Committee
appointments, to which I voted no. I mean, I will again vote no because I do not believe the
process was transparent. I also don't believe that the folks that are on this committee are diverse
or representative of each of the districts within RTD. And so that was the reason that I voted no
on this. I just wanted to provide that clarification.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Any other discussion? OK. Hearing
none, I will now call on the Directors in turn. Starting with you, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. That is 14 yeses and one nay, the nay being
Director Lewis. OK. The second recommended action is the awards of White and Rose,
Springfield, and Evergreen contracted FlexRide Services. Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval, Director Broom.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second, Catlin.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second, Director Folska.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I heard Catlin first. All right. Is there any further discussion
on this motion?
VINCE BUZEK : Buzek.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK : As stated in the Operation and Customer Service Committee, I will again be
recusing myself from the vote on this matter. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I heard someone else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'll call on you next, Director Whitmore. Let me get to Director
Lewis first. Go ahead, ma'am.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I received another inquiry and I just want to state
for the record and for those that are listening in that this the contract is for three years for Via
Mobility. And the reason I'm voting no on this is because we've seen some pretty significant
declines in our ridership and this proposal did not come to the Board with recent ridership.
And I am concerned, from a fiscal standpoint, that we are spending money while we are also
sharing concerns that we don't have enough money to provide our current services. And so I just
wanted to be transparent in my considerations and my decision making for this one specifically. I
am not opposed to Via, but I want to make sure that we are spending our dollars, our limited
dollars and we are prioritizing our spending. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. As stated at the committee meeting, I serve as a
Board Member on the Smart Commute Metro North, which is the organization that works and
organized with the cooperation of many others, including RTD, the Wagon Road FlexRide
Service. So I'll recuse myself from the vote this evening. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Any other comments?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Chair. This is Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to point out that this FlexRide serves [AUDIO OUT]
facility and recently, in my daytime, I worked with a number of people who would not have been
able to get to work. They wrote me letters that I can produce to the board of their gratitude for

this service. Via Mobility also serves a variety of other constituents in the area, many of whom
are disabled, People of Color, of low income, older adults. So Via Is used to fulfilling these kinds
of contracts and most of the Flex Rides in the outer areas are really, really important to a variety
of our constituents. So I'd like to just point that out. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Any other comments from any.
Yes?
JUDY LUBOW: Chair, this is Peggy Catlin. And I did not say this at the committee meeting, but
I have constituents up in Evergreen that, that is a vital service, particularly in light of the very
limited fixed route service that we have up in that area. So they very much appreciate the service.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Anyone else? OK. Hearing that the
discussion is complete, I will now call on the Directors in turn. This time, I'm going to start with
Director Williams. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am emphatic yes, Madam Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll be abstaining, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director my Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK : I've recused myself, so no vote at all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I am a yes. So I have to no's, two abstentions, and 11 yes's.
The motion passes. Thank you. This evening, there is no executive session. But I would like to
move forward to the old business. And what I'd like to do in a moment is ask for updates on the
Accountability Committee and the Reimagine RTD. But before I do that, does any Director have
any other old business to discuss? OK. With that, I'll turn this over to Treasurer Guissinger and
Director Whitmore to update us on the Accountability Committee that kicked off just last week.
Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think that we gave most of the update last week. We're
going to be meeting at 8:30 AM every other Monday, the second and fourth Mondays. The
timing and the [INAUDIBLE] it's all very public and I believe it's all posted on the RTD website,
probably on DRCOG. At the first meeting, they took care of a number of sort of housekeeping
things. They elected the co-chairs.
And since then, I have sent him information about how they would go about commending-viewing the videos of our new CEO candidates and commenting on that. And we have added
them to all of our stakeholder lists so they'll get the emails that go out with information with
media information and different things like that-- press releases. Not much else this week. And
that's it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.

TROY WHITMORE: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I really don't have too much more to add.
Director Guissinger covered everything pretty well. They will be a busy group, meeting every
other Monday at least for a while, it sounds like. And we will both be attending those meetings
and be giving input as often as we can or will be allowed. So appreciate that. That's all I've got.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Is there is there any questions
for Treasurer Guissinger or Director Whitmore? OK. Hearing none, I now would like to ask
Second Vice Chair Cook to update us on the Reimagine RTD. Directors, please note that you'll
have an opportunity to speak to this later on. So you'll be called on in alphabetical order. So
please hold your comments in question for now, please. Second Vice Chair Cook, you have the
floor.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much, Chair. And thanks for allowing that and making space
on the agenda for this, and deferring, actually, your comments to it. I really appreciate that. So a
couple of weeks ago, we had quite a discussion regarding Reimagine. And since then, have been
talking with members of staff and the Chair of the Timing and Fast Tracks Committee and a few
others to identify what might be-- in fact is, in many ways, the path forward. But by putting it
down and clarifying, I think it's helpful.
And I'm hoping that this is the sort of thing that can garner a broader support from Board
Members. So if it's all right, I'll go ahead and briefly recap that and then add a couple of notes,
too, about conversations I've had recently and some thoughts about questions that have come up.
So the first part-- and remember, one of the issue-- shall we pause and what role will the
Reimagine SOP have in the January service changes.
So the first piece is that we'll proceed with the January service changes, but only as a new
Temporary Pandemic Service Plan Two, which is really what it is. I mean, we're still in the
midst. I don't think most people-- we could certainly revise it if there's a vaccine widely available
by the first of the year, but it just doesn't seem like that will be the case. So more than likely,
we'll still be within the influence of the pandemic and the emergency situation we're in.
So to determine that plan, I think the staff are doing what we've hoped. And that is to target the
COVID budget response principles. And they include a service priority for transit-dependent
individuals, plus keeping communities connected-- those are the exact words-- via a strong
regional background backbone. We also urge staff to work very closely with our cities and
counties and to strive to the extent possible to incorporate their preferences in determining the
particular changes or reductions in service in this plan. In other words, to the extent that there are
changes that might negatively impact the communities, then we want to make sure that we're
connecting with them to the extent possible.
That the end date-- that there would be an end date or Board review of the plan no later than
September 2021. And then that third, we would be clear, we're not adopting the region
guidelines. We're instead pausing Reimagine to focus on needed changes to the pandemic plan.
And the pause-- just to justify-- the pause is necessary because, as pointed out in comments,
things are pretty fluid right now. There seem to be fundamental changes underway. For example,

commute patterns might be altered more or less permanently. There is continuing and projected
long-term economic fallout, et cetera. And we kind of need to let that shake out a little bit before
we commit to a mid- and long-term framework.
And then we need to give the new GM and also the Accountability Committee, who explicitly
requested it, a chance to engage on this effort. And then the fourth piece would be that we ask
the staff to include in the proposed budget an allocation of some dollars in 2021 for possible
service alternatives. They might be partnering with local governments or other agencies. They
might be direct aid, such as a voucher, or funding jointly with a TNC or a TMA pilot project. We
don't know yet. But it's meant-- the intention is to build in a little bit of wherewithal for filling
some of the critical gaps we, perhaps, didn't envision and might be creating with the service
reductions over the coming year.
So a couple, three things. One, I would note, first of all, the staff, in many ways, are under a lot
of [AUDIO OUT]. And they, as I understand it, are actively searching for alternatives in the case
that services are being reduced or eliminated if that turns out to be the case. And then, secondly,
I've been talking with staff members. So, for example, there was a concern about an original end
date, specifically, September 2021. And so what we did was work through this idea that it would
say in either it ends or there's a Board review. In other words, it's not just hanging out there.
There are a couple of open questions, at least in some conversations with staff and others that
I've seen. One is, how long of a pause are we talking about? And one thought-- I'd love to hear
your comments about this. But one thought is to say at least should be until we get our new GM.
Or if we have information about how long it will take the accountability committee to engage,
that would also be guidance. But what I would suggest is at least pause as long as it will take to
get the new General Manager on board.
And the second question is, what about the dollars? What are you suggesting? And, obviously,
there are trade offs here. And again, I want to stress that, as I understand it in talking to Bruce
Abel, the staff are actively looking for what these might be, identifying gaps the extent they can
now, proactively, and trying to put in place some ideas or a plan for filling them. But this is a
safety net for the coming year.
And one thought Bill Van Meter had suggested, perhaps we could ask our staff tonight to bring
back information about say the special services contracts we have, an itemization of the amounts
or something, so we could get an idea of what's typical, and then use that as a basis for deciding
what we want to allocate for dollars going forward. So those two items. Then, just hoping to see
if folks have-- you know, if this seems like a path that people can mainly get behind or agree is a
viable one for us. And thank you for letting me talk that long.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Second Vice Chair Cook. So I'm going to call on
every Director. So there are three questions. The first one is, how long of a pause should we
take? What are the dollars you think they should be? And what is the path we should go down?
Did I get that correctly, Second Vice Chair Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: The date was one thing-- I believe that'll be OK with the staff. I double
checked with Bruce. And the second thing is the pause. Just say not tying it down specifically,
but saying at least no less than it takes to get the General Manager on board who can then you
know be part of guiding that. And then the third is OK with requesting some information about
the dollars that we have, particular special services that might be akin to alternatives that could
be funded, and then we could have an idea of x dollars that we might allocate. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I'll start with Director Broom. Director Broom, your
comments, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. The only thing I'd like to comment on tonight would
be the length of the pause. And I think it would make sense to pause until mid-March of next
year. That'd be a full year of experience with the coronavirus and we should begin to get a better
feel for what our sales tax base is going to be going forward. And also we should begin to get a
feel for what new commuting patterns we're going to have to address, as whether people are
going to permanently work from their homes or work two or three days a week from their homes,
so that we can adequately meet their needs going forward. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thanks to Second Vice Chair Cook for really
taking the lead on this stuff. We did get an email forwarded from Ms. McManus with a number
of these items in it. And I agree. I mean, some of these things-- just the simplicity of calling this
Pandemic Service Plan Two really means a lot because words have power. And I think that
conveys that this is temporary in nature. And don't worry, your service isn't going to be cut
forever like this. It shows transparency. It shows that we're communicating. And it also talks
about stakeholder involvement on what that Service Plan Two looks like. And I think that's great.
As far as reviewing the Pandemic Service Plan Two, I think just saying that we'll review it in
September 2021 would be fine because at that review we could then agree to terminate it and end
it if it was appropriate. So I think however you want to phrase it is fine. I also want to thank
Director Broom because he kind of championed this concept of pausing the Reimagine RTD plan
because of this pandemic. And I have to agree with a lot of what he's said in the past about that.
As far as how long the pause should be, yeah, I think just until the new GM gets on board is far
too short a time frame. And I would, again, tend to agree to Director Broom about a mid-March
time frame because that, as Director Broom said, gives us an idea of not only what's going on
with the pandemic and how things are developing, but it'll give our new General manager time
on the job and getting comfortable in the position and really getting a feel for what's going on.
And it will also get us a good sense of where the Accountability Committee is going. And they'll
want to be involved to some degree in that, as well.
And finally, in terms of the budget for this, I don't know. I would really take advice from staff as
the Pandemic Service Plan Two moves forward. As it becomes developed, what kinds of things
are available, what kinds of options we have to explore when we partner with other agencies, and

then, from there, develop an appropriate budget. I think that's all I have. And thanks for
everybody for their time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Secretary. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate the comments from Directors Broom and Buzek. I
agree that we allow ample time for the new General Manager to get her feet on the ground and
work also with the Accountability Committee. And I also agree with Director Buzek that the
budget, I would really be interested to hear what staff has to say about that because I have no
idea what would be an appropriate amount. That's all. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. I'm going to go past you, Second Vice Chair
Cook, since you're leading this discussion. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I agree that it should be well into 2021. And,
actually, I think it would be better to just pause for the entire year of 2021. I'm OK with March.
I'm OK with September. But I think a solid year so there is a sense of consistency. I think with
the school's opening and closing and there's just a lot of whiplash around this pandemic. And so I
would recommend all of year 2021 for all the same reasons that have previously been stated. The
amount of money, I really don't know. And I think that that should be left up to our new CEO
and her staff. That's all for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Next, I have Treasurer Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. Excuse me. I think that this is a real good approach. I
think it's really important to be clear that the January service changes are really about COVID.
There's so much changing. And I want to it the idea that even in making those January service
changes, we need to be working with our local governments and our partners. And I think my
district is a good example of the reasons.
In Boulder County right now, very few buses reach the social distancing limits. The Flat Iron
Flyer, the AB, those are still pretty low service [AUDIO OUT]. Just this week and next week,
the CU students come back. Will they really come back? How many of them? Are they going to
stay? Will they be headed home by October? What about in January when we're targeting the
service changes? Boulder valley school district back in class?
And one thing is clear is that we aren't the best-- it's hard to make for anybody to call those and
to make those judgments. And I think it's really hard for RTD to. And I think that to the extent
we can partner and make those decisions together with our local government and other entities,
that it makes our decisions stronger and better. So I suppose that even in the January effort. I
agree with the pause. I think that-- I wouldn't argue with Director Broom's suggestion that it's
March. But I think that allowing the new GM time and Accountability Committee time to engage
in the process is good. I'd like to see a focus on the new process.
Again, talking to our local governments is really changing to a different sort of decision making,
where we let those governments get some skin in the game if we have to make hard decisions so

they can take some of the heat too. I think in terms of the dollars, it kind of depends on what the
service changes are looking like. If we're leaving areas unserved, we need to be thinking about
how we take care of those and trying new pilots and things like that. So coming up with the
process and working with our staff to do that may be the best way to move forward. Thanks.
That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Treasurer Guissinger. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi. Thank you so much, Madam Chair. Director Cook, I appreciate
[AUDIO OUT]. I do have some concerns about putting this on pause-- there's some interruption
there so I'd ask those to put their phones on mute-- about this temporary service plan. I actually
have received a number of inquiries from my constituents. And while this is temporary, I mean,
we're talking about until September of 2021. I'm concerned about that because many of my
constituents there are having to be on their buses and trains much longer than previously because
we are operating a Saturday, Sunday schedule. And they've had to endure some inconveniences
during this pandemic. And so I'm concerned about that.
I do think that-- I hear you all when you say the influence of the pandemic and how things are
quickly changing. But I think we do know that many companies and many folks are working
from home and that's not going to change in the very near future. And so this is a really good
time for us to look at our data, to look at our finances, and to make some strategic decisions.
Particularly, as you've pointed out, for our transit-dependent population and also can keeping our
communities connected, and I would say the Temporary Pandemic Plan does this to some
degree, but it also is not helping to connect communities effectively. And I can give you an
example with the 32. I've had a lot of constituents reach out to me because they cannot go to the
grocery store because of the Saturday Sunday schedule that we have implemented. So that's one.
I also think it's an opportune time for us to re-evaluate our service standards. So we had a
gentleman call from the ATU regarding the 15 people for social distancing. And I think we've
heard this quite a bit. I know a number of the director that has heard from our operator that more
than 15 folks are on our buses and [AUDIO OUT] our rail. And this is particularly interesting to
me. This is particularly important because it is concerning with the spread of COVID and safety,
as well, for our operators, as we've heard.
But it kind of kicks the can down the road. I think Reimagine RTD provides us the opportunity
to deal with what is in front of us right now. I think we are saving-- we are spending money on
routes that we know are not productive and were not productive prior to COVID and are less
productive now. And we've seen declines in ridership. So to stall this out until any date, I would
be very, very much against that because it just doesn't in the best interests of our operators and
our patrons, to be completely honest.
I would also love to see that this go as a Director Initiated Action Item to put before the Board
because it does seem that we might be split. And there also might be some data that we might
need from staff to really inform our thinking around this decision from a monetary standpoint,
from a data standpoint, and really understanding the impact on both sides-- on all sides of such a

decision to stop this during a time where I think we are prolonging the inevitable, which is to be
real about the services that we are able to offer, what we're able to afford, and not honestly
running empty buses and trains. Thank you, so much. Thank you, Director Menten. Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I wanted to thank Director Cook for putting this together. I
think it's important. I personally like the idea of a pause because I think things are so in flux that
it's foolish to go forward with ideas for new things when we don't even know what's happening
now. And in light of that, I would think that we don't really know the correct date that this plan
should be enforced for, for the same reason that we need a pause. That things are so in flux that
we need to see what's going on.
So I like what it says, where it says the plan will be ended or reviewed no later than 2021 and
that means-- well, that means that anytime before that, if it seems that things have solidified and
we want to do this review before that, then we should do it. So I think flexibility has to be the
key word in how we deal with things with this. Also, I agree that local governments should be
very much a part of our decision making with this. I love the idea of they can help us take the
heat with the decisions, instead of just giving it.
The concept of how many dollars are needed-- again, I really think we just don't have enough
information. I like the idea of doing it, but I think staff is going to need to help us fill that out by
showing us what kind of holes service we're going to get and what alternatives are available and
what their costs would be, et cetera. So I like the idea, but we need more information. Thank you
very much. That's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'll go into that the question that I'm going to focus on the
most and that is alternative transportation. Alternative-- as an example, direct vouchers. And
what I would prefer to see is something that's going directly into the travelers hand and allowing
them to make the choices in how they get from point A to point B. I just happened to look up my
PowerPoint that I was using at town hall meetings fourth quarter of last year, when we knew this
was coming. When we knew that we were going to have to make adjustments to the system, and
Reimagine was getting ready to roll. This was pre-COVID. So this also, then, will tie into the
budget problem.
But just looking at the nine highest FlexRides at that point in time-- which now they've certainly
gotten worse. But the nine FlexRides that are the absolute worst performing, meaning the highest
subsidy or the lowest boardings per hour, which includes the Lone Tree, Louisville, Thornton,
North Glenn, Parker, Bellevue, Airlocken, and Broomfield, Green Mountain, and South Jeffco.
Those right there, the annual net subsidy is about-- at that point in time was about $4 and 1/2
million. It's jumped since then because we know riderships dropped and costs have continued to
go up. That is part of our problem-- ridership continues to drop, costs go up.
So that right there tells me, if you want to talk about dollars and alternative transportation, those
would be the low hanging fruit, in my opinion. And if you look at the ridership on those, that $4

and 1/2 million only generated, in the year I calculated, which would have been, at that point it
would have been in 2018. Because I was doing the presentations 2019. We always get our stuff a
year later. We only generated about 152,500 boardings for that $4.5 million. That's the average
subsidy of nearly $30. And again, it's gone up since then.
I would prefer that the person who is working a catering gig and getting off at 11:30 at night gets
some sort of a direct transit voucher and they're able to choose who is going to get them from
point A to point B at 11:30 at night. And so they're getting their tax money back directly. And
that benefits them. And that might be Uber, it might be Lyft, but we're giving it to them to make
that choice. So there's one figure that I have the hard numbers on. Let's double it and say $10
million dollars that we, perhaps, set aside for alternatives.
Then, we go to the problem. The problem is the budget. And our budget problems were present
before COVID-- too much service, dropping ridership. And so I think in these questions of how
far do we pause, I think we're just kicking the can down the road. And the General Manager's
going to come in, they're going to be drinking from the fire hose. The new Board that gets
elected is going to be drinking from the fire hose. They're going to be in a brand new seat and
they're going to be going out to tell their constituents, yep, brand new. Cutting your service. How
do you like that? That's not going to be very much fun.
That was partly why the point in time we're in right now, many of us have the experience to
know the deep rooted problems we have at RTD. So I am not, in my limited time, kicking the
can down the road really hard it's very accurate, I think. And so that covered alternatives. It
covered how long of a pause. And I apologize, what was the third question because the letter sent
to us only had like four points.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right. It's the information on the number of dollars you would
suggest.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I guess, I would like to hear right now because when I heard earlier
in tonight's meeting is that we're going to have two-on-two's and that's not going to be part of a
public discussion is-- what is staff doing right now considering the Board keeps kind of changing
the game? Are they keep up-- is the budget department keeping up with us?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So, you know what? Director Menten, I'm going to have Mr.
Ballard speak at the end of when everybody finishes their comments.
NATALIE MENTEN: All righty. Thank you. I'm done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And to kind of piggy-back on Director Menten's
comments about the alternatives, I'm hopeful that the time between now and whether it's March
or later next year, that we can really solidify those plans or alternative, namely a voucher type of
structure. Yeah, just really solidified that and put it into place. But as far as the timing, I would
say no sooner than March. And it as Director Lubow pointed out, we can do it any time before

September. So far the dollar amount, I don't know. I'd be curious. I'd certainly be open to hearing
about proposals, namely along those lines about the voucher type of alternative. And I think
that's it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Is that-- OK. Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate the opportunity to address
this. First of all, regarding the Reimagine discussion and the question of possible postponement,
I think that Director Broom said it well, that really it will take until at least March of 2021 for the
new General Manager to get a sense of this, for us to have through our FO and others an
opportunity to assess the economic impact, for our Chief Operating Officer to address and assess
the impact on our operations, for our Chief Security Officer to determine what impact there is
there.
So I think it makes sense that we wait at least until then. And, of course, that would be the time
at which we would be addressing the May run Board changes. So it's coincident with that, and I
think appropriate. That said, I emphasize that my view is that's the least amount of time. It may
well be that as we get into December, January we may determine that it should in fact be longer
than that. But I think at least until March of 2021.
The second question that was asked was regarding the impact on the funding and what would
you do about that. I submit, I don't know. And I submit equally, it would be irresponsible for us
to essay an answer on that without important input and information from our staff. We would
literally be pulling numbers out of the air. And I think that's most inappropriate. I am curious, in
particular, as to what Second Vice Chair indicated regarding the Accountability Committee and,
specifically, what exactly did they say regarding their desired involvement in the Reimagine
process.
I was unable to attend the virtual meeting that was held on Monday, August 10 because I was
traveling. I have, in vain, sought reports on that meeting and specifically, most importantly, a
transparent video of that meeting and have not been able to find it. It is undoubtedly because of
my limited computer skills that I have been unable to find it. And I'm sure that someone can
easily and simply direct to the video of that meeting so I can watch it here for myself what the
Accountability Committee said in that regard.
But failing that during the course of this meeting, I was wondering if someone perhaps might be
able to elucidate a little further and provide some expansion on the comments made by the
Accountability Committee in that regard. And whether, in fact, they took it as a formal action, or
it was merely the expression of interest on the part of some members of the committee. So I
would welcome that response. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Tisdale. And I'm going to ask Treasurer
Guissinger if she could allude to what it was that the accountability committee discussed
regarding Reimagine.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll give a try. I will find out to ask Matthew Helfant at DRCOG about the
video. I know that it is recorded and I'm not sure where it is. So we can find out about that. There
was no big discussion. This was their first meeting. And really, you know, it was, I think, more
of a comment than anything else that they're interested in Reimagine and how they would be able
to hook into it, learn more. And I think that our staff, Bill Van Meter and others have suggested
that they would be interested to work with the committee. So I don't think it's-- I don't think it
should be overstated, it's just that it's a process that's going on at the same time, and makes sense
to have them working together.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Treasurer Guissinger. And Director Tisdale, we will
find out where the recording is and get that link to the entire Board to see because it was an
interesting discussion, but it was their first meeting and they were just talking about a variety of
subjects. If that will work for you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Well, let me go to Director Walker first, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I disagree with the idea of a pause, especially on the grounds that
we're in an uncertain time. As I said before, I think all times are uncertain. I don't know if any of
us-- if we had certainty on January 1, 2020, it was gone by February 15 of 2020. So AS certain
as we thought we were, I think we were proven quickly, or I think it was proven quickly that
there is no certainty.
I can point to the 2013 floods up in the foothills of Boulder Canyon, the fires in San Diego or
outside of Oakland or down in Black Forest near Colorado Springs. The city of Baton Rouge had
about a 20,000 person increase in about a week when Hurricane Katrina came through in '05. So
things are in flux all the time. Commuting patterns have been changing for the last 50, 60 years.
People fled the city, then they came back in the '90s. Then they really came back Os. And now,
we're working from home, but working from home has been on the increase since '95 when I
really got into this field. So I'm not in favor of a pause for the sake of uncertainty because it's
always uncertain.
I think anybody who steps into that role, whoever gets that role of CEO is going to be able to hit
the ground running. And that's probably the kind of challenge that she has trained for and that
she's looking forward to. So I think we'll be OK if we keep this moving. And I've never seen
anything good come of delaying a process, especially when it's halfway through, and when
there's no physical impact. This is just a policy impact, not a physical impact.
And our operations change every four months anyway. It may be a little bit here, a little bit there,
or maybe a larger change, but there's always some kind of change that staff implements and that
the Board approves every four months. So I'm not in favor of stopping it. I'd say just let staff go
ahead, do its thing with the FHU. And I also think that our partners, whoever they may be in the
future, would want as much certainly as we can provide. But some certainty on what we plan to
base our service on, so they can plan their transportation improvements or their land use plans or
their comprehensive plans that support their zoning codes.

Let's see. One of the other things that I wanted to mention-- oh, for the budget. I don't know what
the budget would be, but I think that we should plan a budget for the service that we want. It
doesn't have to be all there at once. We can do layers of service, just like when I worked at
CDOT, we had a constrained and unconstrained plan. And I know we've talked about that same
division of constrained and unconstrained in this body. If we have the money, we'll do this. If we
have more money, we'll add on. If we have more money, we'll add on. And I think that's the kind
of things that our partners would appreciate, to know about what we see as important and what
steps we'll take to get there, and when we think we might be able to get to if we know what our
budget will be.
Nobody knows where our budget will be, even from year to year, even when times are good. So
as far as funding goes, whatever it costs to provide that minimum level of service, let's plan for
that. And if things turn around and we get a little bit more, then we'll add more service. But I
think our partners and I think the new CEO and the new Board will appreciate that level of
certainty, which is probably all that we can provide because we can't provide the dollars. We
can't guarantee that those will actually materialize. So that's all I got. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Boy, a lot of good comments, and I hear what
Director Walker is saying. My first thought, as being a participant in Reimagine was, OK, I'm
fine with a pause, but maybe it's a January resumption after our new CEO is up and up to speed
on current events. But the more I listen to my colleagues and think about it, I do fear that that's
not enough time and that a resumption in March or perhaps later next year would be the most
appropriate.
As far as a budget and those numbers, I like as a part of the board, would have to ask the staff to
prepare that. I wouldn't be able to pick a number. And it would be a bit presumptuous or
certainly incorrect, as a Director Tisdale would say. So I don't have a number on that. I do agree,
and I think I mentioned this briefly a while back with Directors Menten and Mihalik, I do feel
strongly that these alternatives need to be fleshed out in a way that's meaningful in the short
term, but perhaps in the long term as we become stretched more thin, depending on the COVID
issue or the budget issue.
The other thing is, we've had a lot of good input on the Technical Advisory Committee and the
Advisory Committee of Reimagine. And I want to make sure that those folks are recognized and
encouraged to continue to participate and to help with whatever the planning structures may well
be in the short and long term. A number of us have talked about partnerships with our local
governments and others.
And it's so important that we continue to communicate with those folks that have spent a lot of
hours assisting us with this, and that we utilize their talent as we move forward. And perhaps
more importantly, to grow the network and the teamwork, camaraderie, and building plans that
are going to be very difficult. When we say our plan-- and I mentioned this the Director
Guissinger earlier-- our plan is not RTs plan. Our plan is the region's plan involving our other

governments and our other entities. And we need to build a plan the our is bigger than just RTD.
And I think that's all for now. Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. It's interesting, sometimes, to go at the end of the
queue. There actually were four points presented here. And the first one had to do with the
Pandemic Service Plan Two. And I think that's great. I think the presentation is good and I think
that we should move forward with that. The second point is that it should be reviewed no later
than September and maybe as early as March. I'm good with all of that, too. I'm going to come
back to the third point.
The fourth point is the allocation of dollars. And, again, as most of my peers here, I don't have
enough information to make any statement about that cost, but I I'm open to a further discussion.
However, I'd like to make a statement about pausing Reimagine. The Reimagine group is made
up of all the people that are mentioned here. There are our community partners, there are
representatives of the disability community, representatives of older adults, TMAs and TMCs,
the Department of Transportation and Infrastructure, DRCOG, CDOT-- all of those people are
represented on the Reimagine committee. And those people have donated their time out of a
concern for the future of RTD.
It's inconceivable to me that we would pause Reimagine. That we would turn down free input
from a group of people that are concerned about our region and our agency as a whole. And if, in
fact, their input is not valid anymore, based on the fluctuation of the situation we find ourselves
in, then why is the Accountability Committee, who is not made up of as diverse a population,
what makes them OK to say? They're not affected by the situation that we find ourselves in?
So I can't imagine why we wouldn't continue with the people who have donated their time so far
to help us Reimagine. Why we wouldn't ask them to continue to give us input? It's not costing us
anything, or I think we've already allocated the money for the consultant that's running the group.
We don't have to make any decisions based on what they give us, but I would prefer to hear from
those people-- the very community representatives, service agencies, and others that we are
talking about wanting to engage are right there. So that's my take on pausing Reimagine. I think
that I can't imagine why we would do that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Did you have a comment for
number three? You said you would come back to that.
KATE WILLIAMS: That is number three. We would not be imagining the Reimagine
guidelines. I don't think we have to make any decisions, but I don't think that we should pause
the meetings of the groups and listening to the ideas that they bring back to us. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams.

DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, may I pose a point of personal privilege? This is Director
Tisdale.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I need to apologize to the Accountability Committee to whatever staff may
have been involved. By spending a little more time, I did find the video of the RTD
Accountability Committee meeting. And for the information of the other directors and the
general public, it's on YouTube. If you actually just search DRCOG RTD Accountability
Committee meeting, you will find that it was posted on August the 12th. It runs for one hour and
48 minutes. So I do apologize for the inference that I left that it was not available publicly and
was not posted transparently. Thank you, very much for allowing you to make that apology
public, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Cook, before I have you
kind of do a summation, what I'd like to do is ask Mr. Ballard to get online and talk to us a little
bit about where we are right now. Mr. Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, thank you, Madam Chair. And I appreciate the heads up a few minutes
ago. So I, along with the rest of the staff, have been listening very carefully to the discussion, and
it's very helpful to us. And if I can start by responding to Director Menten about what staff's been
doing. We're keeping up just fine. We know what's going on, and we're listening, and we're
paying attention to the Board. So I want to assure you of that.
I'll start by thanking Director Cook for sharing these thoughts with us. As we all know, Director
Cook led the charge with an earlier set of guidances which were well-received. They were
embraced by management. And we incorporated those guidance as into the work of the Task
Force under Bruce Abel's direction. Those guidances have helped us to shape the
recommendations that we will be sharing with you in the next several days.
So what's going to happen, specifically-- and I'll try to cover these points that Director Cook
presented and that the Board's been discussing in the same order. So what happens in January?
We've talked a lot about the January run board. Well, the January run board is a function of
whatever revenues we project we'll have available to us in January. So what happens in January
is largely already developed by the Task Force's work and, as I said, will be consistent with the
available revenue.
So when we brief the board on the work of the Task Force and what's ahead for 2021, we will be
presenting to you the outline of a balanced budget for 2021. That's not been an easy task. It will
not be an easy task for you to review and to make decisions, but we will be presenting to you a
balanced budget for 2021. Another issue that has been mentioned is to establish a separate pot of
money or a separate fund in 2021 for unidentified alternative service.
We, on the other hand, are planning to take a different approach. We're prepared to recommend
to the Board as part of the budget specific services, alternative services, services that incorporate
some of the creative approaches that some of you have mentioned tonight. We do not support

setting up a pot of money because where does that fund come from? And that becomes the issue
when you have unspecified funding for unspecified services. So we'll be prepared to specifically
make some recommendations to you.
With regard to the Reimagine process, there are obviously multiple points of view. We've been
listening very carefully. I've been working with Bill Van Meter. And I believe that we're coming
up with and we'll share with you later this week a document that basically proposes a hybrid
approach. We do believe that there is some benefit in pausing some of the public-facing activities
for a short period of time, including for the new General Manager to come on board and to
become involved in that.
So we'll be sharing some recommendations with you later this week where we want to continue a
number of the background-- a significant amount of the background work that we're continuing
to do so that the program itself will be able to continue to move forward. We'll have a public
pause, but we'll be ready to pick up the beat very, very quickly when the Board identifies that it's
time for us to do that.
So Madam Chair, those are my thoughts on this very helpful public policy discussion. We
appreciate Director Cook's suggestions. And we certainly appreciate all of the input from the
Board Members. We'll continue to synthesize what we heard tonight. And we'll continue to move
forward as we present to you a balanced budget for 2021. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Ballard. Second Vice Chair Cook, before I turn
it back over to you, Director Menten, did you get your questions answered?
NATALIE MENTEN: I do have a follow-up question, please.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And one side note, I was going to jump in a little bit earlier after
Director Tisdale spoke, and I'm glad he found it on YouTube. They've only got like 80
subscribers for DRCOG. So everybody should sign up and bump their numbers. But meanwhile,
you can also get to it on their DRCOG calendar. Just click on a meeting. You'll get to an agenda
and a video also through that route, if that's an option.
But back to Mr. Ballard's response. There's something that's kind of haunting me a little bit here,
and that was the words, we'll take it out of the public-- I'm going to use the word arena. But, off
the public front for right now, this discussion, and even though it's a public policy that we're
talking about. Those words, I'm not sure I understand what that meant. That kind of, to be really
frank, sounded like backroom private discussions.
PAUL BALLARD: Well. Director Menten, that's certainly not what my intention was. What we
are hearing is that the board has mixed feelings on the Reimagine process. Should it be paused?
Should it not? And what I was trying to explain-- obviously not well enough-- was that we think
we can pause and probably should pause some of the public meetings and put that aspect of it on

pause until our new General Manager is on board, can participate, and then can make her
presence felt in that public process.
What I referred to as the mechanics, I think that there is work that our consultants can continue
to do that is not in the public eye, that is just calculations, review-- those sorts of things that go
on in the background. And I think that if you would give me the benefit of seeing Mr. Van
Meter's communication later this week, he can certainly explain that much better to you. And
that I'm sure he'll be happy to answer any questions you might have. But so that was that was my
attempt at addressing the issue and trying to follow what I feel is, overall, will of the Board as
we're hearing it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Thank you. And this is Menten. And let me just ask-- thank you for
clearing that up. Because it kind of goes to Director Williams comments that we have-- we
engage the public. We spent-- and I'll put this in-- tons of money and had so many people
gathering either in the morning or in the afternoon depending on what your committee, and they
were engaged. And now we've kind of said, thanks, appreciate that, but that's about it. So are
both the committees, the Technical Advisory Committee and the other committee fully aware
that this is really on a hard pause right now? What have they heard, by the way?
PAUL BALLARD: Well, they haven't seen the memo yet, either. So we're trying to, on the fly,
respond to what we're hearing the majority of the Board would like to see. And so, no. They
haven't seen the memo either. We always share that with the Board first before we share it
outside of RTD Board structure, or at least we try to.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. All right. Thanks for letting me follow up with those. That's it.
PAUL BALLARD: You're quite welcome. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. Thank you both. Director Cook, I'm going
to turn this back over to you for any closing remarks you have.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me one minute, Madam Chair. Folska.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh yes, please, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much. I just wanted to make a comment in response to a
couple of our Directors and the implication that by putting on a hard pause that we're somehow
wasting people's time and money spent. And I think there's another side to that coin that we can
look at. To move forward in such uncertain times is wasting money and great input from our
stakeholders and other constituents who have given so much of their time. And we just don't
know what's going on right now.
And I think that it is respectful and prudent on the part of the Board of Directors to make the
hard pause so that we don't lose track of all of the good input that they've had with this
Reimagine process or the money that we've already invested. That it's then done with the
pandemic and the results and the findings of the pandemic in mind. So I have to say I really stand

by the hard pause. And again, I would say a whole year of 2021. That's all I have to say. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Cook, I'll turn this back
over to you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. First of all, thanks everybody. This was an effort to try to
bridge what had been an eight, seven split. And I don't know if it went much farther than that.
Hopefully it did. But a couple of clarifications-- one, I was curious, too, about whether or not
we're taking advantage of Reimagine in so far as we can make a better pandemic plan. And so
that had come up. I heard a couple of different things. And so I had clarified with Bruce Abel
today.
And in fact, Reimagine has been used-- I think this has been stated before, too, by Bill Van
Meter-- they have sort of diverted or directed the consulting resources and brainpower toward
that effort. So just to clarify, we aren't forgoing the benefit of those resources, in terms of
identifying a Pandemic Service Plan Two. I think the key was to say we're not, at this point,
selecting a framework for Reimagine.
The thought among those who expressed it was that it's premature. Too much shaking out right
now. Better to let that wait. In comments in going around, as far as the time frame, I think
everybody seemed more or less so to the idea of a review by September 2021, and end date or a
review. Some thought that it could be even longer, but I think the majority of people were good
there.
I heard a good number [AUDIO OUT] said that the pause period might be needed to extend all
the way into March, give the new General Manager five or six months. And so I don't know
whether it would be possible to say at least until the new General Manager gets on board since
what Mr. Ballard is indicating. But it's possible or be prepared for that pause to extend later. And
then I think there was a strong consensus that either we don't do the allocation of dollars-- but I
thought I heard a good number of people.
But if we do an allocation of dollars, we need to work with the staff and get the input and
information from them to identify what that appropriate amount might be. It would allow us, as
things change or develop in 2021, it would allow us to try things [AUDIO OUT] otherwise
would be more difficult to do. And so that was a response partly to Director Shontel Lewis'
thought because in my view, it might be that we actually can take advantage of both the
Reimagine as that gets ramped back up and also having a little bit of money to try something
else. So those three, I don't know if that helps to clarify or summarize, but I'll turn it back over to
you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Second Vice Chair Cook. So I want you to take away
from this discussion any information that you need from us, as a Board, since we are all here
together. And what I had originally heard was that you wanted a head nod on whether we should
pause Reimagine or not. Is that correct?

SHELLEY COOK: I think it would be helpful to know. I was kind of hoping a stronger sense of
the Board for these things. I'm not sure we added many to one side of the roster or another,
maybe one or two. It might be a stronger sense. So I'll leave it up to you, Madam Chair. I would
prefer that would provide direction. But I recognize, too, that Paul Ballard wants to bring back a
recommendation, and I can respect that if he did.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. But with that in mind, I would like to ask the board,
Director by Director, if you are in favor or opposed to a pause, just so that we have at least a
baseline to work from. Is that OK with you, Second Vice Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Broom, are you in favor or opposed to a pause?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Madam Chair, may I ask a clarifying question before this?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, and this may be a question for our General Counsel. I was
under the impression that we were still under other matters and it seems like we've put this
forward to a vote. And I don't recall it being an action item.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. It's not a vote. It's actually just a head nod. It's not a vote.
So we're not voting on this. Second Vice Chair Cook was just asking for some direction from the
Board. So it is not a vote. But she is trying to get a clear idea of how to move forward. Is that
correct, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I was trying to evidence by with the comments that the Board was-- that this
was the sense of the Board. If it does stray too far in the direction of a vote, if Melanie Snyder
indicates that, then certainly we could just go with the comments. But we've done this many
times.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel, your opinion please?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. So as you'll recall, the initial discussion around
this was an informal discussion with guidance of Board and staff took all those comments back.
And know that is their approach here. It's not a formal vote. it's guidance that staff has been
taking notes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it would be OK for us to do a head nod, yay or nay.
MELANIE SNYDER: I think it's fine if you want to do a yay or nay head nod, but it's not a
formal vote.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct. OK. Does that answer your question, Director Lewis?

KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, hold on a second, Director Williams. Director Lewis, did
that answer your question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does answer my question. It seems out of-- I think it's out of order to our
charter and our bylaws. And so I guess that's what I'm having a hard time with, but you can go to
Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, ma'am. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, I'm fine with the head nod, but there are four items. We
would need the head nod on item one, which is January service changes as the pandemic. Item
two, to be reviewed by the Board no later than September 21. Item three, pausing Reimagine.
And item four, that the budget should include an allocation of some amount of dollars. So if
we're going to head nod, then we need to head not on all four items.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook, I'm going to go back to you. Is that what you're
looking for?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I think you going on the pause as sort of a key piece. I didn't hear
anybody in contrast concerned about identifying the January service changes as a Pandemic
Service Plan Two. And then the third piece is getting the feedback about the allocation of dollars.
And I think hearing from Bill and or the special service planners and so forth or administrators, it
might be useful, and we could wait for a report from Paul on that. The first two, I didn't hear
much of a dissension on. The third piece, which is what you were zeroing in on, was really the
part that we may want to hear a greater idea of the sense of the Board on.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please. Yeah, Madam Chair, we've been listening very carefully.
We've taken good notes. I believe the staff already has a good sense of where the board is
coming on these issues, and we're comfortable with the information that we already have, just for
your information as you make a decision.
PAUL BALLARD: OK. Thank you, sir.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second Vice Chair Cook, are you good with that?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that sounds good.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Great. Then this discussion is closed. You know what? I
really want to thank all of you for your thoughtful discussion on this. I think that we clearly have
our plate full and we have a lot of things moving forward. So I think this was just a great

discussion and I want to thank all of you. And I want to thank Second Vice Chair Cook for
leading this discussion because I think it was really good for us to have that.
I'm going to ask, does any Director have any new business to discuss this evening? All right.
Hearing none, I will now entertain a motion to adjourn.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I heard Director Tisdale and then Director Williams. Anyone
opposed? OK. I'm not hearing any opposition so it is now, according to my clock, 7:34. We are
adjourned. Thank you for your participation. Have a good evening, and stay safe. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good night. Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Good night.

