2024-01-24
Executive Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Hello, everybody. The Wednesday, January 24 Executive Committee meeting will now
come to order. We are convened as of 12:02 PM, Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. I will now call
for the roll of members of the committee. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SPEAKER: Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here. Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem. Treasurer Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Erik Davidson speaking. I am also present. For the sake of the record,
I also see that we are joined by Director Tisdale and Director Ruscha. Thank you for joining us today.
In addition, we are joined by a number of members of staff. I thank you for your participation. Our General
Manager and CEO Debra Johnson. I'm seeing Ms. Snyder, Ms. Polege, Mr. McKay, Mr. Green, Ms. Riley,
Ms. Parish, Mr. Kroll, Mr. Christie, Ms. Knapp Rhodes, and Mr. Smith.
Thank you for being here and taking time. With that, we'll move into the public comment section. I'll open
up for public comment anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topics listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not done so, you can raise your virtual hand. Or if you've joined us on the
phone, and you can press star 9. During this time, the committee does not offer any direct comments or
responses, but if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, we please invite you to
email the RTD Board office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. I'd now like to ask for the assistance of the
Board Office. Does anyone have their hand raised to speak, or have we received any written comments?
JACK KROLL: Hi, Director Davidson, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. We did not
receive any public comment emailed to us in advance, but we do have a Mr. Richard Bamber who has
raised his hand and indication of an opportunity to speak.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, wonderful. So before moving to that, Mr. Bamber, I'll just note staff will unmute you
when it's your time to speak. Please bear in mind that by participating, you are being recorded.
If you do not wish to be recorded, you can submit your comments in writing. Comments can be submitted
to the same address as mentioned earlier, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Please begin your remarks by

stating your name, and you'll be given three minutes to speak. So with that, I'll now open the floor for Mr.
Bamber, please.
RICHARD BAMBER: Good morning, Executive Committee, and welcome to 2024. First off, to Jack, we did
send a letter, and it was pretty short notice, but it was regarding fleshing out our opinion on the bylaws
amendment-- so why we're opposed and basically summarize.
The Board needs to look good. People in the state legislature are questioning the whole makeup of your
governance. You need to look good, you need to look effective. And these things do-- it's not a good look.
As is in the same way, when we get comments in meetings-- in committee meetings, where Directors don't
appear to have read contracts in full. And there's talk of using OpenGov, and a contract being read and
reviewed by a Director is a full contract, which is the one that's about to be executed. It's got the contractors
rates, and it's got the full package-- not an RFP.
So that's the letter. So Jack, please reach out to me, and we'll get that letter. Hopefully, you've got the letter,
and we can make sure that's made its way.
But what I really want to talk about today is the GM/CEO Debra Johnson's-- the information we have on the
compensation and performance. So the first thing is we note that however the GM/CEO performs this year,
she will get a pay rise due to a compensation analysis having to happen. And if that doesn't happen by the
Board, she'll get a COLA adjustment, and that is regardless of performance.
So that's why we're very concerned that in the performance, if the GM scores-- would score a 0 or very
lowly on her items the Board would score, that GM would still get a 1% increase. We don't understand why
you would give a 1% bonus for what would be 0 or very low performance given that the GM will get a pay
rise on the compensation analysis, or COLA.
The light rail plan simply-- a bonus goal-- moving on-- simply is not appropriate to the caliber of the
employee being assessed. And which, in plain English, means it's too easy. Typically, that job would be
given in the industry.
The plans would be worked up by an engineer typically earning between $80,000 and $120,000, $130,000.
They'd be fully checked by an engineer earning maybe about $100,000 to $200,000. A Director may get
her earning higher than that-- may give it scant-- a scant look over.
So this is-- imagine those amounts. These are amounts far lower, and two employees with far less
experience than our GM and CEO. The labor goal-- we all know the biggest problem facing RTD at the
moment is represented labor.
Its operators and mechanics. These are the people that are hurting us, not making services run, canceling
buses, and preventing expansion. The goal waters down that. It says, it doesn't specifically attack the labor
shortage.
It doesn't really matter why people are leaving, whether they're being terminated, whether they're retiring,
or whether they're choosing to voluntarily leave. They have left, and they need to be replaced because the
buses still need to be operated. So that goal is just not tight enough.
And then the third goal, which includes securing the perimeter of an operational facility, we just do not
understand it. What does that mean? Putting fences up around a bus barn?

It's a very watered down thing. We would be expecting a GM and CEO to be leading departments or creating
departments and setting visions. And these goals seem specific to what lower level staff would do. So we
asked the Board to consider this, and really think about the issues the agency is facing.
The final comment on this is there's nothing linked to operational metrics, nothing linked to how the buses
and trains run on time, whether they run, the service that the riders actually receive. And then the other
thing that's happened is we've removed the riders equivalent to comment on the GM. The customer surveys
are now not going to be considered.
So again, this is not a good look for an agency that needs leadership that is going to address the problems.
And we think if you're going to get that leadership, you've got to start by properly incentivizing it. Thank you
very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Mr. Bamber, thank you very much for the comments. As noted, the committee does not
produce responses at this time, but noted that you have submitted some written comments, and thank you
for those. And certainly encourage those interested in the topic of performance to remain tuned in to the
rest of this meeting. Mr. Kroll, I saw that your hand was raised. Are you all set?
JACK KROLL: Yeah, Chair Davidson, I was just raising my hand to begin to indicate to Mr. Bamber he was
approaching his time limit. That's all.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll, and thank you Mr. Bamber. Mr. Kroll, I'm not seeing any other
hands raised by attendees. Do you see any on your end?
JACK KROLL: I do not.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, Thank you. With no other participants in the queue, we will now close the public
comment period at this time. We'll move into recommended actions.
There are four recommended actions this afternoon. As a reminder for committee staff, and anyone
watching or listening, any actions that are passed by this Executive Committee, even if the vote is
unanimous, will be included on the Board agenda under recommended actions so that the full Board will
have an opportunity to discuss the measures presented. With that, the first action under consideration by
the committee is for the 2024 General Manager and CEO performance assessment framework. This is for
the Board of Directors to adopt a General Manager and CEO performance assessment framework for the
calendar year of 2024. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And the-LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: --movant as First Vice Chair Catlin and the second as Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
With this, I would at this time like to present the item. This will be a joint presentation.
I will be presenting the first portion as Chair of the Board with respect to the performance evaluation
framework, and then will hand to General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson to discuss the proposed goals
for the 2024 performance period. With that, I'd now ask if the Board Office is able to share the slide deck
so that we can proceed through the slides, please.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, Mr. Chair, I'm actually sharing it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, thank you. We had-- if you wouldn't mind sharing that Ms. Johnson, that would be
wonderful. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Are you able to see the screen?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, we are not.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just one second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Thank you. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. We can see that perfectly well.
So as previously noted, I'll start with the first part of the presentation first-- an overview. We're going to
cover the General Manager and CEO performance assessment framework. We are then going to discuss
the performance assessment components.
And then we'll be discussing within those components the specific goals that have been proposed by
General Manager and CEO Johnson after discussion in consultation with the Board, and then we will recap
the discussion. If we could move to the next slide, Ms. Johnson, and I think we'll actually move to the slide
after that. This is going to start with the assessment framework.
So the assessment framework before us has been discussed previously. I'll do just a brief recap of what is
here. Building from the bottom, there is a yellow rectangle at the bottom that has agency performance
metrics. These are performance metrics that the Board would be using to measure the long-term trajectory
of the agency in service of our mission.
And this is an area where the Performance Committee had a great deal of discussion last year. We have
traditionally been using net promoter score measurements for employee ownership, community value, and
customer excellence to measure our trajectory there. We have had some discussion about opportunities to
enhance and add to our long-term agency metrics. Those are things that will be slated for discussion at the
Board retreat next month.
That is not going to be the nature of the discussion today. The nature of the discussion today will focus on
the red box and blue boxes above this. The red box are short-term goals. These are annual goals of what
will be done on an annual basis in service of our long-term mission and goals for the agency.
Those short term goals will be SMART goals. I will allow General Manager and CEO Johnson to expand
upon the definition of that and discuss those goals and details later in this presentation, and thank her for
the preparation of that. Going the next level up, there are two blue boxes that are agency values and core
based job function. These are what we have traditionally referred to as subjective criteria.
These are things that are measuring how the General Manager and CEO shows up, as noted in the agency
values, as well as her strategy execution and leadership according to her base job function for which this
Board hired her. If we move to the next slide, we'll see that the focus again of this discussion is on the top
portion of the slide, the SMART goals on an annual basis and the subjective criteria.
All of those are being proposed to move adjusted base salary. We'll be talking about this more as we
proceed of the math of this. But as many people may be aware, the General Manager and CEO's contract
has, in the past, contemplated adjusted base salary as well as one-time incentive payments. One-time

incentive payments are most appropriate to be aimed at agency performance metrics and moving the
metrics against which the public would measure the trajectory of the agency, and as this, by extension,
Board would be doing.
The red box and blue box would influence the adjusted base salary, which is the movement of the General
Manager and CEO through a salary band that has been adopted for the position. So that's the area that
we'll be focusing now and solely focused on adjusted base salary. If we move to the next slide, we'll get
into-- yeah, thank you for moving through the title slide there, Ms. Johnson-- the proposed framework in
front of us here is that the blue box agency values plus core based job function will account for 64% of the
annual performance of the General Manager and CEO.
I'd like to emphasize that we have a robust job description for our General Manager and CEO. You'll be
seeing some of that later in the presentation. In looking at how we have traditionally measured the
performance of the General Manager, there has been overwhelming support for her performance in that
job function, but we've really focused primarily on measuring the agency values and a variety of objective
goals.
The desire moving forward is to ensure that we truly are measuring the base job function, which really is
how the General Manager and CEO is engaging from a strategy execution and leadership standpoint on
an ongoing basis. If we move to the next slide, we'll start to see how some of this breaks out. We have, to
simplify, moved away from using percentages now and are using a point based system to describe the
framework being proposed. And that is 64 points being applied to blue box criteria, core based job function,
and agency values, with 36 points being allocated to those red SMART goals.
The assessment scale then calls for having an exceeding expectations and meets expectations and does
not meet expectations criteria for setting the adjusted base salary. You can see the point distributions on
the slide here. 80 to 100 points representing exceeding expectations, 50 to 79 representing meeting
expectations, and not meeting being less than 50, or fewer than 50 points. If we m ove to the next slide,
we'll see how the proposed framework works in terms of math.
So first and foremost, I want to call attention to the bullets underneath this table. What is proposed here,
this Board of Directors did adopt a compensation philosophy last year. We also adopted a formal salary
range-- a base salary range for General Manager and CEO positions.
In so doing, we had adopted a pay for performance model in a flexible compensation philosophy structure.
As such, desiring to move to a pay for performance model, the proposed framework is calling to eliminate
the automatic uncapped cost of living adjustment, otherwise referred to as its acronym COLA, or C-O-L-A,
as well as to establish an annual performance incentive that is very well defined in the contract that runs
from 1% to 7% adjusted base salary.
Directors may recall that the negotiated current General Manager and CEO contract has an uncapped cost
of living adjustment set for the Denver Aurora Lakewood area using the US Bureau of Labor statistics
Consumer Price Index, or CPI. Proposed herein is to create a concrete pay for performance model that
now shows up on the table above. This is creating a scale that runs from 0 to 49 points for not meeting
expectations, which would result between a 1% and 3.24% adjusted base salary, a meets expectations
reaching 3.25% to 5.99% adjusted base salary, and an exceeds reaching from 6% to 7%.
So that is the proposed framework. We'll understand a little bit more of the math as we see the proposed
goals to follow. And with that, we can move to our next slide. And I want to touch on a very important point,

which is that no later than October 31-- and this will appear in a future-- or to follow recommended action
that will be seeing shortly after this one-- the Board, as part of that framework, would commit to conduct a
total compensation analysis as we had done several years ago with Gallagher Benefit Services. We would
review and act on such a compensation analysis, and we would adjust compensation benefits or base
salary as deemed necessary by the Board.
I would encourage everyone, when we engage on the following recommended action, to ask any questions
they may have around that. I believe the contract is pretty clear on this. This is asking for the Board to
review and compare any compensation analysis we receive with the intent of our market competitiveness
intent as outlined in our compensation philosophy.
If we were to not complete the compensation analysis and/or if we were to not formally review that as a
Board, comparing that against the compensation philosophy, that would result in the return of an automatic
cost of living adjustment which would be capped at 5%, but ultimately be, again, set by the consumer price
index for Denver Aurora Lakewood.
The eligible-- this would then be eligible in addition to the performance pay. Again, we'll have much more
detail on that in a recommended action to follow, but it does have bearing on this performance framework
we have created. With that, I'll be handing off to our General Manager and CEO, Debra A. Johnson, to
present to you the proposed goals pursuant to discussions with this Board and the framework presented in
the slides by me. So with that, Ms. Johnson, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Chair Davidson. Good afternoon, members of the Executive
Committee, and other Board members, and all who are in attendance. I'm Debra Johnson, General
Manager and Chief Executive Officer.
As indicated, I will continue on with the presentation. I will start by explaining in greater detail the core and
base job performance that constitutes a 64% of the performance evaluation for the General Manager and
Chief Executive Officer. Recognizing the critical portion of my performance has to deal with the base job
performance. What you will see on the forthcoming slides are excerpts from the Chief Executive Officer's
job description that members of the Board helped create in support of this position recruitment that was
done by a third-party entity.
The evaluation criteria will be assessed by each Board member. Each November, going forward, it will
reflect a 360 assessment. That assessment will be comprised of members of my team, external
stakeholders, and other parties that will be identified collectively by myself as well as members of the Board.
Recognizing the annual performance feedback, the criteria is derived by the job description I just
referenced. That was created in July of 2020. Strategic plan agency values being community value,
customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success.
The points breakdown includes the core business of the purpose of the position, which is general transit
management and internal relationships, Board interaction, and external relationships. General transit
management constitutes 34 points, Board interaction 20, and external relationships 10 points. Moving
forward, the highlights from the general transit management and internal relationships as indicated were
extrapolated directly from said job description, but I will go through some highlights.
But the Board does have access to the job description, and it is made available to the public and other
elements that have been published. So recognizing that a critical factor is having someone skilled and

knowledgeable that has the ability to manage a multimodal complex taxpayer-funded organization,
overseeing large and complex budgets, identifying and creating new sustainable revenue streams, and the
list goes on. I won't read each and every one of them to you, but they are here.
Recognizing when we talk about the importance of internal relationships, I alone cannot run this
organization. It takes one's ability to be able to cultivate individuals to do their optimal best. And in doing
so, have to ensure that I am fostering, instilling, and promoting and maintaining a culture that embraces
diversity, inclusion, equity and belonging. Establishing and maintaining healthy working relationships, and
encouraging and empowering and challenging agency leaders to think outside the box. And quite naturally,
as we talk about the whole notion of public transportation, the operative word is public, ensuring that we
are advancing a Civil Rights program, which is critically important as we think about the core business,
which is service delivery.
Going forward to the next slide, as it relates to Board interaction, this is 20 points. I do want to qualify that
in the previous section that constituted the 34 points, that the Board quite naturally is interwoven in the
general transit management, recognizing that the position in which I hold has the responsibility of
implementing policy that this body sets. More specifically, getting to the extrapolations from the job
description, develop a strong working relationship with RTD's Board, assisting and advising the Board and
policy and planning responsibilities. Implementing Board policy via actionable management plans, and of
course, engaging and collaborating and partnering with Board members to advocate on RTD's behalf with
elected officials, be they at the local, state, or federal levels.
External relationships-- as we look at this section, that constitutes 10 points. Build strong collaborative
partnerships with the governor and General Assembly, meet regularly with stakeholders and build
partnerships, and implement solutions. Going forward, the agency values are critically important, because
those are the ideals and beliefs that we collectively hold as-- hold as what we believe to be true. But more
importantly, if in fact, I'm not this the demonstrating these various values, then I wouldn't be able to achieve
the other core components of my job.
But with that, I would like to provide the explanation pursuant to what's captured on page 6 of our strategic
plan document, whereby passion. It's we will be purposeful in delivering our work. Respect-- we will
demonstrate respect and integrity in our relationships and interactions with both our colleagues and
community members.
Diversity-- we will honor diversity in thought. People and experience being receptive to unique ideas and
viewpoints to achieve optimal results and problem solving. Trustworthiness-- we will be forthright in our
actions. We will do what we say when we say we will do it.
Collaboration-- we will approach our work in a collaborative manner, seeking and acknowledging valued
input from our colleagues and the community. And then ownership-- we will commit ourselves to continuous
learning, and to do what it takes to deliver our shared vision.
Moving forward to short-term goals. So this, once again, is related to our strategic initiatives that have
spawned from the four strategic priorities. Recognizing that this is all related and has a clear cut nexus to
what we're doing in the agency as a whole. The strategic initiatives are back to basics-- people power and
welcoming transit environment.
These initiatives all are valued at 12 points apiece, because recognizing that these are all interwoven. If in
fact, we didn't have people power, we couldn't help create a welcoming transit environment. But if we don't

have basic plans and policies and procedures, we will not be able to carry out our work, which is to deliver
optimal transit service.
Moving forward to the short-term goal. Recognizing the intent behind this is to have these be SMART. And
what I mean by SMART, basically, is that we are seeking to ensure that they are specific, measurable,
attainable, realistic, and time-bound. So with that, the goal, as relates to back to basics, is to initiate the
light rail replacement plan, which is 50% of this goal by February 29th of 2024 for the replacement of aged
rail along the Welton Corridor from 30th and Broadway to 19th Street in Denver and complete at grade rail
reconstruction.
I'd like to emphasize reconstruction. At this agency, we have yet to undertake any rail reconstruction. What
we have done in the past were short-term fixes, where we have been focused on perhaps a segment of
rail. And that has been removed and perhaps welded back into place.
So this is reconstruction. And that's at five major intersections along the corridor in downtown Denver by
September 30. And you can see the point spread. Recognizing that each of these goals, the intent is for
them to be met. The minimum of this would be meeting expectations, which would be 6 points.
Exceeding, which would be up to the Board's discretion, because there could be a portion of this relative to
it being done prior to the timeline set, or something that has occurred in excess of what has been stated.
Moving forward to the next short-term goal, which is people power. I do want to qualify that we have a labor
intensive organization-- nearly 3,000 employees.
Keeping in mind that we have been adversely impacted by retaining employees. I, just on Monday, had the
opportunity to go in and greet new members of the RTD workforce. We have had wonderful success in
bringing people into the organization. Hiring does not appear to be the problem at hand. It's retention.
So with that being said, this SMART goal is secreted by June 30 of 2024 an employee-centric culture
framework that reinforces the performance and corresponding cultural norms that directly align with the
agency's vision, mission, and values. And additionally design and implement employee retention strategies,
resulting in a 3% reduction in voluntary employee turnover within the first 12 months of employment during
the period commencing October 1, 2023 through September 30, 2024 as compared to the prior one year
period.
I want to stress that this is clearly important, because oftentimes, as I engage with a myriad of different
audiences, their suggestions put forward about developing workforce development plans and things of the
like. I would like to commend members of our staff. We do have robust workforce development plans, we
bring people on board, we have very detailed training programs, but it is ensuring that we are cultivating an
environment where people are able to do their job.
And this segues nicely into the next short term goal, which is a welcoming transit environment, because
what we have gleaned is that when we are hiring people, the work environment may not be optimal, because
often, they're assaulted, and they're out in their mobile offices, and that does not make for a welcoming
working environment.
So with that, the next short-term goal that's valued at 12 points is to vigorously pursue the passage of
legislation during the 2024 regular legislative session regarding enhanced penalties for assaults on transit
workers, which constitutes 50% of the goal. And by the end of April 30 of 2024, develop a project plan to
secure the perimeter of one major operational facility and implement enhancements by November 1, 2024.

I'd like to be clear that this goal is more than establishing fencing around a facility. Recognizing that we are
dealing with societal problems at large. Oftentimes, people are seeking refuge in public rights of way. We
have had issues whereby we have had trespassers on said right of way, and our employees have been
adversely impacted at their workplaces, i.e., they have been subject of criminal activity and vandalism,
stolen cars, assaults, and things of the like. So wanted to provide a little more clarity as it relates to what
this goal entails.
Moving forward to recap the point system that Chair Davidson referenced earlier in the presentation, the
core based job assessment plus the agency values, which is in blue, constitutes 64 points. Let's keep in
mind that if I were able to achieve all my short-term goals, and I wasn't basically doing my core job, which
is leading this multifaceted public transit agency, the short-term goals would be for naught, because those
wouldn't be able to be realized if in fact, I wasn't doing the core business that I have been hired to do.
So recognizing the assessment scale-- keeping in mind that meets expectations would be 50 to 79 points.
And the goals that you have seen just displayed before you the being of the short-term caliber all are set
for me to meet expectations. And anything beyond that would be exceeding expectations from 80 to 100
points, and does not meet is less than 50.
So with that, that concludes my portion of the presentation. I will yield the floor to Chair Davidson and
remove the presentation from the screen. Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair and members of the Executive
Committee.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Madam General Manager and CEO Johnson for the presentation
on the goals and the expounding upon what we would be measuring. A few things I'd like to just say to wrap
up, and then open for discussion and questions from Directors. First of all, I'd very much like to thank Chief
People Officer Charlene Polege for her tremendous assistance with the Board and with the Performance
Committee and the development of a framework that has leveraged best practices and frameworks that
have been utilized successfully elsewhere.
I'm tremendously grateful to Ms. Polege for her expertise and time and assistance with the Board. I'd also
like to Thank Ms Snyder for her work, helping us to actualize this framework. And again, we'll be seeing
another recommended action shortly.
And former Chair Guissinger and current Chair of the Performance Committee Catlin, thank you for your
work as well in helping to create this. And then finally, of course, General Manager and CEO Johnson,
thank you for engaging on creating an updated and improved framework that moves to a strict pay for
performance model. And I'd also like to just remind Directors some of the things that we said last year in
Performance Committee was that we didn't have enough opportunity to really weigh in on the job function.
And the areas where General Manager and CEO Johnson is performing, we were strictly talking about
agency values, and we were strictly talking about goals that were ultimately longer-term goals-- the net
promoter score movement. And due to the nature of the contract and the performance model, we're
somewhat tied in terms of what we can provide feedback on and what ultimately influences a performance
framework.
So I think this is a tremendous step in the right direction of a structure that offers a lot of opportunity for this
Board to measure. And also the message was received as former Chair of the Performance Committee by
me loud and clear-- that we needed a spectrum. And this is where the not meeting expectations, meeting
expectations, and exceeding expectations with some Board discretion with understandable math can be

utilized, and also where a 360 review can be utilized to really expand the input that we receive around the
job that's being performed by our General Manager and CEO.
So with that, I think everybody for your work and patience on this. It's been a long time in the works and
coming, and I think is an important step in the right direction of moving to a good framework that's very
data-driven.
And with that, I will open up for questions and discussion first to Executive Committee members. Secretary
Guzman, please. The floor is yours. You're on mute, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for the presentation and the information. I just-[AUDIO OUT]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, you've gone back. Sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I just want to make sure that we will be able to complete a timely contract to
be able to do the compensation analysis and complete that work by October, because it needs to go through
the Board as well. And so there's two parts-- do the study, get it done, and have the analysis, put that
through the Board, and make any changes.
Are we confident that that is going to happen? And I would-- I'm not worried about it particularly. I just want
to make sure that there is confidence that that can be done on time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman, thank you for a very important question on that, and one that we've
had some assistance from Chief People Officer Polege on. If she is available, I'd invite her to comment on
the practicality of achieving it and what would be involved.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Chair Davidson, Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. Yeah, that's a great
question. Director Guzman, yes, this activity-- in fact, I've already engaged a conversation with the
Executive Manager of the Board Office. We've already had a preliminary conversation, should the Board
wish to proceed in this direction, that we would actually start that work to secure an external third party to
do the compensation market analysis as well as the work on developing a custom 360.
Additionally, depending on, that may in fact, be able to be comprised in one recruitment activity, because
you are looking-- there are firms and HR professionals that could do both activities. And so the suggestion
would be that activity would start, if it were to be approved, in February. And I see no issue with getting that
recruitment through.
My experience would be the compensation analysis should not take more than roughly 30 days, because
you are looking at only one position. And as well, the custom 360 would really be dependent, and there
would require a commitment from the Board who would be directly engaged with that third party to establish
the criteria within the 360. So so long as everyone is committed to those timelines, again, that can be done
within a few meetings.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: I guess just as an aside to that, Chair Catlin from the Performance Committee, as a
member of that committee, can we please make sure that's on the calendar for the workflow.
[CHUCKLING]
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I would say, yes, that is definitely what we need to put on our work plan. I'll raise my hand.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, thank you first Vice Chair Catlin, and thank you Secretary Guzman for a great
question, and Ms. Polege for the assistance. Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much. I think this looks great. I think you all have done a lot of great
work even in the last couple of weeks since I've been gone. And I think it's a great step in the right direction.
I just had a question about the timing. It looks like we're obligated to respond to the compensation analysis
by October 31, but we don't do the performance measurement until later. And I know the compensation
analysis, we've set it-- set our goal at 50%, and it's a range. It seems like those should be tied together. Is
that not right?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. I can offer some comments on that,
and then happy to open the floor if anyone would like to raise their hand that's been part of the discussions
on this-- Ms. Polege, Ms. Snyder, or Ms. Johnson in particular. What I would note is that since-- we've set
it there as an entirely separate item, because the intent of the compensation analysis is really to look at the
salary band itself and where it falls in terms of a market competitiveness.
Also one thing that's been highlighted is the importance-- and this was discussed a little bit at the
Performance Committee recently-- the importance of looking at a total compensation analysis. And so prior,
the intent of October 31 is to allow ourselves time since we are obligated to complete the adoption of
performance assessments by the end of the year. And there are going to be multiple moving parts as we
look at what needs to be adopted by the end of the year.
So the intent was to have a review for the Board to compare against the compensation philosophy, have
made a decision what to do with regards to market competitiveness and what to do with that compensation
analysis going into the period with which we'd be doing evaluation. So we have that context, and that is
completed going into what is ultimately a different exercise performance versus market competitiveness
and analysis.
So first-- Second Chair Guissinger, is that helpful? Does that answer it? Are there still questions there?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I still have some questions. So what we'd be doing by October 31 is sort of
establishing the band? Is that-ERIK DAVIDSON: Correct. We'd be looking at the competitiveness of the band and competitiveness of the
total compensation packages all inclusive, and be examining that prior to going into the performance
assessment period. And Ms. Polege, I saw your hand come up and saw you nodding. If there's anything
you'd like to add, please. I welcome the input.

CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. I would just-- they are two separate, as Chair David Davidson has said. I think
that's well understood-- that there's the compensation analysis is really to just ascertain where we are. So
that band was established, it was recommended by Gallagher, it was aged by a trend factor.
And the analysis is just to go out to the market and make sure, as per the compensation philosophy, it
would be done annually-- that we are where we think we are. And I will just go out and say that the hope is
that we age the band appropriately. And it may come back that the band doesn't need to be adjusted at all,
and may in fact be right where it is.
Separate to that is the GM and CEOs performance assessment, which I just want to remind, irregardless
of that review being done, there is room within that band for performance to be assessed and for there to
be movement based on performance within the band as it is established right now. We elected the October
31 date because of the clause around if the work isn't done, the COLA that would be capped at 5% would
kick in. So it's really an accountability metric for the Board to be committed to getting the work done. I hope
that gives a bit more-- that's why that date of October 31, given the GM and CEO's contract of November
9, would typically be when the COLA would be applied.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege. Yeah, does that answer your question Second Vice Chair
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It does. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. First Vice Chair Catlin and Chair of the Performance Committee, please go
ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Ms. Johnson, I wanted to say thank you for your oral amplification
of some of these SMART goals. I think that really helped to put a little bit finer point on some of these
SMART goals and address some of the concerns that were expressed at our earlier meeting. So I wanted
to thank you for doing that.
And changing subjects, for this procurement of-- I really appreciate the idea of combining the two and having
an HR professional that could do both. I think there's some efficiency to be gained there. In this
procurement, do you envision having Board participation much as we are having Board participation of the
selection of our facilitator for our retreat. Given that it's the Board's responsibility to conduct both of these,
I would strongly suggest that we have a couple of Board members that participate in that selection process.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Very important point, First Chair Catlin. I first will open the floor to see if-- I
do have some thoughts around that, but if Ms. Polege or Mr. Kroll, if there's anything that you were hoping
to address there?
Ms. Polege, I'll turn to you first. I saw your camera come on. If you have nothing to comment, no problem.
Don't want to put you on the spot, but if you do, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. Charlene Polege-- as indicated, Executive Manager Kroll and I have already- Board Manager Kroll and I have already had a preliminary conversation. We discussed that exact piece,
and in fact, indicated that there absolutely would need to be representation by the Board.

This would be a Board contract. This is the Board hiring an external third party to work with them to establish
these two-- the range, the total compensation. And so absolutely, I think what would be up for discussion
would be the size of the committee. And then, of course, the Board would decide who should be
representative on that committee. But we'd already had that preliminary discussion.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Polege. And I'll just add that it's a perfect time to add that I'd
like first Vice Chair Catlin to discuss this with the Performance Committee and the work plan and
identification of those members and for the Performance Committee to carry that. And would also ask Mr.
Kroll-- and thank you for engaging in those discussions with Ms. Polege-- to please assist with the
solicitation of feedback from Board members that are not involved in Performance Committee, and so we
can ensure to get all of that input.
I think we can really work together. And certainly, my preference would be that the Performance Committee
would carry that very topic. And thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin, for raising it. I think it's a critical one.
Does that answer your question, or do you have any further comments on that, Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I'll now open the floor for a discussion or questions from any other Directors
that are present that are not on the Executive Committee. Seeing none, I'm now going to-- oh, sorry. I see
a Director Ruscha. Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Are we allowed to ask questions on-- I guess I need a point of
clarification since there are a couple of recommended actions on the agenda. Are-- can we go-- are we
talking about specifically these goals, or are we also talking about the other items?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you. And a good-JOYANN RUSCHA: [INAUDIBLE].
ERIK DAVIDSON: --reminder that there are some-- yeah-- no, thank you. I'll answer that. If we could keep
the current discussion or questions focused on the goals themselves and the framework, then we'll move
on to our next recommended action, which is the General Manager and CEO contract amendment. So the
questions now would be on the goals and the framework.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. I'll save the one-- I'll save the others then. So on the goals-- on the first
goal related to downtown light rail replacement, it says both Welton Corridor, and then it references five
major intersections. And I was just seeking clarification if we're talking about intersections on the Corridor
or if we're talking about the Downtown loop?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Ms. Johnson, would you like to please chime in on that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. Thank you Director Ruscha for the questions. There
are the five intersections-- hold on. Let me grab the information so I speak with a point of clarity.
So as I talk about the intersections, there are several that are within the confines of like 14th Street and
19th Street. So they are the ones within the loop. And the reason why those are critically important is due
to the fact that this rail was basically put in place in the early part of 1994.

Revenue service began in October. But recognizing that it's not only light rail concepts that are traversing
over this track due to the point that they're intersections. And it is an area that is in close proximity to the
convention Center and things of the like.
There's heavy motor vehicle traffic, truck traffic, and things of the like. And this rail has been subjected to
the weight and the over usage in addition to runoff caused by inclement weather and things of the like. And
recognizing as well that this was put in place in the early '90s, and there's been a lot more advancements
relative to regulatory compliance, things that we need to do from a drainage perspective, and things of the
like.
So to answer your question, yes, those five intersections are along like Stout and California running in the
area of the Downtown loop.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification. I also noted there were two different- well, of course, there's the date of initiation of a plan for Welton Corridor, and then there was reference to
downtown Denver at a later date.
But I just wanted to make sure we are talking about two separate areas of track. If I could make a comment
on this one, I personally am a little bit concerned-- and I have this concern generally with how we have
done the point spread-- is that we have not identified, before we sign this contract, what exceeding
expectations means, or meeting expectations, or not meeting expectations.
I think we can agree meeting expectations is the February and the September date. But we don't have a
measurement by which we can say we exceed expectations. And so if a capital project ends up being
completed a few weeks early or a month early, I personally would be uncomfortable with paying more for
performance for things that are largely outside of our control.
And so that's also just a general comment that I had for our other goals as well. We haven't set a rubric,
and we haven't given examples of what it means to meet expectations, exceed expectations. And because
we're not working-- except for perhaps goal number two-- we're not working with baseline data. I think it is
important for us to do that.
So we-- because we don't want to be subjective in this review, where we can help it. As the Chair has noted,
these should be data driv-- excuse me-- data-driven decisions. I did have another question/comment, if I
could, Mr. Chair, on another goal?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. On the welcoming transit environment, it says to vigorously pursue the
passage of legislation. And I recognize that these amendments have been inked, and this is an up or down
vote.
But I just wanted to express that I feel it is important to say pass legislation and not vigorously pursue
legislation. When I was a full time lobbyist, I had SMART goals and pass was the expectation for me.
Additionally, I'm not sure what enhanced penalties for assaults on transit workers means.

I feel like the language is a little too soft. It's not measurable-- missing the M in the SMART. And I would
have liked to see a little more detail there. Of course, legislation can change as it's going through the
process, but I don't think that-- I don't feel that the Board has adequately described what it is that we are
seeking in terms of legislation. And so I just wanted to air that concern.
Finally, I know Mr. Chair you said that some of these things will be worked out at our retreat and afterward.
But again, I do think we're running a little bit of risk in signing these contract amendments and then
negotiating afterward what some of those details mean. So again, this is not to knock anyone on
performance, or our Chair, or a previous Chair.
I know this has been a lot of work, but as this is a whole body decision, I just wanted to express those things
as we move forward. And then, finally, I did-- I had a question, if I could, about the 360 review. So my
understanding is that all 360 reviews are customized.
But what is not clear to me-- and I'd really like to get this clarification before we vote on Monday is-- Tuesday,
excuse me-- is who is going to be part of the 360 review? Is this going to be just senior leadership, is Board
part of the 360 review, will our review be separate? And really, who decides who can provide that feedback?
Is this something the Board has to vote on, or Performance Committee decides? But just some insight into
how that is going to be constructed, I think, would be of benefit.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Regarding the question on 360, I'd like to call on Ms.
Polege. If you wouldn't mind expanding upon the 360 review. And actually, before doing that, Ms. Johnson,
I see your hand went up. Do you have a comment you'd like to make about the 360 review?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I would, Mr. Chair. Thank you. And Ms. Polege can speak to 360 reviews and the
customization, and I'll yield the floor to you to talk about the involvement.
But recognizing that my role, as you could clearly see, by the different elements that put forward relative to
my core based job description, I interact with a multitude of people. And when we talk about the leadership
team, not only do I have the leadership team report to me, but there are other critical positions within this
organization as the accountable Executive as defined by the Federal Transit Administration, which the
General Manager and CEO is.
I would have individuals such as our Chief Safety Officer, I would have our Civil Rights Director in addition
to our [INAUDIBLE] being this Advantaged Business Enterprise Liaison Officer as specified by the FTA,
because there's a dotted line reporting to me, for example. I would have other individuals with whom I
engage with. It could be the Executive Director of DRCOG.
But those conversations would be had by members of the Board, and I would yield to Chair Davidson to
elaborate on that, because it's collective-- because recognizing there could be some critical elements of
different initiatives upon which I'm working, where we would have the individuals being external
stakeholders that would be engaging with me. I can tell you that I have participated in 360 reviews with
people in this region with whom I work with on a regular basis, and some of which could be the Executive
Manager of DRCOG. I participated in that 360.
I participated in a 360 for our General Manager of our concessionaire agreement. So I wanted to provide
that context. It is not a fait accompli. It's contingent upon what we decide going forward and what is germane
relative to my core based job duties and what's working on.

But for instance, it would be impractical to say that we would have a bus operator out of division-- out of the
Platte division opining because that's not somebody with whom I work with directly. So I just wanted to
qualify and provide that input to all of you all. So thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to
share that, and I will yield the floor to Ms. Polege to speak more specifically about the 360 framework.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Ms. Polege, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you. So with respect to customize-- so respectfully, all 360s are not
customized. You can order a 360 through a website, and it's just a standard 360.
What you customize which might be what you're referring to, Director Ruscha, is who would be the
evaluators. That is very specific, and so you do customize that. In this term, using the verbiage of customize,
is that the intent would be that the Board actually would be customizing along with input with from the GM
and CEO the actual question.
So we have in that component, there's values. There's also the base jobs, so strategy, execution and then
there's-- so we just focus on those. What questions would the Board like to see that would reference how
the GM and CEO would be showing up demonstrating those values?
Our values are unique to RTD. Therefore, the questions would have to reflect those values as well as the
job. I'm going by memory, but quickly, the job description has very clear criteria, areas of focus. One would
be Board interaction.
So again, what would the Board like to see for those questions that the reviewers would respond to. What
does Board interaction look like? What does external relationships-- and then, of course, the day-to-day
management and execution.
So the idea is working with that third party. The Board is actually creating that 360 that is very customized
to the agency with respect. And in addition, they would be determining, to your question around the
evaluators, who would be-- not the specific individuals, but how many evaluators would you want to have?
Keep in mind, in a 360, there's equal. So the Board would determine their evaluators, and the GM and CEO
would also be able to determine their evaluators relative to the specific areas. So the beauty, I think, in this
process is as you're working with the external consultants, you're designing and developing that 360 to
meet the needs of the agency as opposed to grabbing something off the shelf, which would give you some
input, but may not address to the specificity. And so you would-- the last thing I'd say would have a number
of externals.
You would have various-- could have various degrees within the agency. So could be-- you could have an
operator, you could have whatever areas you wish, as well as members of the leadership team. And of
course, some Board members, although it would be unusual to have all Board members just given the size
of the Board. And of course, it would be difficult for-- would have to be the GM and CEO gets to identify
some Board members, and then the Board would have to so you can see the conflict there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege. I appreciate it. I would like to-- yeah, Director Ruscha, please
go ahead for a response-- Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. I suppose I should have said that there's not a Universal 360 review, but I
think Ms. Polege did make my point on the customization piece. So what-- and it could be-- it could just be
a little bit of COVID head, so I apologize.

But what's not clear to me is in our scoring, and how we'll arrive at the final aggregate score, where the
Board's review comes in. Is that still to be determined? Will we still have a separate scoring process that
will be part of, I assume, a total table?
And that was part of the reason why I asked if the Board would be part of a 360 review. So that's one
question I have. And then a comment. I do think particularly because we have now removed the net
promoter score from this process and also the customer, when we talk about management performance
and that evaluation framework, I actually do think it is important-- and it could be random sampling-- but I
think it is important for this to also go out to some rank and file employees and other employees in the
organization that might not work as closely with our GM/CEO, because ultimately, she does set the culture,
and she does manage those staffs that manage other folks.
And I also think it ties in to that goal number two of creating that employee-centric framework. So you know
whether that's part of a 360 or a 180, I do think it is important that we capture that. So-- because I also think
that will help the Board as well in our policy goals, our collective goals in terms of our strategic framework.
I think I've said this before, but I just want to say it again-- my feeling is that our GM/CEO's goals are our
goals. And while ultimately, she is our GM and our leader, we do have a co-governance model and a coleadership model, and so we need to take equal responsibility for all of these-- for any results that come,
whether it was last year's net promoter scores, this year's goals, or any other framework that we might be
constructing in the future. So thank you very much for your time and answering my questions, and I really
appreciate the conversation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Appreciated feedback, and certainly this will be coming
back in front of the full Board for approval at the following Tuesday should this pass by the committee. And
with that, we do have quite a few things on the agenda, so I'm going to go ahead and call for the vote on
this recommended action. So are there any no votes on this recommended action from our Executive
Committee members?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair, I think we should note for the record that we dropped one Executive Committee
member. So there are only-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you Second-- yeah, thank you, First Vice Chair Catlin. I'm just noticing that as
well. So I'm going to do a quick roll call vote for the yes or no. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet, are you there? And this is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. That's one
absent and 4 yes votes. So thank you for that.

With that, we are going to move on to our next recommended action. This ties into the framework and goal
adoption that we just discussed. This is the seventh amendment to the General Manager and CEO
employment agreement.
This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the seventh amendment to the employment agreement with
General Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson to establish the 2024 pay for performance framework
consistent with the Board adopted General Manager and CEO compensation philosophy. Do I have a
motion?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved. Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have a Secretary Guzman as the movement, and the second as Second Vice Chair
Guissinger. I will briefly present this item. Again, we have quite a bit to get through here. This is-- we've
already dialogued on the framework and the goals.
This is to solidify that point-based system. There are several things that are happening here. I would
encourage Directors, as we proceed to the vote here, you can reference package page 35 and 36 for some
of the key points.
This is bringing us into alignment with the compensation philosophy adopted by this Board, and this is to
adopt the framework we just discussed. Again, I would note that there are several in the discussion item.
You will see that there are several key points this is establishing the 2024 pay for performance assessment
point distribution and corresponding adjusted base salary increase range for which the General Manager
and CEO is eligible.
This is requiring the Board of Directors to conduct a total compensation study and take appropriate action
by October 31, 2024. You can see the details of that in the contract that has been distributed and reviewed.
And this is also to eliminate the automatic uncapped cost of living adjustment contingent on the Board's
completion of the compensation study and action. With that, I'd like to just turn to any questions and
discussion from the Executive Committee at this time.
OK, seeing no questions or discussion. Again, I know we have quite a bit to get through here, and this will
come before the full Board. Are there any questions or discussion from non-committee members?
OK, seeing none. I'm again going to call the roll vote. So we just make sure that we know who we have
here. First Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet? Treasurer Bouquet is absent. And this is Chair Davidson. I am also
a yes. That again is four yes votes with one absent.
Thank you very much. With that, we are going to move on to our third recommended action. This is a bylaw
change to create annual committee work plans. This is for the Board to amend the bylaws to add Article 6,
the committees of the Board section 4 work plans to create work plans for each standing committee. Do we
have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movement as First Vice Chair Catlin and our second as Second Vice Chair
Guissinger. With that, Mr. Kroll, first of all-- our Board Office Executive Manager-- I'd like to say thank you
for your work on this. Thank you for helping us move this forward.
I think this is a way to bring some discipline and some structure to the smaller committees that we have
adopted, and is a continued evolution of our new committee structure. So thank you, Mr. Kroll, for your
work. And with that, I will turn the floor over to you for presenting this item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. This is Board Office Executive Manager Jack Kroll here. I just
want to real quickly highlight one change that came forward on this relative to the discussions that occurred
at the Executive Committee meeting earlier this month and at the committee meetings as well.
There were some open ended questions as to how changes would be made to these work plans once
approved by the committees. And I've added some language here at the end of the bylaw-- the proposed
bylaw change that states adjustments and additions to the work plan can be made by the Committee Chair
in consultation with the Committee Vice Chair and responsible RTD staff. And I think that language
addresses the concerns around-- Directors had around how changes get made to these work plans once
they're approved, and ensuring that change process isn't overly onerous.
And with that, this is effectively the same bylaw change that you all initially discussed in October at the
study session and then saw a draft of at the November Board meeting. And following our methodical
process for updating the bylaws, it was communicated out more than 10 days in advance what the proposed
change was. And this, should the Executive Committee recommend it for action by the Board next week,
would require 10 votes.
That is not changed, even though the Board sits at 14 members. You would still require 10 votes to adopt
a bylaw amendment. And with that, Chair Davidson, I'm happy to take any questions, and I yield the floor
back to you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll. And also thank you to our Second Vice Chair and former
Chair of the Board Guissinger for her work preparing this as well in conjunction with Mr. Kroll and the Board
Office. We'll go to questions and discussion. I see First Vice Chair Catlin first. Please, go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I like the language on packet page 105 clarifying how these work
plans would be amended. I am one of the Board members that expressed some concern that we might get
bogged down with process.

And we want to make sure that this is a guiding document for the committee to complete its work. So thank
you for that clarification in the Amendment, and I'm happy with it as it stands. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, first Vice Chair Catlin. Other questions or discussions from anyone on the
Board, committee or otherwise? Again, I'd like to say thank you.
I think this is definitely the definition of let's not let perfect be the enemy of good. We can create these work
plans, work with them for the year, see how they work. This gives an opportunity for the chairs to engage
their committee members to ensure priorities are agreed to. There's consensus around priorities.
I really look forward to seeing how this takes shape and evolves in the years to come. So thank you for the
work. I'll go ahead and call for a roll vote again, starting with First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger? Come back around for it. Secretary Guzman.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh-- yes. Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet, I believe, is absent. And this is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. That is
4 yes votes with one absent.
And so Thank you very much for that. And again, we're going to discuss a bylaw change. We're moving to
our final recommended action, which is bylaw change to set a time limit on Board and committee meetings.
This is for the Board of Directors to amend Article IV meetings, section 8 recesses and adjournments, to
set a time limit on the length of meetings of the Board and its committees. Do we have a motion? Do we
have a motion to proceed with the recommended action?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The movement of Second Vice Chair Guissinger. A second?
PEGGY CATLIN: I'll second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: A second from First Vice Chair Catlin. With that, again, I'm going to ask Mr. Jack Kroll,
our Board Office Executive Manager, to please present the item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office here again.
I'm not going to share my screen on this one as there's no new language that's been inserted to this since
the last time you all saw this. The last time this was presented was at the October study session. And at
that point, you saw a draft of this bylaw change as it appears now again in the packet.
Again, it was communicated 10 days in advance, per your bylaws, and will require 10 votes of support at
the meeting next week, should the Executive Committee recommend it to be considered at that point.

One thing that I will note is that I did share out some additional information on the times for the meetings
this year via email. And there were a number of meetings that exceeded four hours as well as 3.5 hours.
It should be noted, though, for those meetings, many of them had an Executive session attached to it. And
so as you consider this, that data is available. And it will be included in the packet that goes out next week
to the full Board as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With that, I'll open up for questions and comments. I
would like to state for the record, I am going to be a yes vote on this. I have thought about this, given some
of the dialogue that we've had.
I just wanted to be crystal clear that, again, I think this is-- as with anything we do, we can test things and
see how they work. From my standpoint, I think as the Board considers this, if we have critical business
that is taking us a while to get through, we can always move to extend the meeting and ensure that we
complete that business.
But for me, this is as much about meeting preparation and the discipline that goes into that preparation to
make the meetings as efficient as possible as anything else. So I am in support of this. And it really has to
do with the meeting preparation and the idea that there is flexibility to, of course, extend the meeting to
include any critical work of the people. With that, I'll open up for questions and comments from other
Directors. Yes, Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I just wanted to say that I agree with what you're saying. I don't think anybody's
trying to limit our meetings without getting our work done, and this still allows us to do that. So I'll also be a
yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the comments. Other comments or questions from committee members
or other Directors? Seeing no other comments, I'm going to go ahead and call for the roll vote again. First
Vice Chair Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Second Vice Chair Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Treasurer Bouquet? And this is Chair Davidson. I am a yes. That are three yeses, one
no, and one absent. Secretary Guzman, I see that your hand is up. Did you want to make a comment? OK,
no problem. Mr. Kroll, please go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Director Davidson, I just want to draw your attention to the fact that Treasurer Bouquet joined
just after the vote on that last issue.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ah, thank you. Treasurer Bouquet, thank you for joining us. We just finished a vote on
the bylaw change to set a time limit on Board and committee meetings. Treasurer Bouquet, would you like
to vote yes or no on that?

JULIEN BOUQUET: I am a yes. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thank you. Let the record reflect a correction to what I previously noted that that has
four yes votes and one no vote, the one no vote being Secretary Guzman. Thank you very much. With that,
we are going to move on to our January Board meeting agenda review. Is there a motion to move the
January Board agenda to the Board meeting on January 30?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second, Guzman.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the movement as Treasurer Bouquet, the second as Secretary Guzman. Thank
you. I have two items I want to bring up before we approve this agenda. First of all, the Board report for the
committee assignments will be updated prior to the packet publishing for the Board meeting.
The Board report included in this packet does not list the committee assignments. So that will be updated.
Second, I want to note and let everyone know that I will be adding to this agenda a proclamation for former
Director Kate Williams.
We will be reading this proclamation and celebrating Director Williams seven years of service to this Board.
And immediately-- that will be immediately following the public comment portion of the meeting. So with
that, I wanted to highlight that important proclamation will be added to that agenda.
That's something I would like to move forward. And that being stated, with the current agenda published in
the packet that you have, noting that the committee assignments will be updated, and noting that I will be
adding the proclamation for Director-- or former Director Kate Williams. Are there any discussion or
questions with regards to the agenda?
Seeing none. And given that we do have Treasurer Bouquet back, I'll again go back to calling for whether
there are any no votes. So are there any no votes against approving the agenda with the one addition
regarding the proclamation of former Director Kate Williams? Any no votes? Seeing none.
That is 5 yes votes and 0 no votes. The motion will pass. With that, we are going to move into discussion
items. We do have three discussion items here today. Thank you Directors for your patience and
participating in the meeting.
I do recognize that there are some time constraints impending for some Directors, but I would like to proceed
with these discussion items. The first item will be the Board and committee meeting accessibility policy
considerations. At this time, I would like to ask Mr. Carl Green Jr., Our Director of Civil-- the Civil Rights
Division, to please introduce this item and the associated presentation to the committee.
Mr. Green will also be joined in presenting this by Gabe Christie, our ADA Manager, and Jack Kroll, our
Executive Manager for the Board Office. So Mr. Green, thank you for your patience, and thank you for
joining us today. And please, the floor is yours, sir.
CARL GREEN: Thank you, Chair Davidson, and good afternoon also to the Executive Committee members,
as well as fellow RTD colleagues. Again, my name is Carl Green, Jr., the Director of the Civil Rights Division.
Today, we'll be presenting on the Board meeting accessibility policy as part of this discussion item.

And the two main presenters for this afternoon again is Gabe Christie, ADA Manager, and Jack Kroll, the
Executive Manager for the Board Office. Next slide. To give you an overview of what to expect, the first
item we'll touch on is that adherence requirements with respect to the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Secondarily, we'll get into Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. From there, we'll get into the assessment
and then get into the proposed policy options. And then we'll conclude this presentation with opening up
the floor for questions and discussion. With that being said, I'll now pass it over to Mr. Christie.
GABE CHRISTIE: Thank you, Carl. And again, my name is Gabe Christie. I'm RTD's ADA Manager. And
so we're going to start off talking about the ADA and Civil Rights Act requirements and what RTD and the
Board are required to do and provide. Next slide, please.
And so under the ADA, what's required of you is to ensure equitable access to communications for both-as both a public entity and is required of private entities. And so we're required to provide auxiliary aids.
Those auxiliary aids can include written material, audio recordings, sign language interpretation, either
virtual or in-person, transcription, Braille material, large print documents, anything that a customer would
need.
What's needed is an auxiliary aid is indicated by the customer. And then we as the entity work to provide
that. We can require that people provide those requests in advance.
Currently, we require two days in advance. And we utilize this because-- oh, back to the previous slide,
please. We utilize this because it's important for us to pay respect to the fact that about 9% of the population
within the service area are persons with disabilities, and about 3% to 4% of that 9% are people with hearingbased disabilities.
And so this provides us a unique ability to meet that part of the community where they're at. Next slide,
please. Under the Civil Rights Act, we're also required to take reasonable steps to make our services our
programs and activities accessible to persons who speak English with limited proficiency or people who
have Limited English Proficiency, or LEP.
LEP is defined by the US Census as those who speak English less than very well. And so currently, RTD
provides oral and written interpretation of vital information. We provide language assistance to non-English
customers upon request, and we provide written translation also upon request.
Now, for oral interpretation and for written interpretation, we provide Spanish, Vietnamese, Chinese,
Korean, and Russian. And for oral interpretation, we provide Mandarin. And for translation, we provide
simplified Chinese. Next slide, please.
To determine what is a reasonable-- to determine what languages are needed to be covered as reasonable
and timely language assistance services, we utilize the safe harbor languages within the service area to
determined that. And so safe harbor languages are determined on local population demographics.
In the RTD service area, we have 21 safe harbor languages. And to determine those safe harbor languages,
we go through what's called a four-factor analysis. We analyze four factors, the first being the number or
proportion of LEP persons eligible who are likely to be encountered or served by RTD programs, activities,
or services.
We also evaluate the frequency, which persons would come into contact with RTD's program, services or
activities. Also the nature and importance of those programs and the resources available to RTD and overall

cost to provide language assistance. And so currently, 68.4% of our population LEP population is Spanish
speaking, followed by 4.4% speaking Vietnamese, 2.2% speaking Chinese, and 2.1% speaking Russian
and Korean respectively.
Next slide, please. Excuse me. And so RTD is established for business for language assistance as well as
auxiliary aids and services upon request. Currently, RTD member meetings and agendas are published
with the following notice. And it's the-- we ask that customers contact us at least 48 hours in advance of
RTD meetings by calling the number indicated on the slide.
And we provide language assistance, sign language interpreters, assistive listening devices, and those
documents in alternative formats. But we're not limited to providing those as well. Whatever the customer
would indicate, we ask that they let us know 20-- excuse me, 48 business hours in advance. Next slide,
please.
And so we also took the time to evaluate what other public agencies do and to assess the other local
governments and regional transit agencies. And so shown here are six transit agencies, which we
evaluated. And we'll start on the top-left, and that's Capital Metro.
Capital Metro provides an effective communication by request with no specific service offered initially, so
they do not provide captioning or CART unless there is a request. At the Utah Transit Authority, the Utah
Transit Authority provides live captions and additional services by request with two days in advance as the
cutoff. So they mirror the same process we use.
And that's also true with TriMet, who provides-- they provide live captions and additional services by request
with a two-day lead time. For the Jacksonville Transit Authority, it is strictly upon request. And for Long
Beach-- yeah, for Long Beach Transit, they provide services upon request, but their new Board room has
been built with closed captioning capabilities built in, so closed captions are provided automatically.
And then-- and the Kansas City area, they also provide those upon request. For the local and state
governments, the Colorado General Assembly provides CART upon request at least two days in advance.
And the Denver City Council, CART is available upon request.
They provide three days of lead time to request. For the Commerce City city council, CART is available
upon request. There is not a timeline indicated, though in Commerce City, the request is to ask as soon as
possible.
In the Aurora City council, CART is available upon request, but Spanish language interpretation is provided
automatically without request. And so other language translations can be requested the Friday before any
Monday meeting for city of Aurora meetings. And so with that information provided, now I'd like to pass it
to Jack Kroll to speak about these proposed options and estimated costs.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Mr. Christie, and thank you, Mr. Green, as well for the introductions and for your
assistance in pulling this together. I enjoyed working on this project with you, and look forward to getting
direction from the staff, and collaborating with you-- or excuse me, getting direction from the Board, and
collaborating further with you all based off of that information.
So as staff sees it There are really two options for the Board that we're recommending one is to maintain
the practice of providing CART services and language translation upon request. That's the current practice.
I think it would be-- even if that's the route that's chosen, it would be beneficial to put this down in a policy
so that it's well understood, and that we can share it out.

And also one of the things we found as we surveyed our fellow peers and local government and across the
transit landscape nationally is that very few agencies or governments have this written down in actual policy.
And so this will allow these types of opportunities, or these obligations rather to live on further once they're
down in policy. Second path is to provide CART and Spanish language translation services at your Board
and committee meetings by default.
So as Mr. Christie mentioned, the city of Aurora provides Spanish language interpretation by default at all
of its meetings. That would be similar to that you all would take if you chose the automatic route here, which
is with CART and Spanish language, you would provide those by default.
In theory, you could also choose to provide one by default and not the other. But there's a reason behind
why we're recommending CART and Spanish as these two areas. One is just the previous requests we've
received on this. And as Gabe presented earlier, of that population LEP in our service area, Spanish is the
most common language that those individuals who are less than English proficient are relying on to engage
with our services.
So in addition to those two routes, this would again apply to all of the full Board and committee meetings.
We would recommend that the policy that we would bring back is piloted for 2024 and then revisited in
2025. And then for any additional meetings that are held outside of standard Board, committee, and full
Board meetings, we would ask the Directors who say, for example, might be doing a town Hall.
If they have need for auxiliary aids at any of those events to ensure public participation is at its fullest, it
would just be asked to directly coordinate with the Board Office. And the Board Office would make the
arrangements for that as well as cover the costs for it. So here's a little bit about our estimated costs. On
the left-hand side of this chart, you see the 2023 costs for services provided for CART and Spanish
language interpretation.
This represents three requests that we received for Board and committee meetings. I will note that we did
receive additional requests for non-Board and committee meetings that we did provide CART services at
that were Board member functions.
And we did receive one Spanish interpretation request that was the June 2023 Board meeting. But we also
received an additional request that was outside of a Board or committee meeting, but it was a town hall that
Directors had done in which Spanish interpretation was requested. You can see the costs for those services
there. We worked closely-- the Civil Rights Division as did the Board Office-- to come up with the estimates
you see on the right-hand side, which are your annual estimates for costs.
Roughly $29,000 for CART, and roughly 26,700 for Spanish translation. And that's assuming you provide
CART and Spanish interpretation at every Board and committee meeting that were estimated to have.
There's some chance that there are more meetings, there are some chance that there are fewer meetings.
You can see we looked at the data from the past year as to how long the Board spent in meetings and had
an estimate of around 165 hours of Board meetings over the course of a year at either the committee or full
Board level. So the next steps is we were looking for your input as well as the Board's input on a one-year
pilot policy. And we would bring that back next month based off of your input.
And then if it's passed, it would be put into effect. And then the Board would be asked to revisit based off
of the data we could gather for how well used these services were and present that to you all either late

this year or early into 2025. And with that, that concludes our presentation. And we are all available and
happy to engage in any further discussion and take any questions you may have.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Kroll, and Mr. Green, and Mr. Christie for preparing all of this,
for the work that went into that, and for a great presentation here. Really appreciate it. At this time, I'll open
up for questions and discussion from committee members or non-committee members of the Board.
Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. I just want to say I appreciate this work very much. Access and equity
provide us the opportunity to serve the public better. And I would be in favor of continuing this conversation.
I do apologize. I am in the transition mode to work, because I have to go for my shift. But I wanted to hear
this presentation, so thank you for all of your hard work, and it has my support.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Very much appreciate it. Treasurer Bouquet, please go
ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, thank you very much. I'm literally in the same situation as Director Guzman. I'm
going to have to hop off soon due to my teaching obligation. But I did want to echo my support ultimately
for this not recommended action, but discussion item. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Other questions and discussion from any member of the Board on the
committee or not on the committee? Yes, Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I just wanted to say I really appreciate the effort that's going into
this, because particularly for those of us who are hearing disadvantaged, knowing that we have the CART
available is extremely beneficial. And the system that we have to connect the sound in the meeting room
directly to my hearing aids sometimes doesn't work.
And so that's something that brings me back to using the CART. So I'm glad to see that we're talking about
that. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I just wanted to echo what Director Tisdale said. As a person
who is extremely hard of hearing, having CART makes a huge difference for me in being able to
meaningfully participate in our meetings.
Before we had CART, I probably was able to understand 50% or 60% of what was said. And now with
CART, it's 80% or 90%. That makes a huge difference. I also just wanted to note that relative to what other
government agencies do, a lot of them also do stream their meetings on public television. Like here, we
have channel 8.
So although Denver City Council doesn't do CART proactively, they don't have to because closed
captioning is already available on channel 8. And that might also be the same for other local governments
and transit agencies. So for example, when I was an employee at the City and County of Denver, I actually
had channel 8 streaming on my laptop during our city council meetings just so that I could accurately capture
what was being said in the room even though I was in the room live.
So I just wanted to make that note. There might be other ways people can access closed captioning, and
we just weren't able to get that in our research. And then finally, I did want to note the studies show that

more than half of Americans use closed captioning when they watch TV. And overall, across different
devices, that number is about 80% for various reasons.
But studies have also shown that about 20% of English language users also use closed captioning almost
exclusively to help with language acquisition. And so am in favor of this, and I hope we move forward with
it. And think this is a way to also demonstrate our values as an agency, and encourage public participation.
And again, making sure that we're not creating any access barriers. I did note that we all know that there is
a cost to this, but relative to an $800-plus million operating budget, I think it's almost a rounding error. So I
would encourage my fellow Directors to support this action when it comes before us. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Oh, Director Davidson, you are on mute.
ERIK DAVIDSON: My apologies. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the comments. Mr. Kroll, I see your hand
is raised. Please, go ahead.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, thank you, Chair Davidson. I'm just chiming in on behalf of staff here. We appreciate
the sentiments of support, but could use a little bit more direction as to which route you would like us to go
here.
Would you like us to go the as-requested route or the automatic route with these? We don't need a firm
answer obviously today, but the discussion will return to the Board meeting next week so that we can get
the broader opinions of the Board. But as you all think, please chime in with that. And if you need some
more time to think about it, as I mentioned, it'll be a discussion next week as well.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the clarity on that. I'll go ahead and call for those who have commented,
if they'd like to clarify. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Just one point, and then I'll give my advice. The CART also provides a
real-time contemporaneous transcript of what's going on, so in case we get lost in legislative procedure, we
have that record available, which is really awesome. And then the second one is I would be all for the -- I
believe it was the second option, which is to have them standing over the year to see how that goes for the
committees. Thank you, both Spanish and-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Secretary Guzman. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I favor the automatic. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Tisdale. First Vice Chair Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I'm in favor of the automatic given that this is a pilot program and we can
assess the data after a year.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I would support the automatic as well. It sounds like it's helpful and important. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. And I'll comment, I also support the automatic option too. And Mr.
Green and Mr. Christie, I'd particularly like to Thank you for studying what other agencies-- what other
transit agencies have done and for looking at what other local governments have done.

I think that's informative. And I also think there's an opportunity for us to lead. It was particularly helpful to
understand our customer base, and especially the breakdown when we're looking at language. And I think
it's very important for us to be mindful of being as part of our welcoming transit environment.
So I thank you for the work on this, for looking into it, for presenting it, and for doing the research so we
understand where we fall. And Mr. Kroll, thank you for positioning it as a pilot program so that we're able to
understand the budget measure, adjust that on a go-forward basis, revisit this, and make some long-term
decisions after we do this for 2024.
So thank you, everybody, for your comments. I hear a lot of consensus on the Executive Committee as well
as the Board members that are present here, not on Executive committee, to move forward with further
investigation ultimately pursuit of a recommended action on option two. Given that there's been some
discussion and some comment, I'd like to open up for staff.
Mr. Kroll, or Mr. Green, or Mr. Christie, if there's any clarification you'd like to seek or if there's any further
discussion, and also Ms. Johnson, if there's any comments you'd like to make as well with regards to
clarification of proceedings. So anybody that would like to raise their hand from staff on the Board Office or
otherwise, please feel free to raise your hand now.
Seeing none. Thank you very much for the assistance on this and for that discussion item. We're going to
move to our next discussion item. This is our second of three. This is with regards to the-- this is our monthly
government relations report for January 2024. Mr. Davies, thank you for your patience here into a lengthy
meeting here. Please, go ahead and provide your report.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government Relations
Officer. And as you noted, it won't take much of your time during this lengthy meeting, as you have many
items to move through. But a brief report on government relations at the federal level, I'm pleased to correct
the written report and clarify that Congress was able to pass a continuing resolution, which funds
transportation programs through the-- or through the Department of Transportation.
That is funded through March 1. They have a little bit of a split level. March 1 is for transportation programs.
Other programs funded through the government go to March 8. But for our purposes, paying attention to
transportation programs that will go to March 1.
And hopefully, we see a full year budget completed by that time. Lastly, as noted in the report, at the federal
level, there has been some activity regarding FTA and their communications around the importance of
taking some action and bringing awareness to assaults on transit workers. I know the Board has talked
about this, so I just wanted to make sure that the Board is aware of the FTA's actions around this important
topic.
Moving on to state items, this the regular legislative session has begun. As noted in the written report, one
of the bills that of course, the TLRC was paying attention to over the interim has been introduced, and it
has been scheduled. Now, it's scheduled for its first committee hearing in the Senate-- or Transportation
and Energy Committee on February 5 at 1:30.
Included in that bill, which is Senate Bill 2403. The title of that is Methods to Increase the Use of Transit.
And that's sponsored by senators Kevin Priola, Senator Sonya Jaquez Lewis, and Representative
Stephanie Vigil.

That bill includes a couple of elements. One of them is funding to continue the Ozone Season Transit Grant
program, which funds RTD's Zero Fare for Better Air program. Second is funding and the creation of a grant
program to fund Zero Fare for youth programs throughout the state of Colorado, which of course, RTD is
an eligible applicant for that program.
Lastly, there are two other aspects of that bill. One of them is to essentially create a study to look at a
statewide transit pass. That would be CDOT that would really be taking that study on.
And lastly, there is a refundable income tax credit that is included in there that would be basically for
individuals to be able to file for that tax credit. There would be a process for an individual to do that, and
that'd be for 30% of the amount spent on a transit pass.
And it's important to note that when they say transit passes, that's at least a monthly pass. It's at least 30
days of transit passes. So that is really the big news in terms of bill movement that I think the Board needs
to be aware about. As you all have received in the past, I've produced a legislative tracking chart.
I'm putting together bills that will be tracking, and will commence sending that out shortly so that the Board
is aware of all bills that may have a potential to impact the agency. And then lastly, I don't know if you all
had an opportunity to listen to the Governor's State of the State address, but transit certainly was a big
theme.
As noted in the address, there is certainly a desire for the governor to work with the legislature on some
sort of a transit bill and work with RTD. There is no draft bill. Staff is not aware of any draft language, so it's
difficult for me to report anything concrete to the Board at this time.
But of course, we're tracking this very closely, and we'll keep the Board up to date as soon as any actual
language or proposal is cemented. Moving over to the local level, I just-- quickly, we have been working to
schedule a number of opportunities to engage with local members. Board members that are representing
certain areas have been notified of potential options to attend and participate with local elected officials.
And that really is over the month of February and March.
And of course, we'll report back to the full Board on those discussions and anything of note there. With that,
that concludes my report, and happy to take any questions. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies. Very helpful report, very thorough report. Very, very much
appreciated. I certainly would just like to say it's very nice to see a bill come forward that does introduce
the concept of additional funding for our Ozone Season Transit Grant program as well as the Zero Fare for
Youth, things that move the needle for us and the tax credit as well.
So thank you for the report, and certainly encouraging to see some things that are helpful at some level of
funding for transit. I'm going to go ahead and call for committee members first on questions, then I'll move
to other Directors for questions. So I will start with Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks so much, Mr. Davies. Just a quick question. Are you looking for Board support
and testifying on the bill on February 5th?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes, absolutely-ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE].

MICHAEL DAVIES: Oh, yes. Thank you, Chair. Yes, absolutely, and I can send that information out to
Board members to make sure you're aware of the exact time and date and room.
I saw our General Manager Johnson's hand go up. I believe she will be attending and testifying on behalf
of RTD. But I think it would be welcomed any Board members that want to come and speak their mind and
support in terms of some of the efforts we've worked on in this bill.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Davies, and thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Yes, and I think
you've certainly encouraged the participation and support there. I'm not seeing other committee members.
I'll call on other Board members. And I'm seeing a Director Ruscha. Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. This is for-- just a request for anyone who might be able to help
us out. Is it possible for us to get an explainer, like a briefing, on what the current status is related -- for
assault on transit workers in terms of what state law says and what federal law says? And any changes
that have been made over the last couple of years to statute?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr. Davies or Ms. Johnson, I'm wondering if you'd
want to comment on that. I think, if I understand the question, Director Ruscha, it's a status report on where
are we currently, and what in our legislative program adopted, what is it that we'd be moving towards.
So with that, I'll open the floor to Ms. Johnson. I see your hand is out. Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Director Ruscha, thank you for the question. Yes, we
can work to get you that, recognizing that this has been an issue that has been prevalent across the country.
And I've been working with my agency leads in Chicago, New York, other Metropolitan areas-- Seattle as
well. And so we can provide you with federal law and we can provide you with the changes that have
occurred hence why we specifically-- why I have been such a stalwart as it relates to ensuring that we can
have a welcoming transit environment.
So I will provide under separate cover that-- a timeline, but we should be able to compile that. And I don't
want to misspeak without conferring with my staff relative to when you would receive that, but I wou ld say
within the next two weeks probably, if not sooner. Mr. Davies?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, General Manager Johnson. And yes, I have actually-- I've been
working on a one-pager that I think would be helpful for the Board to be able to use in their own advocacy
efforts around this. This topic is-- and largely, I've been working on that in response to the Board's
comments and questions during the adoption of the legislative program, and trying to provide details and
helpful information and materials to the Board to be able to take that active role in advocating for items that
you all have voted on to support.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the question, Director Ruscha. Thank you, Ms. Johnson and Mr. Davies
for that. Very much appreciate it. And Mr. Davies, thank you for the organization in all of this-- of developing
those types of materials and these reports.
It's very helpful and easy to track and follow. So I appreciate that a great deal. Not seeing other questions
or discussion item on this. Again, thank you, Mr. Davies.

We're going to move finally to our final discussion item, which is with regards to the station naming policy
review. At this time, I would like to turn the floor over to our Board Office Executive Manager, Mr. Jack Kroll,
to please introduce and present this discussion item.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office here again.
The Board has received a number of communications going back to August and September of last year, as
have staff, around the idea of potentially renaming Civic Center Station after Wade Blank. And at the behest
of the Board-- certain Board members who have received this communication, as well as the Chair, when
we received a letter from the General Assembly membership-- or many members of the General Assembly,
I should say, I went ahead and began to do some research on what the policy here is.
The policy is in effect formulated by three actions the Board took over time. However, I can say there is not
a single cohesive document titled The RTD Station Naming Policy. Rather, there were three Board actions- one in 1994, one in 2003, and one in 2011 that effectively comprise what is your station naming policy.
Your current policy really only contemplates, as have transit agencies nationally, naming of your stations
with a primary focus on ensuring the riding public can navigate the system. Nothing in your policy precludes
you from renaming a station right now after an individual. However, nothing in your policy really states how
you should do that.
And I don't want you all to feel overwhelmed by this topic. What I am asking you all for today is to provide
us direction on, do you even want to go down the route of considering a name change after-- and really,
any Station for an individual? If you do want to go that route and open the door to potentially changing
station names to accommodate recognition of prominent individuals, what recommendations do you have
for us on that policy?
And then as far as drafting and creating a policy is concerned, my recommendation is that you all select-the chairs select two Board members to work closely with the Board Office and senior staff who are
intimately and very closely involved in the management of our station names to bring back
recommendations to you all in March. So hopefully, this report provided a little bit of background on the
situation.
But again, you're not being asked to say let's rename a station right now. You're simply being asked, is this
something you want to open the door to, and by opening that door, what's the process by which you want
to go about establishing a policy so that people may bring ideas such as this forward to the Board for their
consideration? And with that, I'm happy to yield the floor back to you, Chair Davidson, and take any
questions and direction on this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Kroll for presenting that, and for the thoughtfulness of doing the research,
and looking at what exists and what doesn't exist. With that, I'll open up the floor for any questions or input,
given that Mr. Kroll is seeking some input and guidance. First, I'll start with the Executive Committee, please.
Not seeing hands on the Executive Committee. I'm happy to weigh in on this. I do think it is-- the public who
we represent on this Board looks to us to be disciplined and methodical in our approach, and ensure that
we are managing all interests of the public. So I just would note that I think whenever we identify that we
have the absence of process-- the absence of something that we can lean on-- we need to address that.

We need to fix that before proceeding with something. So I am in support of pursuing policy-- research on
a broad policy that we can lean on for any particular decision. I'm supportive of the approach you asked for
that the Chair would identify and two members of the Board to work with staff.
And I'm happy to work with Ms. Johnson to identify the staff members that would be then working alongside
Board members. I do have some thoughts around that, and would ask my colleagues to give me two
business days to put forward a proposal of who that would be. So I am supportive of proceeding with that.
I do see some hands have gone up from the Executive Committee, and we'll go ahead and call on them in
turn. So Second Vice Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Sorry, it took me a minute to get my hand up there. But I support this.
Let's move it forward. We need a policy. In particular, we've had the question raised with regard to Civic
Center and Reverend Wade Blank, and we need to be able to answer that question. And I think the way to
do that is to do the analysis, and as you said, have Board members join with staff and looking at a proposed
policy. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair. First Vice Chair Catlin, please. You are on mute.
PEGGY CATLIN: Whoops. I support your proposal, Chair Davidson. I really think we have to craft a fairly
tight policy, because this could be ripe for some-- just a lot of people putting forth names on a personal
request basis. I think putting together a tight policy before we make a decision on the request of Mr-- or
Reverend Wade, I think, would be helpful.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, first Vice Chair. Yeah, agreed. Secretary Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I'm in agreement-- just ditto all the previous comments. I think we need to do that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I'll open up for other Directors at this time as well. I see Director Ruscha.
Please, go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm also in agreement. And to Ms. First Vice Chair's comment, I
think that we need to set a high bar, and that is part of creating that really tight methodical process. And I
also just wanted to thank Mr. Kroll for his work and all the research that he has given us so far. It was really
helpful to get that context.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Given that this has named collaboration with staff and has
substantial implications on what could become a go-forward policy, I would like to call on our Madam
General Manager and CEO Debra Johnson, if she would like to comment. You're welcome to do so, but I'd
just like to call on you given that we've discussed the collaboration with staff here. Is there anything you'd
like to say, Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you to all Board members that have
offered their opinion relative to the subject. I appreciate the efforts that are going to be undertaken. I would
say we must have a policy and be intentional because of adverse impacts relative to costs and things of
the like.
I do recall when I first arrived to the agency, this was brought up once before by a former Board member,
and recognizing that when utilizing a transit system, specifically, we utilize geographic locations for ease of
orientation going forward. But with that being said, there's a myriad of different ways in which we can
explore.

So once the Board and you, Mr. Chair, have designated a path forward, please know that staff is here to
work collectively and cooperatively, and will look at all different elements, including financial costs and
things of the like, recognizing the change out of signage, and what we are able to do with the constraints
within our system relative to head signs and other type of information that we utilize going forward with
character limitations and things of the like. I'm not saying that as a deterrent, but I'm saying all of those
things need to be taken into consideration as we go forward. Thank you very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson, for commenting on that. And thank
you for the collaborative spirit and offer for partnership there. With that, Mr. Kroll, I'm hearing some
consensus that we would proceed with this.
By the end of Friday of this week, I'll communicate to you who two Directors might be after having had an
opportunity to speak with them. And then we can-- Ms. Johnson, I'll be reaching out to you as well, and we
can dialogue about the path forward. So thank you, Mr. Kroll, for organizing that. Thank you to the Directors
for input, and thank you, Ms. Johnson, as well.
With that, we will move into other matters. I'll just-- there's-- I know we're long on this. There's just one
matter I'll briefly touch on myself, which is our 2024 Board retreat. In the next few days, I am working with
the Board Office and First Vice Chair Catlin to finalize the selection of a Board retreat facilitator. Once one
has been selected, I'll then turn my attention to finalizing the agenda and time for our February 24 date in
collaboration with the Board Office.
And there will be some actions coming for Board members dependent upon the particular facilitator that is
selected and the approach that that facilitator is taking with regards to any interviews or agenda setting. So
that will be forthcoming. Are there any other matters to discuss from this committee? Yes, first Vice Chair
Catlin, please go ahead.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And this is directed to Mr. Kroll and Ms. Johnson. We need to jump
start working on the work plan for a Performance Committee, and so if we could get that calendared sooner
than later so that we can start working on that. As I said, we're behind other standing committees on
developing that work plan. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, you first Vice Chair Catlin, and I appreciate you carrying that work. Other
matters? Being none, thank you, everybody for your patience today.
I know this has been a busy month and a lot to-- a lot of business to cover. Thank you for the meeting here.
Seeing no further discussion, this meeting will be adjourned as of 2:05 PM Mountain Standard Time. Have
a wonderful afternoon, everybody and evening. Thank you. Be seeing you soon.
JACK KROLL: Bye, everyone.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.

