Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on June 9, 2009
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

June 9, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, June 09, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D

****
Board
Members Present:
Directors
Absent:

Chair Brohl, Vice-Chair Chacon, Directors Bagley, Christopher, Daly,
James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tobiassen
Directors Busck, Cohen, Tayer

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Phil Washington, Dave Genova, John Tarbert, Larry
Buter, Carolyn Conover, Scott Reed, Greg Yates, Dean Shaklee, Daria
Serna, Brian Matthews, Cal Shankster, Terry Howerter, Paula Perdue,
Caitlin Magee, Bill Porter, Tony McCaulay

Others Present:

Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bill Shockley (Owens Corning), Paul
Courtois (Owens Corning)

****
Call to Order:

I.

Chair Brohl called the meeting to order at 7:30 p.m. Director Pulliam
left after the vote on Service changes. Director Kemp left after the
discussion on cell phone policy.

Recommended Actions
a.

August 2009 Service Changes - Bill Porter, Manager Service
Planning/Scheduling distributed a revised Board action on the August 2009
Service Changes. Cuts to the Route 31X were removed as ridership has
increased.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on June 9, 2009
Page 2 of 6
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the August 23, 2009 Service Change package as
revised and summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings
of approximately $53,300, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.

II.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to
forward this item onto the June 23, 2009
Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director O’Boyle seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

Quarterly Reports
a. Access-a-Ride – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager, Customer and
Contracted Services said staff combined the access-a-Ride update with the
quarterly report.
Fifty percent of the vehicles are deployed with the mobile data terminals. Staff
is beginning to see some impacts on the functionality of the system. Staff will
take a break from rolling out additional units until the interruptions in service
can be resolved.
Access-a-Cab ridership is up; access-a-Ride ridership has slowed, increase in
mileage and productivity is down. System is stabilized from a customer service
perspective. Staff is now working to balance the customer service needs with
productivity.
Director Christopher was concerned about the productivity being down by 12%
and the increase in mileage and decrease in productivity. How do we get riders
back to using the system? Bruce Abel responded that one of the Board’s
objectives was to decrease ridership on access-a-Ride and increase ridership on
access-a- Cab as it costs the District less money. The rate of decrease is far
less when you look at combined access-a-Ride/access-a-Cab ridership.
Staff wants to drill down on the issue of increased mileage and decreased
productivity to better understand why these are occurring.
Director Chacon asked about marathon rides and a recommendation she
received from a rider to break the city down by quadrants, wouldn’t that be
more efficient. Bruce Abel responded that he didn’t know if this is the cause
of our mileage issues, it may be an issue with the software as we didn’t have
this issue with the old system. Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services
responded that a lot of our customers trips cross quadrant boundaries which
would mean we would have to have a transfer system in place and that has
not proved to be popular with the constituents.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on June 9, 2009
Page 3 of 6
Chair Brohl had a question about the AVL/MDT --was asking about benefit of a
will call – have we been able to realize it? Mr. Abel responded that given
we’re only 50% deployed it is hard to tell at this point. Director Brohl wanted
to know when the full roll out of the AVL/MDT. Mr. Abel said it will take three
to four weeks to get the other half deployed but the main concern is the
system interruptions that need to be resolved. Mr. Abel said they hope to have
the rollout complete by the Fourth Quarter.
b.

Competitive Services (Fixed Route) - Director Daly liked the new report and use
of the category “preventable vehicle accidents” as a distinction. He wanted to
know how the staffing situation at First Transit Longmont is going. Bruce Abel
responded that Longmont is fully staffed.

c.

Special Services – There were no questions on this report.

d.

Security – Dave Genova and John Tarbert – referenced reports in the packet
and asked for questions. Director O’Boyle asked about fare sweeps-- do
passengers get warnings during fare sweeps or tickets. John Tarbert
responded that fare sweeps are an education process to get patrons. They
have to have a fare in order to get on a vehicle; it forces the patrons to buy a
fare. You can’t give a warning or citation unless they have actually boarded a
vehicle without a fare.
Director Martinez had a question about the 2.32% fare evasion rate, isn’t that
higher than we’ve been seeing. Mr. Genova said it is slightly higher than the
cumulative over last year.
Director Martinez asked about station sweeps and the locations where they are
conducted. Mr. Tarbert responded that there were no sweeps done in January
due to the derailment in Littleton and issues with manpower so the sweeps did
not begin until February 2009. Why are there no sweeps at 30th/Downing?
Mr. Tarbert responded that fare sweeps have been conducted at 30th/Downing
in the second quarter, there were none in the First Quarter. Fare evasion at
30th/Downing is much lower than it has ever been.
Director Daly asked about sweep data and the 21% evasion at the Yale
station. Mr. Tarbert responded that numbers will vary widely depending on the
number of patrons using the station. Yale has a much smaller population using
the station than for example, Mineral so the figures will be skewed. When
security sees numbers that large, they will do another sweep three weeks later
to check figures.
Director Tobiassen asked about bus routes that have been patrolled for fare
evasion. Director Genova said they would provide a summary memo to the
Board later in the week.
Director Chacon asked about when there’s an incident at a bus or light rail
station if there is a plan for how we involve the media and inform them of
details and letting passengers know that safety is our number one concern?

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on June 9, 2009
Page 4 of 6
Mr. Tarbert responded that someone on the Security staff is always on call in
case of an incident. Very few incidents occur on the system, it is very safe.
When something does occur, Safety alerts the Public Affairs department so
they can inform the Board and the media. Director Chacon wanted to make
sure that accurate information goes out. Director Martinez spoke about the
incident where a deceased person was found at a RTD bus stop and that was
the headline in the paper. Scott Reed shared that when the police report is
filed, they use landmarks to describe where the body was found. In this case,
the body was found in the street but it was closest to an RTD bus stop.
Director Martinez said perhaps we should work with the police department on
the sensitivity of the issue, that the address should be reported rather than the
bus stops as it scares people from using transit.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on June 9, 2009
Page 5 of 6
III.

Access-a-Ride Update – This item was discussed under quarterly reports.

IV.

Cell Phone Use – Director Brohl said the Committee asked for this in light of news
stories related to trains crashing due to operators using their cell phones. The
Board wanted to look at our policy. Dean Shaklee, Acting Assistant General
Manager Bus Operations reviewed the policy and asked for questions. Director
Daly spoke about call-n-Ride operators using blue tooth devices and this is a
violation of the cell phone policy. Does this policy not extend to our call-n-Ride
service? Bruce Abel responded that the District requires all of the contractor to
provide hands free devices for the operators to use. As part of their training, they
are instructed not to write while in motion. Director Kemp felt their needed to be a
policy change and to have an amendment for call-n-Ride service. Several directors
expressed concerns about the liability factor should there be an accident. Phil
Washington said the policy would be reviewed.
Director Chacon spoke of how glad she was that the District was taking a
leadership position with their policy and how surprised she was at the agencies that
don’t have a policy pertaining to cell phone use.
Director Brohl expressed her concern about pagers; there are two types of pagers:
regular pagers and text message pagers. Director Brohl would like to see a
differentiation on pagers in the policy. Why would a bus or train operator need a
pager, why not the same restrictions as cell phones? Greg Yates agreed with
Director Brohl and agreed that there are some language areas that need correcting.
Mr. Yates said with regards to enforcement on the street that a two way pager
would be treated the same as a cell phone. Only one way pagers are allowed to be
worn by the operators. Director Brohl would like to see the language be very
specific so there are no questions in the policy.

V.

Transfer Policy and Procedures – Director Brohl asked for this based on a problem
with transfers that was brought to her attention by a customer. Mr. Yates said it
sounded like the bus operator misinterpreted policy. Staff is working on
educational pieces with the operators to make sure they understand the policy.
Director Tobiassen stated that the transfer policy is very complex can it be made
more succinct? Is it listed on the website? Mr. Yates responded that it is not on
website, there is information on the back of transfers and on the schedules.
Director Tobiassen felt like transfers seem like the biggest problem on the system.
The Committee requested the Transfer policy be posted on the website.

VI.

On-vehicle Advertising Request for Proposals – Tony McCaulay wanted to give the
committee a “heads up” that we are getting ready to issue a proposal for our onvehicle advertising. Director Martinez wanted to know if this is a three year
contract. Mr. McCaulay responded that this is a three year contract with a two
year option. Director Martinez stated we need to take the economy into factor.
Mr. McCaulay responded that we have always built into the contract a minimum
guarantee with a percentage of sales. Director Christopher inquired if other than
Lamar any others interested? Mr. McCaulay responded that Titan and some other
smaller entities have expressed interest.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee held on June 9, 2009
Page 6 of 6
VII.

Other Matters – Jack O’Boyle commended the citizens of Parker for exceeding the
numbers for their call-n-Ride and Douglas County who made it possible to continue
that service.
Director Bagley thanked the four AGMs for going through the interview process for
the interim GM position.

VIII.

Next Meeting Date - The next Operations and Customer Services Committee will be
held Tuesday, July 14, 2009.

IX.

Adjourn - Chair Brohl adjourned the meeting at 8:11 p.m.

