2024-01-09
Special Board Meeting
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good evening. I'm Lynn Guissinger, Chair of the RTD Board. I'll now call to order
the Tuesday, January 9, 2024 special Board meeting. We're convened as of 5:30 PM. I respectfully ask
everyone to remain muted unless you're recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening as the Board has moved to in person meetings for our regular
and special Board meetings. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will still
be held remotely via Zoom and with audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
At this evening's meeting, we are providing communication access real time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email please to the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided to you. A live stream of this meeting
is also available via RTD's YouTube page. I will now call the roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Dishell. I think he will be here. I am Lynn Guissinger. I am here. Director
Guzman.
BOBBY DISHELL: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rosenthal. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
LYNN GUISSINGER: With 14 present and one absent, we have a quorum. Next is our public participation
period, which is open to anyone who would like to address the Board as we have both in person and
remote attendees, in person comments will go first, followed by those who are participating remotely. For
those attending in person, please come up to the podium when your name is called. If you have not
already signed up to speak and would like to do so, please approach the podium when I call for any
additional speakers.
For those attending virtually, if you wish to speak and have not already done so, please raise your virtual
hand or press star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in,
please press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. I will go through the rest of this when I hear. Do we have
speakers in the queue? Anyone present or anyone online or on the phone?
JACK KROLL: We do, Chair Guissinger, this is Jack Kroll, Manager of the Board Office. We do have one
individual who has raised their hand, Mr. Dawud Taylor.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Then I will finish going through this. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials or if any member of the public would like to submit written comments, you can email
those to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Just as a reminder, during this time, the Board will not offer any direct comments or responses. However,
if you would like to have some response and be contacted, you can email the Board Office again at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Speakers, begin your remarks by stating your name, please, and you'll have three minutes to provide
comments. Mr. Taylor, if you're on the phone or online, would you please go ahead? State your name and
you may proceed.
JACK KROLL: Mr. Taylor, I see that you've unmuted yourself, but we are not able to hear you at this time.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Is it disconnected? Sounds like he's not connected to audio.
JACK KROLL: It looks like he's connected on our end and then he disconnected and reconnected, but still
nothing.

DAWUD TAYLOR: Are you able to hear me now?
JACK KROLL: We can hear you now.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah. Go ahead.
DAWUD TAYLOR: All right. So to introduce myself, my name is Dawud Habib Taylor El. I submitted a
document to the Board Office late last year, November the 17th I believe it was, and I wanted to see if the
Board had a comment on the record for the record to an employee relocating to California and working
when previously the remote work policy had had a 300 mile radius.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Taylor. We don't comment to public comment and I don't think we
would be prepared to comment on that at any rate tonight, but you can certainly email the RTD Board, I
mean, the RTD Board Office with the email address that I had given, which was rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com and request a response or some communication if you'd like.
DAWUD TAYLOR: I have done that as well. I just wanted to know if you had any comment on the record
for the record.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Not tonight. Thank you.
DAWUD TAYLOR: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. All right, anybody else in public participation?
JACK KROLL: Chair Guissinger, we do not have anyone at this time. We did receive two emails prior to
the meeting and those have been forwarded to you all. One is from Sid Park and one is from [? Maytree
?] [? Lazarov. ?] And those have been sent out to the full Board.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. All right. With no other participants in the queue, we will
close public participation at this time. Now, our next item on the agenda is other matters. And I have one
other matter. Before we move on to the election of officers, I want to take a moment to celebrate the
system wide lowering of our fares that took effect on January 1st, and in particular, our zero fare for youth
program.
The historic moment that we're at at RTD is really a first of its kind achievement for our agency when we
have both lowered fares for the first time ever and an unusual statement for any transit agency, I believe.
And we were able to put into place our zero fare for youth year long pilot program. These efforts
represent innovative ways for RTD to drive ridership on our system and expose a new generation of kids
to the many benefits of public transit.
Specifically tonight I want to recognize the work of two people who made this-- who really drove this
action and made it work. And that's Director Kate Williams and our GM CEO Debra Johnson. Our zero
fare for youth pilot program would not have happened without their years long effort to champion transit
for our region's youth.
And the story, as I understand it, is in 2020, there was a gathering of elected officials that Amanda
Sawyer had put together. And Miss Sawyer, who is a member of the Denver City Council, has joined us
tonight. Thank you for coming. And thank you for your work on this project as well. And members of the
School Board were there, members of City Council, and Director Williams was there.

And out of that, the conversation started about how to make it easy to get kids to school. And as I
understand it, there were several options looked at. Passes using the DPS identification, those sorts of
things. Director Williams took this on as her mission, along with the help from Miss Sawyer and others,
and began speaking to various groups about the importance of this approach and ultimately got a
proclamation, I believe, from the School Board and from the city.
And then when Miss Johnson and her staff started the 18 month fare and equity study, the fare study and
equity analysis to be correct, we heard many requests for zero fares for youth. We already had a 70%
discount. And the argument was let's just make this free. Let's make it easy. Miss Johnson took this
question to the FTA and was able to get a waiver from the six month limit on a fare demonstration
program to run the youth pilot program for a year. And we started it when our zero fare months of July
and August ended. So September 1st was the beginning of our year long pilot.
I'm happy to say funding for this program to be continued and expanded to all transit agencies statewide
is in the Governor's budget this year. So kudos, I would say. Bravo. Bravo, Director Williams. Bravo, Miss
Johnson. I think this was a great win for the agency. We have a little framed article for you both, which I
will give you in a minute. But I thought I'd give you both a chance to say a few words. Miss Johnson,
would you like to go?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, good evening, everyone. Debra Johnson, General Manager and Chief
Executive Officer of Regional Transportation District. Madam Chair, thank you very kindly for your
comments.
I just want to reflect and say while I appreciate this tremendously, this is who I am and what I do. Coming
into this organization when I basically did a listening tour with several of you, some of you weren't here at
that time, I wanted to garner a better understanding of pain points for our customers. And I can recall
vividly having a conversation with Director Williams where she talked about the need for seamless access
for individuals that were matriculating in secondary schools.
And I shared with her, having come from an area where I had, some great success in leveraging
programs such as this, keeping in mind that public education in order to take advantage of that, you have
to have access. And public transportation and public education go hand in hand, because it's a win-win
for everybody as we're cultivating a new generation of transit customers. But more importantly, we're
providing opportunities that others may not have an advantage to take.
So with that as a backdrop, I just want to say I appreciate the partnership of the Board, but more
specifically Director Williams, because I can recall meeting with the interim superintendent when I first
came here, just talking about the collaborative efforts we could undertake. And then Dr. Marrero came on
Board and coordinating with council member Sawyer and members of the Denver Public Schools. And
there were some stalwarts on that Board that really pushed the envelope.
So I'll yield the floor to Director Williams and say thank you. I'm very humbled. But recognizing that we are
people in the people business. This is just who we are and what we do. And I'm glad to be a part of it.
And I'm even more excited to see that people have heard our call for investment in our future generations
here in the state of Colorado, because that will make all the difference in the world when we're talking
about moving people to and fro and limiting the barriers to entry for opportunities. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Williams, you have the floor.

KATE WILLIAMS: I want to thank everybody here for being a part of making this happen. Councilwoman
Sawyer really, really held this as a court where a bunch of public officials-- we started in 2020. We talked
about it over and over and over again. We talked to all kinds of other people. But I feel like Debra
Johnson really carried the football across the finish line by going to the FTA and getting it approved. And
we just want to see the future of transit and the future of our kids go hand in hand, because transportation
underlies everything.
Many, many people have heard me say this. That a food bank is no good if you can't get there. A clinic is
no good if you can't get there. And in public education, which is free, it's no good if you can't get there. So
we are just all really, really thrilled that this has gone on. And I hope that it will go national and be
permanent. And thank you all for the help that you all gave all of us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you both.
[APPLAUSE]

Very talented Board Office-- I know I'm away from my microphone-- has created and framed-- is it upside
down? [INAUDIBLE] And we have a photographer here. So if we can get a picture.
SPEAKER 1: Why don't we just step over here real quick, and we'll get our [INAUDIBLE]? Debra,
[INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Councilwoman Sawyer?
AMANDA SAWYER: I would be happy to, but this is-- this is your work and Debra's work, not mine.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Got a little wolverine over here. All right. Great. Item five on our agenda is the
election of 2024 Board officers. As stated in the Board bylaws, in the first official meeting of the year, the
Board will elect the Executive Committee officers, which are our Chair, First Vice Chair, Second Vice
Chair, Treasurer, and Secretary. You have all received a memo defining the process by which we will
elect our Executive Committee officers for 2024.
We will begin with the position of Chair and we'll work our way through this process for all of the
Executive Committee offices. Those Board members who nominate candidates, those seconding
nominations, if any, and seconds aren't required, and any other speakers will have up to three minutes to
speak regarding the candidates for each position. For each office, I will ask for nominations. When there
are no additional nominations, the nomination phase will close and a call will be made for a vote utilizing
paper ballots that Mr. Kroll will distribute and later collect.
SPEAKER 2: Excuse me, Chair. Can we recognize the addition of Director Dishell and company?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, of course. Thank you, Director Dishell, and Micah have joined us. Welcome.
AUDIENCE: Does he get two votes?

[LAUGHTER]

LYNN GUISSINGER: In a little bit. That's right. That's right. All right, nobody is participating remotely at
this point. After the paper ballots are collected, General Counsel Melanie Snyder in coordination with two
directors chosen by me who are not candidates for the office in question will serve as co-election
monitors.
General Counsel Snyder and the chosen directors will tally the votes and then General Counsel Snyder
will announce the name of the director who received at least eight votes. If no candidate for a given office
receives at least eight votes, we will repeat the voting process.
If we proceed into additional rounds of voting, Board members who wish to speak further on behalf of a
candidate by providing new or additional information may do so at that time. This will be done in a round
robin fashion. Again, each speaker will be limited to three minutes. If only one director is nominated for a
given office, the Board may proceed to approve the nominee by acclamation rather than using the voting
system I just described. Are there any objections or questions regarding this process?
No. OK. Great. Seeing no further questions, we will proceed to nominations for Chair. I have a
nomination. Are there other nominations for Chair? OK. I am nominating Director Erik Davidson.
SPEAKER 3: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And just to tell you, I think we all know Erik pretty well, but the reasons
for my nomination and just some of Erik's work. I don't think people always see how much work he has
done behind the scenes. And working with Director Catlin and Director Dishell and our CFO and CEO and
others, Erik has worked hard to put together the ad hoc audit committee to overall the internal audit
function at RTD and form the now standing RTD Audit Committee. And if you haven't participated in those
meetings, they are doing some very, very high quality work.
He's Chaired and Vice Chaired the Finance and Planning Committee. He's Chaired the Performance
Committee and worked to make improvements to the performance evaluation framework, work that's
ongoing and seems to be showing really good signs of progress. He's responded with action after we
talked about the need in our retreat for revenue diversification and he worked with Mr. MacLeod and
others to put together the revenue diversification working group, which is staff group that's researching
our options and issues. And Erik is bringing reports back to us on a regular basis.
He's attended all Board meetings and committee meetings to which he's been assigned. And I have had
the opportunity recently to see him up close working with legislators and other elected officials. And I think
he would do an excellent job representing us to the world. So I am putting Erik Davidson's name in as a
nominee for Chair.
All right. Let's see. Any other candidates? Any other nominations? All right. With only one candidate
nominated, we will choose Director Davidson by acclamation unless there is any other word to be said. All
right, congratulations.
[APPLAUSE]

All right, one second.
[LAUGHS]
No muttering from the peanut gallery. All right. At this time, we will proceed to nominations for First Vice
Chair. Are there any nominations for First Vice Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have a nomination I would like to make. I would like to nominate Director Peggy
Catlin, who continues to be an invaluable member of this team on our Board and this team at RTD. She
brought to us very strong experience and valuable experience of many things, but certainly notably
having served as the Deputy Director of the Colorado Department of Transportation.
Also Director Catlin is a licensed professional engineer. So of course she is rooted in pragmatic thinking
and is realistic and grounded. Much appreciate that background. She has served this Board very well.
She served on our Search Committee and she helped us find our current General Manager and CEO,
Debra Johnson. And we have seen great successes over the last few years thanks to the efforts that that
Search Committee undertook.
Also her leadership, persistence, and experience helped drive this agency towards improving its audit
function. This took a lot of persistent reminders and took a lot of doing. And Director Catlin collaborated
very closely with many members of our staff, as well as members of this Board, to ensure that that work
got done. And as Chair Guissinger had noted, I believe that the work is going very well with the Audit
Committee. Given her service, given that she always shows up as passionate, as respectful, and as
collaborative, I nominate her for the First Vice Chair. Thank you.
SPEAKER 4: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I hear a nomination and a second for Director Catlin. And I believe you meant
as former Chair Guissinger said. Are there any other nominations? OK. At this time, we will declare by
acclamation that Director Catlin is-- First Vice Chair Catlin is first Vice Chair Catlin.
[APPLAUSE]

And at this time, we will take nominations for Second Vice Chair. Are there any nominations?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I have a nomination.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I am really looking forward to 2024 with our new Chair and our First Vice Chair.
I would like to add the name of Director Guissinger to be our Second Vice Chair. We all know she's done
extraordinary service to the agency and has developed respect throughout the region for her diligence,
intelligence, and experience. And for that reason and all the information we all have, because we've seen
Director Guissinger in action for an entire year, I would nominate Director Guissinger for Second Vice
Chair.
SPEAKER 5: Second.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. OK. Are there any other nominations? OK. You want to take
this one over?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure, given that you are the candidate. With no other nominations, we'll vote by
proclamation or acclamation that Director-- I have to get used to that. Director Guissinger will be Second
Vice Chair.
[APPLAUSE]

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Two more. We have next the position of Treasurer. Are there nominations for
Treasurer?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm going to nominate myself actually for Treasurer.
[LAUGHS]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second, second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm happy to do a little bragging on myself. But I'm going on my fourth year of the
Board. I'm very excited to want to serve for the Executive Committee. Really, really happy about the work
that we've done ultimately, especially with our zero emission Vehicle Ad Hoc Committee. We're really
happy about the work that we did with that and happy with my work that I've done on the Operating and
Safety Committee. So that's where I'd back that up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to speak for a moment about Director Bouquet's work. He is diligent in showing
up whenever he is needed. He brings a fresh outlook that sometimes we are lacking and presents it
concisely and is willing to work on another viewpoint. That has been my favorite part about working with
him is that he is open to compromise and willing to make that happen. So I'm happy to see him in a role in
our Executive Committee.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Williams and Director Bouquet. At this time, are there any other
nominations for Treasurer? OK. Again, by acclamation, we have elected Director Bouquet as Treasurer.
[APPLAUSE]

Next position is Secretary. Do we have any nominations for Secretary?
IAN HARWICK: I have a nomination for Director Guzman, or Dr. Guzman in my mind.
LYNN GUISSINGER: He just got he just got a new degree.

IAN HARWICK: He did. What can I say? He's just great. Dr. Guzman is great. He's smart, he's insightful,
he brings a unique perspective to the Board, to everything that he works on. He has a critical eye that I
think sometimes maybe frustrates some people, but I think it is so great to have that on the Board.
And I think that he would be so well suited for that. And let's be real, the guy takes more notes than
anybody else. So while he doesn't need to do that in this role, per se, he does it better than anybody else.
And he also does it while listening to his non-native tongue and then writes his notes in. So I know that's
not mandatory for this, but I think he'd be great at it. So he's got my nomination.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Second.
SPEAKER 6: I was going to second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead and second, both of you.
SPEAKER 6: Can I make a brief statement?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Of course.
SPEAKER 6: Two words that come to mind about Director Guzman are his passion. Everything he does,
everything he says, it's packed with passion. Nothing is dull. Nothing is without passion. And also what I
appreciate most about him is he's grounded in his community and in his district and the comunidad. And I
think that's really important to have a Director. I think if I can say probably of all of us, you're probably the
most grounded in the community. So I really appreciate that about you and I look forward to supporting
you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Are there any other nominations for Secretary? All right. By acclamation,
Director Guzman, you are now the Secretary.
[APPLAUSE]

All right. Congratulations to the 2024 Executive Committee. Chair will be Chair Davidson, First Vice Chair
Catlin, Second Vice Chair Guissinger, Treasurer Bouquet, and Secretary Guzman. And I will now turn
over the duties of Chair to our newly elected Chair to complete the meeting. I'll even give you the gavel.
For later. All right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Second Vice Chair Guissinger. Thank you, everybody. Truly look forward
to a great year together. Another good year, certainly many challenges ahead, but I have no doubt it will
be exciting.
All right. We have one recommended action on the agenda this evening. It is listed as item six, action a.
That item is for the 2024 RTD Board of Directors meeting posting location. This is for the Board of
Directors to designate the Board meeting portal on the RTD public website at http://rtd.iqm2.com as its
official location for posting of notices of all public meetings in 2024 as required by sections 24-6402(2)(c)(I) and (III)CRS. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I have the mover as Director Tisdale, the second as Director Whitmore. Are there any
no votes on this action? Seeing none, the motion will pass with all 15 directors present.
Moving on to our discussion items, we have one discussion item on the agenda this evening. And this is
with regards to the General Manager and CEO performance assessment framework. There is some
information in your Board packet, both on packet page five as well as the presentation to follow that will
be provided here. I actually will be presenting this discussion item and then opening up for questions and
discussion from the directors here.
So with that, I'm going to go ahead and start us off. But before I do, I would very much like to thank our
Chief People Officer Charlene Polege, who worked extensively with this Board, certainly collaborating
with the Performance Committee and working directly with myself as well to help prepare a performance
evaluation framework that we'll be looking at this evening.
As was noted in the packet, at the February 15, 2023 Performance Committee meeting, so going back a
little ways here, there was consensus from the committee that there was a pretty strong opportunity to
improve the performance evaluation process or performance assessment of our General Manager and
CEO as well as the agency performance. Our current contract with our current General Manager and
CEO, we annually adopt weighted success outcomes, organizational values, and/or goals and the
distribution between base salary and incentive compensation.
However, the discussion item this evening is intended to focus generally on an evaluation framework for
any General Manager and CEO who may be in the role. So I would just ask directors as we consider this
item and as we discuss to please restrict questions and discussion to the framework itself and its general
application to the performance assessment of a General Manager and CEO and not to address any
specific contract terms at this time with our current serving General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson.
With that, I'll move into the slides. So Mr. Kroll, if you wouldn't mind advancing the slide. So I'd just like to
orient everyone to this slide and to this framework. There's a lot here. There's a lot of moving parts. But
also this is a simplification of how we might approach things versus I think where we have historically
been. So I'm actually going to go from the bottom up, as what's on this slide. And ultimately what you're
seeing are categories or areas on which this Board would judge the agency and also judge the
performance of a General Manager and CEO.
And at that bottom level in the yellow box is the agency performance metrics. And at this level, the way
we can think about this is this is what we as directors are ultimately held accountable to. These metrics
that we would measure here should align with what our constituents and our customers and stakeholders
are asking this Board to do. Thus far we have applied some agency wide metrics within the confines of
our strategic plan and have largely been measuring net promoter score in a couple of different areas. And
as we've discussed as a Board and in the Performance Committee, there's an opportunity to enhance
some of these metrics.
So I'd just like to highlight what that is and then move on and then we'll kind of break it down and talk
about each and have a dialogue among us. What then going up a level is we get to the red box, the short
term goals. And those short term goals can be thought of as annual goals. Whereas what's in the yellow
box would be multi-year plans. What are we measuring and what are we reporting out to the public as to
how the agency is performing?

The red box would be looking at an annual basis of what our General Manager and CEO is doing and
how he, she, they are directing the staff to accomplish our long term goals. Those short term goals should
be measurable and can fit into a variety of different frameworks whereby we can have measurable goals
on an annual basis. Historically, in our current contract, and I know I mentioned we'll limit our
conversation today to the framework itself, these have been what we have called objective criteria or
objective measurements.
Moving up, we go into more of what we have thus far termed the subjective criteria. And this gets to the
blue boxes up at the top left and the top right. Starting from the top left, these are the agency values. And
as noted here, and I certainly credit our Chief People Officer for putting some nice distilling phrases in
here, this is how the General Manager and CEO shows up. This is how he, she, they perform their job
against our organizational values. Are we accomplishing our goals? Are we moving metrics? But are we
doing so in a way that honors the spirit of what we value from an organizational standpoint?
This has historically been a subjective criteria that the Board has weighed in on and filled out surveys for
at least the past couple of years. But I believe that if we adopt a framework like this or consider a
framework like this, there's an opportunity to really improve and bring some maturity to those
measurements. I think many of us have heard the concept floated over the last year that we might
introduce a 360 review.
A 360 review being where a General Manager and CEO's peers, those reporting up into the General
Manager and CEO, in and outside the agency, and those above at the Board level can weigh in and
measure performance in such an evaluation. I think that could be one thing that we would consider here.
Similarly, moving over to the top right, is also a subjective measurement that could be subject to
something like a 360 review. And this is the core base job performance. This is really looking at the job
description that this Board had put out for a General Manager and CEO and measuring the strategy,
execution, and leadership on that day to day basis of how the General Manager is performing duties.
Ultimately, what this does then is create a framework where we as a Board agree on multiyear basis what
we're going to measure for performance at that yellow bottom agency performance metrics level. This
allows us to dialogue with our community and with the agency itself and represents an area where a
Performance Committee could have very regular check ins, perhaps quarterly check ins, on looking at
where are things moving but recognizing that these metrics will take a long time to move and they may
even wobble along the way.
Whereas the red, every year we would be adopting what do we think this year's problems are that need to
be addressed that feed into those long term goals? I think many of us are aware of a lot of the problems
facing us this year. Those would be what would inform us in creating those red goals. And then those
blue, we can look outside if we have a framework like this and ensure that we are getting input not just
from the Board. Certainly that will be important. But a whole 360 view of how everybody believes our
General Manager and CEO is honoring or not honoring the agency values and delivering on the core
base job function that we had put forward.
So ultimately moving to the next slide and then I'll wrap and open for questions and discussion. Where we
really are focused right now is the red and the blue in terms of the work that the Performance Committee
has needed to tackle and work on. I personally believe in this presentation and wanted to share my view
that we have work to do on those yellow agency performance metrics.

While we have adopted some in measuring net promoter score, I think there's an opportunity to go
further, go broader, and do things that allow us to really drive our budgeting process, drive how we
communicate with constituents. I would propose that we tackle a discussion along those lines at our
upcoming retreat.
At this time, I want to look at the short term goals and the agency values and core based job function. I
believe as is indicated here, and I am appreciative and want to give credit to our Chief People Officer for
helping share some best practices given her certifications in executive pay, that the blue and red boxes
would actually drive the movement within a salary band. If an agency adopts a band for a position, as we
have done, how the General Manager and CEO would move or get raises within that band would be
contingent on delivering the blue and the red boxes and delivering on those.
Historically, and I know we've got a lot of different things here, we've looked at things like one time
incentive payments, adjusted base salaries, a whole variety of things. Really this is where base salary
adjustments would happen. And this Board last year adopted a compensation philosophy that stated very,
very clearly our intent is to pay for performance. And so given that we intend to pay for performance, the
movement and increases within a salary band that we adopt should be driven by that annual
performance.
The long term agency metrics, which I believe we need to work on at our upcoming retreat, might inform
alternative compensation metrics we might look at in the future to really look at how we want to
compensate for long term delivery of what this Board seeks to accomplish.
So with that, I would like to just conclude my remarks. I will open up for discussion, questions. Really had
wanted to present this. The Performance Committee is going to need to quickly continue this work as we
do have some specific goals that need to be accomplished in the short term. So just as a reminder, we're
looking at the framework very generally. I'd love to take any questions or discussion. And certainly I'm
happy to answer anything here regarding the framework itself. Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like us to be sure that we look at the performance reports that we had on previous
people in this position and what our complaints were with those forms. I think that it would be a shame to
reinvent the wheel without looking at some of the things that we did fix from past GM CEOs.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Williams. I think that's a great point and duly noted is something
that the Performance Committee should add to its consideration as we look at this framework. Other
questions, discussion, comments? Director Ruscha, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair Oh, that was fun. Congratulations. So I had a clarifying
question. On the agency performance metrics, did I understand you correctly in that right now when we
talk about that, we're essentially talking about our strategic plan? And if I could just follow up comment.
Our current strategic plan actually has a lot of goals written into it. And some of them have been
mentioned over the last year.
And so I just wanted to get an understanding. Are we talking about looking at the strategic plan and some
of those goals and maybe tying that to-- because some of them are short term into this process. And if
you just could take a minute to address how those two relate and/or if you think that we need to make
updates to our strategic plan. That would be helpful for me.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you Director Ruscha. I think it's a great question. I think the strategic plan
really runs throughout the entire pillar here of what we would evaluate, which would be the agency
performance metrics as well as the short term goals as well as the agency values and core based job
function.
I guess starting from the bottom, I think yeah, the center of truth for agency metrics would be driven by
the strategic plan. And I think it's contingent upon this Board to have an open discussion and look at what
we would want to be measuring. I think there's the strategic plan and the strategic priorities that we set
and then there's the outcomes that we're measuring to look at how we're delivering against those
priorities. And I think as we go up every level, things are likely to get more and more flexible and require
more need for change.
I think our strategic priorities, certainly at least in my opinion, are very solid. I think it's something that
always this Board has the ability to revisit, especially in partnership with our staff. I think we can consider
those very foundational. The metrics on top of those that we measure, I think that can be a little bit more
something that we look at after a couple of years and say, is this measuring what we really, truly want to
measure and communicate out? That's more where I think we want to have a dialogue.
And then to your point, Director Ruscha, I think it's a great point that our strategic plan we adopted did
include a variety of short term goals as well as we got more and more tactical in there, there are a variety
of tactics that really formed work plans that the General Manager and CEO is using to drive the day to
day. I think that's where we see the most flexibility, the most change. And already I know many things
have changed within staff.
And that's where I think we need to do the work to make sure we're looking back at that, understanding
what we said we were going to accomplish, and then saying, OK, what worked? What didn't work? And
how do we want to tweak what's in red? And then that gives our General Manager and CEO the
opportunity to actualize and work on that strategic plan.
So I think to answer your question, yes, I think the whole thing is rooted in the strategic plan. I think that's
the most firm, immovable foundation. And then as we go up each layer, they get just a little bit more
frequent and likely that we need to tweak and adjust those. Yeah, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. As an individual Board member, I feel good in hearing that I do
agree that our strategic plan has a really strong foundation. And I just think it would benefit the Board if
we just spoke more to that in our work through our committees and through our dialogue.
I also just wanted to offer, and I don't know if it is for this or for performance, but I just wanted to note
currently when we do an evaluation, and I know it's supposed to be a framework so I'm keeping this as a
framework, right now we have a pass or fail system. And I don't think that's fair or appropriate. So I just
wanted to say on the record that I think we should strongly consider going back to a scale. And so I hope
that was the right time to say that, but I did want to just offer that feedback. I think it'd be more fair for
whomever our GM CEO is.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Director Ruscha. I think that's an awesome point, all good points.
And especially as we consider even those measurable short term, the goals in red, and when we consider
performance evaluation and performance pay criteria for General Managers and CEOs, if we're doing our
job, it should be hard. We should have to perform. We should have to move. And therefore, we wouldn't
want to be binary. We did it all or we didn't do it. I think there's an opportunity to create even within here

sliding scales when we get to the point that we're discussing compensation. So thank you for those
comments. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair, and I'll keep my comments brief. This is really
great work. I think another thing that I'm certainly being mindful of is this is a big, as we've all learned,
organization. And sometimes you inherit things you didn't create. Sometimes you create things you don't
want to inherit. And sometimes you create things that you think you'd want other people to inherit and it
turns out didn't go so well.
And we have continued to tweak and refine goals. And when you're planning against short term and long
term goals, we're moving the goalposts a lot. And I think as we're thinking about current employee
retention, long term employee retention, when people are evaluating a place to call home for a long
period of time, which is what you need in a leader for who's moving something of this size and nature, we
should be really mindful of when we're creating to create and making sure that that is in service of not
creating a workplace in which someone is always having to readjust their framework on an ongoing basis.
I'm not saying that's necessarily what's happening here. I think we had a pseudo plan in place and
executed against it for a certain number of years. But sort of putting on the employee management side
of the hat, I think it's really important that we keep in mind, hey, if we're going to adopt something, we got
to let someone work against it for a period of time before we keep trying to make those tweaks and
changes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. I think incredibly well said. What comes to mind for me, as
you said, we've been adjusting, we've been revisiting. And one of my early mentors in my career had
shared with me always ask yourself a question. Is the tool serving you or are you serving the tool? And I
think one easy way to recognize when you start serving the tool is when you're scrambling to try to fit
everything into place.
And my experience in chairing the Performance Committee last year and having come into it was that
there were a lot of things we're trying to fit into place. And I think we can't really get something perfect
right now. But I think we need to, and I think it's something you said a while back about Audit Committee,
which is let's start with the end in mind.
And I think that's what we're trying to put forward this framework is what's an end in mind that we'd say
this works? This is flexible. And we can speak this language when we say these are the yellow goals. We
shouldn't be changing those a whole lot. These are the red goals. We're looking at them every year and
seeing how we're doing. These are the blue goals. This is how our General Manager and CEO is showing
up.
And then all of our contracts, all of the amendments, all the adjustments, all of the work Performance
Committee does starts to anchor to that. So I fully appreciate what you have to say. In fact, I've very much
felt like we have made so many little adjustments. And it's suggesting to me that we're serving the tool,
not the other way around. Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I wanted to make a similar point that I think we had. We came out of the
retreat with a process. And I certainly agree with what you're saying. We have given it some time. But it
seemed like we got through the performance review process last year and people weren't happy with our
tool. And Director Davidson and others have worked very hard on this. And I feel like what we all want to
get to is a really defined performance review where we have the metrics, we have the process in place.

I went back and looked at the state auditor's report in 2010, which had a lot of concern about the way the
GM CEO was evaluated. And they talk about the importance of looking overall, like the core base job.
What's the strategy, the execution leadership? I think that shows up in the core base job and it also
shows up in the agency performance metrics, because that's another tool, maybe an objective tool to
really look at the overall work of a CEO. And so looking at that, I feel like we are moving in the direction
that we have been encouraged to move. And I think I'm excited about this. I think it looks good.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and congratulations. So a lot of this discussion is sort of
20,000, 30,000 foot level looking down over the whole process. But especially for the public to know that
so many of the pieces that we look at in this framework include things like how does our CEO engage the
public, elected officials at all levels, federal, state, local, local including you know county commissioners
and mayors and city council members, appointed people in the community going to so many events,
which she does.
And so things like that, that's just one of the metrics that is included that I would probably say is at the
core base job of what our General Manager or CEO does. So just so people know that there's so many
things that we look at, but this is just one thing that I particularly find that is so important for our General
Manager to do.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Rosenthal. Yeah, agreed. Well stated. Other questions,
comments, considerations? All right. Oh, sorry.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry, I could not get to my computer enough. Thank you. Thank you for the
direction on this and thank you for some food for thought. I do think it's important to look at these different
levels and where there's flexibility and where there shouldn't be, where we need to be more stringent to
hold accountability and governance on the system.
But I would also like to point out that this is not just one sided. Even on your charts, it demonstrates that
we are working in unity, a Board of Directors as well as the GM CEO. And accountability needs to be had
on both sides. So we do have an onus in this and we have skin in the game to make sure that we do this
part right.
To Second Vice Chair Guissinger's point, people were frustrated with last year's review. And there was a
certain uncomfortability walking into it that built up over the course of the year. So I think getting ahead of
it right now and being prepared to have some of these conversations from the beginning of this year is
really hopeful. But we will not lose steam on that in Performance Committee. I'm nominating myself for
Performance Committee by doing this for continuation purposes only.
But I also want to make sure that we all together, all of us, are looking at this all year long. We get these
amazing reports on a monthly basis at our Board meeting about all of the things that the GM CEO is
doing, but it doesn't really fit into necessarily that yellow box. Those are those higher up boxes that you're
talking about. How we're engaging, how the GM CEO is executing in the community and how they're
showing up.
And so I think that working with the current GM CEO but also any future GM CEO, really looking at what
they will get done, what they tell us they can get done. We have to hold them accountable for it. But then

also how they're showing up in community is really important. So I'm excited to work on this and continue
going forward. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Treasurer Guzman. I completely agree. And you said something, I think,
very important in the beginning, which is how the Board holds itself accountable. And there is that key
piece in here. And ultimately, the public should be judging us on our ability to move our agency
performance metrics, which is exactly why we have to buy into those as the fiduciaries of the agency. And
our job as the Board is to ensure that we're setting the right goals at the right time to truly move those.
And so I think, Treasurer Guzman, thank you for the comments around Board accountability. I think this
helps us have a tool for that, helps the public have a tool for that. And the flip side of the tool not working
for you and you working for the tool, and the tool is working for you, you can start to feel like you show up
for work every day. You kind of know what you're going to be doing and there becomes some
predictability to it.
And I think we'll know it when we see it. And your point about the reports, I think this can help inform our
General Manager and CEO, what do we want to hear about? And this can help communicate that very
clearly. So thank you for your comments. Secretary, my apologies.
[LAUGHTER]
Duly noted. Dr. Secretary Guzman. [LAUGHS] Thank you. Much appreciated. Thank you for the
comments. Other questions, comments? All right, great. Well, thank you very much. I appreciate it. I think
this is some exciting and hard work ahead in Performance Committee. And glad to see in our Executive
Committee agenda that was published plenty of interest. So that's good.
So we've concluded our discussion items. We're going to move to our final section here, which is an
executive session. In a moment, the Board will meet in executive session to discuss personnel matters
regarding the General Manager and Chief Executive Officer. I would like to append the motion to move
into executive session to state that the special Board meeting will be deemed adjourned after it adjourns
into the executive session.
For public transparency, this means that once the Board moves into executive session, the main meeting
will be adjourned. I will now entertain a motion to move into Executive session to discuss the following
pursuant to Section 24-6402(4)(f)(I) CRS for consideration of personnel matters regarding the 2024
performance assessment criteria for the current General Manager and CEO and potential related
amendments to the employer agreement and pursuant to Section 24-6-402(4)(b) CRS to receive legal
advice regarding the same. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: Mr. Chair, I would move approval with the caveat of a four minute break before we
proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Let's go wild.
TROY WHITMORE: Five minutes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Five minutes. I heard the movement as Director Whitmore. I think I heard a second
from Director Broom. Great. Is anyone opposed to the motion? All right. Wait for it. For all those who are

expected to attend, would you please take a five minute break and then return for all. Everyone else,
please vacate the room at this time and take all of your belongings with you. Thank you very much. We'll
be back in five minutes.

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Cc:
Subject:

Maitri Lazaroff
Tuesday, January 09, 2024 2:57 PM
RTD Board Office
greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com
Heavy Rail Upgrade and through-running trains.

Dear RTD Directors and Staff,
I am writing to express my support for the upgrading of the Southwest rail to heavy rail standards to allow for the expansion
of commuter rail service and to ensure reliability of the future Front Range Passenger Rail.
The Front Range Passenger Rail project has the potential to change the modal share for intercity transport on the Front
Range, but to do that it must be reliably on time and frequent. Upgrading the Southwest rail corridor would ensure a
passenger‐only right‐of‐way within Denver and help to ensure on‐time performance. This would also allow for the boarding
of FRPR trains at the Union Station West platforms, decreasing journey times by not having trains back into the Union Station
Train Hall. As the commuter rail services are compatible with the proposed FRPR rolling stock, commuter rail trains could run
on the Southwest rail corridor, restoring all light rail service the would be lost by upgrading the corridor.
For further information, please contact Greater Denver Transit at greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com or read their website on
this proposition at greaterdenvertransit.com/frontrangepassengerrail/rtdheavyrailupgrade.
Yours sincerely,
Maitri Lazaroff

1

Tai-Shrae Parish
From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Park, Sid
Tuesday, January 09, 2024 7:00 AM
RTD Board Office
Suggestion

To whom it may concern,
I think it would benefit everyone if the RTD were to pass out “migrant/refugee” rider cards (provide them the link to the
RTD’s how‐to‐ride video in Spanish) – first month free then a nominal fee of $5 or $10/month per adult or per family (kids
ride free). They should immediately see the value in maintaining this. I believe this will increase ridership, improve
migrant/refugees ability to find work, food banks, shelters, etc. and eventually result in a greater income stream for the
RTD.
Sid Park (she/her)

1

