2024-07-11
Audit Committee
BOBBY DISHELL: The Thursday, July 11 Audit Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of
10:01 AM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this morning. Please note that Committee Meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as
practicable on the Board's website. At this morning's meeting, we are providing communication access,
real-time translation, also known as CART. Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically
translated into Spanish for anyone who would like access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish.
Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com and a link will be provided. Visit rtd-denver.com and a live stream of this
meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page. Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the
record, if you would like to be acknowledged during today's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise
your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star-9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star-6. I would now like to call
roll for Committee Members. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee Member Brendel.
JIM BRENDEL: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Committee Member Olenberger
JOHN OLENBERGER: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: I saw him. I see that you're here. And I'm Bobby Dishell. I'm the Chair. And I am here.
For the sake of the record, I also see that we have Directors Tisdale-- just Director Tisdale. Mr. Kroll, yes.
Great. And Director Tisdale is present as well. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to
address the Committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding agenda from April.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star-9 on
your phone. During this time, the Committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if

you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Read, Chair Dishell. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
I do not see anyone present who has their hand raised in desire to provide public comment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, and were any email comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: There were no emails received in advance of this meeting.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public comment period at this
time. Our first recommended action today is the 2023 Comprehensive Financial Report and Report to
Governance. For the Board of Directors to accept into the records the Regional Transportation District's
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, which includes audited financial reports relating to the year
ending in December 31, 2023. Is there a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
BOBBY DISHELL: I hear Director Davidson as the movant and Director Catlin as the second. I would like
to ask Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, and Byron Adam, Senior Manager of Accounting, to present
this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell. Good morning, everybody. And I'd like to start by thanking
Byron Aten and his team. Byron is the Senior Manager of Accounting for RTD. A lot of work went into this,
gathering information. It started all the way back in December with the preliminary audit working with Plante
Moran and carried through until now.
A lot of work, you can imagine, goes into preparing this information, working with our auditors, our external
auditors from Plante Moran. And he does it with a small team and does a very good job. So thank you,
Byron, very much. We're joined today by Pam Hill, who is a partner with Plante Moran. And she oversees
the audit of RTD. And I'd like to thank Pam as well.
She and her team have been very good to work with over the past four years, completing not only the
ACFR, which is the Annual Comprehensive Financial Report, doing that audit, but also reviewing National
Transit Database submissions, as well as doing the single audit for federal grants. They've been great
partners and really great to work with and a great resource for us. So I'd like to turn the floor over to Pam
to introduce this item.
PAM HILL: Great. Well, thank you so much. I appreciate everybody and allowing us to cover the results
this morning. So thank you very much. Actually, I was going to ask, does Mr. Kroll have the slides available,
Doug? If not, I can share my screen.
DOUG MACLEOD: No, he does not. I can pull them up, too, Pam if you'd like.
PAM HILL: Oh, OK. Yes, I can do it. I have it up over here. So let me just get that. And let me know if you
guys can see that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.

PAM HILL: Good. All right. All right, great. So I was going to cover the results of the audit, as Doug
mentioned, for the December 31, 2023 audit. We do perform several procedures over and above the
financial statement audit, as Mr. MacLeod pointed out. Also it would include auditing federal compliance
with the single audit as well as National Transit Database reporting. And we also perform a small agreedupon procedures report related to the general manager.
We did spend over 1,000 hours this year auditing the books and records of the District. And so I would like
to echo Mr. McLeod's comments and not only thank him and Mr. Aten, but the entire team as well. I know
a lot of work goes into this. And we appreciate the professionalism that we received throughout the entire
process. So thank you to you all for that.
And so like I said, here are the deliverables. I'm going to cover all of those. I think probably the main thing
I want to hit on this slide, though, is for the Financial Statement Audit, we were able to issue an unmodified
opinion this year. So again, highest level of assurance that the District can receive and basically means
you can rely on the numbers, as they are presented within the statements.
We did have the End of Audit Letter, which I will go over as well. And Single Audit Report, happy to report
we had no findings. So we did test the internal controls related to compliance as well as actual compliance.
And again, happy to report, no findings there. So with that, let's go to the next slide.
So as the Committee will recall, before the audit starts, we come to the Committee, and we talk about what
our plan for the audit is going to be. And so the next two slides are just kind of a follow-up to that initial
communication to say, OK, do we have any deviations from our plan? And if we did, we talk about those
deviations here. And we also are required for the auditing standards to identify risk related to financial
reporting.
And the items on your slide here are the risks that we identified during our planning process. And you'll note
that last sentence down at the bottom is that, "As a result of our additional procedures, we did not have any
findings related to those risks." So we are able to get comfortable that even though there were risks
identified in planning, the District did a great job of accounting for these items properly.
There were two new accounting standards that the District did evaluate in the current year for
implementation. Both were deemed to be immaterial. And so RTD passed on adopting those standards.
That doesn't mean that there wasn't a lot of work that had to go into ensuring that they were immaterial. So
again, kudos to Mr. Aten and his team. And that will be something, those standards will need to continue
to be evaluated every year to ensure that they're not material.
If there are any new transactions that would rise to the level of materiality, then those will be included in the
statements at that time. Also not shown on this slide, but worth mentioning, is there were two new auditing
standards that were required to be adopted for all audits. It doesn't matter if they're government or not, but
beginning with December 31 year-ends. And so we were able to implement those new auditing standards,
which really required a deeper dive and look into the internal controls at the District.
And happy to report as a result of that deeper dive, we still did not have any findings related to internal
controls. So the District really has done a nice job of appropriately segregating the duties and really taking
the time to make sure the right people are doing the right things and they're done at the right level and also
documenting those controls.

Because I know in a lot of our governments, the controls might be in place, but they're not always
documented well. The District has a really good documentation and audit trail, which was very helpful for
us as we implemented the new auditing standards. And again, happy to report, there were no findings
related to internal controls.
And the next slide, nothing really to touch on here, other than, again, we followed our audit plan, as laid
out. I would maybe like to point out one item, and Mr MacLeod mentioned this, is the audit process. It does
really go on for quite a while because of the interim procedures. And then we have field work and wrap-up.
And we do wait, the salary trust is audited separately. And so all the information comes from a third party.
And so that audit did take a little bit longer. And the Committee may remember that we had a similar issue,
I think, in the past. So we were able to complete that audit.
And once that was completed, the financial statements were able to be issued. And so that's why the issue
date is a little bit late, I think similar to what it has been in the past. The District was ready and financial
statements were really prepared by the end of March. So a lot of the auditing procedures were really done
by March and April. And then there was just a few straggling things waiting for the salary trust audit to be
completed.
And I would also like to point out, I think, one of the benefits in the efficiencies that we've found in the audit
is really the great communication that we have with Mr. MacLeod and Mr. Aten and team throughout the
year. When different transactions get entered into and things happen, your team does an excellent job of
looping us in and reaching out. And so we're able to work through some of those complex issues throughout
the year, which helps to make the audit process go smooth at year-end.
Again, nothing overly to note on here. Basically, everything went to plan. We did have two past adjustments,
as noted on here. But they were not material to the financial statements. And the one we've had is a similar
adjustment for the last several years. And then lastly, some legislative and informational items. I did not
plan to go over those today, but I know you've all had the letter. If anyone has anything they'd like to chat
on related to that, happy to go into further discussion on that. But again, those are in more detail in the
letter.
And then, I wanted to touch briefly on the legacy costs. So with the Pension ATU 1001 plan, I wanted to
talk a little bit because there were some larger changes this year. And I know that the Committee is aware.
So if you'll recall, RTD made a significant contribution to the plan of about $176 million. And you'll see that
reflected over here in the Plan net position in the far-left corner.
So you'll see that significant increase in the Plan net position. And that was largely due to the significant
contribution that was made to the Plan. And hence, the large jump in the percentage funded that went from
about 55% to over 70% in the latest actuarial valuation. So great progress there based on that large
increased contribution.
And then again, to highlight the salaried plan, really the Plan net position remained relatively consistent. It
was down slightly from the 2022 fiscal year. But if you keep in mind that these results are on a one-year
lag. So the valuation that's being reported in your 12/31/23 financial statements are actually based on your
12/31/2022 results.
And if you all remember, the market was down pretty significantly at 12/31/2022. And so I would expect to
see that jump in the investment income on the fiscal year '24 audited financial statements. Again, so you

ended up almost at 70%, so 69%. An industry average of where you want to see from a funding percentage
is a healthy plan is typically in that 70% to 80% range, which is really where you've been for the last several
years.
And then lastly, on your expenditures of federal awards in the spending of your federal dollars, obviously
you see that big jump in 2020 with a lot of the COVID money that came through that the District used to
maintain operations throughout the pandemic. And you'll see a lot of that has been spent. In 2023, that
dollar amount was much less.
And although still significant, the District spent approximately $224 million in federal money in 2023. And
we did perform, as was mentioned, the Federal Compliance Audit where we tested the Federal Transit
Cluster. That was about $221 million of the 224 million. And again, happy to report that we did not have
any compliant findings as a result of those testing of the Federal Transit Cluster dollars.
So that was it and what I had planned to cover. But happy to take any questions, Chair, if there are any. So
I'll stop talking and see if anyone has questions.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great, are there any questions from the Committee? I see no hands. Ah, Director
Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair. I'll just keep it brief at the end here and just thank our team.
Great to see a report like this with no findings. And I very much appreciate it. Thank you, Plante Moran, and
thank you to our team for the engagement, the work, and diligent financial management. Appreciate it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I echo Chair Davidson's comments. And I also wanted to thank
you, Pam, for highlighting the fact that the pension plan was really a look back at 2022 and that's why it had
dropped. And I'm encouraged that the look back next year will be a more positive position from the 69%.
So I did not know that. Or maybe I just had overlooked that in the past. But that was really nice for me to
hear. So that was a great explanation, thank you. And, team, you did a great job.
BOBBY DISHELL: All right, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. I'll wait if there are any other Committee Members that have
questions at this time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please proceed.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Is this an appropriate time to ask questions about the Report, the Annual
Comprehensive Financial Report? I'm getting a head nod? OK. I did want to direct attention to packet page
19. That's page 15 of the report.
It's the Organization Chart as of December 2023. And I've actually had occasion to raise this in the past
when looking at this. It's an appropriate Organization Chart, but for one correction. There should be above
General Manager and CEO a box indicating Board of Directors. The organization begins with the Board of
Directors and then administratively flows down from there. So that's my comment.

Then on packet page 28, which is page 24 of the report, but packet page 28 in the sixth full paragraph, it
recites, and that's toward the bottom of the page, "RTD's capital assets net of depreciation decreased 4%
in 2023 and 5.4% in 2022, primarily due to depreciation."
My question is, I thought the numbers were net of depreciation, so why would we report that it was due to
depreciation? That's probably my financial ignorance. And so I freely admit that. But I was wondering if
there might be a comment about that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. MacLeod, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you for the question, Finance planning Committee Chair Tisdale.
Yeah, that's not very well worded. The intent on that one is that the overall net investment in capital assets
decreased by 238 million. And it takes into account depreciation, both the beginning number and the ending
number, so that the two numbers compared year over year decrease by $238 million.
And it was due to depreciation. So you're correct. And thank you for reading this so carefully. We would
need to make sure that we'll correct that. We'll also take a look at the Org Chart for the next go around.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I'll just add too that we do-- and thank you for saying 238 million-- it does
say at the top of the report on each page that dollars are expressed in thousands. And I just think sometimes
people need to be reminded of that. Because it isn't always obvious, certainly to a lay reader. But I
appreciate the clarification on this. And hopefully there can be some clearing up of the language. Thank
you very much, Mr. Chair. That's all I had.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Any other questions or comments from the Committee or Board of Directors?
All right. Seeing none. Are there any No votes on this action?
OK. With 5 Aye votes, 0 No votes, and 0 abstention, the most the motion passes. There is one discussion
item, which is the internal audit update. I'd like to ask Mr. MacLeod, Chief Financial Officer, to begin the
presentation for this item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Dishell. And I will turn the floor over to Matt Marino, our Chief Audit
Executive. He's also joined by Dave Hornburg from RubinBrown. So, Matt, the floor is yours. Thank you.
MATT MARINO: Good morning. Thank you, Doug. I'm going to go through the Internal Audit Update at a
high level first. And then we'll go through one of the audit reports that was issued in a little more detail. Feel
free to stop me if you have any questions.
But we are trying to make a cadence of reporting on what's being done, what we're planning to do, and
following up on what's been done in the past to see if we're rectifying any recommendations we have. So if
we look at the activities for the last quarter, Current Accomplishments and Status, the Safety Review. We
had our closing meeting and we're working on finishing up that report.
The IT Vulnerability Assessment, we did start that, but since NIST 2.0 was issued, we did concur with RTD
Management that we're going to delay that so that we can have a more robust review of the IT vulnerability
under the 2.0 standards. So that will occur. It should be kicking off again here very shortly so that we can
make any recommendations as a result of that.

The Security Review Incident Response, we will talk about that report here very shortly. We just kicked off
the Denver Transit Partners Review, reviewing that concessionaire agreement and looking at mostly the
operations and the reporting with regard to that agreement between the concessionaire and the District.
And then we're continuing to follow up on our Internal Audit Report Issue Tracking. So that's really where
we're at.
Challenges and issues, really nothing huge to report there. As far as timing, we did kind of keep to our time
that we talked about last Audit Committee Meeting. We did delay some of the audits into the future just to
provide a little relief to different departments that might have other audits outside of internal audit going on
as well as external audit. So that's where we're at. Nothing to report that I should report there, other than
we're basically on track with where we planned from last quarter.
I'll pause for a second. I'm not seeing any hands going up so far. So this is our Internal Audit Plan that we
had created last year. So we're clicking through the year rather quickly. So the green is the things that are
complete. The blue are the items that are in process. And if you look at the bottom there, there's some
asterisks that mean different things, whether audits were shifted due to reprioritization internally or
postponed based on what was going on with different departments.
So we kind of went through the overall plan for the next quarter. Really nothing to report there outside of
what we've already discussed. The big and probably the largest lift will be the IT Review under NIST 2.0 as
well as the Concessionaire Operations for Denver Transit Partners. Both of those will be robust audits. And
plenty to talk about the next Audit Committee Meeting we have coming up.
The next couple slides are our issue tracking. So you'll see the Project Name on the left, the Observation
Number as well as the Observation Title. And then you'll see the Target Date and the Risk Rating. So you'll
see some instances where the Target Date might have been a date, and then there's a new, revised date
below there. That is the new revised date for completion of disposition of those issues.
Various reasons why those were moved, either changes in senior leadership in the department, budgetary
plan, various things. Nothing that I would say is of high alert or anything that's concerning. We've gotten
great response rate from all the different responsible parties for the different issues. But we are working to
follow up on those regularly.
So really, that's a never ending process. And it's part of the whole process of improvement for the District
overall. Any questions, kind of high-level look over, before I go through the security review actual audit?
OK, not seeing any hands going up. I'll proceed.
So we did the review in partner with our subcontractor Dietrich Partners. So they assisted with this audit
very heavily. So we did a Security Incident Response Review. So overall, we did have several different
findings that we need to talk about. So we had three things that were rated as high, three that were rated
as moderate, and one that was a process improvement or just a best practice recommendation.
So if we look at the overall audit rating, we did give it a Needs Improvement rating. There were a couple
things that we should talk about. First one, the Observation has to do with the Police Software System
Limitations. We went into this audit knowing that that system was being evaluated for replacement anyway.
And so I would say this observation just furthered the case that there are some limitations to that software
that do provide some difficulties for providing useful information, getting things to the different parts within
the security response that needed to occur. Management did provide their management action plan, which

really contemplates the known plan for replacing that system in the nearer term. I'm not seeing any hands
going up so far.
The next one has to do with the Written Security Incident Reports. Admittedly, so it wasn't a comprehensive
sample of hundreds of incident reports. But we did look at 25 of them. 10 were not completed by the
assigned officer. And then 9 were not approved by the supervisor.
Cause-- there was turnover in the contracted transit security officers and the workload of the RTD police
officers. And so just really a recommendation to improve that process. The management has provided their
Management Action Plan. And I really don't foresee any reason why that would not occur. I'll pause for a
second. I don't see any comments or hands going up.
The next one has to do with our reporting of our information to a National Incident Based Reporting System.
So we did look at a sample of 25 items to see how we were doing with reporting our incidents into that
national reporting system. So 11 of the security incidents were not reported to the national system. And
then two were not included due to incomplete mapping.
Cause-- not being completed in a timely manner, similar to what was happening with the reports, really
some turnover and then some limitations in the system, as well as some limitations in following up with
making sure that the reports get closed out timely. Management has provided their Management Action
Plan below. Really, it does hit the points that we thought would need to be discussed with regard to that.
Observation 4 has to do with a Security Risk Assessment. Now, I do want to caveat this a little bit. RTD
does get numerous risk assessments in partner with Transportation Security Administration, Department of
Homeland Security. But what this comment is really getting at is a comprehensive, annual update of that
risk assessment process, taking all of the other items I just discussed into consideration and kind of rightsizing it for what we can do with our budgetary constraints as well as what we have for personnel.
And so management has provided their Management Action Plan. But there's plenty of risk assessment.
It's just liking to see that comprehensive risk assessment occurring with regard to security. I'm not seeing
any hands going up.
Number 5 is talking about the Security Incident Reporting Procedures. The documented policies and
procedures relating to the daily 24-hour reporting for incident reports, as well as our national reporting, are
not fully documented and really don't exist. So really, it's hard to complete reports if you don't have clearly
defined expectations, rules, and policies. And so management has provided a Management Action Plan
that should rectify that into the future.
The Observation 6 has to do with Security Incident Reporting to Senior Management. So what we're talking
about there is it's really sharing the security incident reporting to the different departments and different
senior management within the organization that might need to know if they might have a part in addressing
that security incident. And so really, it just comes down to system limitations and just evaluating how we
want to have that going forward. Management has provided their Management Action Plan to take care of
that going forward as well.
And then Observation 7 talks about the Dispatch Calls. So much like the other things where we did select
samples, we did look at 25 dispatch calls and we know four did not have a priority assigned to it within the
computer-aided dispatch system. And one did not have the correct disposition status within the system as
well.

This gets back to a little bit of the limitations with the software, but also some training items. Management
has provided their action plan below. And this one was rated as a Low or Process Improvement just because
the error rate was not very, very high, but there was some areas for improvement. And that is it with regard
to the audit. I'll stop for questions.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was alarmed when I saw "Needs Improvement," but then when I
delved into the report, it's explained very thoroughly. The computer-aided dispatch system, I noticed that
that will not be updated until 2026.
I was thinking that it would be beneficial to see a follow-up audit for 2025 to see how we've been making
progress on this. But I don't know, absent that system, if we're going to get meaningful data. But I still would
like to see how we are progressing on this at an interim basis and then finally, when the system is put in
place, if it has a jump in improvement.
But I was pleased to see the Management Action Plans and would like to note that a lot of those actions, a
lot of those efforts are underway and have been underway for a while. Recognizing that this report did take
a look back from the previous year. And we've made great strides in terms of hiring and staffing and planning
for our security systems. So that's all I had.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Marino.
MATT MARINO: If the Management Action Plan doesn't require the update of a system, we will follow up
and try and dispose of any of the items. So we still should close out the reports within the system that we
have until we've upgraded it. So we will report back to you all at the next Audit Committee where we're at
with that.
BOBBY DISHELL: Mr. Olenberger.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you, Chair Dishell. It seemed like a lot of the issues were regarding individual
incidents that happened and failure to report or the reports weren't submitted on time, that kind of thing. I
did see, I think it was Issue Number 4 regarding the Risk Assessment.
But as part of the audit, did you guys look at, or maybe it wasn't an issue, but I would imagine that all the
incidents that happen on the RTD bus lines, rail lines, whatever the situation is, is anyone analyzing that at
a high level to say, OK, let's have some strategic action with our department here, with the police
department and say maybe we need to put more people out on the A Line because we have a problem out
at the airport and that kind of thing?
Take all these incidents reports and analyze them to say, where are our problem spots? Where do we need
more officers? Is our response the right response for these types of things? Do we need to change our way
of doing things? Looking at all that and doing the analysis on that, if you could comment on that.
MATT MARINO: I'll start it off, and then I'll kick it over to the respective RTD Management that might be
more subject matter experts. I do want to say in discussions with management, there is some limitations
on exporting the data and getting it to be easily analyzed. So there is some system limitations. But I know
they are doing risk assessments, and I'll let them discuss to that.

But having a more robust system where you can easily extract that data is part of the limitation. But I'll stop
talking there and let anybody who wants to speak in from other RTD management.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please, pro-- [AUDIO OUT]
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I'm going to provide some context to Mr. Olenberger's question. I'm going to yield
the floor to Deputy Chief Martingano. So for your edification, Mr. Olenberger, RTD does have a strategic
plan. And the strategic plan includes four priorities. From those priorities, we have community value,
customer excellence, employee ownership, and financial success.
We garner information through a myriad of different avenues to help us discern what we should be working
on within those four priorities. And those four priorities happen to be Back to Basics, People Power, and a
Welcoming Transit Environment. Within that element of Welcoming Transit Environment, there are key
performance indicators, there are various data points which we collect and use a myriad of different sources
to get that data. We have a Transit Watch app that individuals utilizing our system can report, including
employees.
We use information from employee surveys and we discern where we should best be deploying individuals.
And that has led to the creation of five sectors that have commanders overseeing that. So I just wanted to
provide that context for you because we are being intentional as we go forward. And with that being said,
I'm going to yield the floor to Deputy Chief Martingano to further elaborate. Thank you very much.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, thank you, ma'am. We do we have a crime data analyst, [? Daily. ?] He pulls
reports, incidents. We look at those, we look at times. So there are capabilities on our current system. It's
just an antiquated system for what we had. We have recognized that we needed to update our CAD and
ARMA system.
It's taken a process to get. We had over 1,000 points that we wanted to upgrade. So that went out to a very,
very, very extensive procurement process. We were down to two companies right now. And we continue to
make sure that they are going to be able to give us what we need moving forward.
And you also have to remember, a lot of the incident reports, as is mentioned by many people here, we
were solely relying on security officers. We are now moving to police officers. Our police officers are trained
by us internally. They know our policies and procedures. They go through an extensive field training
program before they are able to go out there on the street by themselves.
So we are getting better daily capturing from them just because they know exactly what should be put in
the reports, the priority levels, if there's suspect information, all those indicators that help us deploy
resources. So everything that we have seen from this report, from the old reports to today, we have already
made great strides in changing and being a better organization from today on.
JOHN OLENBERGER: Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Mr. Olenberger, anything further?
JOHN OLENBERGER: No, I think that's it. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Awesome. Thank you. Chair Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr Chair. My question is partially broad, but a little bit specific as it
relates to Observation 5. I note that quite a few of the Management Action Plans center around the new
computer-aided dispatch and records management system software that will be implemented. I noted on
Observation 5, this is the Security Incident Reporting Procedures, the cause of this particular observation
was due to a lack of standard operating procedures. The Management Action Plan, however, centers
around the implementation of the new software. And the target date is June 30, 2024.
I'm wondering if just management could shed a little bit of light on the action plan. Is this a matter of getting
standard operating procedures in place first? Is that why that's a June 30, 2024 date, followed by the
implementation of the software? I think it'd be helpful just to understand a little better what standard
operating procedure modifications were making, if any, in advance of the software or if the software is really
the full extent of the management plan on Observation 5.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Chair, for me.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
STEVE MARTINGANO: Yeah, I'm Deputy Chief Martingano. So we've already developed a lot of standard
operating procedures. Again, it's been the crossover of going from security to internal police officers. So
our procedures and policies are in place. We have over 177 policies that we've developed to make sure
that our police department is running in the correct direction. A lot of the delays are going to be moving from
one software company to the next.
So we currently, again, it's an antiquated system. There's a lot of checkboxes, a lot of dropdown boxes you
have to fill out where a lot of that is going to already be developed in a new system that it's going to
automatically give us a lot of those that you don't have to do manually as we've had to do now and going
back years. So yeah, the standing operating procedures, obviously we're going to have to have a training
on the new software system. But that's not going to be anything that's going to delay us.
The real delay is converting over. It takes about 14 to 18 months for the software to change over and then
integrate everything we also have. Because we don't want to lose the data that we've already collected for
all the years of us in existence. But in regards to policies, that's not going to be an issue or any type of
delay for us to move forward.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I guess just as a follow up, Mr Chair, that's helpful. Is Observation 5's target
completion date, then, actually more aligned with the implementation of the new software? In other words,
not the June 30, 2024 date, but completion with the implementation of the software more aligned with the
target dates on Observation 1 of implementation completion by Q1 2026?
STEVE MARTINGANO: So we continue to look at our policies and make sure we're having the operation
plan started. And I apologize, I don't know if it's my internet lagging, but some of your conversation I didn't
hear totally. But we are internally making sure we're ready.
And starting on our NIBRS system, our NIBRS reporting, all the different types of reporting that we have to
better our crime data analysis of what we're capturing out there. And then all that will just go into when the
new software is put into place. All the items that we asked for for the new software were pretty much
designed already.
So a lot of our standing operating practices were all things that we had asked the new programs to develop
for us. So again, we're going to be ready on our part, continue trying to capture the data we need to continue

to be successful to present our Welcome Transit Environment. And then once that software comes in, it's
just going to coincide and just blend together.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Apologies if my audio clipped. That answers my question. Thank
you, Mr. Chair.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Mr. Marino, I'll turn it back over to you.
MATT MARINO: That is the remainder of the audit report. As I mentioned earlier, we will have several
reports that we'll bring to you. I believe we're slated for a September meeting. So that'll be likely the safety,
the IT under the 2.0 NIST. And then we'll see how quickly the concessionaire audit wraps up and whether
we can get that into packet prior to that meeting. But it'll be plenty of information to discuss. And then believe
it or not, it's time to start doing risk assessment again and start coming up with a new audit plan. So
[LAUGHS]
BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
MATT MARINO: I know it came quickly, but at least we have a base and we have some data points to look
at, both from our external auditors as well as our internal audits, to help guide us. And we'll kick that process
of shortly as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Are there any other matters to discuss? Seeing and hearing none.
The next Audit Committee Meeting is scheduled for Thursday, September 12 at 10:00 AM.
I would like to also draw everyone's attention to the fact that we could have several openings for Committee
Members from the Board at the end of this year. The Executive Committee is slated to discuss the process
for selecting Directors to serve on this Committee at the Executive Committee meeting on Thursday, July
25. Seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 10:46 AM. Thank you, everyone.
JACK KROLL: Bye, everyone.
MATT MARINO: Thank you.

