Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on July 10, 2007 at 6:40 p.m.
Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 12, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 10,
2007 at 6:40 p.m. in Rooms T and D, RTD Basement

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:
Staff Present:

Chair Martinez, Director Chacon, Director Busck, Director
Christopher, Director Daly, Director Elfenbein, Director Kinton,
Director McMullen, Director Pulliam, Director Quinlan, Director
Ruchman, Director Tayer, Director Yamrick
Directors Brohl and Kemp
Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Dave
Genova, Marla Lien, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Liz Rao, Scott
Reed, and Phil Washington.
Susan Altes, Gideon Berger, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin
Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, Dave Genova, Jennifer Heisler,
Richard Morton, Bill Porter, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Joe
Smith, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, , Liz
Telford, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Call to Order:

Kevin Flynn, Jim Cunningham, Ray Lanman, Joel Noble,
Lorraine Anderson, Shelley Clark, L.W. Morrow, Kathleen
Osher, Joe Alexander, Don Ulrich, Mark Bader-Hellstrom, Ron
Chance, Ed Colby, John West, Tim Rauer, Tim Robalin, David
Utz, Mac Callison, Brad Langor, Bob Doherty, Gwen
Christiansen, Stu Williams, Jane Schnabel, Arlene Quale, Jim
Gralebneh, Kim Kucera, Anne Callison, Marianne LeCean, Har
Williams, Terry Rutter, Nadine Lee,Jake Jakubowski, Joe
Racosky, Ashland Vaughn, Judy Montero, Ken Smith,
Phuonglan Nguyen, Dominic Dibrito, Jerry Pfeffer, Joe
Wingerter, JPatrick Kennedy, Miller Hudson, Ron Chaney,
Jane Schnabel, Jeff Wittron, Stan Williams
***
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 6:40 p.m.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on July 10, 2007 at 6:40 p.m.
Page 2 of 4

Study Session
I. Discussion of Preferred Alternatives and Technology for all Commuter Rail
Corridors
Cal Marsella preferenced the presentation by indicating we are in a catch-up
mode with completing the project on time. It is important that we move
toward key decisions to take advantage of some of the opportunities
presented by Public Partnership as well as move the EIS along so that we
can move toward records of decision with the government. We will urge the
Board to take action tonight on the Resolution for the selection of a locally
preferred alternative of commuter rail for the Gold Line. In the July 24
Board meeting, action will be needed on the specific technology selection for
the East and the Gold Line.
Chair Martinez inquired about the schedule presented by the PPP advisors
which indicated nine months from the record of decision. Cal Marsella
indicated this fits into our published schedules as it relates to the FasTracks
schedule.
For a copy of the presentation, please refer to the Study Session Minutes
Notebook located in the Board office.
Following the presentation the Board Members participated in a question and
answer session. Most of these were responded to by Cal Marsella. Specific
questions or clarity focused on:
 What is the breakdown of the $2M and 8 months discussed for
alternative 2 and why is this window so much longer? Staff will
provide a follow up on the breakdown.
 Where does the Maglev fit into this evaluation?
 Are we looking at a contract driven by technology versus corridor
contract? Cal indicated there may be some efficiencies where similar
technology is being used but will be based on responses to RFP.
How significant a change can this be to the bidders? Cal stated it
could be significant.
 Dual mode technology had previously been discussed but this
increases our risk factors and is not available to meet FRA compliance
today.
 Is Double Decker still a consideration and does staff need to provide
any additional information to the Board members? Cal Marsella
provided a copy of the staff response to Director Christopher’s memo
on his DMU Double Decker fact finding trip to South Florida
summary. After some discussion, the Board concluded that no
additional effort needs to be put into the Double Decker discussion at
this time. However, the hope is that we can accommodate Double
Decker in the future.
 The Board would like to bring in people from these other
organizations that have been referenced in the discussion for PPP to
get some real life experiences on challenges they faced and how they
overcame. Cal’s staff will coordinate such a meeting.
Chair Martinez acknowledged a comment made by Director McMullen that
essentially nothing has changed from what the voters voted for corridorwise but there are some unforeseen changes that needed to be made.
Additionally Chair Martinez commented that financial concerns with capital
costs, etc. are important to him. When the system is up and running and

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on July 10, 2007 at 6:40 p.m.
Page 3 of 4
operational cut may needs to be made, that may mean bus cuts which a
whole central core of riders are totally transit dependent upon to get to their
livelihood, more so than the rail which carries a lot of suburban riders.
Please reference these action items that originated with the PPP presentation
and reiterated at the Study Session:
 Chair Martinez: wants to see the cost differential factors leading to
the conclusion for the East/Gold line corridor before the July 24 th
meeting
 Director Christopher: wants to see the assumptions for the O&M
used in the presentation
 Director Christopher: wants a case scenario where we assume 2
EMU/2DMU and taking the lost savings from if we go to 4 DMUs.
Overlay the PPP and provide a net present value. (total cost
comparison of EMU/DMU by reducing capital and life cycle costs to
net present vale even assuming savings on PPP for East and Gold line
corridors)
 Director Busck: Would like to see a presentation from oil industry on
future of alternative fuels, pricing, etc.
 Director Tayer: Would like a similar type analysis done on the
Northwest Parkway corridor
Chair Martinez provided an opportunity for the Board members to share
where they are on the EMU/DMU issue and what factors they used to help
them to reach their decision.
II. Board Meeting Schedule
Chair Martinez stressed the importance of follow-up on open items from the
December and May Board retreat. He asked the Board about their
preferences on how to move ahead on issues of Board Priorities, Board
meeting schedules and/or scheduled retreats or special study sessions
dedicated to these issues. The Members felt in general that a special study
session or retreat is needed to focus specifically on these items.
III. Other Matters
Adjourn to Special Board Meeting
The Board adjourned to Special Board Meeting at 7:50 p.m.
IV. Special Board Meeting
1. Call to Order/Roll call:
Roll call was taken of the Board Members with 12 present and 3 absent.
Directors Brohl and Kemp were not present and Director Chacon had left at
7:35 p.m.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to approve
by affirmative vote the resolution regarding the
selection of a locally preferred alternative (LPA)
of “Commuter Rail” for the Gold Line.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on July 10, 2007 at 6:40 p.m.
Page 4 of 4
VOTE ON
MOTION:

V.

An affirmative voice vote was taken. The motion
passed unanimously.

Adjournment—meeting adjourned from Special Board Meeting at 8:00
p.m.

