2024-11-21
Performance Committee
PEGGY CATLIN: Good afternoon. The Thursday, November 21 Performance Committee will now come
to order. We are convened as of 12:00 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to
mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's
website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like to access to a live transcript of this
meeting in Spanish. A live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
JACK KROLL: It looks like she's just popping on, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah, I see that she is. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Guzman. I do not see Director Guzman.
JACK KROLL: Director Guzman is, I think he is likely in transit. His shift ended a little earlier this morning.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. If you would, for the record, let me know when he joins, I would appreciate it.
JACK KROLL: Absolutely.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.

PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I am Chair Catlin and I am here. So for the record, I see that we have six directors
present and one absent but pending.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone. During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you
would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD board office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Mr. Kroll, are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, we have a number of folks here from the public, including, it appears, a
representative from Channel 7 Denver News, but no one who has raised their hand in desire to provide
public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, thank you for noting that.
Now I would like to ask if there are any emails that were received.
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Catlin. Executive Manager Jack Kroll again here. There were no emails
received in advance of this meeting that were submitted as public comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. So with no participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time.
We have one recommended action for today's meeting. That is approval of 2024 General Manager and
CEO's performance appraisal and related compensation change. This is for the Board of Directors to
approve General Manager and CEO Debra A. Johnson's attached performance appraisal for the 2024
calendar year performance cycle and in connection therewith to approve a 4.86 percentage increase to
the GM/CEO's current annual base salary.
Do I have a motion?
JAIME LEWIS: So moved, Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: Second, Buzek.
PEGGY CATLIN: So I have Director Lewis as the movant and Director Buzek as the second.
I would like to ask Director Davidson if he has anything further to add. I would like to speak briefly that we
had a meeting this previous Monday with the Board and GM/CEO Johnson to discuss this, and the Board
members had an opportunity to change their performance rating. So those were finalized on Tuesday
afternoon.
I would like to ask Board Chair Erik Davidson if he has anything further to add.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Catlin. First of all, I just would like to thank the
Board for participating in the evaluation process.
As the packet notes on packet page 5, we did have 14 raters from the Board responding to a
comprehensive questionnaire. And I thank everybody for their participation in that and thank the General
Manager and CEO for her participation in the evaluation process, as well, and certainly for her work over
the previous performance period over this past year.
I would just like to note, I think that the framework worked very well for us this year. We had adjusted the
way we did the performance evaluation to really factor in core-based job performance of the General
Manager and CEO, as well as attainment of short-term or annual goals that were measured, and we used
a number based system that, again, appears on packet page 5.
And would just like to highlight, I think we've done a lot of good work as a team to align around a
performance framework that also well aligns with the work that's being done in the agency, and would
certainly like to thank our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, for her collaboration and partnership in
working to have alignment with the performance feedback that the Board is using for the General
Manager and CEO and how that aligns across the organization.
And just would comment that we have three tiers that appeared in this framework of Does Not Meet
Expectations, Meets Expectations, and Exceeds Expectations, with Meets Expectations really being the
target, with fully meeting being satisfactory performance. And I'd like to thank the General Manager and
CEO for her performance over the previous year. As noted by Committee Chair Catlin, we've had
opportunities to discuss performance with the General Manager and CEO, but would certainly like to
highlight that the Board is finding, using a point based system, 67 out of 100 points, putting her squarely
in Meeting Expectations.
I think to highlight some of the short-term SMART goals. On the back-to-basics initiative, I thank the
General Manager and CEO for her meeting of expectations and even exceeding of expectations on that
goal. That was a goal which we said we would complete the first phase of the downtown rail
reconstruction project by September 30, 2024, and have had a plan to do so. And in a time when many
projects, many public works projects go above their budget and beyond their time, it was a very significant
success that this agency, under the leadership of General Manager and CEO Johnson, delivered on that
project ahead of time and on budget, within expectations.
In the area of people power, the Board set a goal in collaboration with General Manager and CEO
Johnson regarding reducing the-- or, I'm sorry-- improving the employee retention rate. And although the
performance metric that we set forward was not fully met and thereby this was a partially met, I'd like to
acknowledge that the spirit of this goal was to restore workforce so that we can restore service. And we
have made tremendous strides in that area, have a significant service restoration coming in January.
However, this was a partially meet expectations, given that we didn't meet exactly the retention goals we
meant to. And I look forward to seeing what additional goals and strategic initiatives come forward to
further improve our retention efforts and further restore our workforce at the agency.
We had another short-term goal, which was in the area of welcoming transit environment. This was where
the General Manager and CEO committed to vigorously pursue passage of legislation regarding
enhanced penalties for assaults on transit workers, to really protect and improve the personal security of

our frontline employees. And also, this goal included developing a project plan to secure the perimeter of
at least one of our operational facilities and implement those enhancements by November.
We did complete that perimeter security, and that was a fully meeting expectations, and certainly would
like to thank the General Manager for that. The partially meets in this particular goal was that legislation
was not passed in the past legislative session on looking at additional penalties or protections for frontline
employees.
However, I think I speak for the Board, certainly I'll speak for myself in saying that I appreciate very much
that through the advocacy of this agency, a conversation has started at the legislature around an interest
in looking at what might be possible to further protect frontline employees. So I think that is in large part
thanks to the advocacy of the agency and look forward to how future goals shape around that.
On the area of core-based job performance, the Board found the General Manager and CEO to be fully
meeting expectations. I think that's certainly in line with my experience here and thank the General
Manager for a great deal of work in the agency, especially, I would note, areas around our budgeting
process, moving to a more deliberate budget that is well aligned with our strategic initiatives and plans
and focuses on what's needed to accomplish the goals we set forward, rather than just defaulting to
where operational budgets were. I think this is an area the agency is seeing some tremendous change,
and there's been great improvement.
This year also saw some successful new implementations of agency first. One of those was our Zero
Fare For Youth program being locked in, and the successful rollout of the first fare reduction in agency
history. That was led by General Manager and CEO Johnson and went off very smoothly and was well
adopted by the public.
We certainly had our challenges this year. Perhaps most notably, while we were very successful on our
planned maintenance of the downtown rail reconstruction project, we struggled with the unplanned work
that resulted in slow zones throughout the summer. And I would note that there are areas in growth
opportunities for the agency to improve the proactive nature by which, as our system ages, we
communicate what that aging system looks like and work together with the community to make sure we're
all on the same page about what's happening.
But I certainly do thank our team and our General Manager and CEO Johnson for quickly adapting,
putting forward a public facing web page to provide updates, certainly some learning for the region as we
move from a younger system to an older system.
So certainly there are opportunities to improve, but I think we've seen a very strong performance by our
general manager and CEO, hence the finding of the 67 points using the rubric that we designed and the
framework that was adopted by Performance Committee in last year.
So thank you for the opportunity to provide those comments. That summarizes what I see from the Board
and some of my own comments as well. Thank you, Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Davidson. And in my haste to move this meeting along, I neglected to
say a few things. But first, I wanted to acknowledge that Director Guzman and Director Bouquet both
joined this meeting at approximately 120:05. And we appreciate your joining us today.
So, as you may recall, we did agree to the performance assessment framework in January of 2024. And
the vote that we will conduct today is directly tied to that framework that we adopted. And I want to thank,

as well, the many staff who participated in this, including Chief People Officer Charlene Polege, General
Counsel Snyder, Executive Business Partner John McKay, and the consultants we partnered this year at
RKL.
I do want to thank GM/CEO Johnson as well for her work this year. This job has been incredibly
challenging and this has been a very challenging year, and we believe that the GM/CEO firmly met the
Board's high expectations during the evaluation period.
And I'd like to point out that, as Chief People Officer Polege points out to me, the Fully Meets
Expectations is really what is desired of every employee at RTD. And General Manager/CEO Johnson
certainly has met those expectations.
So at this time, I'd like to ask any other Directors who have questions or wish to speak, raise your virtual
hands and I'll call on you in turn. And at this point, I see Director Lewis has his hands raised. Director
Lewis, please.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a few comments also adding on to what Eric was saying.
The LiVE program has also been very successful this year, providing low income people a chance to pay
one half of the fare. The 19 and under has actually lowered truancies at schools. So just wanted to make
sure those two things were highlighted.
Just also want to remind people too, that this job, there's only a handful of people that can handle this job
in the United States. And I think Debra has done an outstanding job and look forward to seeing her
continue that work. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate the opportunity to have this annual
checking in with our General Manager, and I very much appreciate and applaud the idea that we will have
more direct contact with the General Manager going forward, perhaps on a quarterly basis, doing similar
things, because I think it's very helpful for both the Board and for the General Manager/CEO.
I understand that we've proceeded according to what we approved in January, and so therefore that's
how we should proceed. I do have a question, just because I couldn't understand the explanation on
packet page 5 relative to how the math was done. It's a minor point. But I would appreciate if we could at
least articulate, if we have a score of 67 and we have a range of 3.25% to 5.99% for that block, in terms
of Meets, how do you calculate to come up with the 4.9%, 4.86%, that we did? Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And that has been a discussion that has occurred among
other Board members as recently as this morning. And Director Davidson did a fairly detailed analysis of
the math, and I'm going to yield the floor to him to explain the methodology. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Chair Catlin, and thank you, Director Tisdale, for the important
question.
So as Directors will recall, in the adopted framework with the seventh amendment, sixth and seventh
amendments to the General Manager and CEO's contract, and pursuant to our compensation analysis,
where we're operating on data, we set the adjusted base salary running between 1% and 7%. And then
that was done on a tiered system, which appears, as noted by Director Tisdale, on page 5, and

essentially works somewhat like a progressive tax system in that there are the operating within the range.
So for example, the 0 to 49 point range, that corresponds to a 2.24% increase, between 1% to 3.24%.
So if you were to do a table-- and Director Tisdale and other Directors, I'm happy to share with you some
of the documents that I have and calculating some of this-- but if you were to literally put out a table of
zero points, 1 point, 2 point, 3 point, as you move through that first tier, each respective point is worth
0.0457%. And that's just by taking those 49 points and doing a division of that available 2.24%.
Then once you hit 50 points, that is now at 3.25%. And the difference between 5.99% and 3.25%, you
essentially take that relative percentage increase and divide out the points, which in this case is 29 in that
tier.
So each point within that tier-- and forgive the precise number here-- but equates to .0457%. So
essentially, each additional point now, like a tiered tax system or progressive tax system, is adding those
respective amounts. And then if we were to move into the 80-point range, there again there is a different
percentage. So rather than applying 67% across the total range, it's really using that tiered system and
doing linear math in between each of those tiers.
Director Tisdale, does that answer your question? And Chair Catlin, does that answer the question at
hand?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, if I may.
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Yes, it answers the question. I might have a different view on how that
could or should be done, but close enough for government work. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And thank you, Chair Davidson. And I had forgotten that we had this
somewhat weighted sliding scale until you shared your spreadsheet with me earlier, and I appreciate that.
It is very complicated. And perhaps in the next year, we might want to revisit that for simplicity. But I'll just
leave it at, it is what it is at this point.
So are there any other questions going forward? I don't see any other hands raised. So at this time, I
would like to call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action?
So with seven aye votes and zero no votes and zero abstentions, that motion passes. And this will be
forwarded, as I understand it, to the full Board for adoption at the Board meeting on December 3.
Are there any other matters to discuss? Well, then our next meeting date is scheduled for Monday,
December 2 at 8:30 AM. This meeting will include discussions related to key organizational performance
metrics and the GM/CEO's 2025 goals.
We had a good discussion at a previous Performance committee meeting with GM/CEO Johnson
regarding kind of a broader scope or a broader discussion of goals with this committee, and I have
encouraged other Directors to submit some of their objectives for the following year so that we can
finalize the goal setting in January with the newly seated Board.

So with no further discussion for agenda items, the meeting is adjourned as of 12:21. And at this time, I'd
like a five-minute break prior to convening the Executive Committee. So that will be at approximately
12:27 PM. Thank you all for your participation. And we'll take a five-minute break.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, everybody. I'll give a one-minute warning before we start Executive.
JACK KROLL: And if we can just pause the record--

