Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Tina Francone, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, January 23, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Kate Williams

A. Call to Order
Committee Vice Chair Williams called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Committee Chair
Director, District C

Remote
Present

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Remote

5:24 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present
Present

5:14 PM
5:30 PM
5:30 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:34 PM

Natalie Menten
Ken Mihalik

Director, District M
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:15 PM
4:38 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:28 PM
5:07 PM
5:23 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

4:30 PM

5:03 PM

Directors Anderson and Deadwyler participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Butler, Nicole
Carey, Jessie Carter, Terry Emmons, Raleigh Elstun, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Chris Harmon, John Hersey, Pamela Kachka, Larry Kier,
Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, John McKay, Heather McKillop,
Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Daniel Menter, Michael Porter, Scott
Reed, Ruth Seleske, Jannett Scarpino, Luke Sinclare, Greg Smith,
Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Monika, TreiplHarnke, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Susan Wood,
Christina Zazueta,

Others Present:

Kristie Brown, Steve Butler, Brian Cassidy, Bar Chadwick, Gary
Forbes, Dr. William Gross, Lynn Guissinger, Anne Herzenberg,
Heather Maresh, Jason McIntosh Darla Ortiz, Siger Petraic, M. Scott
Ramming, Dana Saors, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Bob Wilson

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• 16th Street Mall Project Update: The Mall Experience
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, introduced Susan
Wood, Planning Project Manager, and Joytsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer,
to present the overview of the 16th Street Mall Project Update.
Ms. Wood highlighted the following from the presentation:
16th Street Mall Recap:
• Concern with maintenance issues and costs launched several efforts
between 2009 and 2016 to evaluate and study rehabilitation of the
16th St. Mall (Broadway to Market Street)
• City and County of Denver (CCD) also conducted a planning process
regarding the use and configuration of the Mall with the goal to
create a place people wanted “to go to, not just go through”
• Spring 2017, RTD, CCD and Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP)
together initiated an Alternatives Analysis (AA) and Environmental
Assessment (EA)
16th Street Mall Status Overview:
• Summer 2017 to present: AA and EA underway
o AA Status: 6 Alternatives (No Build and 5 Build) evaluated

o

o

o
o

EA Status: Section 106 consultation to evaluate impact on
cultural resource (the Mall) and 4(f) evaluation (required for
transportation projects that are historically significant) are
underway
Meetings and Outreach: 5 Consulting Parties meetings, 3
Stakeholder workshops, 2 Public open houses, and numerous
small group/individual meetings have been held
Winter 2017/2018: Nearing completion of the AA and EA
January/February 2018: Selection of Preferred Alternative

Current Alignment:
• Asymmetrical
o Broadway to Tremont
o Arapahoe to Market
Alternatives Analysis:
• No Build Alternative
• 5 Build Alternatives
• Median and New Asymmetrical
• Center Running
• Center and New Asymmetrical
• Rebuild in Existing Configuration
• Partial Repair in Existing Configuration
Screening Process and Criteria
• Meet Purpose and Need
o Purpose:
“Develop and implement a flexible and sustainable plan for the
Mall to address deteriorating infrastructure, provide equitable
and sufficient space for high-quality public gathering
opportunities, improve pedestrian and vehicle safety, and
continue reliable 2-way transit shuttle service on the Mall
while honoring the Mall’s use and iconic design”
o Need:
“The Mall has failing and outdated infrastructure and limited
space for safe and engaging public gathering activities. The
deteriorating infrastructure causes safety hazards for both
pedestrians and vehicles, and requires frequent and costly
maintenance. The Mall attracts large numbers of people, but a
low percentage of people stop to spend time on the Mall. The
current configuration of the Mall creates a situation in which
pedestrian corridors are constrained, creating frequent
pedestrian and shuttle conflicts”
o Improvements needed to meet:
 Increase opportunities for public use of the Mall as an
iconic space

o

 Allow reasonable maintenance frequency and costs
 Improve safety for pedestrians and vehicles
 Maintain mobility
Screening Criteria
 Economics and Cost
 Pedestrian Mobility
 Safety and Security
 Public Use Functionality
 Mobility
 Community and Environment

Alternatives Analysis – Screening Results
• Alignments Carried Forward (Top 2)
o Center Running
o Center and New Asymmetrical
• Evaluation Summary (both alignments)
o Improves safety due to 10-ft sidewalks and reduction in
pedestrian/shuttle conflict points from 6 to 4
o Meets mobility needs for transit and pedestrians
o Creates space for public use
o Meet Community and Environment Criteria (Center Running
has greater impact to cultural resource and Center and New
Asymmetrical has improved, but less than 10-ft sidewalk on
narrow side)
Next Steps
• Design Detail/Pattern
• Materials
• Curb/ No Curb
Next Steps - Confirm Preferred Alternative
• Selection of Alignment
• Center and New Asymmetrical
• Selection of Materials
• Complete evaluation
• Agree on maintenance responsibilities
• Confirm maintenance agreement in Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA)
• RTD Board review and approval of IGA
Next Steps - Schedule
• 1st Quarter 2018: Select/Confirm Preferred Alternative (Alignment
and Materials); Complete AA
• 2nd Quarter 2018: Complete EA Document and Proceed with
Preliminary Engineering

• 3rd Quarter 2018: Receive Finding of No Significant Impact (FONSI)
from FTA
• 4th Quarter 2018: Issue RFP and NTP for Final Design and
Construction
• 2019: Complete Final Design and Initiate Construction
• 2022: Complete Construction
Ms. Vishwakarma summarized the many months of conversation and
explained that the design is conceptual and that these are ideas that have
been discussed with the other stakeholders to determine the design.
Operations, maintenance, materials, and roles of each in the partnership.
She reviewed the list of fundamental ideas and concerns surrounding the
project:
1. ADA compliance
2. Water Quality and Drainage Issues
3. Large Urban Tree Canopy the previous tress did not thrive
a. Issues growing, and taking out existing trees
4. Materials Issues
a. Color must be matched
b. The pattern
c. Lighting should remain (CCD have recently improved lighting)
5. Design Constraints
a. Electricity
b. Driverless vehicles
c. Rebuild infrastructure
d. Impact on Denver
e. Team –
i. Flexibility as to how space are used
ii. Moving store or cafes closer to transit
iii. Shifting how the mall is used
f. Shared street
g. Safety
6. Philosophy of the Project
a. RTD has tried to change the transit way to concrete.
b. For various reasons, the city’s preference is to build the transit
way in granite and the sidewalks will be in granite as well. Since
it is a city street, it is their decision.
c. This discussion only applies to the material that will be on top.
Any pavement surface that is built will have a concrete slab
underneath. In essence, we are only discussing how the transit
way will be built.
d. The granite topping would be built to match the current pattern
and color.
e. Recognize challenges
i. If we rebuild we can take care of infrastructure and
drainage issues.

ii. Procurement of the best material
iii. Expectations to have a better product
iv. Anything built must be maintained
f. Maintenance
i. What is the appearance of concrete?
1. Can we match and up keep it to the standard
desired?
2. Time frame
3. Initial Cost
4. Maintenance cost
7. Finance for RTD
a. RTD has presented that RTD will only provide funding for what it
costs to install and maintain a concrete transit way
b. Denver funding has a time line which is compete by mid-2021
c. We have not determined who will run it, build it. Complete the
design. This is the first presentation to the board.
Curbs or no curbs –
 goals for the project and necessary mitigation to complete
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that these everything discussed tonight are ideas
and that there had not been any formal decisions regarding the design or the
project. She added that the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) had
guidelines to follow for a design of this type and that the National
Association of City Transportation Officials (NACTO) are heavily involved in
providing guidelines for shared city street areas. Ms. Vishwakarma stated
that there are still many things to discuss, develop, and guideline to consider
in the design of the project. She added that until the environmental
assessment document has been reviewed that there are many ideas that
cannot be formalized, and then involve all the important groups to create the
design Ms. Vishwakarma explained that the project was currently estimated
to cost between $76 to $137 million, and that the City and County of
Denver(CCD) stated there was close to $96 million with RTD contributing
$15 million dollars. She added that the project group would like to do more
design and hire a Construction Manager/ General Contractor (CM/GC)
contractor, because all stakeholders wants to maintain involvement. She
added that in order to maintain transit on the mall during construction it is
estimated to take 3 and a half years to complete. Ms. Vishwakarma
concluded that the project is a daunting task but a great opportunity to work
with other agencies and fix issues that have plagued the area for many
years.
Ms. Wood provided a quick summary of the presentation slides, how the
design team was working with stakeholders, and described that agreements
between stakeholders would come back to the Board in the near future,
along with the environmental assessment, and then the Request for Proposal
(RFP) would be issued in the 4th Quarter of 2018.

Director Archuleta asked about the what types of trees had originally been
planted and why they died, he also asked for a breakdown of the various
stakeholder funding.
Ms. Vishwakarma explained she would have to investigate what types of
trees had been planted originally and the splits for the stakeholder funding.
Director Menten stated that the Board had agreed on concrete for the mall.
She added that she would agree to an Intergovernmental agreement that
stated that RTD would provide the $15 million for project and that the other
agencies would need to provide additional funding for the additional items
and would maintain the project indefinitely. She explained that she disagreed
with the other agencies desire to use granite based on cost to implement
and maintain. She stated that she believed that the people that use the
service do not notice the color and the aesthetics of the mall, that it is
important that it is safe, functional, and at minimal cost to build and
maintain. Lastly, Director Menten asked if the alignments, the median, and
the curbs decision would provide more safety.
Ms. Wood explained based on national studies and statistics that if you limit
opportunities for conflict between vehicles and pedestrians it is safer to
remove the median
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that malls with a median have a higher rate of
pedestrian and vehicle incidents, and that review of the last 10 years of
incidents the 16th Street mall shuttle has lower incidents than national
studies due to the fact that the mall operates at lower speeds and t shuttle
stops at every block. She added that the medians were intended to provide a
shelter for pedestrians however studies have shown that without the median
it would be that much safer.
Director Menten stated that she would like to hear from organizations
representing Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) to ensure compliance
and that Ed Neuberg, Manager of ADA, be involved with the design process.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that the design team had included all of those
groups, and were aware of the issues the project must address.
Director Folska stated that cognitive whiplash – the City is troubled from the
granite yet they want to keep it as a material. Slippery and dodgy – she
requested the team ride the mall blindfolded and to take that into
consideration for the design. Safety is for sighted folks because they are
distracted and that should be considered.

Director Francone reminded the planning team that the board unanimously
agreed that granite should not be used. She added that she was
uncomfortable with the unknown dollar amount, that the process had taken
a long time, and items haven’t been resolved.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated she would send the cost estimates and addition
information to provide more clarity for the Board.
Director Lubow asked for clarification on how the $15 million from RTD
would be utilized within the estimated $76 – $137 million budget and if that
estimate was accurate.
Ms. Vishwakarma confirmed that is the current estimate, and that the
proposal currently on the table was that RTD’s cost be limited to what it
would cost for a concrete transit way. She added that the team had
discussed a zero cost to RTD for maintenance with CCD and the response
had been that RTD buses cause the most damage to the transit way and
RTD would need to provide funding for maintenance.
Director Lubow stated that the difference in the cost for granite and
concrete was $1 million to $10,000 and that the board would not approve
that those maintenance costs.
Ms. Vishwakarma explained that the estimate was a much smaller than $1
million and that she could provide those details to the board.
Director Lubow stated that RTD has done the maintenance and it had cost
$1 million and why now would it be less.
General Manager Genova explained that the design is completely different
from maintenance standpoint and a lot of the previous maintenance issues
would be addressed. He added that staff would provide a summary memo
based on all the questions that were discussed, but that RTD cannot do
anything without completing the environmental process which would drive
the materials, and the timing of the project. General Manager Genova stated
that the process stalled at the alternative analysis process because a
consensus could not be reached regarding the materials, and that the
environmental process would determine much of the project.
Ms. Wood stated that she was not surprised to hear the issues with granite
but that the environmental process had determined much of the details
required to complete the project. She added that RTD had been trying to
consider all the viewpoints, develop a sustainable design, and work with all
the partners.

Director Lubow stated that the design team must develop a design that
addresses the maintenance costs because she wants any additional RTD
funding to go towards unfunded corridors.
Director Walker asked if the pattern on the mall visible from the air, and
questioned the push for a tree canopy that would cover a good amount of
the design and be difficult to see through trees. He also asked if the
preferred alternative require the dog leg turns at either end of the mall.
Ms. Wood explained that the turns would be at a lesser degree than the
current turns.
Director Walker stated that if there were different construction methods to
utilize the granite that would lessen the maintenance costs. He asked what
the construction time frame would be if transit was stopped during
construction.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated that the team had not studied that option of
removing transit activities during the complete construction duration.
Director Walker asked if the design must be on 16th Street.
Ms. Wood stated that to preserve cultural resource it must remain on the
16th street. She added that if there was an adverse effect for any changes to
the mall that reconstructing the design someplace else as a mitigation
method would be considered. Ms. Wood stated that it would be an adverse
effect to move it from where it was today.
Chair Tisdale requested in the supplemental memorandum to explain the role
of the board. He added that the issue of granite as a material was not a
viewpoint of the board but a directive.
Director Sisk stated that RTD was limited to the $15 million, and that the
project was really a CCD project.
Director Hoy asked for clarification on RTD cost if it included maintenance.
Ms. Vishwakarma stated these are decisions that would be made, and that
there are many RTD operations to be considered which would require an
agreement with CCD if they provided the maintenance.
Director Hoy stated the he was concerned with annual cost that after RTD
provided $15 million towards the project how much would it cost annually
to maintain.

General Manager Genova clarified that RTD had a certain amount available
for capital improvements that would be the RTD contribution. He explained
that a Draft IGA would include the RTD contribution towards capital and
maintenance. General Manager Genova stated that staff needs develop the
Draft IGA which would explain and address all of the details.
Director Hoy suggested that if the cost is less he would support what CCD
wanted to design.
General Manager Genova stated that the collective goal is to maintain a
robust transit way with lower maintenance cost
Director Anderson stated she agreed with Sisk
Director Folska asked if climate change and flooding was considered in the
design of drainage system. She added that she hopes the design anticipates
those issues that may occur in the future. Director Folska stated that
consideration of the people that use the transit and the conditions of the
area.
Director Walker asked if cost was thought of after determining the preferred
alternatives to the project.
Ms. Wood explained that considering addressing the need for the project and
address all needed changes were thought of first and then a process of
winnowing down to meet the costs requirements occurred.

• Special Services Recommendations March 2018
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operating Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, explained that in addition to the evaluation of regular
service RTD evaluated the special service performance and need for changes
the need for special services. He stated that based on performance the need
to discontinue the RockiesRide bus service and RTD RACE service to the
Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure event.
Mr. Abel explained that the year Major League Baseball expanded to include
the Colorado Rockies in 1993 and RockiesRide service began that same
year. He added that the service operated with 12 routes to 23 Park-n-Rides
and ran approximately 175 buses to all home games. Mr. Abel explained
that over the years, the service has been reviewed and reduced to better
match ridership and that in 2017, the service was reduced to just two (2)
routes serving four (4) Park-n-Rides. Service operated on Opening Day, for
Saturday and Sunday games, and for fireworks games; most games
operated with six (6) buses, and that there was an average of 472 boardings
per game (approximately 236 RTD passengers). Mr. Able explained that
since the opening of Coors Field, the Colorado Rockies have allowed
RockiesRide buses to use the parking lot located on the corner of Wazee St.

and 22nd Ave. (Rockies-Lot) to board and de-board passengers and that in
November 2017, the Colorado Rockies notified RTD that the Rockies-Lot
would no longer be available. He stated that it was recommended that the
RockiesRide service be discontinued due to low ridership and parking issues.
Mr. Abel explained that similarly, RTD offered special service to the Susan
G. Komen Race for the Cure event beginning October 3, 1999 and that the
service operated with 20 buses from three (3) Park-n-Rides. He stated that
attendance peaked at 65,350 in 2006 with Peak boardings for RACE Service
in 2005 (12,671 boardings) and has generally ranged between 8,000 and
12,000 from 2001 and 2011. Mr. Abel explained that in 2017, Race for the
Cure attendance dipped to 10,200 and RACE Service boardings dropped to
an all-time low of 786 (approximately 393 RTD passengers). He added that
as Race for the Cure participation has declined, RTD boardings have
followed suit and recommend that RACE Service to the Susan G. Komen
Race for the Cure event be discontinued due to low ridership and levels of
event participation that do not meet RTD service standards.
Director Broom asked if shuttle service to the stadium or the 16th Street mall
was considered as an alternative to these services.
Mr. Abel stated that RTD does expand the 16th Street mall shuttle service on
game days and that there is a direct pathway from Denver Union Station to
Coors
Director Broom asked if light rail had replaced the need for those services.
Mr. Abel explained that systemically RTD addresses the use of light rail over
special service and other bus service.
Director Hoy asked if the issue of people riding the light rail to an event or
into the city but then service not operating for the return ride home.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD had added a later trip on various lines to
address events. He added that RTD considers the magnitude of an event and
add cars to train service or later trains.
Director Sisk requested that operations attempt to gauge the need for
additional services and provide that service or alternative service
Mr. Abel stated that the services are being discontinued based on ridership.

• May 2018 Service Changes
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Development, explained that
there were a few highlights or notable changes that involved the rerouting of
service along US 36 and Sheridan station due to the North Metro study and

allowed the agency to move routes on congested roadways, and provide
service to areas that do not have service. He explained that they have made
changes due to increasing speed of service which ultimately lowers operating
costs.
Committee Vice Chair Williams stated that service changes affect everyone.
Director Hoy stated that some of the charges were brilliant as it wasn’t
reduced service but a route change which enable better boarding
opportunities and faster service.
Director Lubow asked if RTD had been in touch with stakeholders prior to
making changes to routes.
Mr. Abel explained that RTD communicates with local agencies prior to any
changes in serves especially if there was to be an elimination of a route. He
added that there were several stakeholders that had specific people to work
with to regarding transportation changes and the RTD meets with those
groups regularly.
Chair Tisdale explained that a number of customers have contacted him
regarding the changes to the C and D Line. He stated that he had a number
of complaints from customers that used RTD services to the Denver Center
of Performing Arts (DCPA) complex for an event and then are unable to get
home from the event. Director Tisdale urged staff to work with this agency
and to make adjustments that include addressing this area, as we have one
of the largest performing arts communities in America.
Mr. Carter stated he had been working with the DCPA to provide service as
needed and that there will be adjustment as required due to magnitude of the
event and also the new L line to add service.
Director Menten asked what the negative and positive feedback had been
regarding the consolidation of stops.
Mr. Carter explained that most changes had been accepted but there has
been a couple of issues surrounding customers that have a difficult time
getting to the bus stops. He stated that RTD replaced those stops that had
better access for those customers.
Mr. Abel added that RTD tries to determine the best placement of the bus
stops and how to space the stops. He added that the new placement of
stops along Broadway eliminated two minutes from the route which equates
to substantial saving to the agency in bus and manpower resources.

Director Menten requested the current ridership and boarding per day for the
R Line.
Mr. Carter explained the previous ridership was approximately 4,600 per day
and has increased since the service changes to approximately 5,800 per day.
He added that the ridership per hour was 38.1 and was now 49.2 which is
not high in terms of light rail ridership. Mr. Carter explained that while the R
Line had seen an increase that the W Line has an average of 133 – 140
boardings per hour and that the R line was operating at a level of a bus route
like Route 105 which has an average of 42 boardings per hour. He added the
R Line increase had been only during peak time periods.
Director Menten asked if the W Line, which is still not running at optimized
ridership, had increased.
Mr. Carter stated that RTD is pleased with the W Line increase from 98 to
133 boardings per day after the last service revisions.
Director Menten asked about the -3.5 FTE under financial impact summary if
that meant there would less driver working overtime.
Mr. Abel stated that the impact of right sizing the service has resulted in the
agency needing approximately 3 ½ less drivers, but that because the agency
is not fully staffed (currently 132 employees below headcount) this does not
impact overtime or mandating.
Director Walker asked if the change to Route 27 would eliminate the
duplication of the trolley route.
Mr. Carter explained that this change saved an entire bus which accounts for
one of the 3 ½ less bus drivers needed for operating.
Director Solano asked about Route 62 and what was Commerce City’s
response to the service change.
Mr. Carter explained that based on RTD standards the agency could have
eliminated the route but through meetings with Commerce City agreed on the
new schedule.
Director Solano asked what were the boardings per hour for the route.
Mr. Carter stated he could not accurately give that information without
confirming but thought that it was 19 per hour during the peak times and
that and single digits at mid-day.

Director Francone asked if Mr. Carter had an update to a constituent
complaint.
Mr. Carter explained that he would prefer to speak directly to the constituent.
He explained that the constituent had complained about the change in the C
Line from three-car trains to two-car trains and that he had seen a D Line
train with more cars. Mr. Carter explained that all of the D Line had changed
to all four-car trains and that he would answer that constituent directly.
Director Folska asked for an update on the four square mile and safety in
Parker.
Mr. Carter explained that there had been a concern regarding lighting along
Parker Road and stop locations. He stated that the East team has been in
contact with the agencies to determine responsibility for the issue.
Mr. Abel stated that Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) would
be responsible for the lighting because Parker Road is a state highway.
Director Folska asked about the status of communication regarding
partnership with other agencies to improve R Line ridership.
General Manger Genova stated that RTD had met with the City of Aurora’s
communications to discuss systems to put into place to improve ridership.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, explained that
RTD had submitted a marketing and a public relations plan to the City of
Aurora and are expected to hear a response by the end of January.
Director Folska asked if RTD had included the Aurora Economic Development
Council in the discussions and if there had been a budget allocated for the
communication effort.
Mr. Reed stated that they had been included and that he would send the
budget to the board office.
Mr. Abel stated that there was an email question from the directors attending
remotely regarding the PUC authorization for testing and if the G line would
open with the May 2018 service changes. He explained that until RTD had
results from the testing G Line that could not be determined. He added that
RTD has Plan A and Plan B on the opening date depending on all of the
results of the PUC hearing and the testing.
General Manager Genova stated that there was still the PUC process to
complete. The next step in the PUC was for the hearing to be scheduled. He
added that the hearing schedule would drive the opening date.

• 2017 Securement Area Issues Data Analysis
Mr. Abel stated summarized the report and explained that RTD and the
Colorado Cross Disability Association (CCDC) entered into a joint Settlement
Agreement in March of 2014 in an effort to resolve issues related to
availability of the securement area on board RTD buses for passengers who
use mobility aids. One of the requirements of the Settlement Agreement was
for RTD to adopt a policy to ensure individuals who use mobility aids,
including wheelchairs, have equal access to its buses and to the securement
area.

• Lost Service Hours 1 23 18
Mr. Abel summarized the lost service hours report for the month of December
2017 stating we lost 626 service hours compared to 586 in December 2016.
He added that in terms year to date the agency was unable to meet service
commitment by 6200 hours compared to 5100 hours in 2016 which was
approximately ten percent increase. He added that while the agency has
dropped hours it had provided 99.5 percent of service in 2017.
Mr. Abel stated that the next items were all quarterly reports that were
detailed in the Board report as an update.
The Directors had no additional comments.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 3rd Quarter 2017
• Access-a-Ride/Cab 2017 3rd Quarter Report
• Special Services 3rd Qtr Report
• 2017 3rd Quarter Drug & Alcohol Compliance Monitoring
• 2017 3rd Quarter Customer Complaint Analysis
• Third Quarter Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 13, 2018
F. Adjourn
Committee Vice Chair Williams adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

