Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, January 17, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Menten called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
5:30 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

5:14 PM

Bob Broom

Director, District F

Present

5:36 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent

5:01 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

5:28 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:27 PM

Natalie Menten
Doug Tisdale
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Committee Chair
Director, District H
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Absent

5:24 PM
5:28 PM
5:30 PM
5:51 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

4:34 PM

Kate Williams

Director, District A

Present

5:30 PM

Director Solano arrived late. Director Folska was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey,
John Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Russ Larson, Richard
Lobato, Doug McLeod, John McKay, Barbara McManus, Tai-Shrae
Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Henry Stopplecamp, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington.

Others Present:

Ron Bushman, Laura Clark, Crissy Ditmore, Spencer Dodge, Dr.
William Gross, Matt Heafner, Mike Hughes, Bill Patterson, John
Thompson, Ibrahima Toure, Joe Tripplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob
Wilson.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Smart Card Project Update
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, said that the latest Smart Card project update was included in the packet.
She added that staff wanted to update the Board with what has been going on in relation
to the Notice to Cure and the overall status of the project as of January. She reminded
the Board the that Notice to Cure had three items which required mitigation: Payment card
industry (PCI) compliance, platform validator issues, and fraud reports. She stated that
Xerox has since delivered a Notice of Attestation which indicated that a third party
reviewed the web portals and they are now PCI Compliant. Xerox is required to provide
additional documentation such as a security plan and implementation guide to RTD by
February 10, 2017. Ms. Copp said that, currently, staff is happy with that due date.
Heather Copp added that the platform validator screens are going black as a result of heat
and/or direct sunlight. Xerox has researched the issue for the past few months and has
reached out to three sets of teams to work on the problem. Two teams are located in
New Jersey and France, and there is a third party reviewing the issue as well. A solution
is expected to be received in mid-February, but in the interim, Xerox has extended RTD’s
hardware warranty that expired at the end of December. She stated that most of the
issues in the Notice to Cure will be finalized in mid to late February. There will be a postsolution document that will need to be agreed upon by both parties, but Xerox is getting
close to fixing the long-term issues. She noted that staff has made a lot of progress in the
last two to three weeks, and they are happy with the advancement of the project.

Heather Copp noted that Xerox formed a new company, Conduent, and they will be in
charge of RTD’s contract. Conduent is an independently traded company as of January
9th, and the sales representative, Crissy Ditmore, attended the meeting. Ms. Copp said
that RTD’s new project manager, Brian Gebhardt, was unable to attend but he will be
working on the project and taking us through the next phases.
Director Archuleta asked if there were any concessions from Xerox, and if so, what they
were.
Heather Copp indicated that RTD was disputing over $350,000 worth of work, and Xerox
conceded that amount.
Director Lubow asked about the fraud reports and why Xerox would want to move it off
of the Notice to Cure.
Heather Copp stated that Xerox asked RTD to move the fraud reports from the Notice to
Cure, a default status, to a non-formal process of puts and takes. She added that staff
felt that one item could be moved to the non-formal process.
Director Sisk thanked Crissy Ditmore for attending and said it was a good start with the
new company. He noted that RTD and Conduent’s objectives are clearly the same, which
is getting the Smart Card launched. He added that it is important to make sure that staff’s
time is spent in a positive way, and he would like to see the update report show more
yellow’s to reflect progress.
Director Mihalik asked if there were any other significant changes with the new team,
besides the new program manager.
Heather Copp stated that there should be less red tape involved and fewer approvals
required on Conduent’s end.
Crissy Ditmore indicated that she is new to the company. She said that she has business
relationships with other transit providers in the area and she knew the platforms that
Conduent was developing would bring end-to-end constituent experiences. She noted that
the process change from Xerox to Conduent was done because the current Xerox business
model is problematic the way that it is. She stated that Conduent is building out how the
different businesses work and streamlining them together.
Director Francone stated that the Board is very frustrated with not having the product in
hand. She added that there is a high level of frustration and that the Board is expecting
great things. She asked if the removal of the fraud issues from the Notice to Cure would
bring pressure off of Conduent to bring this contract to completion.
Heather Copp remarked that, because the fraud reports were included in the Notice to
Cure, RTD has made its point regarding that issue. She added that if it were the PCI

compliance or screen validator issue she would have objected to the removal to the nonformal process.
Director Lubow commented that people in Boulder County and Longmont want to see how
successful the pass programs have been but stated that staff will not provide that
information.
Heather Copp said that it comes down to tap information. The bus system has very good
information, but light rail and commuter rail does not have good data because people are
not tapping their cards. She added that if Boulder County and Longmont are looking for
information on individual routes, staff is unable to extrapolate that data set at this time.
Director Solano indicated that RTD is bleeding money off of the commuter and light rail
lines. He said in Los Angeles, for example, riders have to pay before entering the turnstile.
He stated that RTD’s current design makes no sense, and therefore the system is losing
money.
Heather Copp explained that every passenger on the University of Colorado A Line and B
Line is checked and that fare enforcement teams of three began in December at the
highest boarding and alighting locations.
General Manager Genova asked the security staff to go through the statistical information
for light rail with Director Solano. He added that the information on fare evasion rates
were the lowest that the has ever seen.
Director Solano said the Board is wasting time with the Smart Card Program as the tap on
and off system is a poor design. He added that it will be an ongoing issue as people will
be able to evade fares because they can.
Director Deadwyler stated that she gets a lot of complaints about taps not registering at
the validator. She asked how reliable the validator machines were.
Heather Copp explained that the machines are fairly reliable but it is difficult to say
otherwise unless a constituent calls RTD to investigate. She noted that staff usually gets
the most calls when colleges and universities re-activate student passes for the fall
semester.
Director Deadwyler remarked that the system is inconsistent and that constituents worry
that they will be thrown off the train or talked to in an embarrassing way.
Heather Copp commented that if a constituent has an issue with their tap, staff
encourages them to call in with the number on top of the machines so that RTD can
investigate their issue.
Committee Chair Menten asked how many entities have a situation similar to RTD’s.

Crissy Ditmore indicated that there were none and that RTD was the only one to issue a
Notice to Cure.
Director Williams asked whether a fare enforcement officer would be able to tell if a rider
had attempted to tap his or her card.
Tonya Anderson, Manager of Electronic Fare Operations, said yes, the officer will be able
to see that a tap was attempted.
General Manager Genova asked staff to put together a memo for the Board regarding fare
enforcement and evasion.

• November 2016 Monthly Financial Statements
Doug MacLeod, Controller, indicated that the November numbers were included in the
Board Packet. He noted that sales and use taxes are still below budget, at 3.8%. He
added that even though RTD is short of budget, staff is seeing increases year over year.
He explained that ridership has been short all year and is 5.8% short of the budgeted
amount. He added that fare revenue is up 11%.
Director Williams asked if staff had any ideas as to why the ridership numbers were down.
Doug MacLeod said many agencies across the nation have lower ridership numbers. He
stated that it is difficult to pinpoint the exact cause since the economy is good and there
has been a growth in population.
General Manager Genova commented that there are a variety of variables that impact
ridership. He noted that fuel costs and employment percentages are always good
indicators but stated that some routes that have had gains instead of losses. He added
that nationally ridership was down for last year.
Director Lubow inquired about the sales and use forecasts from the CU Leeds School of
Business (Leeds). She asked if it would be appropriate to re-think that policy and adjust
RTD’s forecasts to be more conservative.
Heather Copp noted that traditionally RTD has used Leeds’ baseline, or middle, forecast.
She said that last year, during the Amended Budget Process, RTD amended that forecast
to the lower forecast. She noted that in preparation for the 2017 forecast, staff has
decided to use Leeds’ lower forecast and will put any additional funds received into the
operating reserve. She stated that, if additional funds do not materialize, then there will
not be additional money added to the operating reserve. She said this was a better option,
because if RTD continued to use the baseline forecast and the funds did not materialize,
RTD could be spending money it did not have.

General Manager Genova added that as staff reports uses a very different forecasting
model when reporting financial information each month than was used for the 2004
estimates for FasTracks.
Director Lubow commented that RTD needs to rethink how it looks at Leeds to afford the
agency more flexibility.
Heather Copp remarked that small changes in long range forecasts become exponential
after the year 2025.
Director Broom asked if staff has estimates on how much RTD loses from sales and use
tax revenues from internet sales.
Heather Copp said no, but staff can extrapolate on work done by the Colorado Department
of Revenue. She stated that online retailers that do not have nexus in Colorado will be
required to report numbers to the state. She added that with Amazon having nexus in the
state, they keep growing and their tax liabilities could be millions of dollars each month.
Doug MacLeod added that, since Amazon has started to collect taxes for RTD, there has
been a significant increase in sales and use taxes over last year.
Director Tisdale asked if the year-to-date variances are in relation to the initial budget or
the amended budget.
Heather Copp stated that the variances are in relation to the adopted amended budget.

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - February 14, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Menten adjourned the meeting at 6:43 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

