1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, June 4, 2019
Board Conference Room
3:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Bob Broom
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Broom called the meeting to order at 3:00 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Broom, Chair Tisdale,
and Directors Buzek, Lewis (arrived late),
Walker, and Whitmore

Committee members absent

Director Rivera-Malpiede

Other Board members in attendance:

Directors Catlin, Guissinger, and Menten
(arrived late)

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Board Office Executive
Manager Barbara McManus

B. Review and approve amended GM Core and Task Goals and Board Report for
June 18th Board Meeting
Main
Motion:

Chair Tisdale moved to approve the changes to the
General Manager’s revised 2020 Core and Task
Goals and to advance the item forward for

consideration during the Finance, Administration, &
Audit Committee meeting on June 11, 2019.
Director Buzek seconded the motion.
Motion to
Amend:






Director Buzek moved to approve Director Lubow’s
proposed changes, as indicated below in redlined
text, to Task Goal #5 of the General Manager’s
revised 2020 Core and Task Goals.
“Exceeded Expectations
Meets Achieved Goal criteria in all areas, PLUS
any one of the following:
Ridership exceeds budgeted level; OR
Evaluate relevant information, such as the fare
structure modeling and data from the Pass
Program Working Group, to determine what
fiscally sustainable possible changes to fare or
structure may positively impact ridership, and
devise a proposed pilot project to evaluate the
effectiveness of any such ideas proposed; OR
Evaluate analytic data such as area-wide cell
phone usage to determine potential ridership
pattern needs and devise a proposed pilot project
to evaluate the effectiveness of basing routing on
such new data analysis.”
Chair Tisdale seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion
to Amend:

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0 opposed.
Directors Lewis and Rivera-Malpiede were absent.

Committee Chair Broom declared the motion to amend PASSED
unanimously.
Vote on
the Main
Motion:

The motion passed with 5 in favor and 0 opposed.
Directors Lewis and Rivera-Malpiede was absent.

Committee Chair Broom declared the main motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Review GM Performance Survey
Presented by Committee Chair Broom.

D. Next Meeting Date July 9, 2019 3:00 - 5:00 p.m.
E. Questions
There were no further questions.

F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Broom adjourned the meeting 3:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

