Jun 4 2019 0300 PM GM Oversight & Performance
Management Committee
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
BOB BROOM: OK, why don't we call the meeting to order? It's the June 4th meeting of the GM
Oversight and Performance Management Committee. Do we have anybody on the phone? Not
yet. OK, why don't we go around, I guess, for the record and state our names so that we'll have a
record of who's here at this meeting. Do you want to start?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Lynn Guissinger.
DOUG TISDALE: Doug Tisdale, District H.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, Executive Manager.
TROY WHITMORE: Troy Whitmore, District K.
VINCE BUZEK: Vince Buzek, District J.
DAVE GENOVA: Dave Genova, General Manager and CEO.
PEGGY CATLIN: Peggy Catlin, District N.
JEFF WALKER: Jeff Walker, District D.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Jeff. And Bob Broom, Chair. The first item on the agenda-- I guess
we're going to talk about 2020 before we talk about 2019-- is the review and approval of the
amended GM Core and Task Goals, which then go to the June 18th Board meeting for final
approval. Barbara, do you have many comments?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, other than the fact that we will be discussing and hoping to move
forward to committee and the full Board for next week on the agenda in Finance. Of course, it
will go through Executive Committee as well. And then go to the full Board on the 18th-- so the
five opportunities.
BOB BROOM: Does anybody have any comments?
DOUG TISDALE: If I may-- I appreciated very much how in looking at the redline that Mr.
Genova caught, it appeared to me from my memory all of the changes that we had discussed
during the course of the meeting, I will-- Because it came to the Board Office, and I figured that
someone should be prepared to speak on behalf of Director Lubow who is not available to
participate at this time.

Director Lubow submitted to us recommendations for some additions to the exceeded
expectations portion of Task Goal Number 5, which is to increase ridership. If you look at page
11, page 11 either of the redline or-- and I'm sorry, page 11 of the document, not of the packet-but page 11 either of the red line or of the clean copy of the revised proposed Core and Task
Goals. Page 11 gives the exceeded expectations criteria.
And just to refresh everyone's recollection, you know exceeded expectations means you must
meet all of the achieved goal criteria plus any one of the following. Director Lubow, pursuant to
the email that she sent, had a change proposed to the second bullet. And she wanted to add a
third bullet.
And her email, perhaps, didn't have quite the clarity that might have been beneficial here, so I
took some liberty in editing it. I think this is what she intended. As I say, she's not here, but I
wanted to make sure that I carried it forward to the committee so the committee could at least
consider the change of the second bullet and the addition of a third bullet so that there would be
three different criteria that there would be available for Dave, as General Manager, to exceed
expectations.
The second one you can see on the red line what the changes are. It would read, evaluate relevant
information such as the fare structure modeling and data from the past program working group.
And I think it actually should say: "to determine what fiscally sustainable possible changes to
fare or structure may positively impact ridership, comma, and devise a proposed pilot project to
evaluate the effectiveness of any such ideas proposed." The idea there was-- I believe what
Director Lubow was trying to say was not just look at that stuff, but come up with some kind of
pilot project that you could propose that would implement some ideas and possibly increase
ridership.
And then she added a third bullet, and that would read: "evaluate analog data such as area-wide
cell phone usage to determine potential ridership pattern and needs and devise a proposed pilot
project to evaluate the effectiveness of basing routing on such new data analysis." Those are the
changes that Director Lubow in her email to John McKay late this morning suggested.
And as I said, I agreed that I would carry these forward to the Board. I did have an opportunity to
discuss them briefly with Dave. My response is since, in any event, these are "or" criteria, that
there is nothing wrong with adding another one. It just gives him another opportunity to ring the
bell.
BOB BROOM: Do you know what she's talking about as far as cell phone usage?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I would speculate, not having had a conversation about it-- I would
speculate it's using the data from cell phone use as far as where people are when to determine if
we could devise travel routes or patterns based on where we're seeing people being located.
BOB BROOM: But it's calls to the district that you're counting?

DAVE GENOVA: No, this would be-- well, I would imagine what this would be is just us
buying cell phone data.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I'm pretty sure-- as an example-- that that's the way they have been
able to tell that 30% of the people coming into Boulder on Highway 119 are starting in Weld and
Larimer Counties. I think it's from buying cell phone-- it's a scary thing, but-BARBARA MCMANUS: It also is expensive.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. Is it?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I don't know.
DAVE GENOVA: So I-- and I don't know how readily-- you know, we've not looked at this at
all in terms of whether that's a viable way to do some kind of analysis or not. I mean, it is in
addition to exceeds. I'm not-- since it's in an exceeds category, I'm not opposed to carrying it
there.
I would note, though, a proposed pilot, though-- the language is proposed, not implement, a pilot.
Because I don't know what-- just seeing these, essentially, a few moments ago, you know, hadn't
had a chance to really talk to a couple of staff members that I'd like to to see what would be
involved in these kinds of things, including General Counsel. But again, since it's on the exceeds,
I don't have an issue. And since it's a proposed pilot, I don't have an issue with that.
PEGGY CATLIN: It says: "such as area-wide cell phone usage." There may be some other
analytic data that would be less expensive and more readily accessible. So it doesn't limit it. It
just says that it provides an example.
BOB BROOM: That helps a bit.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's a fair characterization. I think that's what she intended, yes.
BOB BROOM: Does anybody object to this language?
JEFF WALKER: I have a question. So I want to make sure that it's her intent to keep the first
bullet-- ridership exceeds budgeted level-- because that's not in the email.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. She didn't say take it out, and she only enumerated the things where
she was proposing changes. So I took it upon myself to say she wanted that in there as well.
In any event, she's not a member of the committee. The committee has the right to say, do you
want all three of these or whatever. I don't think she was making any specific comment on that. I
think she was just putting in the changes that she wanted to see.
BOB BROOM: What is the ridership budgeted for 2020?

DAVE GENOVA: I don't know it off the top of my head, but as part of the budgeting process,
Heather and her team look at that. And it's part of the revenue part of the equation for the
budgeting process. So they budget a certain amount of their revenue every year. And so that's
based on a ridership estimate that they have.
BOB BROOM: Well, do you think they're looking at an increase? Or are they looking at a
continued slowdown?
JEFF WALKER: I think it was-DAVE GENOVA: We haven't done the 2020-- we haven't really stepped into the 2020 budget. I
would imagine it would be an increase, because we're, you know, we'll be opening the N Line.
And that's always our hope is, to increase.
BOB BROOM: Because that'd be easy to low-ball.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, but it's attached to the fare revenue. And it's actually one of the-actually, I bet we did approve it. I don't have it handy, but it would be in the quarterly-- did we
approve the quarterly performance measures? No, we didn't approve those for 20x. We're going
to do the budget first for those? OK. We used to do those in the spring.
But-- I'm sorry. But if I could just add to it, though it's-- we can't really low-ball it, because it's
an important part of the revenue stream and revenue equation force-- the fare revenues. And
that's based on-BARBARA MCMANUS: And it drives the rest of the budget.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, but I mean, a lot of jurisdictions low-ball revenue. And just to be on
the safe side.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, but we would have-- we would have a terrible time balancing the
budget. Right? You see where we are now with the mid-term financial plan that we just reported.
And actually, I'll report to the Board, we're looking for over $20 million to balance the amended
budget right now for 2019. So I don't see either using that as a method, because then
[INAUDIBLE] would just have to find it somewhere else, in terms of sales tax, or something like
that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: When the Board raised the fares, the fare revenue went up, but ridership
went down, didn't it? In the last year?
PEGGY CATLIN: That's what I was going to say.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, overall, for 2018, yes, ridership was down a little bit. Now, we're
seeing some interesting trends for-- we're going to probably be doing some reporting on ridership

in July, because I think the Board's aware that we haven't been reporting the light rail ridership.
Because we're getting a very unusual number in there.
And so we've been doing lots and lots of analysis around that to try to figure out what's
happening there, because for a 14-month period-- January 18 through the end of April, we're
seeing all modes increasing, and light rail not increasing, and that's highly unusual.
So we're really trying to dig into whether it's how we do ridership on the light rail side, because
we're increasing the number of automated passenger counters. So actually we're getting a little
better sampling. So maybe our data is a little bit more accurate. I don't know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That the old data was worse.
DAVE GENOVA: But we're really just trying to dig into that right now. But, the other place
where the Board gets to look at this is when the quarterly performance measures for 2020 under
the Board for adoption, there is a line in there that is the-- it's either the fare revenue or the
ridership projection.
And the reason I use budgeted as opposed to year over year, is that usually, I think, we budget a
larger increase than we might practically see in ridership. And I think the budget, it is a more of
an important number than year over year, because it's what we use to build our projections.
BOB BROOM: Peggy?
PEGGY CATLIN: No, Lynn addressed the same thing I was going to say.
BOB BROOM: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Do we-- are we a pilot project kind of an organization? I know we've
got the autonomous vehicle project. And I think we don't call them pilots anymore. They're
demonstration projects now. But do we do a lot of pilot projects?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we can, from time to time. It really just depends on the feasibility of
them, and the scale of what the actual project is. So in that regard-- so the second bullet, to try to
do a pilot around fare-- is a little bit more challenging.
Because would we look at that globally as-- and this would go to fare policy. That would have to
be a Board decision is, do you do something that would be the whole region, or would you do
like a pilot in one community? And just see how that pilot runs.
VINCE BUZEK: And I guess with regard to the second bullet point, I suppose if you're
proposing doing something, where the original bullet doesn't propose really taking that
information and doing something, doing a pilot project may seem limited. If you have really
good information, maybe you'd want to do more than a make or recommend a bigger change
across the board. That's that.

And the third bullet point, I guess I just don't understand. I would say that the cell phone data, we
have some information on that. I get that now. But what other data is she contemplating? I guess
I'm not a big fan of those additions.
TROY WHITMORE: Is she considering social media as a component?
BOB BROOM: Doug?
DOUG TISDALE: If I can, just on the pilot project thing. In defense-- as long as she's not here to
defend herself on it, I'll give it my best shot. In defense of the use of the term pilot project, pilot
project could be something temporal as well as geographic. So it could say, for example, for the
next six weeks, we're going to do x, y, or z to see if that has some kind of impact.
So I kind of like the way actually adding the notion of pilot project there, because I have to
admit, exceeding expectations just by evaluating data is not something that I think is really
worthy of ringing the bell. I think if you're going to ring the bell, you've got to come up with
something, too. And so that's why I like the fact that she added a proposed pilot project.
And the third one, yeah, I'm not sure that I personally really understand it, but I do know that
Dave has some sense that, yeah, you actually can do that. As the Executive Manager points out,
it's expensive. But I figure you find some high school junior who's a good hacker, and maybe we
get it done for free.
BOB BROOM: I guess we got a couple of options here. One, we can incorporate all or part of
what she's requesting. Or we could simply forward this to the full Board as a request to be
considered by the full Board. So does anybody have a motion or anything in mind as to how to
treat this?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just have one more comment, if I could? The last one, it says a
proposed pilot project to evaluate the effectiveness of basing routing on such new data analysis.
And I think they're also, and Dave, you probably know this much better than I do. But there are
new technologies around scheduling, and data for that that may be changing the way scheduling
and routing are done. Am I right there?
DAVE GENOVA: It's interesting. At the mobility conference, there's used to be just a couple
players in the scheduling and routing software space. And now there's probably-- there's a new
one, it seems like, monthly. But there was quite a few exhibiting [COUGH] at the bus and
mobility conference, so.
Yeah, there could be something to be said about other kinds of things here. One thing that came
to my mind is other kind of data with the license plate data, and just trying to get better origin
and destination data from those kinds of things.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So I guess I like what she's adding. I think that as it is, it is an exceeds,
and it's or, but it's like some of what I expect we'll be getting from T2, or hope, is looking at-- the
new technologies and the new data, and making our systems more effective.

DAVE GENOVA: So if I could just comment further, I'm not opposed to either of these.
[INAUDIBLE]
BUZEK: I move to add these two to the-DOUG TISDALE: Second.
VINCE BUZEK: -- exceed expectation.
BOB BROOM: Any discussion?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, the only change is, if you look at the redline, to reinsert the word "to".
In the second line, the second bullet, it shows as a strikeout. I think that was just a
miscommunication between John and me. Read to determine what fiscally, and so forth.
BOB BROOM: Does anyone object to this? Then we'll incorporate these changes as requested.
DOUG TISDALE: I would move to approve the balance of the changes as submitted by Dave.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I will-- my team will add them in to the redline document in a
different color, so that we know that it's Director-generated as we move forward to the
committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
BOB BROOM: All in favor, say aye.
COMMITTEE: Aye.
BOB BROOM: It's approved unanimously. Are there any other changes being proposed by
anybody?
NATALIE MENTEN: I have questions.
BOB BROOM: Ok.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is this a good time?
BOB BROOM: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: Can we do that? All right. So Dave's looking at the achieved goals. Under
tasks-- so I'm not focused on the core. But on the tasks, is there a way to-DOUG TISDALE: Can you give us a page?
NATALIE MENTEN: It would cover all of the task goals under the achieved category.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: And the question is fairly general, but asking a specific question with just
some of the biggest ticket items under achieved.
DAVE GENOVA: And every one of them? Well, let's see, that will take me a moment to go
through, here.
NATALIE MENTEN: It's about budget.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I know. It was a good question, though, because there's some
challenging goals this year.
DAVE GENOVA: Well that's a very-PEGGY CATLIN: The process got prioritized.
DAVE GENOVA: As I mentioned last, it's very aggressive. And the Senior Leadership Team is
in agreement with that. It's been a very aggressive year. And it's a lot. And let's see, on the first
one-- oh, let's see, there's task-- hold on.
NATALIE MENTEN: Again, this is achieved, and not in exceeded.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, most of what I see under task goal one is more around human
resources. And not just other kinds of expenditures. But then again, for us to add staff, that goes
through the mid-term financial planning process. So that is in the works, now. The review of
that, of the mid-term financial planning.
So we had our first internal staff project review meeting yesterday. And I haven't had a briefing
from how that went, yet. So the only way that the department can add resources in terms of
human resources is going through that mid-term financial planning process. So they have to fit in
there.
And we typically don't add a lot in that direction year to year, unless it's a priority area that
would be something under a task goal, that I would think needs a little bit more resource. But
again, those kinds of things would come to the Board during the mid-term financial process
approval.
Right? You may not necessarily see it in terms of this is three more FTEs. You would see on the
project list that this is the project and this is the budget item. And we usually-- and the dollar
amount associated with it.
So in task goal number two, this is largely, again, I would say, human resources. So internal
staff. Particularly in this one, we might use some consultant assistance. Some of this may get a
little bit of a look during the T2 process, like the first bullet-- evaluate the transportation options
or alternatives.

So that's a pretty big scope item. But really, we're looking at that through the T2 process anyway.
So that would be two.
Three-- so on number three, one, two, three-- well, it's just identify and present at least one flex
ride demonstration project. If we were to implement, and that's more of an exceed, but if we were
to implement, there would be a cost to that.
NATALIE MENTEN: That is one of the questions I had. What was-- just remind me what that
means by demonstration project, since we already have FlexRide.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, this would be adding on another FlexRide area. And it may or may not
have similar characteristics. So, existing FlexRide. [COUGH]
And this might be like a partnership, like a municipality or two come to us and say we've got an
area that's not served by transit. Is there a way we can partner, if we put together, let's say,
hypothetically, a third, a third, and a third of the funding, to be able to do that? And we think that
that could be some viable options for us.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, it sounds like Denver's got a lot of ideas along those lines. Yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: Could it also be reconstituting a fixed route and substituting a FlexRide
service for lower-served areas? I mean, I think that's one of the things that Director Lubow also
mentioned in [INAUDIBLE].
And I know that Director Whitmore in the emerging Northeast area-- it just seems to me that if
you could do a demonstration project that in fact could demonstrate that there would be ridership
in an area, that it might lead to-- I don't know.
TROY WHITMORE: It's a learning conversation.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just thinking that it could be more than just adding a FlexRide service
area. It could be actually redefining what that meant, similar to what we did on the 85 Route.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, it's a possibility.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, just to suggest.
DAVE GENOVA: Again, most of the last bullet under achieved on task goal number-- is that
number three we're still on? That is already accounted for in the budget for team support.
Under number four-- I'd say mainly again, it's going to be a human resource-driven. And five-- I
mean, there could be something under continue to explore new partnership with public and
private partners to improve trip-planning and ticketing options. That could result in some things.
Some expenditures that would be outside to HR.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry, were we on still four there?

DAVE GENOVA: Number five.
NATALIE MENTEN: I didn't quite see that wording precisely.
DAVE GENOVA: It's the second to the last bullet under achieved goal. It says continue to
explore new partnership.
NATALIE MENTEN: I see. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: The second bullet there is covered by T2. The third bullet is covered by the
budget that the Board's approved for N Line. Recruitment and retention, it still is going to be
while we're making some positive gains.
Is what we did in the CBA (Collective Bargaining Agreement) going to be enough? We'll
continue to monitor that. A couple of years ago, before we had the CBA come up, I came to the
Board and asked to do a $1.00 an hour increase for bus operators. Because I thought we needed
to do something.
BOB BROOM: What is the goal of opening the inner lanes? Is it July? Is it what?
DAVE GENOVA: First quarter.
VINCE BUZEK: Next month.
DAVE GENOVA: First quarter is what we're-- first quarter of 2020 is our projection right now.
BOB BROOM: So if it opens in December, then you don't meet the requirement?
DAVE GENOVA: In December of this year?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BARBARA MCMANUS: These are 2020 goals.
PEGGY CATLIN: Oh.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DAVE GENOVA: December of 2020? Or December-VINCE BUZEK: That won't happen.
BOB BROOM: No, December of 2020.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I just said in the year, here. Because there's still a lot of variables. I
mean, we're pushing hard for first quarter. But basically--

DOUG TISDALE: We're pushing hard for January.
NATALIE MENTEN: So may I?
BOB BROOM: Sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. [COUGH] On the site, when did we last update the website?
DAVE GENOVA: Which one are you on? Can you refer to me which one you're on?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm on the task goal number one, strengthen-- I'm just gonna keep going,
[INAUDIBLE]. And under exceeded expectations, is a redesigned website. And I know the
website, from my point of view, and you would not have been there, came up more on our
Board-only retreat. That focus.
But it is here, within the succeeded. And it seems to me that it wasn't that long ago, but I advised
that we upgraded the website. So I'm wondering if you could just refresh my memory when we
did update it.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, I think it was more of just an update of what is seen, and not a
migration to a different kind of a platform.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So a lot of that might be getting rid of all those FasTracks pages that
we don't even want up anymore? Because they were the old, and stale, and wrong?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, that could be some of it. This would be even different kinds of
improvements that would not necessarily address content. I mean, we can address content any
time we want.
This really addresses how it works, how it functions, how you can navigate it, what platform it's
on. And one of the reasons that it's here is that I'm aware, I did get-- I had heard from a lot of
Board members that they'd like to see some improvements.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I think I heard-- maybe I was wrong-- that we'd like it a little bit
easier to get to the Board of Directors to see agendas and things like that. It's right down at the
bottom. I don't know if that is correct in that.
TROY WHITMORE: That's exactly right.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I think we do pretty good with trip planner, the three major buttons
that are right there. And then I must ask, do you envision any more financial transparency on our
site with a redesign?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we haven't done any detail on that really, so.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Does that mean that it's off? Or completely-- or unknown?

DAVE GENOVA: We haven't discussed it, so it's unknown.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
TROY WHITMORE: I think some of that was-- navigation even to the budget, that was kind of
difficult and clunky, so that was part of our conversation. Maybe it's there, it's just a little hard to
get to it.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then, last meeting, there was a question about the headcounts. Where
you said, we didn't really know if we were suffering losses. Do you remember that conversation?
I don't remember exact wording. That you were going to look a little more into the headcounts?
Do you have an answer? I mean, I'm on the dropped runs report each day, and it's a million times
better than a year ago, so.
DAVE GENOVA: The dropped runs has improved quite a bit. I want to say when you look at
the total bus operator headcount right now, the vacancy is a little greater than 8%.
NATALIE MENTEN: So did you find something weird in the numbers, where you thought the
stats were off in the past? What was that?
DAVE GENOVA: No, I'm still working through that with the team.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. That's all the questions that I had.
BOB BROOM: Any other questions? I think we had a motion, didn't we? On the floor? I think
we did.
DOUG TISDALE: I thought we passed it. Actually, I think that was unanimous. The record
should reflect that it was my motion to approve the balance of the changes. I think it might have
been Director Buzek, second. And then you asked if there was any objection. There was none. So
by unanimous consent, that motion was passed.
BOB BROOM: OK. Then we're on the next item. And we're going to be talking about 2019
Review GM Performance Survey. And I guess everybody got my email? And everybody had a
chance to go through it at least once or twice, I suppose? It's pretty similar to what we did last
year.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We did add some space to put text for valuations, which was
requested at the end last year. So there is some opportunity outside of the scope of the questions
that mirror all the goals, that you can address. And/or if you have suggestions to the General
Manager as to what you would like to see improvement on in the mid-year, as we see what he
presents, then you would have that opportunity to put that text in there as well for the full Board
to review.
BOB BROOM: Peggy?

PEGGY CATLIN: When is this going out?
BARBARA MCMANUS: It is going out-DOUG TISDALE: In three or four weeks.
PEGGY CATLIN: It says, please complete this evaluation by 11:59 PM. Insert date here. So I
was just wondering what that date was.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So Dave's assessment and the all of the Friday memos are due to me
on June 26. The packet is going out on the 27th. And on the 28th, the survey will go out with all
the backup materials.
PEGGY CATLIN: June 28? OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And due to be completed by?
TROY WHITMORE: June 29.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't-- let me see. I don't think I have that here. It's at least a week.
JEFF WALKER: I think it was 10 days. I think it's 10 days.
LYNN GUISSINGER: The next week is the 4th, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: 4th of July, yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and you have that coming up. So I think the-- my understanding, and
obviously Chair Walker, last year's Chair, would have some better recollection. But I thought it
was at least 10 days. I thought it might have been two weeks.
And we actually, as I recall, had some discussion, because we wanted to leave some lag time
there, where we could extend it three or four more days if we weren't getting everybody
responding.
JEFF WALKER: Right. [INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: Do we have the ability to determine who hasn't responded for follow-up
purposes?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, July 9, we're meeting to review the results. So sometime
between the 28th and the 9th. And I know that three day-- I'm going to say it's either the 3rd or
the 5th that will be due. Because I know that our survey team needs at least three days to compile
all the data. And we have to get that in the packet pretty quick for the July 9.

DAVE GENOVA: Barbara, I don't know what this would do to your dates, but I'm going to have
to get information to you ahead of the 26th.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: So we could possibly consider moving the whole schedule up, so it's not a
burden to hit the July 9 date.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, if you can get it earlier, let me know that-DAVE GENOVA: Well, because actually I'll have-- the APTA (American Public Transportation
Association) Rail Conference starts on the 21st. And so I'll be away. So I will get all the
information that you need that week of the 17th. So I don't know if that helps, because what did
you say earlier?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Of course it helps.
TROY WHITMORE: Everybody but Dave.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, no. We'd [INTERPOSING VOICES] The team knows this, that we've
got to get it into a little bit earlier than-- we would have normally another few days to work on it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I mean, if that works for you, Dave, it's fine. I know that we
struggled with these dates to begin with though, in the beginning. So-DAVE GENOVA: But I could have it to you by the 20th.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK. So I'll-DOUG TISDALE: On Thursday, June 20?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll revise this and send it out to everybody in an email.
DAVE GENOVA: Does that help-- maybe a few days?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mm-hmm.
DAVE GENOVA: And help the Board?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Helps Jeff.
PEGGY CATLIN: So then, can we expect it on the 25th to go out, or? So give us a little extra
time on the front end?
DOUG TISDALE: Either the 21st or the 24th, right? I'm just--

DAVE GENOVA: And I don't know, Barbara, [COUGH]. And I don't know if Jeff needs to
weigh in on this possibility.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. Well, let me talk-- I'm not going to give a date right now.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, but-BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll look at all the dates.
DOUG TISDALE: If we had it on the 20th, it sounds like we would most likely be able to get it
out by the 24th. And then, if we had answers due back by the 5th, then we would definitely be in
a position to have a meeting on the 9th with the evaluation by staff.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, it will need to go in a packet at some point in time. So let me
work out-- I'll use that as the start date, and I need to figure those dates.
DAVE GENOVA: --create confusion. I just wanted to-BARBARA MCMANUS: No worries.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair, I've got a comment and a question.
BOB BROOM: OK.
VINCE BUZEK: With regard to the structure of this, it seems to me the only place for people to
leave text narrative comments is that very first page in, page 29, where it says number one,
number two, thinking about the GM's performance period. What are the most significant
accomplishments, and most significant improvements?
Each of the sections has a box for text, but that question is just, what information would you like
to see prior to the year-end evaluation, and what additional information would help you form an
opinion? I think it would be helpful to have a similar box, as on page 29, at the end of each core
goal and each task goal for people. And you're going to tell me you've already done that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So if you choose exceeds, or if you choose needs improvement-BOB BROOM: It'll come up.
BARBARA MCMANUS: -- a second box comes up with a list of everything that you need to hit
that criteria, so that you have a double check to make sure that you're evaluating correctly.
VINCE BUZEK: Perfect. That's great. And then the question, who does this go to again? Give
me the universe of people that fill this in?
BARBARA MCMANUS: The full Board.

VINCE BUZEK: That's it?
DOUG TISDALE: Ultimately, the full Board.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it.
BOB BROOM: Question?
NATALIE MENTEN: The first item is that these are, as far I've seen, under the actual questions
here, the old task goals. Is that right?
DAVE GENOVA: It's 2019.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is 2019.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry, I mean-- and then, sorry, I can't really hear what you said. I've
done this for how many years?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Since we do both components-- [INTERPOSING VOICES] I should
have clarified.
DOUG TISDALE: It's understandable.
NATALIE MENTEN: I should have recognized-- [INTERPOSING VOICES] OK. With that, I
would also appreciate some sort of additional text. That in my mind, when I read the cover letter,
here, that we can stop, come back to it if we're on the same device.
It would be really, really lovely. And I've done enough surveys-- to know, to be able to review
all your answers at the end, and modify one of those. And I think once you've completed a
question, you're locked in.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't know the answer to that. I'll have to find out from Jeff.
VINCE BUZEK: You can't amend it or edit it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, because if you come back-- so that is my question. Because I have
felt the desire to do that more than one year.
BOB BROOM: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. Chair, if you look at packet page 28, boldface, underlined, you can, if
you use the same device, come back and pick up where you left off. So that part's already in
there. I think the question that I'm hearing is, can I go back again and say, well, wait a minute.
Question 3, I might have a different view on now. Or I want to add something, or whatever. Is
that your question?

NATALIE MENTEN: It is. Because it said you'll be taken to the last question you were working
before you exited.
JEFF WALKER: If I may-- if I remember correctly, I think you can go back and edit previous
responses. But for the sake of time and convenience, it takes you to the last question that was
added. But you can go back to your previous questions.
DOUG TISDALE: We can certainly verify that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I can verify that. I don't know the answer officially.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, we can verify that.
DOUG TISDALE: Because I think that's something that people would expect to be able to do. If
you've saved your work, you can edit other things you've already done. It's not like, hey, you said
5, I'm sorry. You're done. You had your chance.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, we had the same problem come up last year. What we didn't tell folks is
that you have to use the same device. Otherwise, it does take you back to the beginning-- fresh.
Everything's wiped out.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'll also ask the question-- what that process looks like. Because it
may be specific to how you get back.
I don't know.
NATALIE MENTEN: I mean, if there was one all the way at the end that had everything just
laid out, so you could look at it as an entirety, that would be beautiful.
BOB BROOM: Probably ought to send something out with the questionnaire at the very
beginning that talks about what these options are.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. All of that is in the email that I send out. There is full
instructions. And then Jeff's instructions are again outlined in the beginning of the survey. And
then in the body of the email that I send out, I also document each of the reference documents
that are attached, and what they're attached for, and what information they have in them.
BOB BROOM: Typical responses last year-- did people add a lot of verbiage, or did they just
answer the questions and go on?
JEFF WALKER: There were quite a few-- what do you call them-- addendums.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, last year we had less of an opportunity in each question to put
comments. So all of the comments were either at the beginning or the end in those two fields.
And I think we had-- I want to say 14? 14 individual comments that had multiple items listed in
it.

BOB BROOM: I think the comments are more useful than just a raw score.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And at the end, there's opportunity for comment-- what else? And that's
where a big chunk of the comments were.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, they certainly help Dave be guided and know what the Directors
are looking for. And then the survey itself just lays out where are we in the process that was
approved in terms of the goals for midyear.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a question, and [INAUDIBLE] your question. So on page 6, or
packet page 33, Barbara, you said if you choose exceeds expectations or needs improvement, a
box pops up? Or this is what pops up-- these two boxes here, where you can add a comment?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I believe you can-- I believe you can put a comment in here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So a comment box would-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. But I will double-check that as well. Because that's what we
thought. But I'm not sure, when he put this document together, whether he can put all of the
programming language in to show what happens.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, I see. OK. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: One more bite at the apple.
NATALIE MENTEN: So Vince, with your recommendation, or ask-VINCE BUZEK: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: Is a [INAUDIBLE] asking, I think, for 10 total text boxes, that would be a
general comment box under each of them.
VINCE BUZEK: I think at the end of each core goal and task goal, just a general-- what else do
you have to say about this?
DOUG TISDALE: Anything else you want to say. It's open mic night.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOB BROOM: Pardon?
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't get a vote, but ditto.
BOB BROOM: Peggy?
PEGGY CATLIN: Barbara, is that going to require some additional programming?

BARBARA MCMANUS: If it's not in there, yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Is that-DAVE GENOVA: Because there's one person that works in this area.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I have to find out-- [INTERPOSING VOICES] I also have to
find out if it's a functionality of the software that we use. There may be only so many fields that
you can enter.
PEGGY CATLIN: You address my point, because I didn't know if it was possible to do that. I
think it would be nice. I don't know, either. But it's going to cost a lot more money.
VINCE BUZEK: I suppose if the answer's no, there's those two first boxes at the front. And just
put everything in to those.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then go back to, well, can we edit prior things, so.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, there's also one of them at the end. So there are three boxes. Two at the
front, that are essentially channel boxes. And then the absolute open mic night on the last page. It
says, anything else you want to say about anything.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And so, if the additional boxes are not there and can't be added, then
you could use that space by referencing whatever core goal question that you have in the end.
VINCE BUZEK: Right, right, right.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Of the boxes that do pop up here from these options on five and six, and
throughout the survey, is there a none of the above?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, because these are all approved. What you're seeing in the survey
are the 2019 approved goals. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: I ask that because specifically, if it's exceeds expectations, it may not be-- it
can be both, right? Like, achieved 90% or more of the RTD Board-approved performances-performance measures.
But this could be an additional, like and attended community meetings in support of something.
So that's why I asked that. To be able to give additional feedback.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So you probably would have to address that at the end, because I think
that the goals, if you take a deep look at them, are pretty detailed with the ands and the ors as we
move through the needs improvement, the achieved, and the exceeds expectation. If you have
comments, because you know that the General Manager went over and above to all of these
different things, then you could add it at the bottom on your own. And I'll get those answers
about those boxes.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
BOB BROOM: OK, July 9th, our next meeting-PEGGY CATLIN: I have a question about that. It says 3:30 to 5:00, and yet this meeting started
at 3:00.
BOB BROOM: That's because we added some stuff in.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, we canceled next week's meeting and we added the survey on
today. So we changed it from 3:30 to 3:00, and added that bullet point on, so we could cancel
next week's meeting. So I took these times based on the average amount of time that it took in
the last two years for each component of these meetings. Based on-PEGGY CATLIN: Well, that was my question. It seems like the 9th might be a bigger
discussion. I don't know.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We could start it at 3:00. It's up to this committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's when the survey results are going to be in, right? I just think that there
might be more dialog.
BOB BROOM: Since I'm retired, I don't mind coming in at 3:00. It's a role of the Committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: It was just a question. I just didn't-- I guess it would be your judgment,
Barbara, in terms of how much time. But I think I remember that meeting last year being a little
bit longer.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we can do a consensus of this committee. It's not my choice. It's
this committee's choice.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
BOB BROOM: Do we have any objections?
PEGGY CATLIN: I would suggest just waiting to see.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I mean, I'd rather have more time than less time. But-- go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: But an observation from last year, Dave was at the end of the term in his
contract. That's not the scenario this year. There are several new members this year than we did
last year.
I'm fine with coming in at 3:00, but some of the things that go in-- that went into last year. The
discussions we had last year-- we had a different scenario with the contract than we do this year.
And we have different people this year than we did last year. So I--

DOUG TISDALE: It extended the discussion.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. So I'm going-PEGGY CATLIN: I just remembered it was a longer meeting.
JEFF WALKER: We had several more meetings than we anticipated, also. Yes, they were longer
and more-- so I'm fine with coming-DOUG TISDALE: They were a little-- in my perception, they were a little more far-reaching
because we really, at that point, were in the midst of making a proposal that we have further
discussions with Dave, relative to the possibility of, in fact, extending, in effect, creating a new,
but extending the old contract for an extended period. And that engendered a lot of discussion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, it did. OK. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: If there's anybody on the phone, this is your last chance to say something.
[INTERPOSING VOICES] Any other questions?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So are we going to go with 3:00?
TROY WHITMORE: It works for me, if needed.
BOB BROOM: Let's do it at 3:00.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, we can set it for 3:00, and then the worst that happens is we're told
three days before, it's 3:30 instead of 3:00. And we just saved half an hour. Right.
BOB BROOM: Well, we'd have a longer lunch-- or, dinner break. No other business? We'll
adjourn.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I-- before you do that, I'm sorry. I just wanted to go over since
Director Lewis did get here late, what the path is. Everybody was very interested in what the
path of what was approved today. So Director Lubow made an amendment to the 2020 goals that
was approved.
So we're going to put it in a different color on the redline version that will be moving forward to
the Finance Committee next week. And then the full Board will move it forward to Executive
Committee for full approval on the 18th of June. That's it. So I wanted to be clear that everybody
understood that.
BOB BROOM: OK, well, thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

