Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, July 5, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 7:05 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
7:03 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:04 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

7:05 PM
7:05 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:09 PM

Bill James

Committee Chair

Present

7:04 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Absent
Present

7:03 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Absent
Present
Present

7:02 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Absent

7:04 PM

7:05 PM
7:07 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Lasater and Sisk were absent. Director Anderson left after the
completion of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Lee Cryer, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
Tony Forrester, David Genova, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson,
Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara
McManus, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Bill
Sirois, Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert,
Gary Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Susan Wood

Public Present:

Homer Anderson, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein,
Nadia Garas, Matthew Helfant, Brian Middleton, Kent Moorman, Peter
Strange, Joe Triplett,

B. Recommended Actions

• Amendment to Lease for Office Space at Civic Center Plaza – 1560
Broadway, Suites 510, 605, 610, 700, 1000, 1075 and 1099
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to amend and extend the
lease agreements by and between the Regional Transportation District and
CO-Denver Post Tower, LLC, formerly known as CO-One Civic Center Plaza,
LLC and EOP-One Civic Center Plaza, LLC for office space in Suites 510,
605, 610, 650, 700, 1000, 1075 and 1099 on the 5th, 6th, 7th and 10th
floors, containing approximately 84,903 square feet, in the building
commonly known as Civic Center Plaza for Planning and Capital Programs
personnel, IT personnel, Paratransit Services and Contracted Services. This
amendment will consolidate all leased space into one lease, will add
approximately 3,046 square feet to the 6th floor and will amend and extend
all previous leases and amendments to provide for all to expire on December
31, 2022. On the original 73,480 square feet, base rent began at $16.50
per square foot, has increased annually by $0.50 and will conclude in the
final year of the lease at $21.50 per square foot, January 1, 2022 through
December 31, 2022. (Rent for the remaining 11,423 square feet will be
$20.00 per square foot in the final year). Funding for the space to be used
by the FasTracks program was included in the 2015 Annual Program
Evaluation, and will be appropriated in future year budgets. Funding for the
space to be used by the base system will be appropriated in future year
budgets.

Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 19, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real Property, explained that
FasTracks originally looked for office space back in 2005.
After a lengthy examination of the available office space in the
Central Business District (CBD), staff determined that a
presence at the end of the 16th Street Mall would be
appropriate. She said that over the years a number of
departments have relocated to Civic Center such as IT,
Paratransit Services, Contracted Services, Capital Programs
and Planning. Susan Altes indicated as part of the evaluation
process staff looked at options to centralize all RTD employees
but it was determined to be cost prohibitive at this time.
Leases will begin to expire in 2017 and in the best interest of
the District, staff is recommending all of the leases be
renewed through December 31, 2022. She added that staff
was able to negotiate a very good below market rate for RTD
that includes $2.2 million dollars in a tenant allowance that
can be used for improvements to the space or for rent. She
shared she has done a lot of comparisons with similar Class A
office space in the area and comparable space would be $40
per square foot. The space at civic center would be $33 per
square foot once operating costs are included.
Director Folska asked if RTD owned the building at Civic
Center Plaza. Susan Altes indicated that RTD never owned
the building, but it did own the air rights at one time. Director
Folska added that the market rate sounds like a very good
deal, but it does not seem essential to have staff at the other
end of the mall. She thinks staff should be located in an area
where overhead costs are less as it is prudent to tighten RTD’s
financial belts given the current sales and use tax revenue
projections. For this reason Director Folska stated she would
be voting no.
Director Bagley said it appeared to him there was no exit
strategy should the decision be made to construct a new
building or consolidate operations. Susan Altes explained that
the leases would terminate if there was a failure to appropriate
funds during the annual budget process.

Director Bagley commented that FasTracks was winding down
and inquired if there were still going to be a significant number
of FasTracks employees beyond 2019.
General Manager Genova explained that FasTracks employees
were referred to as Capital Program Employees. He added
that staff has completed a detailed analysis to see what RTD’s
needs will be in the future. He noted there will be some
reduction in staff as FasTracks projects are completed, but the
Capital Programs department will still be maintained for such
work as State of Good Repair. He indicated that due to RTD’s
financial condition and inability to bond, it was decided against
adding an addition to the Blake street building. After the build
out of FasTracks, RTD will re-evaluate how to move forward.
It is imperative that employees are able to commute from any
part of the Metro area to the offices and having a major
presence near a transit site that we own is also important.
Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager of
Capital Programs, added that 80% of the employees at Civic
Center Plaza are Base System employees.
Chair Tobiassen asked why RTD requires a Class A building
and noted that Class B buildings would be more than
adequate. He agreed it was convenient for employees to
travel to Civic Center but believes Class A buildings are
reserved for high level, private businesses. Susan Altes
commented that some Real Estate professionals in the city
classify this building as Class A and others classify it as a
Class B. She pointed out that about 60% of the Civic Center
tenants are State of Colorado employees.
Director Francone inquired if there would be any financial
penalties if the leases are terminated in the future at Civic
Center Plaza. Susan Altes said there would not be a financial
penalty.
Committee Chair James inquired about the financial costs to
operations that could result from moving to a different location
and having employees need to travel even farther for meetings
than they do now. General Manager Genova indicated that
RTD’s desire was to have a single campus, but with the
remaining FasTracks projects, staff decided against that
option. He added that going back and forth from Blake to
Civic Center Plaza is already a challenge for staff and it would

be even more challenging if staff were moved further away
from the CBD.
Committee Chair James wondered if his assumption that RTD
would lose the $2.2 million in tenant allowances if the leases
were not renewed was correct. He noted that the lease rate is
much lower than current market rates and inquired as to how
staff garnered such a great discount. Susan Altes stated
Director James was correct that there is a current tenant
allowance of $1.2 million with an additional $1 million if the
leases were extended. She said staff would have to get busy
in spending the $1.2 million as to not lose the credit. She
explained that as it relates to the lease rates, RTD has
developed a great relationship with the owners of Civic Center
Plaza since the early 1980s. They understand how
government works and they are not surprised by some of the
requirements that RTD has as a government agency.
Director Folska asked if the Platte building could have a
vertical addition to make more room for staff. Henry
Stopplecamp explained that the Platte building was not built to
support an addition. He added that the Platte building is
maxed out of space and staff is having difficulties maintaining
the bus operation training course. He said staff has been
looking throughout the District but RTD does not have enough
money to build a new building. Director Folska commented
that RTD can do better. She does not think there is enough
justification to support paying for CBD office space.
Director Menten asked if staff planned to use the $2.2 million
tenant allowance toward rent if this did proceed forward. She
thinks this should be used right away. Henry Stopplecamp
stated some would be used for rent but there is also some
remodeling that needs to be done.
Director Francone inquired as to how long RTD has had the
Civic Center Plaza lease and if any tenant allowance money
had been used toward rent. She said she agrees with Director
Menten that this should be used toward rent right away. She
stated she likes new carpet too but it is not in her budget.
Susan Altes said that the initial lease began in 2005. She
indicated none of the tenant allowance had been used to-date
which is why $1.2 million was available.
Director Francone further inquired about the classification of
the building. She noted it was compared to Class A buildings

for comparables but it was also likened to Class B space. She
asked if comparables had been done for Class B space as well
when evaluating the cost. Susan Altes explained that the
classification is subjective and different agencies list it as
Class A or Class B+. She believes the comparables would be
pretty close but she would have to do some research to
confirm. She thinks the cost would still be below a Class B+
in RTD’s negotiated rate.
Director Bagley questioned the time constraints for signing the
new lease and asked if this must be approved tonight.
General Manager Genova explained that the preference would
be to get this finalized tonight as the rate might be in jeopardy
since the Civic Center improvement is underway. He believes
approving the lease is a reasonable move for the District.
Director Menten inquired about the warehouse that RTD
acquired near the Peoria station and asked if it would be a
suitable solution for office space. Henry Stopplecamp
explained that the warehouse would need to be converted to
office space. He shared that staff looked at using part of the
building for the Treasury and it would cost at least $5 million
dollars to make part of the building usable.
Director Walker asked how much it would cost to move
100,000 square feet of office space. Henry Stopplecamp
noted that he did not have exact figures but the cost would be
considerable. Director Walker added that his office was
consolidated and moved to a new space a few years ago and
it has been a constant issue ever since. He noted that
sometimes it is more expensive to move than it is to stay.
Chair Tobiassen agreed with Director Walker that it is not in
RTD’s best interest to leave this lease and hope for the best.
He added that if the Board is truly concerned about
consolidating staff to one facility that should be discussed at
the March retreat and added to the long term strategic plan.
Committee Chair James remarked that he agreed with Chair
Tobiassen. He reiterated that moving staff affects operations
and should not be taken lightly.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 2]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Paul Solano, Director, District K
Archuleta, Bagley, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone
Lorraine Anderson, Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Chuck
Sisk

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

• Acquisition of Easements - Southwest Plaza Transfer Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached resolution certifying easements as
necessary for construction of the Southwest Plaza Transfer Center project
and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state
eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the July 19, 2016
Board Meeting.
Chair Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Walker recused himself from the Board meeting during
this action item as he works for one of the parties involved in
this transaction.
Henry Stopplecamp explained that the Southwest Plaza
Transfer Center project would benefit RTD and its patrons. He
said the project would improve safety, provide drivers with a
relief station, bring patrons closer to the pedestrian bridge over
Wadsworth, and overall improve RTD’s operations. The goal
with passing this action item is to acquire the necessary
easements to move the project into construction.
Susan Altes noted the easements are for a sanitary line and an
electrical line. These are two very small easements but
required for building the Transfer Center.
Committee Chair James remarked that this authorization is
only for the easements. The Board is not authorizing the
construction of the Transfer Center. Henry Stopplecamp
noted that the Board had already approved this project as part
of the 2016 Amended Budget but reiterated that the action

item tonight was only to secure the easements needed to
begin the project.
Director Folska said she did not recall authorizing this Transfer
Center. She expressed concern that RTD was spending $1.8
million just so drivers could have a bathroom and asked for the
total budget for this project. Henry Stopplecamp explained
that the primary focus was having a safe location where buses
could get off the main roadway. Tony Forrester, Engineer,
stated the overall budget is $1.8 million, which includes the
easements, driver relief facility, transfer center and 1,200
linear feet of two lane road. Director Folska inquired if the
driver relief facility would be similar to the one at the
Englewood Station. Tony Forrester indicated he was not
familiar with the driver relief facility at Englewood Station, but
this one would be a nice concrete structure.
Director Folska stated she was hard pressed to support this
based on RTD’s financial outlook. She wonders if this is really
necessary right now or if other options can be considered in
the meantime. Henry Stopplecamp said staff had looked at
other options and this was determined to be the best one.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
commented that the conversation seemed to imply the main
reason behind staff’s recommendation was to provide a
restroom facility; however, staff has attempted to improve
operations at Southwest Plaza for years. He said this is an
opportunity while staff makes improvements to also add a
driver relief facility. This project has been passed up for a
number of years through the Strategic Budget Plan process
because it was not a vital need, but it is time to complete this
project.
Director Folska stated she understands how staff determines
which projects are needed or deferred but still wonders if this
project could be deferred until after the election in November.
She said she would be voting no this evening and asked staff
to get with her offline.
Director Menten shared that she had some time to do some
digging and believes there is a solution to this issue that will
not require as much capital. She indicated that Swedish
Medical Center – Southwest ER has a long circular drive for
bus turn around. She added that she spoke to a
representative at the hospital and they are willing to let drivers

use their restrooms as the building is open 24/7 and they can
even have free coffee. This location is also closer to
Clemmons Park, which would better serve Columbine High
School. She asked if someone could tell her why this solution
would not be viable.
Henry Stopplecamp explained that if RTD’s busses run on that
circular road as designed, RTD would eventually have to
replace the road. He stated it comes down to bus operations
as stopping at the medical building would put the buses out of
the route.
Bruce Abel commented that staff would need to look at the
operational impact of stopping at the medical facility. He
indicated that without evaluating the specifics he cannot
provide an exact estimate this evening but Service Planning
would do the analysis.
Director Menten said she would vote no for this item until
staff provided the comparison for her suggestion. She
believes there would be benefits to RTD’s ridership if the
routes stopped at the medical facility.
Director Francone noted this started off as a $10,000 line item
a few years ago and now it is up to $1.8 million. She asked if
staff could provide her with the ridership numbers for this
station and inquired the cost of pursing Eminent Domain
should the parties not wish to sell. Susan Altes stated
Eminent Domain can range from $50,000 to $100,000, and
she believes one property might have to go through that
process.
Director Solano asked if the easements are adjacent to each
other and which property would potentially require the
Eminent Domain. Henry Stopplecamp stated the easements
were in different locations. Susan Altes indicated that SRC
Property Trust, the company that owns the Sears building, had
not been very receptive.
Chair Tobiassen asked where staff was in terms of a contract
for this project. Henry Stopplecamp explained that the design
was completed in house, but there is not a contract to build
the facility at this time. Chair Tobiassen noted that Southwest
Plaza is a busy shopping center and he has heard about this
project for years. He added if staff moves the station to a
place that is unknown, it would cause additional issues. He

does not see how RTD can make such a substantial change
without getting input from the public. He thinks since this
project has been in the works for a few years the Board should
move forward and get it done. If additional service is needed
in that area it should go through the public input process.
Director Hoy asked staff to provide the Board with the routes
that stopped at Southwest Plaza and the ridership numbers.
Director Lubow expressed that she is not familiar with the
area, but what concerns her is the lack of confidence by some
Board members related to staff’s analysis about why this
project is appropriate. She added that if Directors have issues,
they should take those to staff to discuss beforehand so that
it does not take up a lot of Board time.
Director Menten inquired if there would be any significant
impacts to operations if the Board delayed this item for one
month. Henry Stopplecamp remarked that by holding off on
this item, it would delay the project another month or more,
which would put it outside of this year’s construction season.
Committee Chair James asked staff to provide the Board with
additional background details to illustrate how this project
moved up the priority list prior to the Board Meeting. Henry
Stopplecamp said staff would provide the Board with a
whitepaper that addressed the entire project, not just the
easements.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED COMMITTEE [6 TO 4]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Bagley, Hoy, James, Lubow, Solano, Tobiassen
Ernest Archuleta, Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Natalie
Menten
Anderson, Deadwyler, Lasater, Sisk, Walker

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates
There were no updates.

D. Other Matters
Director Solano brought up the increasing violence on the 16th Street Mall and
asked how that would affect the Meet in the Street events. General Manager
Genova indicated that staff is in constant communication with the City and County
of Denver and the Downtown Denver Partnership about the Mall. He indicated

staff has been working with both entities for a comprehensive security plan. He
added that Mayor Hancock recently unveiled part of that plan and a security
manager has been hired full time. He noted the Meet in the Street events had
already begun. He said he has not heard of any negative impacts to those events
based on the few incidents that have been reported.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 2, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move into
Executive Session for the purpose of discussing
CRS 24-6-402(4)(a) Discussion of possible
acquisition and/or transfer of real property along
central corridor near Alameda Station and CRS
24-6-402(4)(e)(I) Discussion of possible
acquisition and/or transfer of real property along
central corridor near Alameda Station.
Director Solano seconded the motion.

Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously via voice
vote.
The Board moved into executive session at 8:29 p.m.

G. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 9:08 p.m. directly from executive
session.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

