Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 29, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Nate’ Malone, Senior Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 29, 2012

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 29, 2012
at 5:31 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****
Board Members
Present:
Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, Tayer, Tobiassen, and
Walker.
Subject:

Board Members
Absent:

McMullen, O’Boyle, and Williams

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, L. Skip Brown, John Cypher, Sherry Ellebracht,
Attilio Framarini, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Nate’ Malone, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, Bill
Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Rich McClintock – Trans Solutions
****

I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
II. Internet Sales Tax Update
Terry Howerter gave a brief background of the Internet Sales Tax sharing that
sales and use taxes comprise approximately 65% of RTD’s noncapital
revenues. Over the most recent ten years, those tax revenues have fluctuated
from -10% and +7% between years. Due to the significance of this revenue
source for RTD, the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force recommended the
following:
o Remove the impact of the volatility of sales and use tax
projections through improved forecasting and establishing a fund
balance policy to mitigate year-to-year tax receipt volatility.
o Request parity of RTD’s sales and use tax base to be consistent
with the state regarding exemptions.
o Self-collect and audit sales and use taxes to enhance revenue.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 29, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Staff has addressed sales and use tax forecasting by contracting with the CU
Leeds School of Business. The Board has implemented a fund balance policy
effective in 2012 to mitigate the impact to available funds from tax volatility.
Staff will draft legislation based on direction from the Board to pursue tax
exemption parity with the state and the ability to self-collect and audit sales
and use taxes.
III. Fund Balance Discussion
Terry Howerter shared that the Fund Balance is a very complex topic and
offered one-on-one or two-on-one sessions to go over in more detail all the
aspects.
Doug MacLeod gave a brief overview of what the fund balance is and how it
is calculated. The Fund Balance is simply the value of assets remaining after
all obligations are met and is separated into restricted and unrestricted
categories in order to allow the financial statement user to evaluate the
components of the entity’s net financial position. Doug explained the
difference between restricted and unrestricted. The restricted fund balance
consists of assets that have a legal restriction regarding their use such as
assets set aside with a trustee for debt service. Restricted Fund Balance also
includes assets such as property and equipment that are not available to be
used for operating expenses. Unrestricted Fund Balance consists of all
remaining net assets that do not have a legal or liquidity restriction associated
with them. Certain constraints on the use of the Unrestricted Fund Balance
may exist such as the case with the Board Appropriated Fund and the Capital
Replacement Fund. However, the Board of Directors may choose to use
those funds as it deems necessary.
Doug MacLeod stated that the main concern is having the funds available for a
long term.
Feedback from Board members:
Director Tayer stated that this was an issue that he personally wanted to
discuss and appreciated the material given and the walkthrough. Director
Tayer asked what is the standard by which we calculate unrestricted funds.
What are the criteria? What would we do with excess funds reserve?
Director Tayer stated it is important that the Board understands how fund
balances are valuable for emergencies, insurance, and bond rate insurance but
still need to see the criteria by which we say okay we have enough reserves
for those things. He shared a similar discussion that the City of Boulder had
regarding when certain fund balances can be used. Director Tayer expressed
that he just wants to make sure that when the Board discuss the reserves
funds, we aren’t just making a knee jerk action saying we need to save for a
rainy day. It also needs to be discussed what would happen to the excess
funds not used, what is the criteria we would use and what would be the
process in deciding.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 29, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
Terry Howerter stated that in determining the fund balance, we went through
a process with the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force and came up with a policy
that was modeled after the governments’ best practices. The policy consisted
of in order to be sustainable we should have about three months of operating
expenses in the fund. $90 million is the optimal total based on $30 million in
monthly expenses. What we would like to see in this fund balance is about
$13M for Board appropriations and $6M in capital replacement. If it goes
lower, it might affect our ratings.
Director Tayer asked if there is an actuary table that bond rating will be
affected. CFO Howerter responded we have approached Moody but not on
new fund balance policy. He is not aware of existing actuary tables.
Director Tayer requested CFO to approach the question on appropriate fund
balance criteria. If none, perhaps they could assemble a panel of experts to
assist in identifying criteria.
Director Anderson questioned how much we have taken each year out of the
reserves to balance the budget. Terry Howerter stated each year is different.
At the time he came on board RTD had a capital acquisition fund that was
carrying an operations reserve. During that time we’ve used all of capital
reserve. We’ve looked for revenue enhancements, and lowered expenses but
it has decreased by about $24-28 million.
Director Anderson asked if the balance fund is what sits between the board
and cutting of services. Terry Howerter responded yes.
Director Walker asked what happens when we sell a parcel that is restricted.
Do the funds move to unrestricted? CFO Howerter responded there can be a
movement from restricted to unrestricted. If land is sitting in capital assets,
and the parcel was sold, cash would go up and it would increase the fund
balance.
IV. Community Pilot Project Program Proposal
Terry Howerter provided his understanding of the Community Pilot Project
Program. He stated that in the proposal, 50% of funds in excess of the
previous year’s budget, including all reserve replenishment goals, would be
allocated to a contingency program that is earmarked for specific service
improvement needs. Examples include proposals for pilot one-year tests of
routes or small capital investments, based on suggestions from local
communities. If the Community Pilot Project Program concept is approved by
the Board, the next steps include:
o Staff prepares a draft determining an amount at the end of the year
to appropriate to the Program
o The amended Fiscal Policy Statement would establish a fourth fund
o Staff would identify excess funds from the prior fiscal year to fund
the program
o Staff will administer the Community Pilot Project Program, in years
that excess funding is available
Doug MacLeod gave a brief overview discussing RTD’s current procedure for

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 29, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
identifying funding sources for specific service improvement and project needs
that included the Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality grants that are
available and DRCOG funding. Doug shared the Community Pilot Project
Program would add an extra layer of community input into this service review
process to include proposals for one-year tests of routes or small capital
investments. The Fund Balance Policy established a combined goal of $90
million for these three funds based on the Government Finance Officers
Association (GFOA) recommended best practice to maintain two to three
months of operating expenditures in an entity’s fund balance. Staff will
present a proposal to the Board in June.
Feedback from Board members:
Director Anderson commented by saying the last time this proposal came
forward and was approved it became a Board member “slush fund”. Anderson
stated she would like to see things being vetted through the DRCOG program
to prevent this from happening again. Director Anderson believes 50% is too
much as well and is very reluctant in voting in favor for this unless there are
some very strict requirements on how things are proposed. It would have to be
a very tightly managed process in order for her to vote in favor.
Director Hoy shared the same concerns as Anderson as it pertains to who will
be making the decisions on what the money will be spent on. Director Hoy
stated he doesn’t believe the Board as a group has the authority without more
structured guidance. The policy needs to be iron clad and each member of the
Board needs to hold each other accountable in the decisions they make on the
spending.
Director Malpiede also agrees that it needs to be iron clad before she will
support it and needs assurance that it will be evenly dispersed within the
entire region.
Director Anderson restated the DRCOG process and explained “vetted”, which
means that under DRCOG’s guidelines, RTD would have to meet those
standards.
Director Tayer stated that a further discussion needs to take place regarding
this Community Pilot Project and more information needs to be given.
Director Bagley shared that over the past few meetings the Board has
discussed SBE and many other smaller projects and DRCOG has never seen
those projects. There are existing RTD projects that never go before DRCOG.
Director Bagley stated not all the projects have any relationship to the
Community Pilot Funding Project.
Director Deadwyler stated that she initially was for this project in hopes that
we could find a way to provide a temporary solution for riders to get around

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday May 29, 2012 at
5:30 p.m.
and that it was never meant to be a “slush fund” but meant to generate
innovative, out of the box solutions. Director Deadwyler agrees that the
process needs to be strict, thoroughly written and reviewed. She expressed
that this could be a great opportunity for the constituents to have involvement
on how or what to use the funds, by giving us their input on suggestion and
ideals. It would gain back a lot of the trust that has been broken and could
restore credibility. She cited one potential use in Stapleton where affordable
housing is being built but there is no transportation service.
Chair Kemp stated that all of the input, comments and concerns from each of
the Board members were given in good thought; however, he would like to see
the project moved forward to the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force committee.
He commented that the devil is in the details but that the process is good and
encourages the Board to move it forward.
V. IQM2 Paperless Packets Active Board Demonstration Session
Board members participated in a demo of IQM2, the paperless packet solution
to replace the Board packets. Board members were able to experience pulling
their packets from a web based portal as well as conducting of the Board
meetings using the software. Staff will continue to explore improvement
performance options and how to best implement this product.
VI. Other Matters
General Manager Washington shared that Chair Kemp was selected as APTA
Board Director of the Year along with Greg Evans from Oregon.
Congratulations Chair Kemp!! This is a very well deserved award. Chair Kemp
has done an amazing job; all his hard work is greatly appreciated. Chair Kemp
and Greg Evans will both be honored with the award at APTA annual in
Seattle.
Chair Kemp stated that it is an honor to receive this award and shared he is
just speechless.
Chair Kemp gave thanks to Paula Perdue and the Board Office staff and
Support team for all their hard work on pulling the paperless packet together.
Paula Perdue acknowledged the entire support team naming Bill Martin of
IQM2, IT staff; Trent Ratcliff, John Cypher, Gary Suazo, and Attilio Framarini;
the Board Office staff, Barbara McManus, Nate’ Malone, and Erin Klaas. The
entire team has put in countless time and effort to get to where we are today
and though we still have more work to do, we have come a very long way.
Paula thanked the entire staff.
VII. Adjourn
Study Session adjourned at 8:10 p.m.

