Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 8,
2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

November 9, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
November 8, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler,
James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors Hoy and McMullen arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Anderson.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Bob Brown, Rick Clarke, Jeff Cluphf, Ignacio
Correa-Ortiz, Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Kate Iverson, Austin
Jenkins, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Brian
Middleton, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Chris Quinn,
Scott Reed, Christian Reitter, Pranaya Shrestha, John Shonsey, Bill
Sirois, Julie Skeen, Danielle Smith, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, Stan
Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Del Walker and
Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, Bob Drake – Talmey-Drake, Jeff Leib – Denver Post,
Bob Wilson,
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
 Approval of 2012 Contract Amendment for 16th Street Mall Transitway Lines –
Granite Paver Maintenance
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to implement the Mall Paver Contract, Specifically, execute the third and
final year contract amendment 2012 (option year two), third contract amendment for
maintenance of the Mall Transitway Lanes for January 1, 2012 through December 31,
2012. The budget amount for this third year contract is $1,050,000.00. The contract
(IFB30DT001) allows for the District to add a third and final year for 2012.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 8,
2011
Page 2 of 5

Stan Szabelak indicated that this is our final year with Montoya Masonry. This contract
provides granite paver repair, replacement and/or maintenance within the transit way
for the 16th Street Mall between Broadway and Market Street. The agreement that
obligates RTD to maintain the transitway terminates during October 2012. It is
anticipated that during next year negotiations with the City and County of Denver will
result in a more equitable arrangement for future maintenance of the transitway section
of the Mall.
Director Tayer added that the creative work to find a more suitable technology is great,
but we should negotiate more diligently next time to have more beneficial terms for us.
Director James noted that he had participated in discussions regarding this item and
looks forward to a positive resolution.
Director Bagley further added that active negotiations will be most welcome.
Motion:

Director James made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the November
22, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously. Director
Anderson was absent from this vote.

II. Update
 Sustainability Program Review
Stan Szabelak noted that the 2010 program was the first year that the agency
measured numerous variables within the agency. Sustainability is the long term
maintenance of Society, Economy and the Environment and all three must work in
tandem. Sustainability and transit promotes healthy land use, multi modal opportunities,
reduces congestion, pollution and fossil fuel use. Our goal is to incorporate
sustainability in all RTD activities. The current Sustainability Policy and Guidelines focus
on three major categories which are Livable Communities, Greater Travel
Choices/Accessibility and Environmental Sustainability. With both Bus and Rail we have
decreased emissions, increased passenger miles, saved in fuel costs and reduced our
electrical current draw.
Director McMullen added that it would be interesting to know how much money the
agency is saving by recycling.
Director Tobiassen noted that while it might be expense in the short term to upgrade
our lighting to more energy efficient bulbs, we would save money in the long term.
Director Tayer indicated that this analysis is very important and while the electronic and
tire recycling measure is important we should monitor where those items are going.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 8,
2011
Page 3 of 5

Also, we should look into the Colorado Environmental Leadership Program and explore
joining their efforts. We should all try to be more sustainable in our own facilities.
Director Malpiede suggested that it would be nice to know how many pollutants have
been removed from the atmosphere based on the numbers of our passengers.
 TOD Pilot Program
Bill Sirois explained that the TOD Pilot Program was to test out an expanded role for
RTD. The focus was on stations with the greatest opportunity for success. There have
been ongoing discussions with the Denver Design District for Alameda Station. Timing
is an issue as is integration and phasing of bus ops. The next steps will be to receive a
formal proposal and go from there.
The current status and issues for Olde Town Arvada are that ongoing discussions with
the City of Arvada and the Arvada Urban Renewal Authority are taking place discussing
the building of the parking structure for opening day. The city is discussing the
financing gap for building the parking structure and to potentially move the RTD bus
transfer facility closer to the Light Rail Platform.
The Welton Corridor has completed the ULI TAP panel in August. There are ongoing
discussions with the City and the Five Points Business District about the corridor
redevelopment strategy. DURA is also looking to potentially establish an urban renewal
area.
The Federal Center Station has completed the ULI TAP panel with the City of Lakewood
and the GSA in June. Currently an MOU is being developed with the City and the GSA
to establish a framework and principles for redevelopment on RTD and GSA properties
over time.
Lessons learned from the TOD Pilot Program are that we need to establish more formal
goals and objectives for pilot sites ahead of time. Also, we need to provide more
direction to potential developers upfront regarding design objectives. We also want to
establish a clearer plan and policy establishing how stations might transition from Parkn-Ride’s to Transit Oriented Communities.
Committee Chair Bagley noted that 83% of paid parking comes from the City of
Littleton and added that when we look at future activities in Englewood, he wanted
parking fees established. Also, he and Director James would like to speak with staff
regarding any new information for the Alameda site.
III. Other Matters
General Manager Washington noted that he had sent out an email to the Board of
Directors last week on a concept that staff has been considering internally. This
concept is in line with building as much as we can as fast as we can until it is all
finished. The concept is a Public/Public Private Partnership or P4. This is a way to join
with other public entities such as cities and municipalities. This partnership would allow
for public entities to contribute funds to RTD to help build FasTracks. These entities

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 8,
2011
Page 4 of 5

would be paid back at a later date, interest free.
Director Daly inquired if one entity came to us willing to join this plan, would it affect
the priority of the schedule of upcoming routes.
General Manager Washington explained that the existing schedule would still be in
place. We would not use these funds to cut someone else ahead of the line.
Director James asked if there have been positive or negative reactions.
General Manager Washington explained that there have been both reactions to this
concept, but the same happened when we first introduced P3. This Board created a
goal to be innovative and that is what we are doing.
Director Hoy asked if an entity approaches us with funding, would that funding be
applied to another cities rail line.
General Manager Washington indicated that anything that is associated with this
concept would come before the Board for their approval.
Director Tayer indicated that he would like to raise a few red flags with this concept.
First we must consider the potential political ramifications of going forward with this.
Second, this cannot be a battle of the haves versus the have not’s. And finally, we are
not only talking about building these things, but also operating them.
Director Walker indicated that this is very innovative and we are showing our
communities and constituents that they matter.
Director McMullen added that this Board is obligated to pursue alternate means of
financing. This is an appropriate course to take and hopefully it will turn out well for us.
We need to secure more funds to get these projects finished.
Director Tobiassen noted that if we were to receive funds the entity giving them to us
might not be paid back for long periods of time.
Director Deadwyler mentioned that she had a lot of questions in terms of government
entities loaning out interest free money with no guarantees as to when they would be
paid back. Something like this should go to the voters for their approval. Also, the next
set of legislators might not go along with this concept. We should build as much as we
can and as fast as we can with the funds that we currently have.
Director O’Boyle indicated that he was puzzled that we would seek to receive funds
from another source and didn’t understand the benefit of communities loaning us
money if their corridors will not be built for years. Director O’Boyle added that he would
be interested to know what the jurisdictional stakeholders have to say about this.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 8,
2011
Page 5 of 5

General Manager Washington explained that the economic benefit of this concept is in
the eye of the beholder. This economic benefit to RTD is very real and people
understand the benefit of FasTracks being built out.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for
December 6, 2011
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:14 p.m. to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee.

