May 14 2019
Board Meeting
[AUDIO OUT]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[AUDIO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: 2019 RTD Board of Directors meeting. The record will reflect that we are
convened as of 5:32 PM, Mountain Daylight Time. We would respectfully request that everyone
please silence your cell phones or other electronic devices. And we do note, for the sake of the
record and for the benefit of the public, that the meeting is being video and audio recorded. So
please, understand you are subject to being seen on video and audio recordings.
We begin our meetings, as always for the full Board Meeting, with the Pledge of Allegiance.
And I am honored to say that tonight, we have, leading us in the Pledge of Allegiance, an
extremely good friend of the RTD, Adams County Commissioner Steve O'Dorisio. Mr.
O'Dorisio.
[APPLAUSE]
STEVE O'DORISIO: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the
Republic for which it stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with Liberty and Justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Commissioner. You may be seated. Ms. McManus, if you would,
now, please call the roll of the Board.
[INAUDIBLE]
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore? Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 14 present, 1 absent.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at the RTD, safety is a core
value. So we begin each of our meetings with a safety briefing. And we would like to note for

your careful attention, at this time, if there should be an emergency of some sort that arises
during the course of the meeting, and if 911 needs to be called for emergency services, I will ask
our General Counsel to make that telephone call.
If there is a need to evacuate the room, please, calmly go through the door in which you entered,
and then proceed upstairs and outside, onto the street, where we will have RTD personnel to
assist you in the event of such emergency. If you have any handicap or disability, we will have
RTD staff assist you in the evacuation process. There is also an automatic emergency
defibrillator device, an AED, that is on the wall outside this room. So if the need should arise,
you will have that available.
Another thing that we like to bring to your attention is safety on our buses and trains. And one
way that we help make you safe, and that you can feel safe, and that acts as a deterrent to people
who would threaten your safety is the Transit Watch app. Transit Watch is available for your
iPhone or for your Android phone. It can be downloaded. It is free. It puts you in immediate
touch with our command center, either by means of a text message, if you don't want to speak
out loud, or by way of direct voice conversation with our command center, immediately. And I
want you all to know that Transit Watch is very important. And if you use Transit Watch, you'll
never ride alone. So don't feel unsafe at any time. Transit Watch is there with you.
There are two retirees for the month of May, and I am informed that neither one of them is able
to be with us this evening. But I will check, in case plans have changed, are any retirees present
in the audience this evening? If not, let me point out who they are and their length of service,
because this is impressive. I had the privilege this afternoon of speaking on the district tour to a
number of our employees, and I pointed out the incredible longevity that we have with
employees here, at the RTD, a fact of which we are justifiably proud.
The two that we honor this evening are Bobby Burrell, Bobby Burrell has been a Body Mechanic
and with RTD for 22 years. And then the second retiree is Kurt J. Reeder. Kurt Reeder is a Light
Rail Maintenance Supervisor and has been with the RTD for 35 years. In their absence, let's
congratulate them, and give it up for these retirees.
[APPLAUSE]
The next item on our agenda is the public participation period. We come now to that period,
which is open to anyone who wants to address the Board. It is our custom to allow any of our
elected officials present to speak first, so they can get back to their own meetings and attend to
their business. I will call you up in the order in which you have signed up. Each speaker is
allowed up to three minutes. Let me repeat that. Three minutes.
And we do respectfully ask that the audience refrain from any indications of support or
opposition, as obviously, such expressions might have a tendency to chill the free expression of
thoughts by speakers. Please also remember that when you appear at the microphone, you are
consenting to being video and audio recorded for posterity or for your own personal review,
should you wait a couple of weeks and want to pull it up online. You can look at how you did.

So we would please ask you to come forward to the lecturn. State your name and your address,
so that we have those materials available for the Board, and we would be happy to hear from
you. And on the elected officials sign up sheet, it is my privilege now, more formally, to
acknowledge and to recognize Adams County Commissioner Steve O'Dorisio. Commissioner, if
you'd please come forward, give us your name and address. And you have up to three minutes.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
STEVE O'DORISIO: Let me try this. How is that? All right. Thank you very much. My name is
Steve O'Dorisio from 7403 Race Street, in Welby, Colorado. That's in unincorporated Adams
County. I came this evening, in addition to the Pledge of Allegiance, and wanted to say thank
you. We really enjoyed participating in the opening of the G Line. It was an amazing set of
events that lasted, it seemed, three or four weeks. It was just a big party.
But we really enjoyed it, and we feel like I wanted to come and just say thank you very much.
I'm able to go to folks in these communities and show that we are making progress in fulfilling
the promises made to the taxpayers many years ago in completing FasTracks. And this was a
major milestone in us accomplishing those goals together. I'm looking forward to working with
you as we complete the next few phases of the North Line. And then most importantly, I look
forward to working with you as we continue to fulfill those promises and getting the North Line
all the way to Highway 7 and the Northwest Line fulfilled to completion.
But the issue that I see in front of us is that we will continue to face challenges of finances, but
we can overcome that with collaboration. We can overcome that with innovation. And I look
forward to doing all of that together with you. Thank you again very much, and I look forward to
many more ribbon cuttings and events to participate in. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Commissioner. It's a privilege to have you here with us, and we
absolutely treasure our partnership with Adams County.
STEVE O'DORISIO: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Our next speaker is Mr. Gary Van Dorn. Mr. Van Dorn, if you would, as you
are accustomed to know, come to the podium and give us your name and address for the record.
And you have up to three minutes, sir.
GARY VAN DORN: Good afternoon. Mr. Gary Van Dorn. 625 Pennsylvania Street, number
512, Denver, Colorado. 80203, District A. I have a grave concern about the 16th Street Mall. The
mall is, as we all know, changing, and the curb is being eliminated between the transit way and
the pedestrian way. Who knows what their plans are with the City and County, Denver. I
certainly don't know them all, but I do have concerns.
What we need to do is retain that curb. The curb is a universal signal that there is traffic or some
sort of a danger between the pedestrians and the transit way. Not everyone can hear the buses. I
certainly can, but I'm learning not everyone can, which is unfortunate. I can foresee a lot of
liability for the Regional Transportation District if people are hit, or injured, or anything like

that. I think it's going to make using the transit way more difficult for RTD, but mainly for
everybody. Not just the blind people, but everybody.
And I'm hoping that RTD will oppose it. Hoping, but I just learned recently that RTD has
officially stated that they will offer training. Really? How are you going to offer training to
people from out of town? That seems to me to indicate that you also recognize this as a danger.
And I will also be speaking to the City Council and getting my voice heard on this issue, because
the mall is in my district, at least some of it. And I use the mall regularly, and so do a lot of other
people. I appreciate the time to have spoken to you this evening. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Van Dorn. We always appreciate hearing your
voice and understanding your concerns. Are there any other members of the public who would
like to speak? Mr. Van Dorn is the only one who had signed up, but we don't hold on form here
that much for these things. So if there is anyone else who wishes to speak, please come forward
to the podium and be recognized. Going once, going twice, and so we'll move on.
Next on our agenda is the consideration of the Committee Reports. The Committee minutes were
included in the Board packet. I will ask if there are any questions relative to the Committee
Reports as submitted. Hearing none at this time, then those reports will stand as submitted, and
they will become a part of the permanent record. And that relates to the Planning, Capital
Programs & FasTracks Committee, the Communications and Government Relations Committee,
the Civil Rights Committee, the Operations & Customer Service Committee, Finance
Administration & Audit Committee, and then we turn specifically to the General Manager
Oversight & Performance Management Committee.
As to that, I will now recognize that Committee's Chair, Director Broom. Chair Broom, if you
would at this time, please share with us any of your comments regarding the General Manager
Oversight & Performance Management Committee.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Our committee met again this afternoon. That was our
second meeting of the year. We work primarily on the 2020 Core and Task Goal Plan presented
by the General Manager. We'll meet again to improve those goals one more time before it will
come to this body for final approval. The actual final approval will be on the 18th, but it will
come to the Board on the 11th for a committee meeting for your review, and comments, and
changes, and that type of thing. So you can look forward to seeing that in the near future. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Broom. We appreciate your report on the
GMOC, and as the Chair said, recognize this, even though it is a committee of seven. It Is open
to all of the Directors to audit and to participate in that committee's discussions, and you are
invited to do so. And this is certainly a critical time to do so, if you have any interest on the
GMOC process.
Next, we turn to the approval of the Board meeting minutes for our April 16, 2019 meeting. May
I please have a motion to approve the minutes from the regular Bboard meeting of April 16,
2019?

KATE WILLIAMS: Motion.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion and a second. I have a second. So I have a motion from
Director Williams. I have a second from Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Is there any
discussion on the motion? Hearing none, we will be prepared to vote. And Director Williams is
the movant, and Second Chair Rivera-Malpiede is the second. And if the rest of you would
please vote.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair, this is not from the April 16th meeting, correct?
DOUG TISDALE: It is.
SHELLEY COOK: It is for the April 16th?
DOUG TISDALE: It is for the April 16th. And I have by a vote of 13 in favor and 1 opposed,
and that is-SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. Yes, I'm sorry. I pointed at the screen, and it took the-DOUG TISDALE: It's a touch screen.
[LAUGHTER]
Let the record be modified to reflect that we have 14 votes in favor, no votes opposed, and 1 no
vote by virtue of the absence of a Director. Therefore, unanimously, the minutes have been
approved. We turn, next, to the Chair's Report. Ladies and gentlemen, this Board, this agency,
the RTD, has had an amazing, incredible, exciting past couple of months. I know I state with
confidence that all of us agree that the opening of the G Line at the end of April was nothing less
than a spectacular and resounding success.
Following the two free weeks of service that this Board authorized, that this Board used as an
expression of collaboration and cooperation with everyone along the G Line, the revenue service
on the G Line began just this past Sunday. We won't have any formal ridership numbers for a
while. We have to compile a lot of data to get that, but the early indications that we have
received are very good. There's a vibrant usage on that line. We look forward to having those
ridership statistics reported to us in the coming months.
And if that weren't enough to keep your heart pumping rapidly, we have even more exciting
news, now. And that is in Director Mihalik's district. We have the E, F, and R Line extension
opening up this week. I'll give you a little bit of a preview of these events, now, if you don't
mind. I'll try to keep it brief. On Thursday of this week, May 16th, from 5:00 PM to 8:00 PM, we
will be having a VIP reception. That's an invitation only reception at the University of Colorado
South Denver. Some of you may recall that as The Wildlife Experience on Lincoln, in the city of
Lone Tree. It will be held in the Great Hall at University of Colorado South Denver.

There is transportation available to the reception. If you're coming from the south, guests may
park at the RidgeGate Station. You would then take the train to the Sky Ridge Station, where bus
shuttles will transport you to the event. The trains are going to start operating around 4:30 PM,
and they will depart approximately every 15 minutes or so. If you're coming from the north,
guests may also travel by train on the E, F, or the R Lines to Lincoln Station, which is, as of
today, still the end of line station. And at that point, there are bus shuttles that will depart
approximately every 15 minutes to the event.
Then on Friday, May 17th, at 9:35 AM at the Sky Ridge Station, which I urge you all to see-that's just a stunningly beautiful station. At the Sky Ridge Station, we will having be having the
ribbon cutting and the inaugural ride on the new E, F, and R extension. We have Train 1. That
will be departing from Denver Union Station at 8:30 AM, and that will arrive at Sky Ridge by
9:30 AM.
There will also be Train 2, which is a northbound train, that will be departing from the
RidgeGate Station, which will be the new end of line. That will arrive at Sky Ridge also by 9:30
AM. We will have a ribbon cutting at the Sky Ridge Station, much as we did for the opening of
the G Line-- the Gold Line, where we stopped at individual stations. And excuse me. After the
ribbon cutting, at approximately 9:40 AM, all of our guests will board and depart from Sky
Ridge for RidgeGate and the grand opening ceremony.
Because at 10:00 AM on Friday, May 17th, which is supposed to be a beautiful day-- it's
supposed to be sunny and 75-- the public commemoration and celebration, which will include
speaking presentations by a number of dignitaries, the plaque dedication, and the ribbon cutting.
We will have free rides on the E, F, and R extension only. And that will be between Sky Ridge
and RidgeGate Parkway Station, which will follow immediately after we do the ribbon cutting
and grand opening ceremony. And that will continue until 2:30 PM, on Friday.
So if you want to ride up and down there and ride across the only railroad bridge that crosses I25-- the only railroad bridge is ours-- that you can do until 2:30. A bus shuttle will operate
between Lincoln and Sky Ridge Station about every 15 minutes, so that patrons can take
advantage of the free rides on the E, F, and R extension.
Then on Saturday, May 18th, from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM, so this Saturday, we will have station
parties. At the Sky Ridge Station, will have the Station Sensation. This is a street festival that is
being put on by the city of Lone Tree and the South Metro Denver Chamber to celebrate the
opening of those three new Light Rail stations in Lone Tree and the Ridge Gate community. At
Sky Ridge Station, we'll get our groove on with dancers, music, art, games, performances, food
trucks, and fun.
Not to be outdone, at the RidgeGate Parkway Station, where we have this beautiful, new 1,300
vehicle parking structure-- it's actually 1,265. There's 35-- 1,300. It's 1,300 parking spaces at
RidgeGate. There, the RTD is sponsoring a celebration-- a fun filled event with festivities,
including entertainment and food. And on Saturday, May 18th, there is free rides on all RTD rail
service until the end of day service.

So it's a great time to get out and explore not only the extension, but everything else. The art
dedications-- and there's some fantastic art. The two stations, particularly the Sky Ridge Station
and the Ridge Gate Station, have phenomenal pieces of art. The program for each station there is
there's about 15 to 20 minutes with RTD Directors. Director Mihalik will be there, the Selection
Committee members who worked on this, and there will be artists who will be speaking in
support of what happened that they did. All the dedications will take place at the station plaza
areas, and that's right between the station platform and the parking lot at each of these locations.
The Sky Ridge Station Plaza Artwork Dedication will be at 10:00 AM, and the address is
actually 9941 Train Station Circle, a lovely name for a street, in Lone Tree. You can meet the
speakers at Sky Ridge Station for that. And if you would like to, following that dedication, which
will be at 10:00 AM, you'll be able to go to the 11:00 AM dedication at Ridge Gate.
At the 10:00 AM dedication of art, on Saturday, you'll hear from Lone Tree Mayor Jackie Malay.
You'll hear from our own Director Mihalik for District G. You'll hear from Larry Lovelace,
who's the chair of the Lone Tree Arts Commission. You'll hear from Curtis Pittman, who is the
artist of "Willow." A statement will be read by Larry Lovelace from the artist who's not able to
attend with us.
You'll also hear from Sandra Fettingus, who is the woman who designed the artwork on the wind
screens, which is a very beautiful piece of art, as well, which is called "All Is Well Under The
Trees." At 11:00 o'clock, you will have the RidgeGate Station Art Dedication. And once again,
you can get there from the Sky Ridge Station. And that program will have a Council member
from Lone Tree who will welcome everyone. Director Mihalik will be there, again, from District
G to dedicate the beautiful art in his district. And then Mr. Lovelace, again, will be there.
And Eric Carlson, the artist who created the end of line plaza artwork, will be there to speak, as
well. And then on Sunday, we go to regular revenue service. If you have any questions about any
of these events, both the Directors and for members of the public, there's information available
on the website for RTD. And the Board Office will be happy to assist Directors in getting further
information and making arrangements.
That's a lot. There are a couple other things that I will briefly go over now, in terms of highlights.
On April 26th, many of the Directors, including Directors Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Lubow,
Williams participated-- excuse me-- in the 7th annual Trans Forum, hosted by Smart Commute,
an excellent event. And then the rescheduled Thrive! Awards Ceremony was hosted by DRCOG
on Friday, May 3rd.
Actually, Director Catlin, and Director Folska, and I attended that event. And then the State of
the City events for the cities of Aurora and Lone Tree, and the State of the State event held by
Denver Metro Chamber were all held last week. It was that time, I guess, and a number of
Directors attended those events. And we thank you for that participation. In terms of upcoming
events, very briefly, Commuting Solutions Sustainable Transportation Summit will be held at the
University of Colorado Boulder Campus, University Memorial Center in-- it says in Broomfield.
I thought it was going to be in--

[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
It is in Broomfield?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, Boulder.
DOUG TISDALE: That's Boulder. That's what I thought. Thank you. I was going to say the
Memorial Center is in Boulder. Tomorrow, May 15th, Directors Catlin, Cook, and Guissinger
will all be there. And then Directors Folska, Lewis, and Rivera-Malpiede will attend the
COMPTO Scholarship Banquet this coming Saturday, May 18th. That will be here, in Denver.
And then General Manager and I will be traveling to Louisville, Kentucky, on Friday, to
participate in the APTA Mobility Conference.
And on Wednesday, May 22nd, the Maisel Institute Annual Dinner will be held at Wings Over
The Rockies Air and Space Museum. Directors Catlin, Williams, and I are all very much looking
forward to that wonderful event. Thus endeth the Chair's report. And so now, I turn over to our
General Manager, Dave Genova. Please, sir, if you would share with us your report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Excuse me. Excuse me. I wanted to say something. I wanted to say
something.
DOUG TISDALE: May I beg your kind indulgence. And since I don't have a speakers queue up
here, I will ask Director Williams. You are recognized. Please, feel free to speak.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd also like to mention, along with our annual
calendar, that next week is the Colorado Association of State Transit Agencies at the Curtis
Hotel, here in Denver. The 21st, second, and third, I believe, and some of this group will be
attending. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: An important event to note. I thank you very much for that. And Vice Chair,
please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I think we should also note that at tomorrow's event up in
Boulder, Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede will be speaking.
DOUG TISDALE: Any other addenda? And I think these are all important, and I want the public
to know how engaged this Board is. There are 15 people here. Director Whitmore is absent this
evening, but there are 15 people here who give of their time, their talent, their treasure
immeasurably. And it is absolutely astounding as to what they accomplish. So we are very, very
proud of each and all of them. Any other thoughts before I return to General Manager Genova?
General Manager, thank you for your patience. You are recognized.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll start off with the Downtown Denver Partnership
Awards Dinner that was on April 18th. And so I attended that along with Chair Tisdale was
there. Director Catlin was there. Director Rivera-Malpiede was there, and Director Lewis was
also there. And RTD received an award for Civic Center Station, one of the DDP awards for that.

And this is the, I think, third award we've received from DDP in four years. So we previously
received one for Union Station and then also for the University of Colorado A Line.
We participated in the Sheridan Station TOD groundbreaking on Monday, April 22nd. And the
Board will recall that's where we did a deal with leasing some of the parking spaces in that
facility and the development of affordable housing there. The Chair covered a lot of the activities
with the G Line. That was a very busy week, the week of April 22nd. And we're all very, very
pleased with how everything went and the continued operations of the G Line. And we're eager
to see what the ridership numbers look like both during the three weeks and how it's going to
look after we went into full revenue service.
Also during that week, I presented the 2020 Tactical Plan at a Board Study Session, on April
23rd. And then today, I presented the proposed 2020 Core and Task Goals at the GMOC, as
Director Broom mentioned. On Thursday, April 25th, so right in the middle of that week, too, we
had the Get On Board event. This was an APTA national day to try to get enthusiasm and
excitement around transit. And APTA was encouraging all the local agencies to host a Get On
Board event, which we did. We had a transit fair at Skyline Park. It was a great day for it and a
really good turnout. So that was a nice day.
I did also participate in the Smart Commute Metro North Annual Trans Forum on Friday, April
26th-- the same day as we opened the G Line, and was able to attend the station parties and all
the art dedications on Saturday. And it's always great. What I really enjoy about the art
dedications is hearing from the artists and the background on the projects. And everything is
always fascinating.
On April 30th, myself, along with Pauletta Tonilis and a couple of folks from Denver Transit
Partners, John Thompson and Nadia Grasis, along with Director Lewis-- we met with a few
individuals that live in an area along the University of Colorado A Line, between Colorado and
Dahlia. And we went and we met with them, because they had a lot of questions and concerns
about after we had established quiet zones along the University of Colorado A Line, there were
some experiences in that area where there was quite a bit of horn use. And most of that was due
to an actual contractor, not ours, but somebody else that damaged some of our communication
equipment during some of their work at the Dahlia crossing. And so there was almost that whole
month after we went through the establishment, we had a lot of horn use because of that, until we
were able to get in there and get that fixed.
And then, of course, we had some of the testing of the data model 8, which was requiring some
horn use. So they had some concerns, and we thought it best to just go and have a small
community meeting. And it was, I think, very well received by the community and by us, as
well. So it's a good thing to do. I did attend the DRCOG Awards Dinner on May 3rd.
And then very interesting, we were selected. APTA is now putting on a Mobility Innovation of
the Month national webinar. And this was just the second one that APTA did, and this was on
Tuesday, May 7th. And it was myself and Tanya Anderson, who oversees all our electronic fair
media. And APTA selected our innovation or collaboration with Uber to be the webinar for the
month. And we enjoyed the presentation. It was good exposure for us, as an organization. There

was over 300 participants involved on the webinar, and I will actually be doing that same
presentation at the Mobility Conference, next week-- the APTA Mobility Conference in
Louisville.
So that'll be a good experience, as well. I was able to attend the State of the City event, in
Aurora. And I found that interesting. It was at the Gaylord Center, and it's the first time I've
actually driven out near the airport area since we've opened the University of Colorado A Line.
And so it was interesting to see all of the activities and development that's happening in that area.
And so there may be some opportunities for there, as well.
Late last week, I attended the DRCOG Citizen's Academy. And I've been invited to go and do
this every year. Now, DRCOG is doing that. It used to be the Transit Alliance that put on that
academy. And so DRCOG invited me. And Doug Rex, of course, spoke along with Shoshana
Lew from CDOT, and also Commissioner Stewart from CDOT. So it was a good session to kind
of go and talk about RTD and respond to questions on some very engaged folks.
And then, of course, this week, as the Chair very, very well described, we had a lot of activities
on the E, F, and R extension. We had the Media Train today, and it was, I think, a really, really
great event. We had a lot of conversation with a variety of journalists about ridership, about what
the extension means, but also talking about the development plans. And the developer was on
board and was able to have a lot of good discussion. So we'll look forward to see what kind of
information they put out. And of course, we have the grand opening coming up on Friday.
I wanted to let the Board know, I was hoping to get you out a summary today, and I didn't. I have
all the information together. I'll get it to you sometime tomorrow. But it's very unusual that we
have accidents in a series, like we experienced over the last few weeks. And so there was four
particular accidents, three of them along the University of Colorado A Line, and one along Light
Rail. And I wanted to provide you some summary information on those. And so I do have that.
Mike Meader prepared some summaries for me, and I'm going to put that out to you in a memo
format, tomorrow. So you'll have a little bit more information to update you on, that we haven't
been able to report earlier.
So Mr. Chair, that concludes my report. I'm happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Are there questions for the General Manager, based
upon his report or other matters? And I'm not seeing the speaker queue. So I'm not sure if we've
got that working. But there, Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry, it was me, Chair. I didn't press the button. I just want to tell you
thank you for going out and to you as well, Paula, for going out and having a conversation with
the constituents and to address their concerns. I really appreciate it. And so that's all. I just
wanted to acknowledge you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Madam Second Vice Chair, you are
recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. General Manager, I want to thank
your team for doing a stellar job in putting together all of those amazing events. And I know how
much work it was and the short period of time that they had to do it in. But I think that we have
the best team in the country. And I just want to say, for the record, thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That is a wonderful sentiment to share, and we appreciate your
expression of that. Madam Treasurer, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Now, thank you, Chair. And I'm glad that Second Vice Chair Angie
Malpiede said that, because I'd like to echo that. It was an amazing job in a very short time. And
what meant a lot to me was to see all those RTD t-shirts, the G Train t-shirts all along the
corridor. And for days afterwards, volunteering to provide information, patronizing the
businesses, helping residents out in terms of finding where to get on board, et cetera. So I just
wanted to say it felt, that day and since then, that it's not just a corridor that we've focused on, but
that one is embraced by the agency and all the employees as a whole. So thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. And the record should note if you
still have your Ghost Train t-shirts, we are going to save one for our museum. And then we'll
have a ceremonial bonfire for the rest of them. Any other questions or comments to General
Manager, at this time? Seeing none, let's turn to the Unanimous Consent Agenda. If you will
note, we have two items on tonight's Unanimous Consent Agenda. These are listed as Agenda
Item 11, Actions A and B. Those items are labeled in your Board packet as 2018 CAFR and
Report to Governance, and then the second one as the 2019 Title VI Program Update.
If anyone has a change to, or any questions on, or any concerns about these items, please feel
free at this time to advise the Chair. And we will, of course, be happy to pull those items off of
the Unanimous Consent Agenda for further action. But this is the opportunity, if you have any, to
please indicate on your screen that you'd like to speak as to any of those. And we'll wait. And
seeing none, may I now have a motion, please, to approve items A and B on the Consent
Agenda?
PEGGY CATLIN: Motion.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Vice Chair, and I have a second from the Second
Vice Chair. And is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please
indicate by choosing the right button on your screen. We have Vice Chair as the movant, and
Second Vice Chair as the second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Buzek was second.

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. I thought that was you. I just expected it. So the movant was
the Second Vice Chair, and the second was Director Buzek.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
If the rest of you will now vote, and this is on the Unanimous Consent Agenda. By a vote of 14
in favor and no votes opposed, the Unanimous Consent Agenda passes unanimously. We then
turn to Recommended Action items, and there are three Recommended Actions on the agenda,
tonight. They are noted in your Board packet as Agenda Item 12, Roman XII, Actions C, D, and
E. And we'll take these up sequentially, in that order.
The first of these is action item C, and it's the approval of the Denver Human Services Contract
for LiVE Program. It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors, authorized, General Manager does need to execute all documents
necessary to execute the contract to validate income, provide customer service, to help manage
LiVE Program eligibility applications for the State Peak Software System, for an amount not to
exceed $2 million dollars. The contract is for five years of application processing and customer
service, and satisfies the General Manager's goals, as listed. May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Move.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams and a second from Director Lewis.
And now, is there any discussion on the Recommended Action item C, as in Charlie. I see no
speakers in the queue, so we can proceed to a vote. Director Williams is the movant. Director
Lewis is the second. And if the rest of you would now please vote. By a vote of 13 in favor and 1
opposed, the 1 opposed being Director Menten, that motion passes. So the approval of the
Denver Human Services Contract for the LiVE Program is approved on a vote of 13 to 1.
The second Recommended Action item is Agenda 12 D. And this is the contract award for the
Transportation Transformation Comprehensive Plan. It is recommended by the Financial
Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorized the General
Manager to approve a professional services contract award to Felsburg, Holt, & Ulliveg to serve
as a contractor for assistance with preparation of the Transportation Transformation, known as
T2 Comprehensive or Comp Plan, for an amount not to exceed $3,999,511 dollars. Funding for
this contract is included in the 2019 adopted budget for the T2 Comp Plan. And the action
addresses four of the General Manager's goals for 2019, as enumerated in your materials. May I
have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move for approval.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Vice Chair and a second from Director Broom. And
is there any discussion on the motion to approve the engagement of FHU? I will recognize
Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I will be a no vote, as I was in committee. But I assume this
will pass tonight, so I am asking right now, so I don't have to follow up later. I would like a

digital copy of the RFP presentation that was only allowed to be seen by Directors, behind closed
doors, prior to what I assume is today. And again, please digital, so that I will have a searchable
record. Any other Director who may want that may get it, but I'm not asking for it to be
distributed to everybody, unless they want it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate your comments, and just for the sake of
the record, the materials were made available to all of the Directors. But because of proprietary
information and normal constraints in commerce associated with responses to a request for
proposal, it was not generally made available. And I'm sure that General Counsel will be able to
address this request going forward, and we can proceed from there.
And was that all then, Director Menten? Thank you very much. Then I now recognize Director
Lewis to speak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Dave, I just have a quick question for you. I did a quick
Google search, and I wasn't able to be able to see their portfolio for this contractor. And it says
they've been in business for 35 years. I was just curious if your staff have been able to see their
portfolio of work.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, I'm sure there were some examples of things. I'm going to ask Bill Van
Meter if he could comment on that. Bill, would you, please?
BILL VAN METER: So Felsburg, Holt, and Ullevig, and their sub-consultants, as part of their
proposal, provided documentation of their past project relevant experience to projects similar to
ours, as well as resumes of key individuals. They have also had engagements in planning and
other projects with RTD through the years, dating back to the Metro Area Connection, which
was the original name for the Central Corridor. And so we've had experience-[AUDIO OUT]
DOUG TISDALE: For the sake of the record that FHU, as I call them-- Felsburg, Holt, and
Ullevig, were planners and designers for Cherry Hills Village and a number of other
communities while I was mayor and on the council. And they were responsible for designing a
large part of the T-REX Project and the update on the T-REX Project. But I'm going to have to
talk to them about their website. Apparently, it's not very up to date. So that's good to know.
Any other speakers on this agenda Item 12 D? Seeing no other speakers, if we could have a vote
now with Vice Chair as the movant and with Director Broom as the second. And if the rest of
you would now vote. And by a vote of 13 in favor and the 1 no vote by Director Menten, as she
explained, this motion passes for the contract award for the Transportation Transformation
Comprehensive Plan, which is a truly major piece of work that this agency is undertaking at this
time.
We turn then to the third and final Recommended Action item. And this is Agenda 12 E, and it's
concerning the Revised Governance Manual. It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of
Directors and Executive Committee that the Board of Directors approve the Revised RTD Board

of Directors Governance Manual as presented to the Finance Administration & Audit
Committee. The Chair further recommends that should additional changes be made, going
forward, to any of the documents contained as appendices to the Governance Manual, which
changes would necessitate non substantive administrative or ministerial changes to the manual
itself, Board Office staff be permitted to incorporate those corresponding changes through the
Governance Manual without the need for further Board approval.
I'm going to ask for a motion and a second, and I'm going to tell you that we're going to have a
request for a unanimous consent amendment. May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'll motion.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion by Director Williams. And a second?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Second by Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. So we have, at this time,
before you has been placed, and I will recognize Director Guissinger to speak to such, a minor
administrative change. And I am going to request that after Director Guissinger explains this,
which is the insertion of a simple phrase, that we have a consideration of unanimous consent to
this amendment. But may I first recognize Director Guissinger for purposes of making a
proposed amendment to the second paragraph of the operative resolution that I just read. Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. We'll make this quick. When we discussed it
before, the issue came up about whether there would be a second pair of eyes on the
administrative ministerial changes, and that the Executive Committee would be that second pair
of eyes. I think it's always good for a Board Governance Manual to have a Board review of some
sort. So I've just inserted the language that Board Office staff will be permitted to incorporate
those corresponding changes to the Governance Manual. And I inserted the language "with the
approval of the Executive Committee," but without the need for further Board approval. That's it.
Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: And that's your motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's my motion.
DOUG TISDALE: That's her motion, and she's sticking to it. Wait, if I can have a second on
that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second on that motion. So we have before us, now, discussion
on the proposed amendment, which is simply the assertion of the words, "with the approval of
the Executive Committee," comma, in the language that I read previously.

SHELLEY COOK: I don't need to speak on that item.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK. Put the nevermind here for a second and then I'll come back to you.
Any discussion on the amendment? Director Menten, you wish to speak to the amendment?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. I appreciate the amendment, and I would even be glad to
see it to be a step further and be the full Board, just because one single letter can make all the
difference in the world. Is this the appropriate time, then, if I want to make motion, since this is
brand new news? I did not process this much before this meeting. Could I offer a friendly
amendment to make this with approval of the full Board?
DOUG TISDALE: I think, substantively, I would look to our General Counsel to indicate
whether this is so completely at odds with the amendment that it would not qualify as a friendly
amendment.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. Yes, it would be so different
that it's really not an amendment to the amendment, as such. I think that, instead, it might be
better to vote on the first-- it looks as if you can't achieve a unanimous consent on the first
language. So just have a vote on the first language about whether the Executive Committee
approves the suggested changes by staff. But then you can also have a second request to amend
to make that the full Board. So I think that's the way you should approach this.
DOUG TISDALE: The Chair understands the ruling of the parliamentarian to indicate that the
request for a friendly amendment would be out of order, that the better procedure is to vote on
the pending amendment. And at that time, following that action, we could then recognize
Director Menten for purposes of proposing any further amendments that she might choose, at
that time. Is there any further discussion on the amendment-- the amendment that has the words,
"with the approval of the Executive Committee." Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have a question of clarity. If you could clarify for me, because I'm
visual, and I just received this as well, if you could explain to me what you were saying that you
would add or remove?
NATALIE MENTEN: Simply, what it would be is in the capitalized text that you see on the
second to last line, instead of Executive Committee, it would read "with the approval of the
Board of Directors."
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got you.
NATALIE MENTEN: And the wording after that, which is approximately 2, 4, 6, 8 words,
would be struck.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: So what is pending before the Board, at this time, is the amendment. I take it
we may not have unanimous consent on the amendment. Let me ask, first. Is there objection to

the amendment? That's an aye or a nay. Is there an objection to the amendment from anyone? To
the amendment as posed, is there an objection to the amendment to insert the words "with the
approval of the Executive Committee?"
No objection? If not, the chair rules that unanimous consent adopts the amendment that is
proposed by Dr. Guissinger, and it reads, "with the approval of the Executive Committee,"
comma. Is there further discussion on the main motion? Director Menten, you wish to be
recognized. You can click a button, and that'll tell me.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Since this is not incorporated in the document itself, as far as
I see, for future reference, what would be visibly right in somebody's face to see this without
referencing back to tonight's meeting?
DOUG TISDALE: If the question is directed to the Chair, the Chair would indicate that the
Board Office would have that information available and would include that information along
with other supplementary materials in the Board Governance Manual. There are appendices to
the Board Governance Manual that include various things, including various opinion letters by
General Counsel and so forth. And that's a continuous process of growing by accretion, when
additional things come in. So it would become part of the document itself.
NATALIE MENTEN: It would become one of the appendices?
DOUG TISDALE: One of the appendices, yes-- this resolution. Further questions on the main
motion, as amended, with the additional language as proposed by Director Guissinger? And
recall, it is stated, I heard, that this is the first time we've seen this. This actually was Director
Guissinger's recommendation during the committee meeting when we discussed this and said
that should be done-- that the Executive Committee, at least, should look at it.
She now has presented, and it was stated at the time, during the committee meeting, you can
bring that up at the Board meeting. She has, and so now, we've adopted the amendment that was
proposed by Director Guissinger. And you have an amended resolution before you. So any
further discussion on the amended resolution? Hearing none, if we can proceed to a vote,
Director Williams was the movant and Madam Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede was the
second. If you can vote, and then the rest of us will be able to vote.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And Chair Tisdale, this is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I just want to
make clear that the vote, now, is on the main motion as amended by unanimous consent. There
isn't any other motion pending.
SHELLEY COOK: I actually had a question before we went through that, if that's OK.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry, the Chair called for that. Before we have the vote then, we'll ask
again. Is there any discussion on the main motion, as amended? Any discussion on the main
motion? Yeah, we'll scratch the screen, because the motion has not been voted on yet. And we
kind of threw staff off a little bit by interrupting that. So we apologize to staff. Is there any

discussion-- you can click on the button to say you want to speak-- by anyone on the main
motion, as amended? Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I would like to make a motion that would read in the same
language as was presented to us on this document, which has been stated it would be an
appendix. And so shall I read the motion?
DOUG TISDALE: You can just read the proposed amended language, which I take it would be
"with the approval of the full Board," period. And strike the balance of the language.
NATALIE MENTEN: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: That's your motion?
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion by Director Menten and a second by Director Lubow. Any
discussion on the motion to amend? We're talking about the motion to amend that Director
Menten just proposed, to change it from just being reviewed by Executive Committee to going
back to what the current system would be, by the way, which is that the full Board would have to
review any changes. That's the amendment that Director Menten is proposing.
Director Menten, do you have further comments to make on your amendment?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just that I'll state that the important part, to me, is that it's not only the
Governance Manual, which, to me, is one of the less important, frankly, compared to the rest of
the items you'll see in the appendices. I think the Board should have input. And as we noticed in
our long discussions over the last couple of months, one simple word can make quite a
difference. And I would like to see the whole Board be able to, given the opportunity, weigh in
on any of those changes, as non substantive as it could be meaning one thing to one person or
another. Thank you. That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And let the Board Chair just indicate this resolution
does not purport or pretend to authorize staff to make changes to those other documents, the
appendices. This resolution only says "if there are changes to those other documents, Board staff
has the authority to make changes to the Governance Manual, itself, to correct and conform."
It does not say that Board staff makes changes to those other documents. It reads, "which
changes would necessitate non substantive administrative or ministerial changes to the manual,
itself." It's restricted to that. So I just want to make clear that that's what it's restricted to. It
doesn't give the Board Office the authority to change the Bylaws, or the Expense Policies, or the
Code of Conduct. It's to the Governance Manual, "which changes would necessitate" dot, dot,
dot, "changes to the manual itself." That's the point. Director Menten, based upon that
clarification, would you like to discuss further, or would you like to withdraw your amendment?

NATALIE MENTEN: No, I'd like to address further. So the amendment that I'm reading,
whether it's on the screen or within here, which I believe is copied, states the Chair further
recommends that should additional changes be made going forward to any of the documents
contained as appendices to the Governance Manual." When I look at the red line, because that's
when I flipped to my page here, it's all of these that are marked in red-- Code of Ethics,
Committee Structure, Committee Charters, Governance, Governing Policies and Procedures.
So how does "the Chair recommends additional changes to any of the documents contained as
appendices," not include those?
DOUG TISDALE: It doesn't. That's why. It says, "which changes would necessitate nonsubstantive administrative or ministerial changes to the manual itself, Board Office staff will be
permitted to incorporate those corresponding changes to the Governance Manual." It doesn't
mean the Board Office has the power to go off and start amending the Bylaws.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I'll still hold the motion. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Cook, you are recognized on the amendment, as posed
by Director Menten.
SHELLEY COOK: Right. I'm wanting to not speak to that, but I'm afraid if I withdraw my little
never mind again, I won't get the chance to speak before the main motion.
[LAUGHTER]
[INAUDIBLE].
DOUG TISDALE: Okay, Go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Claudia Folska.
DOUG TISDALE: No. No, I'm sorry. Director Cook, do you wish to speak or not?
SHELLEY COOK: Not now, but I don't want to proceed to the vote until I have a chance to
speak.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Director Folska, on the amendment?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. Thank you. I'm in support of this amendment. I think that
abdicating the Board's authority to administrative staff-- it's very subjective what is substantive
and the definition of what that is. And I think that it's important that this Board and future boards
that are not here are able to continue to exert that authority over all of those bits and pieces. And
letters do make a difference. So I thank you very much, Director Menten, for doing that. And
that was why I voted no on it in committee, anyway. Thank you.

So if I can pass that part, then I would be a yes vote. But otherwise, I'm a no vote on this original
motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Director Walker, you're recognized, Mr. Secretary.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I appreciate the thought that goes into the motion that's on the
floor, right now. But I won't be supporting it, because I feel that the Executive Committee will
have input into the process of cleaning up the language. And also since all Board members can
participate in the Executive Committee, I think that's a chance for input. And those changes
would be revealed to the Board members before the Executive Committee votes on them.
Commas definitely make a difference. Let's eat grandma. Let's eat, grandma. Right? Everyone
knows that.
[LAUGHTER]
So I understand the importance-- I understand what Director Menten's getting at, but I think that
there'll be enough eyes on it and an opportunity for eyes to be on it, where this body and the
people sitting in the audience don't need to go through that exercise to get to the business that
they came here for, which is not the non substantive part, but the substantive part of what we do.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. When I get done laughing, I think I want to say what he
said, which is non-substantive, administrative, and ministerial changes, first of all, in and of
themselves, are minor for us to be here wordsmithing this to death. And secondly, this is to the
Governance Manual. We're not talking about running the trains. We're talking about what we do
with ourselves.
So I think we could just let it go like it is.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Any other speakers in the queue?
The Chair would encourage you to defeat the amendment that, in fact, the approval by the
Executive Committee for the reasons stated, I think, is more than sufficient. At this point, we will
vote on the-BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook, did you still want to speak?
SHELLEY COOK: I think we're voting on the amendment, right now.
DOUG TISDALE: We're on the amendment.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, shoot. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: We're on the amendment, not on the main motion.

BARBARA MCMANUS: I misunderstood where she wanted to speak.
DOUG TISDALE: We're on the amendment. And the amendment by Director Menten and
seconded by Director Lubow would be to change the words that you have on the printed paper
before you to read, "with the approval of the full Board," period. Strike everything else. That's
the amendment. The movant is Director Menten. The second is Director Lubow. If you would
please vote, then the others may vote. Yes, if you wish to adopt the amendment. No, if you wish
to defeat the amendment.
By a vote of 3 in favor and 10 opposed, the motion to amend is not carried. It's procedural, so I
won't read all the no's. We proceed back to the main motion, now. The main motion, as amended
by Director Guissinger's amendment. And I will recognize Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So this may be an IT thing, but I went through the Governance
Manual at home, and the red line was as I recalled. And in fact, I had questions from Director
Lubow and referenced that. But what I find now, I've got several Governance Manuals. Is one of
those the most recent one? Because I've thumbed through them all, and they don't seem to reflect
all the changes. So I'm concerned that what we're voting on today, as included in the official
document here, doesn't reflect some of the amendments and things that we had made previously.
There are five revised Governance Manuals items listed on my screen, here. And I haven't been
able to tell that any of them reflect some of the amendments. So for example, under Board
member, the item that Director Lubow had introduced as a question and that on page 5 of 11,
packet page 257, at least the example I have in front of me, doesn't reflect the change that talks
about oversight in the Board's purview.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I don't have as many copies as you do. So I'm not sure exactly
what you're seeing, but all of the recordings were listened to and compared to what you sent us.
And what is in the current document is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: So it doesn't reflect what we, for example, exchanged emails on with regard
to the amendment that I made. So that amendment, unless this a red line-- no, it doesn't seem to
be a red line. It reflects some changes that had previously been in there, in particular, the motion
I made after Director Lubow introduced the question of oversight. And there was that "generally,
the creation of policy, establishing strategic direction, and exercising oversight are Board
functions, whereas the implementation of policy is a staff responsibility."
And unless I'm just not seeing it here, I don't see that in the version that we're set to approve, at
least not on my screen.
DOUG TISDALE: And if you can, Madam Treasurer, tell us which section of the document
you're reading from.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure.

DOUG TISDALE: And we can check, because we did discuss this at Executive Committee and
confirmed that the word oversight is in there. And so to the extent that word may not appear, it
may be in the particular version. Which section?
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry, it's 1.4, Structure and Practice of RTD Board. And then it looks like
this is the sentence beginning with generally.
KATE WILLIAMS: What number page-SHELLEY COOK: 257. Yeah.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: And I think in fairness, for the sake of the record-- excuse me-- we had
several different red lines that we provided in order to provide the Executive Committee with a
full understanding of what all the changes were. And I think Director Menten just offered a
suggestion as to a page. Director Menten, what was that?
SHELLEY COOK: That's Board Member Development, and I did have a question about that. So
I think you're correct. It looks like there are just multiple versions that reflect the changes made,
and this is the very last one in line. So checking back on 1.4, on page 268, it does show the
change made. Thank you very much. And then I do have an amendment based on that Board
Development piece.
I had introduced that as something that I wanted everybody to have a chance to look at before it
was actually incorporated. And thank you. It did end up getting incorporated into the draft we're
set to approve tonight. But based on feedback I'd had, I would move to modify this. This is on
packet page 272. It is the section titled Board Member Development, and the wording is as I had
included on the sheet of paper I passed around.
But based on feedback from a couple of folks, I would move to delete the words "and expected,"
if I can find it. And expected.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Fourth line down.
SHELLEY COOK: Fourth line down. And change the words "all meetings" to "the meetings."
And if you'd like, I can split those into two motions. But that's just based on feedback I've gotten
from people in the meantime. And in the spirit of presenting it first before requesting inclusion, I
wanted to go ahead and include that or make that a motion on behalf of the feedback I'd gotten.
DOUG TISDALE: So as I understand it, we're looking at packet page 272, which is, I believe,
the compilation or accumulation of all changes previously done. And having accepted your
language and having had the discussion at the Executive Committee, where you confirmed this is
the language, now, you would like us to amend the language in the fourth line, so that it would
then read "Board members are highly encouraged to attend the meetings." Is that the correct
language that you are proposing?

KEN MIHALIK: I'll second that.
DOUG TISDALE: The Treasurer is asking that we amend it as indicated. That's the motion by
the Treasurer. There's a second by Director Mihalik. So we have Cook as movant, Mihalik as
second. Does everyone understand the amendment? We're looking at page 272. We're looking at
the fourth line from the top. And it is a change by deleting words, so that the revised or amended
language would read, "Board members are highly encouraged to attend the meetings." That's
how the amendment would read, correct?
SHELLEY COOK: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Cook, do you wish to speak further to your proposed
amendment?
SHELLEY COOK: No, just to reinforce it-- as I'd meant to introduce this, it was in this form and
then to make a motion at this meeting. But since we shortened up that process, I did reach out to
folks and wanted to get the input. And some people reached out to me, so in the spirit of
developing a consensus around this, I wanted to go ahead and incorporate that. Because I think
that will be more broadly embraced.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: I am going to speak. I'm going to withdraw my speaking space and get in
the back of the line-up, because I want to speak about something else.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We are only taking discussion on the proposed amendment.
That's all that's in order, at this time. So you don't want to speak to the proposed amendment?
That's the only thing that's in order.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's right.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a question and a comment. The question is, so I
think I've asked this before, because I have a hard time processing this many changes this
quickly. If we can put these before the Board prior to these meetings and not here, it would be
really helpful for me in being able to grapple with those things. I know these seem like tiny
changes, but they can be a bit overwhelming.
And the second question, I have for Rolf. Do we have to vote on this tonight?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: General Counsel, you are recognized.

ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. Yes, unless there
is a motion to postpone to a time certain or indefinitely-- indefinitely kills the entire thing,
though, so I would recommend not doing that. But that has to be made and seconded.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, General Counsel. Anything further, Director? Director Walker,
you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Mr. Chair, I'd like to know what the purpose of deleting the word
"expected" or "and expected" is. I'm wondering the benefit of that.
DOUG TISDALE: So it's a question. I take it to the maker of the motion to amend. So I'll
recognize Treasurer Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: So I'd invite those who had talked to me about this to chime in, too. But my
understanding is-- and I understand where they're coming from-- we are ultimately accountable
to our constituents, the people who vote us in. And so if we're talking about establishing
expectations, we may be, with good reason or with the proper motivation, reading into what
constituents wanted. But the persons who were concerned about this thought, really, it's up to the
constituents, the people we serve, to establish the expectations for us and not we.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Walker, any further comment?
JEFF WALKER: So I'm guessing that this document, this Governance Manual, explains what we
expect of ourselves? This isn't necessarily reaching outward beyond this body. So if the change
expresses a desire to interpret, I guess, a will of the people, I don't think that this document is for
that. I think this document is for what we expect of each other. So with that, I appreciate it, but
I'll be voting no against this amendment. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten, we're still on that same thing you didn't want to speak on
before.
NATALIE MENTEN: Now, I do.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Now, you do. Director Menten, you're welcome to speak on it.
NATALIE MENTEN: I could read this as "this is a Board meeting. This is the Executive
Committee meeting. This is the local government meeting. This is the CDOT meeting. This is
DRCOG meeting. This is the Citizens Advisory Committee. This is the two panels on the
Disabilities Commission." This is a long list. I don't think it specifies, and frankly, we're not paid
to be here 8:00 to 5:00. So I don't have an issue with your amendment.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And if the Chair may just offer an observation, I did not read it
that way and do not believe that is the intention of this language. Because it specifically talks
about Board meetings and committee meetings. That said, I understand people can be confused.

And therefore, there may be merit to the amendment. Is there further discussion on the
amendment? The Chair will express that I appreciate the thought. But I appreciated the original
thought that Treasurer Cook brought to us and thought it was a good idea that people are
expected to attend all meetings. It doesn't mean they have to, but they are expected to.
That said, obviously, absent extraordinary circumstances, any further discussion on the
amendment? The amendment would change this language to read, "Board members are highly
encouraged to attend the meetings." That's the amendment. Director Walker, you are recognized
on the amendment.
JEFF WALKER: So I'm sorry for a second bite. In a lot of the agencies around the country, the
expectation is exercised through payment, and Board members have to attend a meeting in order
to be paid. They get paid by the meeting, not just by the fact that they're on the Board, like we
do. We just have to get elected, and that's it. So I think even though we can't do anything about
that-- the state legislature would have to change that-- I think this reinforces the expectation that
we are expected to, amongst ourselves-- and I'll assume that our constituents, the people who
voted for us and even those who didn't vote for us, expect us to earn our money.
And I think this is one way to express that we're expected to earn our money. I don't read into
this any other activities, any other bodies, especially since the next paragraph only states that
we're encouraged to become active in APTA. It doesn't say we're expected to become active to
any other bodies or any other entities. So I just wanted to point that out that our expectation is
pretty low. So I think that this emphasizes that there is some expectation, at least amongst
ourselves for our participation. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Very briefly. I support this amendment. I think it does make it more clear
than if we say we expect you to be at all meetings, certainly, there are extenuating circumstances.
And I think this Board takes their job pretty seriously. I think highly encouraged is good
language. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. I didn't tell where you were speaking in favor of the amendment or
in opposition.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I support the amendment.
DOUG TISDALE: You support the amendment. Thank you. Any further speakers to the
amendment? The amendment is what we'll vote on, now. The amendment would change the
language to, "Board members are highly encouraged to attend the meetings." Director Cook was
the movant. Director Mihalik was the second.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[LAUGHTER]

DOUG TISDALE: I can't tell. Are we waiting on a vote?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. There it is.
DOUG TISDALE: By a vote of 9 in favor, and 4 opposed, and 1 abstention, and 1 not present,
the amendment passes. So we now have the amended language as proposed is "Board members
are highly encouraged to attend the meetings," et cetera. That's as amended. We now have the
main motion before us. The main motion is to approve the Board Governance Manual with the
two amendments that have been adopted.
Director Guissinger's amendment relative to "with the approval of the Executive Committee,"
and Director Cook's amendment relative to, "Board members are highly encouraged to attend the
meetings." Any further discussion on the motion as amended? Hearing none, Director Williams
was the movant. And Madam Second Vice Chair was the second. If you will please vote, then we
will conclude the discussion.
By a vote of 12 in favor, and 1 opposed, and 1 abstention, and 1 Director not present, it is passed.
The no vote was from Director Folska, and the abstention was from Director Lewis. So the
Revised Governance Manual has passed with the amendments noted. Next on our agenda is the
Executive Session. There is no Executive Session scheduled for-KATE WILLIAMS: I'm making a motion to amend that.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. No, we're going to leave the agenda as is. And there is no
Executive Session. We do now, however, go to old business. Is there any old business that any
Director wishes to bring forward at this time? I see no speakers in the queue for old business.
Then the next agenda item is new business. Is there any new business from any Director? And
new business can include if you've got some announcement that you need to make about some
activity, please, feel free. This is your opportunity.
Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Two things. One, I want to thank
RTD for asking Northeast Transportation Connections to help host the 20 millionth visitor on the
A Line. We had a blast, and a lot of people came by and really enjoyed that. So that's the first
thing. And the second thing I want to say is during the free time on the G Line, I took my staff on
an outing, and we had lunch in Old Town Arvada. And we ran into a lot of people who were
doing the exact same thing. So it really was a lot of fun. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We always appreciate hearing good news like that.
Are there any other Directors with any other business, or announcements, or statements that they
would like to make on the record at this time? I see no one in the queue. I would like to state,
then, that before we adjourn, please be advised all, and particularly for those in the audience who
might expect to come here on any given Tuesday night and see us, that, in fact, we have no

meetings here for the next two weeks. So you will not see this Board sitting next Tuesday night
or the Tuesday following that. So please mark your calendars accordingly.
And if there is no other business, and I see none that is ready to come before this Board, I will, at
this time, entertain a motion to adjourn the RTD Board Meeting of May 14, 2019, as of 7:00 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. I have a motion. I have a second. Any discussion on the motion?
Hearing none, we stand adjourned. We'll see you in June.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

