Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on November 11, 2008
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

November 11, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on November 11, 2008 at
5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T, & D
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

O’Neill Quinlan, Chair; Bruce Daly, Noel Busck, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp,
Daryl Kinton, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer,
and Barbara Yamrick
Barb Brohl, Bill Christopher, Juanita Chacon, and Bill McMullen.

Staff Present:

Rick Clark, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Caitlin Magee, Cal Marsella, Jerry Nery, Paula
Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, Cal Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois,
Stan Szabelak, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo Bill Van Meter,
Larry Warner, Karen Morales, Brian Middleton,

Others Present:

Bob Wilson, Tom Tobiassen, Andrea Menggher, Bill James, Kent Bagley,
David Cook, George Gerstle, Mac Callison, Steve Cook, Dave Downing,
Phuonglan Nguyen, Bob Manwaring, Paul Rozheychuk, Matt Cohen,
Kathleen Osher, Jeanne Shreve, Bob Kochevar, Kevin Flynn (The Rocky
Mountain News)
****

Call to Order

Director Quinlan called to the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

1.

Review of FasTracks Equity Options
Bill Van Meter, discussed this item with the board. He indicated that they are back to
recap the options presented at the public meetings, review the financial assumptions for
options, additional analyses and next steps. First Bill went through the Basic
Assumptions for all options, Federal Funding Eligibility, Results of Cost per Rider, and
Results on Cost per Passenger Mile Traveled slide – please see power point presentation
for specific details.
Next Steps include –
 On-going – Metro Mayors/Commissioners Task Force
 January/February – Public Opinion phone survey

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on November 11, 2008
Page 2



January Metro Mayors input to RTD Board on preferred option for FasTracks
March – RTD Board adoption of preferred FasTracks implementation plan

2.

Public Comments from Stakeholders
Chair Quinlan asked if there was anyone signed up for public comment – there was not.

3.

Recommended Action:
 Resolution Concerning Board Member Communications with Potential Vendors for
PPP
After much discussion, it was decided to table this item until Director Chacon was
available to give her input - since she requested this resolution.
Motion to Table:

Director Kemp made a motion to
table this item until Director Chacon
had a chance to give her input.

Second:

Director Busck seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

4.

Other Matters –
No other matters were discussed.

5.

Next Meeting - The next FasTracks Monitoring Committee will be held on Tuesday,
December 2, 2008.

6.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Director Quinlan declared the meeting adjourned at 7:00
p.m.

