Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Wednesday, March 3, 2010
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 3, 2010

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Wednesday, March 03, 2010
at 1:00 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:

Chair Martinez, Directors Brohl and McMullen

Staff Present:

Joanna Medina, Kenn Hardin, Caitlin Magee, Jim Starling, Rick Clarke,
Mei-Ling Rodriguez

Others present:

Ty Perry, Angie Malpiede, Loyd Lovell, John West
****
Vice-Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 1:04 p.m.

Call to Order
I.

Introductions – Chair Martinez opened the meeting with introductions. In February 2009,
Former Director Chacon and Director Martinez had requested a meeting between the
West Corridor based on concerns from DBEs and SBEs on the West Corridor project.
The meeting was very productive. Director Chacon has now resigned from the Board
and Director Martinez is Chair of the DBE committee. He wanted to have a follow up
meeting on the issues that were presented at the February 2009 meeting and see what
progress has been made. He wanted the whole DBE committee to be present this time.
Chair Martinez introduced Angie Rivera-Malpiede who will be the new Board member for
District C as of March 9, 2010.
The West Corridor is the first corridor for FasTracks and it will set the bar for how we
do on the rest of the FasTracks program. Chair Martinez wants to make sure the West
Corridor is online and on task.

II.

DBE Participation Status (John West) – John West from Denver Transit Construction
Group (DCTG) distributed a handout addressing DBE participation on the West Corridor.
In some cases, they have written a contract for a smaller amount and as they complete
work they are increasing their scopes. Not at 18% yet but a lot of the DBE items are
going to come towards the end of construction. Eighteen percent of the contract will
be $62,000,000. Any change orders that are negotiated address whether or not there
is DBE participation in that work.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Wednesday, March 3, 2010
Page 2 of 4

Director Martinez wanted to know if there is a penalty if the 18% goal is not met. Rick
Clarke responded that there isn’t anything regarding penalties in the contract but they
are working very closely with DCTG to make sure the goal is met.
When DCTG came forward first there were a lot of SBEs/DBEs that were part of the
team. Now it is sounding like the work is not coming until the end of the contract.
What hardship are we causing these DBES? Are they still going to be able to do the
work?
Chair Martinez expressed his concern about DBE participation. If the Board has to ask
for more money to finish the FasTracks program, our DBE community needs to be
happy. We are all under a microscope with the West Corridor project.
Rick Clarke said that 2010 will be a big year as we are getting into the heavy volume of
work on the West Corridor. This is the make or break year and the numbers should start
coming up to be where they need to be. By this summer, there won’t be any access
issues (electrical work will have to wait until the end). His experience is that there are
DBE firms that can get a lot more work because they show they can get the job done.
We are really going to be monitoring this and the numbers should start to be where they
should be.
Director Martinez said the bottom line is even though you work for Denver Transit Group
you are RTD. We are all the same face. If something doesn’t go right, it is always RTD.
If this is not successful, RTD will pay the price. He is very concerned.
Director Brohl said that she understands the process. Let’s not wait until the end to
make sure things are happening. The goal of this program is not to only establish DBEs
for garbage removal but to elevate the level for DBEs. Should we look more at
frontloading the contract rather than backloading? How do we create a more diverse
and fair environment so that not just a few DBEs get the work? She would like to see a
more structured approach where DBEs are given work throughout the length of the
contract. It is naïve to think there aren’t DBE firms that can’t qualify for each phase.
Let’s spread the work out a little further and help us towards our goals.
Director McMullen said that cash is coming but how far out have we assigned the work?
John West responded that it is assigned all the way out. What happens when the firms
aren’t there anymore? Are there problems with our goal if we lose firms?
There was a lengthy discussion around the following issues:
-All the DBE work is awarded but the majority of it is not coming until towards the end
of the contract. What are we doing to make sure the DBEs will be o.k. and financially
viable until they can get the work?
-Structuring the contract so that DBE work is at the end, what if there are change orders
and then no DBEs are available to do the work? How can RTD hold DCTG to their 18%
commitment?

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Wednesday, March 3, 2010
Page 3 of 4

-Lack of communication between DCTG’s DBE Liaison and the RTD Small Business
Opportunity Office
-The fact that there are no executed mentor/protégé agreements between DCTG and
DBE/SBE firms. Director Martinez said he would like to see the three firms John West
said he has been working with identified with agreements.
John West – the recession is causing problems. A lot of firms are trying to keep
hanging on until West Corridor work becomes available. They are about to open up
JEFFCO government center and there will be lots of trucking opportunities there.
Director McMullen had a suggestion for the SBOO that it showcase DBE companies
doing work and maybe get some window slides on the buses/trains showing this.
Angie Malpiede said there seems to be a lack of communication with people who need
work. Could mentorship include a real timeline of when things are going to happen?
The problem with not knowing is that bad word of mouth gets around.
John West said that monthly meetings are held with the DBEs to explain timelines and
“gotchas”. Etc. The schedule is posted to the West Corridor website.
Angie Malpiede wanted to know if these meetings are well attended and Mr. West
responded that attendance has been spotty.
Director Martinez said that all groups (RTD, DCTG) have to be in sync and working
together.
III.

Trucking Consortium (John West) – The intent of the consortium is to spread the wealth
in this tough economic market. Trucking consortium was set up to avoid preferential
treatment being given to one vendor over another. There are 34 firms with 150 trucks.
Randomly selected on a daily basis. The trucking consortium pool is not closed, people
can be added.
Director Brohl said there has to be an avenue for companies to get work and the
trucking consortium is a good start. We have to make sure while it is random that there
is also equity in the system.
John West said this is the first time a trucking consortium has been done. There will be
a document on lessons learned.

IV.

Additional/Future DBE Opportunities (John West) – DCTG is continuing to look for any
opportunities that may become available. There are some things (fencing, painting) that
aren’t negotiated but Mr. West believes that 95% of the work is already committed.
DCTG is pushing subcontractors to have 18% participation for parking garages at
Federal center and JeffCo Government Center.
Director Brohl believes RTD needs to develop a strategy for the next corridors taking into

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Wednesday, March 3, 2010
Page 4 of 4

account lessons learned from the West Corridor in regards to the trucking consortium,
other consortiums, monitoring, and equity.
Kenn Hardin said that with so much contracting already committed, we need to keep
continuity and now look at the availability of jobs to keep goodwill going in the
community.
Mr. West and Mr. Lovell shared that DTCG is sponsoring some training sessions and will
offer them through organizations like COMTO later this year.
V.

Adjourn– Hearing no objection, Chair Martinez adjourned the meeting at 2:49 p.m.

