Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 12, 2009
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

March 13, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Thursday, March
12, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Not Present:

Chair Tayer, Vice Chair James, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Busck, Director
Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director Kemp, Director Martinez, Director
O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen
Director Chacon, Director McMullen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Terry Howerter, Phil Washington, Eric Farrington, Tom Hughes, George
Hovey, Teresa Sedmak, Robert Merriman, Rick Clarke, John Tarbert, Dave Genova,
Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke,
John Shonsey, Susan Cohen

Others Present:

Debra Baskett, Audrey DeBarros, Steve Fisher, Bruce Behncke

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 7:28 p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions
a. IT Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio
And CAD/AVL Systems
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award IBI Group (IBI) a
contract to become the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and
Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (RFP 18DH016) in
the first-year amount not-to-exceed limit of $722,000. Due to the complexity of the project, the
subsequent year’s scope of work and fee will be reviewed and negotiated annually. IBI was
selected through the competitive bid process. The contract has a 5-year period of performance
with a one-year option to extend the period of performance. The RFP required eight (8) percent
Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) participation. The notice to proceed is estimated to be
on April 1, 2009. The contract value for subsequent years will be determined based upon RTD’s
need for services.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 12, 2009
Page 2 of 6
the March 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.
Second:

Director Busck seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously

c. Inducement Resolution - Teresa Sedmak introduced this action item. The inducement resolution is
in regards to private activity bonds. SAFETEA-LU had a provision in it that allowed for issuance of
private activity bonds to private contractors to obtain access to tax exempt financing on certain
qualified transportation projects. The Eagle P3 project on the East and Gold lines qualifies as a
project that could use private activity bonds as a financing mechanism. This resolution does not
require any Board action at this time. USDOT has approved a total of $4.9 billion in private activity
bonds for a total of eight projects. This resolution is one of the steps required in order to apply for
allocation in that program. The District is trying to get an allocation in that program so we can
offer up private activity bonds as a tool to a concessionaire. The District doesn’t know if
concessionaires will take advantage of program but we would like to have it available.
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board approve the attached
Inducement Resolution (the "Resolution") expressing the intent of the Board to issue private
activity bonds, pursuant to Section 142 of the Internal Revenue Code, to finance a portion of the
costs of its FasTracks program.
Motion:

Director Christopher made a motion to forward this item
onto the March 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Kemp seconded the motion

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

d. Cost containment Budget Transfer – Phil Washington introduced this item. This is a disciplined
approach to make sure the District has a “rainy day” fund and to mitigate the 2010 budget
shortfall.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to transfer $19,563,202 from the budgeted expenditure
accounts, as summarize below, to a reserve for the purpose of controlling the 2009 RTD
budget.
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to forward this item onto
the March 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director O’Boyle seconded the motion

Vote on

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 12, 2009
Page 3 of 6
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

b. Recommendation for Approval of Stimulus Package Requested
Items and Associated Transfer - Terry Howerter and Bill Van Meter presented this action item.
Mr. Van Meter said that due to the Federal timeline, this list of projects must be approved
tonight and keep moving forward for approval on March 17, 2009. There was one change, the
addition of the US 36 queue jump project. The initial recommendation was RTD would fund
half of the project if CDOT would fund the other half. CDOT is unable to fund their half.
However, RTD will keep the $7.5M funding above the line in its recommendation. The $7.5M
will be reduced from the committed $220M for the BRT.
Terry Howerter said the recommend action authorizes staff to move forward and to make a
budget transfer to fund the projects. Staff decided that funds should be allocated according to
the sales tax split, shovel ready projects, and an offset of items in the budget and the TDP. In
addition staff was looking for projects that would meet regional needs and that have an
urgency to complete.
Staff was asked to do a comparison of purchasing versus leasing the new fareboxes. It would
increase the project by 35% to finance the fareboxes versus buying out right and it would require
an additional 1.9% service cut. Director Brohl had asked to see what other projects could be put
in place if we leased the fareboxes versus purchasing, she believed we could do a lot more
projects with the $17 million and that would result in more savings to the District. Director Brohl
was interested in a rating of each proposed project based on a rate of return analysis.
Mr. Howerter responded that staff also looked at projects that would not burden staff with
reporting requirements. There are a lot of reporting requirements attached to the stimulus
funds.
Director Cohen felt that the interest rate staff used in the lease calculation was above market.
Ms. Sedmak explained that the tax exempt market rate is trading above treasury rates at the
current time.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and Staff to apply for approximately $72.8 million Economic
Stimulus grant funds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act (ARRA) of 2009, to be
allocated to the Base System and FasTracks projects as outlined in this board report.
It is further recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board authorize the
transfer of $8,994,000 from the Intercity Bus Procurement Project and $3,815,007 from the
Transit Development Reserve to fund projects not included in the 2009 Adopted Budget. These
funds will be reimbursed by the ARRA grant funds in the 2009 Amended budget. See Attachment
I.
Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto
the March 17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 12, 2009
Page 4 of 6
Second:

Director Busck seconded the motion and asked for the floor.

Director Busck said the money saved from the queue jumps should not stay in that corridor but should
go somewhere else. Mr. Marsella said that $7.5 million would be subtracted from that corridor’s total
budget of $220 million. Director Martinez wanted to know if that would happen with all of the
FasTracks stations. Mr. Marsella responded no because for example, on the West Corridor some
items are restorations of cuts.
Director Bagley was very supportive of the US 36 queue jumps because it is BRT and the rest of
FasTracks is light rail and commuter rail.
Director Cohen brought to the Board’s attention an item that was pulled out of the budget and that is
the pedestrian bridge at Red Rocks station. There is no pedestrian crossover on 6th avenue West of
Quail to Jeffco County courthouse. Director Cohen is concerned that this may be a major design flaw
and was wondering if the price could be less. Rick Clarke responded that staff believes this is still a
good estimate and that in fact, the contractor may have underbid it. Rick Clarke said there is a $40
million contingency on the corridor that they want to preserve and hopefully add things back like the
pedestrian bridge. Director Cohen asked what the odds are of getting bridge and Mr. Clarke said it is
about 50%.
Director Martinez asked if all the FasTracks items were removed from the budget and now we are
putting them back in. Would we be doing these projects anyway? Bill Van Meter said we would and
they would be done with local funds and so this helps close the FasTracks funding gap.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 – 1 (Director Brohl opposed)

Director Brohl again spoke of her opposition to so much money going to one project - the farebox
replacement. Cal Marsella explained that the District is trying to create reserves to mitigate budget
issues in 2010.
Mr. Van Meter added an additional information item. There is a USDOT grant program in the amount
of 1.5 billion available. This will be a competitive program and criteria have not been established yet.
The Secretary of Transportation has 90 days to set criteria. There is a maximum of $300 million that
can be awarded to one State. US 36 stakeholders have approached the District requesting support
for an application to do the first phase of the U.S. 36 managed lanes. The District likes this as it
would extend the managed lanes close to Table Mesa park-n-Ride and there is a lot of support for
multimodal transportation options. One and a half billion nationwide is not a very large number but
getting $300 million would be a huge lift.
Director Busck wanted clarification on who would be applying for this fund. Mr. Marsella thought
that all agencies (RTD, CDOT, US 36 Mayors) would go together for a stronger application.
Director Martinez spoke about the need to close the FasTracks funding gap and that the Board needs
to make sure they are picking the right project to close this gap.
Director Cohen said that he felt $300 million was too high to expect. Mr. Van Meter said the amount

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 12, 2009
Page 5 of 6
could be $20 million to $300 million but we still don’t know the criteria and how the projects are
going to be ranked.
Mr. Marsella said that the beauty of this project is that it will have a tangible impact on bus
operations.
Director Martinez would like to see the savings that we would gain operationally and he would like to
see this if the District moves forward with this. Mr. Van Meter thinks this might be some of the
criteria the Federal government would want to hear about.
Director Busck – whenever the criteria comes back if it only applies to HOV then please go ahead but
if it could be used for rail there needs to be discussion around it.
Director Brohl – there should be criteria around it. We need to set policy in advance. Board needs to
give policy action. Do we want to use stimulus money for FasTracks or operational gains?
Mr. Marsella said that this is a heads up and there is still time to discuss. Director Tayer said there is
a rumor that a lot of this money is already called for. Who knows what the state of this is really going
to be.
Director Kemp said that the whole crux of the issue is that this project has a good chance for funding
because of the multimodal aspect.
Director Bagley said the project is great because not only is it multimodal but also multi jurisdictional,
it would benefit many communities.
Director O’Boyle – refer back to the stimulus funds, the funds are to be divided 60% to base
operations and 40% to FasTracks. Hopefully this isn’t a policy that the Board is setting. The Board
needs to consciously decide where funds go.
II.

January 2009 Financial Status – Includes January Sales Tax - Robert Merriman said that there was a
3% growth in revenue ridership in spite of a fare increase. Sales and use tax results are dismal, down
13% from 2008. There was a large payback due to litigation during the month of January which
affected the state and RTD. Without that RTD would only have been down 10% instead of 13%. Mr.
Howerter added that we will model a 9% - 10% run rate. If we use a 9% run rate for the year the
District would be down 6.4% from the 2009 budget.
Fare revenues are up 17.1% - ridership growth and the January 2009 fare increase account for that.

III. Budget Update 2009 – Terry Howerter spoke to this and reviewed the budget shortfall. FTA has an
ability to accelerate our returns on the 5309 fixed guideway funds by charging the capital maintenance
for the rail group. The District has now picked up an additional $9.6 million in 2009. The District has
covered our shortfall and could additionally pick up any additional shortfall in sales tax to the tune of
$4.9 million and still balance the budget. We now have a 2009 balanced budget. . He provided the
caveat this is subject to the collective bargaining and sales tax receipts.
For 2010 we are looking at a first draft of the TDP at the next committee meeting

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Thursday, March 12, 2009
Page 6 of 6
Director Martinez requested that staff please notate how the stimulus is helping our budget.
IV. Strategy Session for 2010 Budget and 2010-2015 TDP – Phil Washington said that next month staff
will be coming to the Committee to begin discussion on the 2010 budget.
V.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed.

VI. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial/Administration Committee will be Tuesday, April 14,
2009.
VII. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 8:45 p.m.

