Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

AGENDA
Operations and Customer Service Committee/ Financial Administration and Audit
Committee
Tuesday, October 18, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes
• Authorization to enter into contract with Protran Technology for purchase of
Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System (16DR0003)

C. Updates

• RTD Code of Conduct
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 15, 2016
F. Adjourn

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Natalie Menten

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Transfer FasTracks Sales and Use Tax Revenues in Excess of Forecasted
Sales and Use Tax Revenues to FasTracks Internal Savings Account

C. Updates

• Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update
• August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report
• SmartCard Project Update
• Fiscal Sustainability Update
• 2017 Requested Budget Update
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 15, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session



CRS 24-6-402(4)(b): Conferences with an attorney for the public entity for the
purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions – Discussions of
position relative to the SumTotal Contract.

G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 13, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

October 12, 2016

Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016

Subject:

Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the Winter 2016/2017 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $1,337,000 and, further, to authorize the
General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted. The proposals herein include a mix of service
adjustments and reductions. Based upon current and past ridership performance Route 116 Limited is
proposed to be discontinued. Also related to its ridership performance, the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride
is proposed to be continued contingent upon discovery of alternative funding from sources outside RTD.
Additionally, service reductions on the W Line (light rail) are proposed in an effort to match the level of
service and expense to current ridership demands. We will monitor customer response to the
implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments and service alternatives as
appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;
 Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
 Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Eight public hearings were held in Aurora, Brighton, Denver, Highlands Ranch, Ken Caryl, Lakewood, and
Stapleton Denver at the Blake Administration building. Comments and further details from these
meetings and the service change website are summarized in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: the proposal to discontinue this route has been rescinded.

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride: the proposal to discontinue the Call-n-Ride, has been modified and is
contingent upon funding alternatives.
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service reductions:

Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard: discontinue the 6:32pm northbound trip from Colorado Center
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus: proposal to discontinue service rescinded
Route 116L – Ken Caryl Limited: discontinues service on the Route 116L, due to very low ridership.
Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport: discontinue 7:10pm southbound trip daily and 5:10pm southbound
trip on Saturday and Sunday only.
Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride: continue the Call-n-Ride, contingent upon alternative funding
RockiesRide: discontinue all but two RockiesRide bus services
W Line (FasTracks): discontinue 16 Monday-Friday trips in the AM and PM peak periods

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/service reductions:
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown: reroute of service currently on St. Vrain School District property
Route R/RC/RX – Brighton/ Denver; Brighton/Denver Express: renaming of route
Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments
Route 15 – East Colfax: running time analysis
Rail Lines proposed for routine schedule adjustments:
Minor running time adjustments are proposed for all light rail lines: C, D, E, F, H, and W Lines, on all
service days.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a cost reduction of $962,000 from
FasTracks and $375,000 cost saving from the base system, for a total savings of approximately
$1,337,000 annualized.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed Winter 2016/2017 service changes
does not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.
A Look Ahead – May 2017
L – Line
A proposed solution to D Line on-time performance issues and consequentially, overall light rail system
performance, this proposal introduces a modification to current D Line operations. The L Line adds a
new 30th& Downing to 14th Street Loop (Downtown) movement, replacing the D Line service between
30th & Downing Station and 19th Street. More extensive information regarding this proposal will be made
available in a future update to the Board of Directors.
<<Enter Remaining Information Here>>

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1
ATTACHMENTS:


Attch A Winter 2016



Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes



Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (PDF)



Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community letters



Atch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter

(DOCX)
(DOCX)

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1.a

Attachment A – Winter 2016

Bus

Route 40 – Colorado Boulevard
It is proposed to discontinue the 6:32pm northbound trip from Colorado Center, which is
not needed to maintain 15 minute frequency on the Route 40. Cost savings are expected
to be an estimated $8,000 annualized.
Route 44 – 44th Avenue
It is proposed to reroute the current service to use Clayton Street to 40th Avenue in the
place of the current Steele Street routing to improve sight lines at the rail road crossing of
the University of Colorado A Line. No operation cost impacts are anticipated.
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz Campus
The proposal to discontinue service on the Route 89 has been rescinded, due to new
ridership and financial information.
Route 116L – Ken Caryl Limited
This proposal discontinues service on the Route 116L, due to very low ridership. The route
currently averages less than 5 passengers per trip and 6 passengers per hour, which falls
below the service standard of 6.5 for a Suburban Local service. Alternatives to this service
can be found the use of Route 21 in the Bear Creek area and Green Mountain Call-n-Ride.
Anticipated cost savings are estimated to be $90,000 annualized.
Route 169L – Buckley Road/Denver Airport
This proposal discontinues the 7:10pm southbound trip weekday and weekends. This trip
averages 5 passengers per day. It is also proposed to discontinue the 5:10pm southbound
trip on Saturday and Sunday only, which averages 6 passengers per trip. Anticipated cost
savings are estimated to be $25,300 annualized.
Route 324 – Main Street Crosstown
Due to routing currently being on St. Vrain School District property and the request
of Silverthorne High School to remove the current terminal from school property, it
is proposed to reroute the Route 324 and locate a new west-end terminal at
Grandview Meadows Drive and Nelson Road, northbound, nearside Nelson Road.
No additional operational costs are anticipated.
Route R/RC/RX – Brighton/ Denver; Brighton/Denver Express
It is proposed to convert 3 PM peak north-bound and 2 AM peak southbound R
trips into RX trips and rename the route to RC/RX only. The renaming will provide
clarity in the route designation after the introduction of the new light rail R Line
service. No additional operational costs are anticipated.

1
Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Attch A Winter 2016 (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Route 15 – East Colfax
This proposal supports routine schedule adjustments on the Route 15, which are
anticipated to cost $41,000 annualized.

1.B.1.a

Attachment A – Winter 2016

Attachment: Attch A Winter 2016 (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Highlands Ranch call-n-Ride
In November 2006, the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride began service. The Call-n-Ride
operates Monday-Friday 6:00am – 6:00pm. Despite numerous marketing
campaigns and adjustments to the Call-n-Ride boundary, the Call-n-Ride falls in the
lowest category of boarding’s per hour and highest subsidy cost per boarding’s.
Our most recent ridership data show the Call-n-Ride at 2.5 boarding’s per hour.
Staff recommends the continuation of this service be contingent upon the receipt of
$94,085 (50% of the operating cost) from sources outside of the RTD. Alternative
service includes Routes 402L and 403. If alternative funding is not provided the
anticipated cost savings are estimated to be $188,170 annualized.
RockiesRide
With the major changes in transit corridors within the RTD, it is recommended that
many of the buses used for RockiesRide be redeployed to backup existing service
on Rockies game days in 2017. Rockies service for 2016 included opening day,
Saturday, Sunday and all fireworks games. The following changes are
recommended for the 2017 season:
 RockiesRide Route 36R / Wadsworth-Hampden – this route would be
discontinued and no replacement offered as ridership averages only 5
boardings per bus.
 RockiesRide Route 55R / Olde Town Arvada – this service would be
discontinued, as an alternative; customers can use the new G Line, which
will be operating with service to Union Station.
 RockiesRide Route 86R / US36 & Broomfield – this service would be
discontinued, as an alternative; customers can use Flatiron Flyer service to
Union Station. Back up buses will be available.
 RockiesRide Route 120R / Wagon Road-Thornton – Route to remain the
same – no changes.
 RockiesRide Route BR / Boulder High School, US36 & Table Mesa Station,
US 36 & McCaslin Station – this service would be discontinued, as an
alternative; customers can use Flatiron Flyer service to Union Station.
Backup buses will be available.
 RockiesRide Route LR / Longmont – Route to remain the same – no
changes.
Cost savings are anticipated to be an estimated $104,700 annualized.

Rail
W Line (FasTracks)
It is proposed to discontinue 16 Monday-Friday trips in the AM and PM peak periods:
Eastbound trips from Federal Center Station at 6:16 AM, 6:46 AM, 7:16 AM, 7:46 AM,
8:16 AM, 8:46 AM, 4:01 PM, 4:31 PM, 5:01 PM, 5:31 PM, and 6:01 PM and Westbound
trips from Union Station at 5:27 AM, 5:57 AM, 6:25 AM, 6:55 AM, 7:25 AM, 7:55 AM,
3:10 PM, 3:40 PM, 4:10 PM, 4:40 PM, 5:10 PM, and 5:40 PM. This proposed change
effects approximately 789 passengers that will need to take a W-Line 7.5 minutes earlier

2
Packet Pg. 8

1.B.1.a

Attachment A – Winter 2016
or later. Three-car trains will be reapportioned to adjust for crowding on trains to meet
Service Standards.

The peak vehicle requirement for the W Line service would be reduced from 23 cars to 16
cars, which helps improve the spare ratio, which will be below our standard when the I225 Rail Line opens.
The anticipated cost savings are estimated to be approximately $962,000 annualized.
Rail Lines proposed for routine schedule adjustments:
Minor running time adjustments are proposed for all light rail lines: C, D, E, F, H, and W
Lines, on all service days. This is based on new data received from adjusting the
scheduled timepoints, which allows for a more thorough running time analysis. Running
time will only change between 15 and 30 seconds and only between a few stations on
each line. This will not alter the light rail trips and the same service will be provided. No
changes in hours are anticipated.

3
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Attch A Winter 2016 (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

This proposal creates a 15-minute frequency in the AM and PM peak period, which is
similar to the majority of other individual light rail lines in the peak periods. It reduces the
peak hour, peak direction capacity from 1,500 passengers to 1,000 passengers. Existing
ridership in the peak hour, peak direction is approximately 740 passengers, which still
leaves room for future ridership growth. This brings the peak W Line operation closer to
the level of service of the rest of the system.

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Winter 2016 Service Change
Public Meeting Comments

Monday, September 28th, 2016
Stapleton Development Corp
6:00 PM
Staff member in attendance was Jeff Dunning. There were no RTD Board members in
attendance. There was 1 member of the public and a representative from Northeast
Transportation Connections.
There was general discussion regarding the recent changes related to the opening of the
A-Line, and any future changes with the R-Line. No specific comments were received
regarding the proposed Winter 2016 changes.

Monday, September 28th, 2016
Lakewood Clements Center
6:00 PM
Staff in attendance included Eric Miller, Kim Kinnison, Diane Marquiss, and Cooper
Langdon. There were 8 members of the public in attendance including RTD Board Member
Natalie Menten.
Director Menten asked that if anyone in attendance knew of anyone else who might have
questions or concerns that they should spread the word about upcoming public meetings,
specifically the 10/6/16 meetings at Blake Street.
W Line:
Debra Klein is concerned about cutting the W Line and asked about what standards were
applied to justify the potential cuts. She mentioned utilizing smaller train sets as an
alternative solution and asked that this change not take place in the winter.
Renee Sanders is concerned about how these changes would affect her wait time at
Wadsworth Station if she just misses a train.
K Poaker expressed concern about the closing of Auraria West Station during major events
at Sports Authority at Mile High Field. This sentiment was echoed by Renee Sanders. She
would also like to see additional cars on the W Line during major downtown events.
Dave Ruchman asked for empirical evidence justifying the cuts. Eric Miller offered to send
the data and justifications via email.
Route 76:
Debra Klein is concerned about the transfer time between the southbound route 76 and
eastbound W Line.
G Line:
Julia Hyman asked about the flaggers posted at the at-grade crossings along the G Line as
well as about the expected opening date of the G Line.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Safety
Renee Sanders is concerned about the safety of the bus stop at Colfax and Wadsworth

Thursday, September 29th, 2016
Ken Caryl Ranch House
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Diane Marquiss. Staff in attendance included Diane Marquiss,
and Cooper Langdon. There were 6 members of the public in attendance.
Diane Suchomel – Wanted specific details regarding the 99/100 service change. She is
retired and doesn’t take the bus often but wanted to be informed. Diane gave her some
information regarding the changes.
Andy Marner – He wanted to discuss the 116L that will be cut when the fall service
changes are implemented. He understood that there is low ridership, but doesn’t have a
good option for getting to the Federal Center. He also does not live in our Call-n-Ride
service area.
Steve Kern – Steve was also there to discuss the proposed cancellation of the 116L and
the possibility of having the first afternoon trip on the 100L leave earlier. Regarding the
116L, Diane told him about our Call-n-Ride service and told him we would send him Brian
Matthews contact information to possibly set up a consistent pick up time.
Linda Metzger – She just stopped in to see what changes were proposed and did not have
any one concern regarding the changes. She did mention that she would like the 116X to
be more direct and skip the local portion of the route. She suggested the route leave Ken
Caryl Park-n-Ride and immediately take C470 and make a stop at the Quincy exit, then
proceed directly to Civic Center. She said the local portion adds too much time to the
route.
Matt Smith – Matt works at the Denver Airport early in the morning and would like a
4:45am-4:50am trip on the C-Line, leaving from Mineral Station. This would allow him to
get a one seat ride to Union Station to catch the A-Line. Currently he has to take the DLine to Broadway Station then catch the E-Line to Union Station, which he said can be a
tight transfer.
Tony Lott – Tony had heard that there were going to be changes to the routes 77 and 85
that also included a fare increase. Once we told him that there were no planned changes
to either of his routes and that the fare structure was not changing, he left happy.

Thursday, September 29th, 2016
Brighton Recreation Center
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Nataly Erving. Staff in attendance were Nataly Erving
and David Menter. There were 4 members of the public in attendance including
RTD Board Member Judy Lubow. City of Longmont Staff in attendance: Phil
Greenwald; City of Longmont TAB representatives: Buzz Feldman, Bob Lee

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Lynn Philippsen requested that the stop at Table Mesa and Tantra Drive be considered as a
stop on the US36 BRT Flatiron Flyer routes. She stated that the walk to the closest BRT
stop was too far. Staff pointed out that local underlying service on routes DASH and 206
is available and that at this time demand at this stop location does not warrant for it to be
a BRT stop. Staff will continue to monitor demand in this regard.
Bob Lee liked the proposed changes for the BOLT, J and L stops, as well as the Bolt
Express trips. He stated that he would like to see the fare for route BOLT to be local all the
way between Longmont and Boulder and urged RTD staff to reconsider the recent fare
zone change. He also requested that RTD staff look into airport service from Longmont to
Denver, as well as a meeting to discuss various options in this regard with city staff and
members of the TAB. RTD staff will coordinate with City of Longmont staff to set up such
a meeting.
Buzz Feldman also stated that he agreed with the proposed changes and asked when they
would go into effect. He suggested that instead of calling the faster trips on route BOLT
‘express’ to reference them as ‘Limited’ in order to not be too confusing or perhaps
misleading, since the trips will serve all of the agreed upon stops for regular route BOLT
within Longmont and then only travel at a faster pace once outside of the city. Staff
agreed that this would be a good idea and that they would consider doing so.
Peter Lloyd was concerned about the connections from route BOLT to route 206 and
having to walk from 28th Street to Boulder Junction in order to now make his connection.
Upon review of the proposed BOLT Express trips he however noted that they would most
likely provide a good alternative and better connection for him to get from Longmont to
the East Flatiron Business Park. He also encouraged staff to make sure that the
connections to these express trips from route 324 at 8th & Coffman Park-n-Ride be
considered. In addition, he requested to have route FLEX consider making better
connections at Boulder Junction to route 206.
Rolf Kaumann stated that he is a route L (LNX/LSX) passenger and appreciates the service,
as well as that RTD staff is willing to listen to customer concerns and input. He asked why
routes LNX and LSX have to ‘loop’ via 21st and Terry Street before continuing their trips
and requested for staff to look into the elimination of this routing since it could save up to
5 minutes of travel time.
Andrea Papa requested that there be a later LNX or LSX trip in the AM peak that would
better match the 9am work shift start time in Downtown Denver.
Phil Greenwald pointed out that the city is in the process of developing a community
development plan and that within that plan there are suggestions for future bus routes,
including a potential routing for a true BOLT Express, which would avoid multiple railroad
crossings within Longmont.
The meeting closed at 6:30pm.

Monday, October 3rd, 2016
Aurora Central Library
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Jeff Dunning. There were 15 members of the public
there and RTD Board Member Tom Tobiassen.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
The discussion was wide ranging, including upcoming R-Line service, stations, parking
facilities, and safety; fare policy and enforcement; general safety onboard buses and
trains; and the need for good overall frequency and span of service on all bus routes.
Route 3-Alameda Avenue received particular criticism for poor frequency and lack of late
night service. No specific comments were received regarding the proposed Winter 2016
changes.

Wednesday, October 5th, 2016
Highlands Ranch Recreation Center at Southridge
6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Brian Matthews. Staff members in attendance were Pat Heye
and Brian Matthews. RTD Board members in attendance were Director Kent Bagley and
candidate Doug Tisdale. There were 28 members of the public and a representative from
VIA Highlands Ranch Retirement Community
Ted Ruskin – Ted is almost totally blind and has no wife, children, or family at all and
depends on Call-n-Ride and Access-a-Ride to be mobile. Access-a-Ride is ok for things far
out in time but only CnR works for daily trips reserved for the same day.
Ali Zanjani – Ali is the afternoon driver of the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride. He thinks the
service needs to stay because the needs of his customers is greater than RTD making
money.
Michelle Yorntz – Michelle’s daughter Sara is a special needs high school graduate who
works at Good Will to be independent and cannot continue with her job without the Call-nRide.
Teri Whitmore – Thinks the Call-n-Ride service is great. Her child is a Mountain Vista
Student who depends on Call-n-Ride since the school busses were taken away. The fixed
route option will not work because it only serves east and west customers to the LRT
Stations. Thinks Call-n-Ride can be saved by recruiting more students for customers.
Option of Lift and Uber is not suitable for children.
Ellianna Gorton – Loves the Call-n-Ride service and her child uses it for transportation back
and forth to school at Stem. She is a single parent and must work so her child must have
CnR. She volunteered to help RTD by joining a committee to help with ridership.
Deanna Evens – Her parents are refugees from Russia in their 70’s and have no other
transportation other than Call-n-Ride. Feels that Call-n-Ride is just not well enough known
in Highlands Ranch. Also thinks that Service should be 7 day per week, not just Monday
thru Friday.
Kelvin Ivery – Has been riding buses all his life and depends on public transportation. He
works in law enforcement and cannot leave work to get his 12 year old daughter home
from school and he is a single father.
Paula McMartin – She has children attending both Stem and Mountain Vista school and
they depend on Call-n-Ride because both her and her husband work. Thinks we could get
more students to bring up the ridership.
Ali Zanjani – Been using Call-n-Ride for 9 years and depends on it to get to and from work.
Thinks the drivers are very special and more marketing might help keep the CnR.

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Deanna Evens – Representing group of disabled and senior people. Access-a-Ride does not
work nearly as good as Call-n-Ride because Access-a-Ride has such a large time window
and reservations must be made far in advance. Thinks Douglass county should share the
cost of the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride because they pay a special tax to Douglass
County set aside just for transportation needs.
Elaine Gorton – Daughter has Downs Syndrome and works at Good Will. She would lose
all of her independence she has worked so hard for if we lose the Call-n-Ride.
Ted Ruskin – Call-n-Ride needs to do a better job of ride sharing.
Mountain Vista High School - Also submitted for RTD were 2 letters from residents and 16
letters from students who use the Call-n-Ride
St Andrews United Methodist Church – Submitted letter in favor of stops in front of VI
assisted living and St. Andrew.

Director Candidate Doug Tisdale - spoke about his past as a lawyer and Mayor of
Cherry Hills and what he hopes to do if elected to the Board of Directors of RTD.
Thursday, October 6th, 2016
RTD Administrative Offices
NOON
Meeting was facilitated by Cesar Ochoa. Staff members in attendance were Nataly
Erving, Brian Matthews, Cesar Ochoa and Dave Genova. RTD Board member in
attendance was Director Nataly Menten. There were 16 members of the public present.
Route 89 – 4 people requested the retention of this route. .
Route 3 - There was a request for a higher frequency for the eastern part of the Route 3.
There were comments regarding the Route 116X on time performance at 5:55 p.m. as
well as a request to correct passenger conflicts with vending carts at the Civic Center
temporary stops. There was a request to look at the Route 122X at 7:30 a.m. regarding
crowding issues.

Thursday, October 6th, 2016
RTD Administrative Offices 6:00 PM
Meeting was facilitated by Jessie Carter, manager, Service Planning & Scheduling. The
meeting began at 6:00pm with 6 public participants present. RTD Board member in
attendance was Director Nataly Menten. There were 5 members of the public present
Tracy B. - Disagrees with the Route 89 proposal and states that children who go to DDS
have 20 minutes to where a Denver Public School bus would pick them up, which require
the kids to leave at 5:30am. The school is located at 33rd-Syracuse Street. Walking would
take the kids more than 45 minutes.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Peter Lozano – he has a son who uses the Route 116L to get to and from school at
McClaine High School. He gets out of class at 12:30pm and works in the library until the
first trip is available on the Route 116L. Jefferson County Schools doesn’t have an
alternative for his son. He and his wife both work and cannot accommodate a pick up time
for his son, so the Route 116L is his sons only alternative.
Miriam Garcia - had questions about the signage on the Route 31L that described the
cancellation of the route service.
Felicia Hardney - She lives in Commerce City and catches the Route 88 and connects to
the Route 89. She believes RTD has not let enough people know about the Route 89 and
that has hampered the level of ridership. She works at Children’s Hospital on Anschutz.
The current Routes 88 and 89 are superior to using the Route 40 and Route 20
combination for access to the hospital. She also sees the people who get on the Route 89
at the mercy Housing stop and wonders what alternatives they would have.
Tommy Thomas - Adding to the comments made by others regarding the cancellation of
the Route 89, he emphasized that the people using this service are low income and transit
dependent with no viable alternatives.
Karlyn Huffman – suggested that RTD request a signal at Yale Street and Yale Court to
allow buses leaving the Yale Station safe access to Yale Avenue. She also mentioned that
the ramp to the platform at Yale Station is too steep for persons in mobility devices,m
stating she observes a woman who has to wait for someone willing to push her up the
ramp on regular basis.
Steve Albers – rides the Route J and has suffered through several changes to service in
the Boulder and Gunbarrel area. He had two suggestions; reinstatement of the stop at
Spine Rd and South Orchard Creek, even if not heavily used he believes it important to
stop at this location due to its proximity to a multi-use trail. His second suggestions is to
add a time point along Spine Rd on the Route J that would allow for better trip planning
for customers in his area. Currently there is 9 minutes between the timepoints.
Salinda Wright - commented on her previous suggestion that was made for the Route 34
to be moved from 38th Avenue as the former Route 38 had been routed. She stated that
she has a difficult time walking to the bus stops on 40th Avenue. She also requested more
frequent service in the peak period on the Route 34 leaving the 31st and Downing area,
stating that in inclimate weather it is difficult to wait for the service, which currently is
offered only every 30 minutes.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Electronically Received Comments
Route

Support

Opposed

27

Inquiry

First
Name

Last Name

1

31

1

Paul

Joshua

31

1

Vincent

Mineault

31

1

Sherri

Rener

31

1

Joshua

31

1

Lisa

Additional Comments
I use the 27 to commute to work daily. The morning drivers
are very punctual and courteous. The afternoon drivers...not
so much. I catch the eastbound 27 at around 3:45pm and
get off about 4:25pm. I would estimate that my afternoon
bus has been on time about 10 times in the past six
months. The schedule says that the bus leaves the
Wadsworth & Hampden PNR at 3:27pm and gets to the
Englewood Station at 4:05pm - it's supposed to leave the
Englewood Station at 4:09pm. I can tell you, pretty much
every day, the bus leaves the PNR at least 5min later and
gets to Englewood anywhere between 4:08 and 4:15.
I fully understand if there is traffic or other factors that
prevent drivers from being on time, but every single day?
What about those drivers who consistently miss the
schedule times because they drive slow or take a long break
at a station? If I was late to work every day I would be
fired; I don't think it's a lot to ask to expect the drivers to
TRY to be on time.
I figure that if the bus is 5min late arriving to my stop and
10min late arriving at my destination, then the schedule
should be advertised to include this 15min adjustment. I
lose that 15min on the ride, and miss my transfer (which
costs me another 30min waiting at another stop), almost
every day. So I'm really losing 45min every day, which is
225min every week, or 900min a month, or 10,800min in a
year. That's a significant enough amount of my time for me
to make this request for an audit, to see if your bus tracking
shows that the timing is hardly ever true to the advertised
schedule.
All I'm asking for is that the people who put together the
schedules to take a serious look at this route, and change
the advertised schedule to show the actual times a rider can
expect it, so riders can plan transfers more accurately.
Today I saw on the sign at 76th & Lowell after October 23 This would
no longer be a stop for the route 31 going North and South. I wanted
to put in a suggestion for you not to change this.
I am a CERT volunteer with rtd and i am hearing from lots of
passengers uses 31 to and from front range community college are
upset because its doesn't serve the westminster station for the b line
I'm calling to voice my opinion about the service changes on route #
31. I travel with a disabled veteran and it has been very convenient
for us to get to recreation center and the library. It is a real disservice
for us in this area and the disabled people.
From what I understood the 31 going by 76th and Lowell
and the ones by the Irving Library will be gone which is no
good. The reason is not only I take, but I know of several
other who do. Some take it on a daily biases because they
can’t afford ubur or a car. Others take it because they can’t
walk to Federal, Sheridan or the B Line. So I please don’t
take the 31 that goes to and from 76th and Lowell and the
Irving Library away
So I am frustrated, you guys are taking away this stop on 76th and
Irving. Not only this stop on this rider alert but all stops affected by
this rider alert. Did you think about the people who catch the bus
from this area. I understand you guys are trying to serve the new
station. now you guys leave a big gap of area you are not servicing? i
want a call back i want to hear you guys are putting a bus to cover
these stops you are taking away.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
43

1

Karen

Brooks

72

1

Rick

Campbell

Krissy

Alberti

76

1

I am highly upset that you have changed the 43. The changes to this
route have made it so hard to get to the rail from the 43 stop. In the
past I have even had to help elderly people get from the 43 stop to
30th and Downing. If this was a Highlands Ranch this wouldnt
happen. Lastly this 28 is ridiculous. Now is there no weekend service
to the grocery store. There is no way I could walk from the 43 to the
grocery store. How could RTD stop a major bus like this from running
on the weekend. RTD only cares about the train and no longer cares
about the custom
I read that you may be changing the route 72 and that it will not stop
on 55th & Marshall I need that bus to stop at that stop going both
directions.
I like that you're proposing 15 minute frequencies, but why
only to Olde Town Arvada, more commuters on the G line
are going to be coming from the North of Olde Town
Arvada than they are from the south. Seriously, between
Lakewood Commons & Olde Town only? or Southwest
Plaza & Olde Town. Like I said before there are large
number of riders coming from north of Olde Town.
I strongly urge you to increase the 15 minute frequencies
up to at least 80th Ave.

89

1

Alison

Auster

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. bus route 89 is an
important community resource that benefits residents and local
businesses. I strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to
discontinue the route.
My address is:
8908 East 25th Drive
Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Val

Beckler

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is:
2820 Wabash St
Denver, Co 80238

89

1

Traci

Bekelman

89

1

Traci

Bekelman

Please do not discontinue the 89 line between Stapleton and the
Fitzsimons Medical campus. I use this route five days a week to get
to and from my job. The alternative would be to walk 1.7 miles to the
Central Park A line, ride it to Peoria, transfer to the R line, take it to
Fitzsimons and then walk another 8 blocks to my office. This would
take me almost 2 hours. The other option is to walk the 2.5 miles
between my house and my job through an unsafe neighborhood with
no sidewalks. If ridership is low, why can't RTD just send the small
shuttle bus instead of the full size bus? You could also eliminate the
buses in the late morning and early afternoon and just run buses
between 7-9 a.m. and 3-7 p.m. I am begging you - do not discontinue
this bus route.
Please do not discontinue the 89 line between Stapleton and the
Fitzsimons Medical campus. I use this route five days a week to get
to and from my job. The alternative would be to walk 1.7 miles to
the Central Park A line, ride it to Peoria, transfer to the R line, take it
to Fitzsimons and then walk another 8 blocks to my office. This
would take me almost 2 hours. The other option is to walk the 2.5
miles between my house and my job through an unsafe
neighborhood with no sidewalks. If ridership is low, why can't RTD
just send the small shuttle bus instead of the full size bus? You could
also eliminate the buses in the late morning and early afternoon and
just run buses between 7-9 a.m. and 3-7 p.m. I am begging you - do
not discontinue this bus route.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Rebecca

Berman

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 8051 E 33rd Ave. Denver, CO 80238
Thank you for considering my request.

89

1

Tricia

Campbell

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 3098 Syracuse Street; Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Jennifer

Cowqan

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is:
2853 Clinton Way
Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Gillian

Dale

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2856 Emporia St., Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Michael

Del
Giudice

89

1

Tanya

Duffy

I strongly disagree with your decision to discontinue this
route. It provides a much-needed quick connection between
Stapleton / Central Park Station and UC Health / CU
Anschutz Medical Campus.
People heading east on the A line will now have to make
three transit changes instead of two: Transfer at Aline
Peoria Station to the R Line, and get off at Fitzsimmons
station, and wait for a CU shuttle, which due to lack of
roadways, will go onto congested arterial roadways and
take as longer to get to the hospital than a direct bus from
Central Park.
I would strongly suggest that RTD delay the discontinuation
of the 89 route until the Fitzsimmons Redevelopment
Authority and City of Aurora have constructed roadways
that will link the Fitz Station to the southern medical
campus.
Lastly, the CU Shuttle will not be picking up passengers at
the Colfax Station, as a pull-out /pic-up was not
implemented and CU shuttles cannot stop in traffic lanes.
Please reconsider/delay this decision until effective access
from the stations is realized. If not, folks like me will just
start driving to Anschutz in December.
Hello, I live in Stapleton and am writing to oppose the
proposed discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. More
an more people from the medical profession move to
Stapleton all the time for its location to the Anschultz
campus and if you want people to use public transportation,
there needs to be a route like this. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local
businesses. I strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to
discontinue the route.
My address is:
7998 E. 28th Place Denver 80238

Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Margaret

Gramling

89

1

Annie

Hill

89

1

Sonja

Joksimovic

89

1

Srdjan

Joksimovic

I understand you intend to discontinue this route in
December due to low ridership.I ride this bus every
weekday to reach my job. It's the last leg of my journey
from Littleton, which takes two buses and two trains, a two
hour trip. If this bus is discontinued I will be forced to take
the 105 bus and walk half a mile from Central Park. I'm 60,
and the prospect of having to make my way this distance
through the snow fills me with despair.Also, there are no
89 schedules available at Anschutz Medical Center, which
also prevents riders from accessing the route. Those in
wheelchairs need this route even more than I do!
Don't punish the riders for your own oversights and
shortcomings. I realize your focus us all about the trains
these days, but please, have mercy on those of us who
take the 89 bus.Please reconsider the discontinuation of the
89 bus!
I live in Stapleton 9164 E28th ave. Please do not discontinue the bus
route. Members of my household need access. Thanks
I have recently been informed by bus driver of 89 bus that
this line will soon be discontinued. I live in Stapleton and
work at the Anschutz Medical Campus and the only two
bus lines that can take me to work are 20 and 89. The only
line that is always on time and always follows the schedule
is 89! Second, both A and R lines will not cover people
from Stapleton who work at the Anschutz (and the number
of these people is substantially increasing as I can see) from
several reasons:
1) R line is covering Aurora
2) R line can take a person from Fitzsimmons to Peoria
station, however in order to reach Stapleton that person still
needs to wait for A line, and then to take another bus
usually 28B to reach Stapleton as train station is absolutely
far away from residential part of Stapleton
3) With your proposed solution to catch lines R and A, I will
need approximately an hour to reach my home, or work,
while with 89, I am at my destination in 10-15 minutes
If you discontinue 89, I will most likely cancel my Ecco
Pass, as it would not make sense to me taking a bus line 20
that is usually always late, or train everyday to work. I think
that instead of discontinuing 89 line, much better solution
would be to limit it to cover several hours early in the
morning (5-10 am) and afternoon (3-7 pm) when most of
the people are commuting to home or work.
I heard recently that bus line 89 will soon be discontinued. I live in
Stapleton and work at the Anschutz Medical Campus and this is
basically the only reliable bus line that can take me to work within
20-30 min! I’m not sure if you’re aware but A and R lines will NOT
cover people living in Stapleton who work at the Anschutz (and the
number of these people is substantially increasing).
If you discontinue 89, I will most likely cancel my Ecco Pass, because
line 20 is usually late. Instead of discontinuing 89 line, please
consider limiting it to early in the morning (5-10 am) and afternoon
(3-7 pm) when most of the people are commuting to home or work.

89

1

Mary
Beth

Lustik

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the
proposed discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus
89 is an important community resource that benefits
residents and local businesses. I strongly urge RTD to
reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is:
2849 Emporia Court
Denver 80238

Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Dan

Lyons

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2845 Geneva St, Denver, CO 80238.

89

1

Heidi

McKernan

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.

89

1

Chuck

Montera

89

1

Nancy

Moseley

I have lived in Stapleton for 11 years and am writing to
oppose the proposed discontinuation of bus route 89 this
winter.
I am a patient at the Barbara Davis Center and I rely on Bus
89 to take me to appointments with my endocrinologist. I
literally schedule my appointment around this route.
I also have neighbors in Stapleton who are doctors, nurses,
administrators and researchers at the Anschutz Medical
Campus at the University of Colorado and know they rely
on Bus 89 for their daily commute.
I STRONGLY urge RTD to continue the Bus 89 route as it is
a vital connection between our community and the
Anschutz Medical Campus at the University of Colorado.
My name, address and phone number is below, please
contact me with any questions and thank you for your
consideration!
Chuck Montera
2829 Emporia Court
Denver, CO 80238
I am requesting that you continue to provide service on the 89 line.
There is no close access to any bus line from the eastbridge area of
Stapleton. Your proposal to take the A line would required a 1/2
hour walk. The New R line will require a 1/2 hour walk also since
there is no direct sidewalk routes available. Loss of this bus line
would create a severe hardship for riders accessing the eastbridge
area of Stapleton, including many low income residents.
The route will also benefit people needing access to the new king
Soopers grocery store especially low income families using public
transportation.

89

1

Maggie

O'Toole

89

1

Zavelia

Padilla

89

1

Lauren

Ross

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
Hello my name is Zavelia, I am a doctoral student at the Anschutz
Medical Campus , live in the area of Stapleton and Route 89 is the
only route that i can take to go to school, some friends and I took
this route during the week (Monday to Friday) to go to school. I
disagree with the discontinue service of this route, as most people
without a car in the Stapleton area take this bus to get to work and
school, and I believe that in November this route will be benefited
the grocery store on Martin Luther king, as this route will be an ideal
medium of transport for people who go to this store, which will
increase the use of this route. Please do not take this route, it is
important for all those who attended the Anschutz Medical Campus
route.
I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2335 Beeler St. Denver, CO 80238
Thank you for considering my request,

Packet Pg. 20

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
89

1

Tim

Ruszel

I am a Stapleton resident and am writing to oppose the proposed
discontinuation of bus route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important
community resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue the route.
My address is: 2826 Emporia Street, Denver

89

1

Tamara

Timić
Stamenić,

89

1

Laura

Zerbe

I'm so surprised to see that you are planing to discontinue
bus 89! It is not true that the ridership is low. People are
moving to Stapelton every day and it is much bigger than
few years ago.
I have been using line 89 since I moved to Stapelton. This is
the only bus that connects Stapelton with Anschutz
Medical Campus where I work. There is no alternative for
this bus. The trains A or R line are not at all convenient
because they are so far and I will need to take another bus
(or two) to be able to use this trains.
I am using ECO pass now, only because of line 89. If you
discontinue this service I will not longer need to pay for
ECO pass.
My name is Laura Zerbe and I am a Stapleton resident and
am writing to oppose the proposed discontinuation of bus
route 89 this winter. Bus 89 is an important community
resource that benefits residents and local businesses. I
strongly urge RTD to reconsider their plan to discontinue
the route.
My address is: 2845 Geneva St. Denver, CO 80238

89

1

Greg

Zioba

89

1

Kara

Zioba

89

1

Marty

I’d like to express my concerns regarding Route 89...
I live in the area at Havana St and MLK blvd in Stapleton. I don’t ride
it daily, but I do about 3 times a week. The reason I don’t ride more
frequently are:
1. no service on weekends;
2. the bus schedule is not convenient enough for me (goes only once
an hour).
My concern is: why the route 89 is planned to be closed completely?
I understand that reason is “low ridership”. Did you know that, there
will be a new King Soopers store opening in that area this Fall and it
will impact ridership situation.My proposal is to wait another 3
months, to see what kind of impact the newly opened King Soopers
store will have, before completely closing route 89.
Hello, I am reaching out to you with respect to the proposed changes
for Route 89. My mother-in-law has to take 2 buses and the light rail
from Stapleton to her job in Lakewood (and back). She was just
informed by her bus driver last night that you are proposing to
cancel the 89. If this gets cancelled, she will have to walk an hour to
the light rail station from her house each morning and back at night.
Is there any chance that you could continue this service for the 89? If
not, is there another option for her to get to the Central Park
station? She does not have a car.
Hello,
I understand you intend to discontinue this route in December due
to low ridership. I ride this bus every weekday to reach my job. It's
the last leg of my journey from Littleton, which takes two buses and
two trains, a two hour trip. If this bus is discontinued I will be forced
to take the 105 bus and walk half a mile from Central Park. I'm 60,
and the prospect of having to make my way this distance through the
snow fills me with despair. I believe your low ridership numbers are
likely due to the fact that this route is not included in your trip
planner. If a bus driver hadn't known better, I'd be walking three
miles as the trip planner directs me to do.
Also, there are no 89 schedules available at Anschutz Medical Center,
which also prevents riders from accessing the route. Those in
wheelchairs need this route even more than I do!
Don't punish the riders for your own oversights and shortcomings. I
realize your focus us all about the trains these days, but please, have
mercy on those of us who take the 89 bus:

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
125

1

Duncan

Smith

116L

1

Sarah

Ceretto

169L

1

Irma

Ayers

169L

1

Jude

Buemi

169L

1

Shamir

Way

31/51/92

1

Barb

Stephens

31L

1

Melinda

Cuthriell

I saw this sign at Union and 2nd Place. I went to http://www.rtddenver.com/servicechanges-fall2016.shtml and didn't see any
reference to Route 125. Can you please update me on Route 125?
Can you tell me about the opening of the G-Line as well?
I was told you will be getting rid of the 116L this week. The 116L is
the only route that can get me to my job without having to walk 2030 minutes no other bus runs by my work. You cannot get rid of the
116L alot of people rely and depend on that route. If anything it
would be more beneficial for it to run more frequently than it does.
I'm writing to give my comment on the proposed discontinuation of
the 169L at 7:10pm. Without this bus at this specific time, I will not
be able to get to and from my place of work at the airport and could
possibly lose my job. This is why I'm against the discontinuation.
Thank you for reading.
Greetings: I am writing today concerning one of the proposed Winter
service changes....discontinuance of the Rt. 169L southbound trip at
7:10 PM on weekdays. As someone who rides this particular trip I
strongly oppose this change and am writing to urge you to keep this
trip and not discontinue.
To me, this trip seems to have a respectable number of riders. Not
as packed as a 15 or a 15L but what I would consider to be decent
ridership. And, I would like to point out this trip does indeed have
some regular riders.
I do not ride the 169L on weekends and so I cannot comment on the
proposed discontinuance of the southbound trip at 7:10 PM on
weekends. However, I firmly but respectfully ask to keep the 7:10
PM southbound trip on weekdays. Thank you for your consideration
of my comments. Please feel free to contact me if you have any
questions or wish to discuss further.
Hi i am a frequent rider of the 169L it is the most affordable and
fastest way to get the airport where my job is at. My job doesn't
offer rtd discounts so its cheaper to catch the 169L. I wish it had
more 169 L buses because it is very convenient. So please let it
continue to be in operation thank you
I live around 8467 Chase Drive and regularly take advantage of
services between Wadsworth and Sheridan, and 88th and 92nd. I
don't understand and can't agree with your plans to shut down the
services provided by the 31, 51, and 92 in these areas. As a baby
boomer, I expect that you will be encouraging folks my age and
younger to drive LESS in the coming years and to take local buses to
get to regional buses and trains! Installation of the G line did not
reduce the ongoing need for good and regular local bus service in
NW and North Arvada. In my case, with your taking almost all
services away from Harlan & 88th, I will have to walk over a mile
instead of half a mile...or drive, which you will want to discourage as
the years roll on.
Why is the 31l being cancelled. I have to be at work by 6 a.m.
downtown and this is the earliest bus that gets me there. I live in
Westminster and don't own a car. How am I going to get to work if
there is no bus to get me to the park and ride. The 51 doesn't go to
the Light Rail station in Westminster at this time or at a time that I
can take it to get to work. I'm very upset that the 31 is being
cancelled.

Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
55L

1

John

Warren

I know that the 55L will be discontinued due to the G line
becoming operational but I was wondering about all the
other routes. I don't see them on your website.

A-Line

1

Snory

Boy

A-Line

1

Curt

A line is the worst experience people have coming to this State to
have fun. TSA employees have stopped using A line because they
can't be late. Many DIA employee's have stopped using A line and
they tell travelers not to use A line.
I've seen several news stories about customer complaints
regarding the A-line and the required horn sounding at
crossings, especially in the Stapleton area near the hotels.
Trains sound their horns to warn people as they approach
an intersection, but as I see it, you have a better warning
system in place with the crossing guards that are present
due to the faulty gate arms. I think a very sound argument
can be made that you have a higher standard for warning at
intersections, with the crossing guards and that the horn
sounding is not necessary. Deaf people can't hear a horn,
but the definitely can see a guard in a reflective vest!
5th time taking to events Downtown. Need more frequency!!! Work
at airport. Sometimes arrive midnight or later.
Will the stop for the Bolt bus at 55th and 119 be back in service this
Saturday October 15 so I can use it to get to work at Celestrial
Seasonings on Saturday.
I do not want to walk over 2 miles to the next stop at 63rd and would
be very happy to have this in use again.
Please reply so I will know if I have to pay somebody for a ride.

B-Line
BOLT

1
1

Susan
Ann
Donna

Treadway
Sharp

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
BOT

1

Andrea

Clark

I’d like to start off by saying that I have had nothing but
great experiences riding the RTD bus to work. The bus
driver that works the BOLT route in the morning is
FANTASTIC. I’m writing today in hopes that you will
strongly consider reinstating the BOLT stop within the
Monarch Business Park near Niwot. I relied heavily on bus
transport during winter months last year as biking to work
(as I typically do in the warmer months) isn’t really an
option. There are several reasons that I believe the stop
should be reinstated, at a minimum during the winter
months.
• as winter storms roll in, walking down the 52 from the
diagonal to work isn’t safe in the least. Cars will
undoubtedly be swerving on ice as I’m walking in the bike
lane down a road that the speed limit is 55mph on.
• there were about 5 people that used the bus on a regular
basis last winter (both to and from work) and I suspect
those same folks need transit to and from the business
park. In addition, there are 3 other people that ride the bus
that work in the business park. Some of them are currently
walking along the train tracks and cutting through a large
field to get to their work. Also, not safe.
• even if you only offered one stop in the morning and one
in the evening, that would be better than nothing. The
BOLT stops at IBM every morning, before it drops me at the
52 and Diagonal and more often than not, there is nobody
on the bus that gets off at IBM. There are several large
businesses in my complex: Lucky’s Market Corporate
Offices, Spark Fun, Case Logic, Crocs to name a few.
• when I leave work, I’m forced to stand on the side of the
diagonal for 10 minutes as cars are whizzing by at 60mph.
Also, not safe.
While I don’t expect that anyone at RTD really cares about
one persons opinion, it’s still really disheartening to think
that the need to save a buck or two by cutting a stop that
was being used is more important than the safety and
livelihood of some good folks who commute every day. I’d
really like to continue to rely on bus transit but if the stop
isn’t reinstated, I’ll be forced to make some financial
decisions that I’m not in a place to make just so that I can
ensure I can get to work safely.

E and F
Lines

1

Jack

Williams

FF

1

Debra

Caamamo

I’d really love to hear back from someone regarding this
stop. I only wish I reached out immediately when the stop
was discontinued… but I just figured I was only one voice.
And that I’d be ignored.
Your E and F lines all need 4th cars. I have been contacting
RTD continuously and getting nowhere. There needs to be a
resolution
I really don't understand why the stop and Broadway & Canyon was
taken out. That is a busy stop with a lot of riders and with that stop
gone there is a great distance between the stops. With bad weather
coming and the distance between those stops it make it hard for
people to want to catch that bus. It would be nice to get that stop
back or another stop put in at Broadway & Arapahoe to make it
more convenient for the riders out this way.

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
FF1/FF3

FF1/FF3

1

1

GS

1

Sti

Sau

Derej

Winkler

Brittany

Holmgren

GS

1

Brittany

Holmgren

GS

1

Brittany

Holmgren

I've been advised to provide my feedback to this email address. I've
been riding the bus (the BF, and now, unfortunately the FF1 and FF3)
for several years, and have never had a problem with it until the "FF"
routes were introduced. Now, unless school is out for Summer or
Winter break, there is only standing room only (if you're lucky
enough to even get on the bus - often times there's not even
standing room left) for FF1 and FF3 buses leaving Union Station at
5:09pm and 5:17pm. I don't usually catch the buses surrounding
these times, but I would be willing to bet they have the same
problem. This has been going on ever since the FF routes were
introduced, yet after personally writing multiple times, and even
seeing others actually writing their complaints while on the bus (you
can see a lot while standing for your ride home), here we are several
months later and nothing has changed. I understand the 90L was
brought back, but that did nothing to address the large number of
passengers leaving Union Station. Being used to riding the BF where
there was very rarely ever a time when passengers would have to
stand, I don't understand why the change to the FF route was made
if this is how people have to ride this bus now. And what is even
more baffling is that nothing has changed to fix it after multiple
people have written to point out the issue and complain to try to get
it fixed. How and when will this issue be fixed?
I noted that the October service changes are planned to
include schedule adjustments to routes FF1 and FF3, which
I ride daily. What I would like to propose is that the
morning trips for these two routes be better spaced to
provide better transfers at Union Station for the many riders
who continue on to the Denver tech center via light rail.
Currently, the FF1 and FF3 busses arrive at almost the
same time, at least those that I see (approximately 6:03
am, at Sheridan station). I run for a train at Union Station
almost every morning, and it would be great if one of these
two routes came just 5 to 10 minutes earlier.
I've been a bus-commuter for nearly 8 years.
Recently I got a new job that involves a different bus. I live in Golden
and most of the time I have been an RTD commuter I have worked in
Golden. And that was fine. Maybe the 16/16L isn't always as
frequent as I would like, but I made it work.
Now I work in Boulder. I'm fortunate enough to work a 9-5 (ish) job.
The GS is simple enough most of the time. But I work weekends, my
job is in an industry where we don't just do Monday-Friday. My
commute more than doubles on the weekend - I have to go into
Denver just to get to Boulder.
I can't socialise with my new coworkers because if I miss the 6pm GS
on weekdays, I have to go into Denver to get home to Golden. On
occasions when I have to work late to finish a time-sensitive project,
I have to go into Denver to get home. Or spend $30-45 on a car
home. On occasions when I have to go in for a mid-day meeting on
my day off, I basically spend my whole day off at work, because since
it takes so long to go into Denver then back out to Golden, I typically
just take the GS and use the extra hours to reorganise my desk or
something.
What I am saying is please expand the hours of the GS. Make it
convenient.
After the 2 hour ride last night from Boulder to Golden, I
was too exhausted to suggest changing the GS to broader
service.
An hour and 45 minutes to get from Golden to Boulder this
morning. Oh wow, if only there were some other way to
get between those two places.

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Suzanne

Argosino

My son told me today of a proposal to stop Call-N-Ride in Highlands
Ranch. Please consider this a formal plea to continue this service for
the following reasons:
1. My son goes to stem school and he is highly dependent on this
ride so he can get picked up safely after school since both my
husband and I work.
2. My son is able to go to Valor school for his after school physical
education activities that is not offered in STEM and because both
and my husband work this is his only way for him get to his class at
Valor at a timely and predicted manner.
3. Losing the Call N Ride will cause a hardship for my son and family
and other families as many students at STEM utilize this service.
I am also very willing to speak in person or via phone at 303-9497685 regarding our concerns should this service is discontinued.

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Autume

Estrada

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Danica

Estrada

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Elaine

Gorton

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Elaine

Gorton

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Joan

Gorton

Hello I am writing in regards to the possible cancellation of the bus
for the highlands ranch call n ride. my two kids and I both live in
south Denver. We use the call and ride from Skyview Academy to
lone tree entertainment district. This helps so that way my kids can
come to my work during my work hours after school. I am concerned
if there is no Call in ride that my kids will have to make the walk from
Skyview Academy to Quebec Street. This would be very hard in the
winter and double as far as timing goes. I'm writing to ask the board
to consider this email. As I am a single parent with two children who
commute 40 miles total per day for school and work. If there are
further questions for feed back please let me know.
Hi this is Danica autume Estrada's youngest daughter I am saying
that that should not do this to the call and ride because it helps me
whith my mom and her job my father is in jail fore bad things and
she has a hard time getting us to hear job and this bus is going to
help us and we go to Skyview academy it's a long way from school
and whith me and my older brother and the grads we are in and all
or books it helps us but we need this to go in to this meeting please
Danica
I am single mother who lives in Highlands Ranch and am a
frequent user of the Call-n-Ride service. This service is
valuable to me and my family and its being discontinued
would be a devastating blow. My kids use it every day to
get back and forth from school and this past summer I also
used for additional needs.
It is a wonderful service and I appreciate the
professionalism of each person that I have interacted with
that make this ride possible.
PLEASE do not discontinue service.
I am single mother who lives in Highlands Ranch and am a
frequent user of the Call-n-Ride service. This service is
valuable to me and my family and its being discontinued
would be a devastating blow. My kids use it every day to
get back and forth from school and this past summer I also
used for additional needs.
It is a wonderful service and I appreciate the
professionalism of each person that I have interacted with
that make this ride possible.
PLEASE do not discontinue service.
Dear sirs, On behalf of my daughter-in-law and her 2
school age children (my grandchildren), I appeal to you to
continue your bus service in Highlands Ranch. My
daughter-in-law is a single Mom who supports her family
with a 9-5 job, M-F. She depends on your service to get
her kids to school and to camp during the summer. In
support of working Moms and education, please consider
continuing your valued service.

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Nina

Ivanichvili

Our family has been greatly saddened by the news that our beloved
RTD Call a Ride bus service in Highlands Ranch will be discontinued
next year.
We respectfully ask you to reconsider this decision, as it will
negatively affect the lives of many residents of Highlands Ranch, and,
especially members of the most vulnerable population, the senior
citizens of Highlands Ranch, CO.
We know that people living in the suburbs often feel isolated. But
this isolation is even more unbearable for people residing in
Highlands Ranch who cannot get anywhere without the excellent
services provided by the drivers of RTD’s Call-n-Ride bus service in
Highlands Ranch.
My parents, refugees from the former Soviet Union, are in their late
70s, and are loyal patrons of the RTD’s Call-n-Ride bus service. They
have been able to get around and to pursue a healthy lifestyle thanks
to the RTD’s Call-n-Ride in Highlands Ranch, CO.
We ask you to remember that your decision to discontinue the RTD’s
Call-n-Ride bus service in Highlands Ranch will change the lives of
many people for the worse.
We would greatly appreciate your continuing this valuable public
service in the years to come.
Please remember that by keeping the Call-n-Ride RTD bus service in
Highlands Ranch alive, you will be bringing more hope, happiness
and joy into the lives of many residents of Highlands Ranchers who
otherwise would be facing the grim reality of isolation and inability
to get anywhere without the RTD’s Call-n-Ride RTD bus service.
We hope that you will vote for keeping the RTD’s Call-n-Ride bus
service in Highlands Ranch alive!

Highlands
Ranch
CnR
Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

LIZZ

Landert

I know people that use this .... it would be a heartship for them if you
discontinued this service in Highlands Ranch..

Bennett

Rutledge

Thank you for the proposal for Discontinuance of Highlands
Ranch Call-and-Ride.
This is not a legitimate function of government, nor
something that should be funded by compulsory tax
payments.
I understand that you are considering discontinuing the Call-N-Ride
service in Highlands Ranch. I urge you to reconsider this.
While I don’t personally live in Highlands Ranch, I have an employee
and her family who use the service regularly and depend upon it.
This is an essential service in a car-dominated part of metro Denver,
and should remain a Call-N-Ride service area for the RTD.
Discontinuance of the service would just exacerbate the “last mile”
problem of urban mass transit in the Denver metro area—a move in
the wrong direction.

1

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Dan

Slack

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Jacquette

Tara

Highlands
Ranch
CnR

1

Sharon

The current RTD proposal to discontinue the Call-N-Ride service in
the Highlands Ranch area has our family very concerned and
troubled. This is a valuable service which we appreciate and value
on a daily basis. A discontinuation of this service will cause undue
stress and conflict for many of us.
Please take my concerns and those of others under sincere
consideration when weighing the pros and cons of this proposal. We
await the decision and sincerely hope it is a favorable one.
Sharon wants to express her opinion on the proposed
schedule change. She does NOT want the Highlands Ranch
call and ride to be elimated. She is a senior and that is vital
for her and the seniors in her area to get around. She can
not attend the meeting tonight. She doesnt have access to
a computer to email her opinion or fax it in. Please re
consider elimating it. Thank you

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment B – Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings– Winter
Service Changes
W Line

1

J

Gerondale

I'm concerned about the discontinuance of of Monday –
Friday eastbound rush-hour trips from Federal Center
Station. Your qualification for doing this is "This proposal
would create 15 minute frequency, which is similar to other
light rail lines during rush-hour periods." HOWEVER, all of
the other lines have 3 or 4 cars for each trip and the W line
only has 2 cars. During rush hour the trains are already
packed and one cannot find a seat to sit in. A lot of time it
is a struggle to even get in the car because people are
standing in the entrance/exits because there are no
available seats.

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Atch B Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings Fall Winter Changes (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017

1.B.1.b

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters
1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: Atch C Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride Student Letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 45

1.B.1.d

Attachment: Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community Letters

UNITED METHODIST CHURCH
Our mission: to inspire spiritual maturity in outwardly focused Christians
who love their neighbors and serve the common good.

October 5, 2016

To RTD Representative and others it may concern:
Although I can't attend this evening's public meeting with RTD representatives, Suzanne
McFarland of Vi at Highlands Ranch tells me that RTD is considering installing bus stops along
South University Boulevard in front of both Vi and St. Andrew. I'm writing this note on St.
Andrew's behalf to voice our support for those new stops. A number of our church members live
at Vi, and a bus line would make it easier for them to be here throughout the week for church
events, bible studies, concerts, and the like.
A stop in front of our church would also enable people from other areas of the Denver
metropolitan area to get here more easily on Sunday mornings and throughout the week. St.
Andrew's church building is extensively used by community groups for art shows, concerts,
public lectures, seminars, and the like, so a bus stop would help us make those events available
to more people.
From our inception, St. Andrew has been dedicated to being a church for all. We place a strong
value on inclusivity, community, and service. Additional bus stops on University Boulevard in
front of the Vi and our church building will help us live out those values. We're grateful for RTD's
consideration of our needs. Please feel free to contact me with any questions or for further
conversation at 303.794.2683 x 153 or adunning@gostandrew.com.
Sincerely,

Andy Dunning
Executive Pastor
St. Andrew United Methodist Church

Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: Atch D St Andrew and VIA Retirement Community letters (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

1.B.1.d

AT HIGHLANDS RANCH

Staff Schedules

Nursing (24/7 Staffing):
6am -2:30pm
6am-6:30pm
2pm-10:30pm
6pm -6:30am
Maintenance (7 days a week/365 a year):
7am-5:30pm
Housekeeping (7 days a week/365 a year):
7:45am-4:15pm (Monday-Friday)
lpm-9pm (Monday-Friday)
7:4Sam -3:4Spm (Saturday-Sunday)
12am-8:30am (Sunday-Thursday)
Dining (7 days a week/365 a year):
6:30am -3pm
llam-9pm
4pm-9pm

Security (24/7 Staffing):
8:30am-4:30pm
4:30pm -1:00am
12 :05am -8:35am
Concierge (24/7 Staffing):
8:15am-4:30pm
4:15pm-12 :30am
12:15am-8:15am
Valet (7 days a week/365 a year):
6:30am-2pm
7:30am-4pm
2pm -7pm
4pm-9pm

F&B (7 days a week/365 a year):
6am-2:30pm
7am-3:30pm
8am-4:30pm
10am-8:30pm
llam-9pm
lpm-9:30pm
2pm -10:30pm
Spm -10:30pm

Packet Pg. 47

Attch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter

1.B.1.e

~~DOUGLAS COJI~JX

Office of the County Commissioners
www.douglas.co.us

Mr. Tom Tobiassen, Chair
Regional Transportation District
1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
Dear Mr. Tobiassen:
The Board of County Commissioners is very concerned about the proposed elimination of the
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride. With limited service available in the area, it is alarming that the
citizens of Highlands Ranch are potentially losing an affordable transportation service option in
their community.
In a good faith effort, Douglas County entered into a cost sharing agreement with the Highlands
Ranch Metro District (HRMD) and RTD in October 2014 to save this service from elimination.
Douglas County worked closely with a Transit Advisory Committee (TAC) made up of concerned
residents, RTD and HRMD staff to improve ridership. As a result of these efforts, the service
area was adjusted and the TAC participants worked to promote ridership through enhanced
outreach and marketing efforts. In 2015, these efforts increased ridership from 2.0 to 2.4
boardings per hour. In 2016, the ridership continued to increase until the summer months
when students were not utilizing the service for school trips.
It is disheartening that RTD would choose to cut a service that has demonstrated improvement
while ignoring the contribution that Douglas County citizens make to RTD. In 2014, Douglas
County contributed $22,958,456 in sales tax revenue to RTD and in return received $11,341,838
in transit service investment within the County.
If RTD feels that the Call-n-Ride model is not an appropriate service option for the Highlands
Ranch area, we would like to work with RTD staff to identify a ride share alternative using Go
Centennial, for example, as a model. We propose RTD provide a portion of our tax contribution
as seed funding to contract for ride share services in the RTD Highlands Ranch service area. We
believe this option would be more cost effective than the Call-n-Ride model, while addressing
customer needs. In order to maintain service for residents during this transition, we ask that
RTD continue to support the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride service during the development and
implementation of an alternative option.

David A. Weaver
Commissioner District I

Roger A. Partridge
Commissioner District II

Jill E. Repella
Commissioner District Ill

100 Third Street •Castle Rock, Colorado 80104 • 303.660.7401 • Fax 303.484.4344

Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Atch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

September 19, 2016

1.B.1.e

Feel free to contact any one of us if you have any questions or would like to discuss the service
alternative.
Sincerely,
BOARD OF DOUGLAS COUNTY COMMISSIONERS

BOCC/je/fe

cc: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Dave Genova, RTD General Manager and CEO
Bruce Abel, RTD Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations
Brian Matthews, RTD Special Services Manager
Douglas J. DeBord, Douglas County Manager
Terence T. Quinn, AICP, Director of Community Development

Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Atch E Douglas County Call-n-Ride Letter (2920 : Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes)

Mr. Tom Tobiassen, Chair
Regional Transportation District
September 19, 2016
Page 2

1.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 13, 2016

From:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager,
Rail Operations

GM

Date:

October 12, 2016

Board Meeting Date: October 25, 2016

Subject:

Authorization to enter into contract with
Protran Technology for purchase of Railway
Worker Protection Early Warning System
(16DR0003)

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract not to exceed $1,500,000 with
Protran Technology for the purchase of a Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System and
associated equipment (Contract Number 16DR003).
BACKGROUND:
Railway worker protection has been in the spotlight in recent years brought on by numerous
Maintenance of Wayside worker accidents and fatalities. On December 18, 2013, the NTSB made an
urgent safety recommendation to the FTA to prevent further accidents on rail transit systems. This
recommendation was for the FTA to issue a directive to all transit properties requiring redundant
protection for roadway workers. The District has a solid policy in place incorporating flags and red
signals where feasible to protect workers on the right of way. Our collective opinion is that safety can
be greatly improved. The current policy relies on human beings to remember locations of work parties
and work parties ability to spot the oncoming trains and leave the track before the train passes. There
are numerous factors that erode the effectiveness of this procedure such as time of day, visibility,
weather, operator/worker fatigue and architectural configurations. An early warning system will notify
the train operator and worker well in advance, often before the train is visible to the work party and is
not affected by these environmental factors. Early warning systems are currently the most effective
means of protecting workers in the right of way from trains and would be an essential enhancement to
railway safety all around. This early warning system would not take away any of the current safety
procedures, but would add an additional layer of protection.
The recommended system is an electronic device mounted on all light rail trains that, in conjunction with
the hand-held device carried by any railway workers, will warn both the operator and the worker well in
advance of each other. The system uses radios on both ends and will give a minimum 15 second
warning before the train arrives at the workers location. The workers can then move to a place of safety
before the train’s arrival.
DISSCUSSION:
RTD initially issued an Invitation for Bid (IFB 26DR001) on May 27, 2016 for the acquisition of a railway
worker protection early warning system. RTD received two bids, one of which did not meet our
specifications and one which exceeded our project budget. RTD subsequently issued a Request for
Proposals (RFP 16DR003) on August 19, 2016 with revised specifications for a similar system.

Packet Pg. 50

1.B.2

Evaluative criteria were cost- 50%, conformance with specifications- 30%, history and proven track
record with this equipment- 10%, and quality of references- 10%. RTD’s evaluation committee
consisted of Karl Shoemaker, MOW Senior Supervisor, Track Engineer; Matt Younce, Manager of
Maintenance Training; Greg Pennington, General Superintendent of Rail Infrastructure; and Leo Fautsch,
Senior Buyer.
RTD received two proposals; one from Metrom and one from Protran Technology. The evaluation
committee recommends Protran Technology, the proposer that met our specification and was the only
one within the project budget.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The cost of the Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System is funded in the Board approved 2016
budget.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract not to exceed
$1,500,000 with Protran Technology for purchase of a Railway Worker Protection Early Warning
System and associated equipment (Contract Number 16DR003). This is the recommended
alternative.
2. Do not authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute a contract with Protran
Technology to purchase needed Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System. This action
would result in RTD’s inability to improve the safety of its railway workers and risk future
accidents. This is not the recommended action as it would not allow us to improve worker
safety.

Prepared by:
Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager, Rail Operations
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 51

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 13, 2016

From:

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel

GM

Date:

October 13, 2016

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

RTD Code of Conduct

Information

DISCUSSION
RTD staff is presenting the attached draft of an RTD Code of Conduct to the Operations and Customer
Service Committee at its October 18 meeting for preliminary information and discussion. The Code is
intended to regulate behavior by passengers and others on RTD vehicles, facilities and property.
Staff intends to present a final version of the Code as a Recommended Action item at the November 15
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting. Staff is also proposing that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to amend the Code of Conduct after its approval as necessary to comply
with changes to law, after consultation with RTD’s Senior Leadership Team and with advice to the
Board of Directors.
RTD has not had a comprehensive code of conduct governing behavior passengers and others on RTD
vehicles, facilities and property. Many other transit agencies have such codes. The codes promote public
safety, health and peace. They help passengers and visitors understand acceptable behavior, and help
transit police forces and other staff communicate and, if necessary, enforce such behavior.
RTD currently has a Facilities Use Policy, available on RTD’s website, that applies to conduct on RTD
real property. However, that Policy focuses on commercial activity and First Amendment issues
concerning non-commercial activity, and does not provide detail as to specific prohibited conduct.
Recently, RTD Transit Police officers have asked visitors to RTD facilities to refrain from certain
activities, and some visitors have responded by asking what specific written policies prohibit such
activities. Adoption of the attached Code of Conduct will answer such questions.
RTD seeks to apply its standards of behavior in a compassionate and sensible manner, with an emphasis
on education and warnings when it is practicable to do so. If a patron violates the Code and refuses to
change his or her behavior after a warning, or in extreme cases where immediate action must be taken,
the Code will aid RTD Transit Police and other staff issuing an order to leave the premises or face
trespassing charges. (Certain actions may also constitute criminal behavior under “Endangering Public
Transportation” and similar statutes.)
The attached code has been developed after review of codes by other peer transit agencies, and with
input from the Senior Leadership Team and other agencies. Concurrently with this work, an RTD
Leadership Academy team has been working on a program to promote rider etiquette; rollout and
publicity of this Code is anticipated to be done in conjunction with the Leadership Academy program.
Currently RTD staff envisions two alternatives: (1) Accept the Recommended Action and approve the
attached Code of Conduct. This is recommended because RTD staff needs a comprehensive code to
educate the public and, if necessary, enforce appropriate behavior. (2) Reject the Recommended Action
and do not approve the attached Code of Conduct. This is not recommended since RTD will continue to
have no written rules governing behavior of RTD passengers and others.
ATTACHMENTS:


2016-10-13 Code of Conduct

(DOCX)

Prepared by:

Packet Pg. 52

1.C.1

Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel
Michael Meader, CSO/AGM, Safety, Security & Asset Management
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 53

1.C.1.a

CODE OF CONDUCT
FOR PERSONS ON RTD VEHICLES, FACILITIES OR PROPERTY
NOVEMBER ________, 2016

RTD desires to meet our constituents’ present and future public transportation needs by
offering safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible cost-effective service throughout the
District. For the safety, convenience, and comfort of all persons, RTD has established this
Code of Conduct (Code) setting forth rules prohibiting certain conduct that may in RTD’s
sole determination adversely affect use, operation or occupancy of RTD vehicles (including
RTD buses, access-a-Ride vehicles, call-n-Ride vehicles, light rail vehicles, and commuter
rail vehicles), facilities (including bus and rail stations, parking facilities, bus stops, bus
shelters, plazas and fountains, and administrative, operational and maintenance facilities),
or property. Any person who engages in prohibited conduct may be subject to
enforcement ranging from a verbal or written warning, immediate suspension, or a criminal
citation (see “Enforcement” section below).
2. Authority:
This Code of Conduct has been approved on November _____, 2016 by RTD’s Board of
Directors. In approving this Code, the Board of Directors has recognized that changes in
the law may require modifications to the Code, and has therefore authorized RTD’s Senior
Leadership Team to amend the Code to comply with changes in the law, with advice to
the Board, at any time with or without prior notice.
3. Prohibited Conduct:
A person (including any combination of persons of any nature whatsoever, including but
not limited to companies, clubs, associations, corporations, partnerships, and public
entities) is prohibited from committing, attempting to commit, or assisting any other
person or combination of persons to commit the following acts on any RTD vehicle, at any
RTD facility, or on RTD property unless otherwise specified in this Section:
Fares / Locations
1. Using any RTD services without prior payment of the proper fare.
2. Being within any RTD fare paid zone without prior payment of the proper
fare.
3. Riding an RTD vehicle or being within any RTD fare paid zone without
complying with RTD fare payment management systems (including but not
limited to failure to obtain and keep evidence of payment such as transfers

RTD Code of Conduct – 10-13-16 DRAFT
Page 1

Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: 2016-10-13 Code of Conduct (2921 : RTD Code of Conduct)

1. Purpose:

1.C.1.a

and tickets, and failure to tap smart card media in accordance with RTD
procedures).
4. Failing to possess, or immediately purchase upon request, fare of
transportation when at an RTD facility or property.
5. Failing to obey any request from RTD to stand behind warning strips
(including yellow tactile strips) or within other safe locations at all rail
platforms.

7. Unauthorized presence on any RTD vehicle, facility, or property after hours
of operation or after the vehicle has reached its final destination.
8. Unauthorized presence on any RTD property that is not open to the public.
9. Crossing RTD rail tracks at any location other than at a traffic or pedestrian
controlled intersection or at a designated pedestrian crossing.
10. Violating the terms of, or failing to have possession of, an RTD Facilities Use
Permit when required. Commercial activity and certain other activities require
such a permit.
Smoking / Eating / Drinking / Littering
11. Smoking or vaping any substance including but not limited to tobacco (as
defined in the Colorado Clean Indoor Air Act), or use of chewing tobacco, on
any RTD vehicle or within any prohibited area. A “prohibited area” for
purposes of this rule includes:
i. Any RTD facility or property where smoking is prohibited by state or
local law.
ii. Any indoor RTD facility.
iii. Any outdoor or enclosed RTD facility or property where “no smoking”
signs are posted.
iv. The area within a radius of 15 feet of the main entry or doorway to
an indoor RTD facility.
12. Consuming any alcoholic beverage or marijuana, or possessing an open
container of any alcoholic beverage or marijuana, on any RTD vehicle,
facility or property.
13. Eating on any RTD vehicle unless and solely to the extent medically
necessary.
14. Drinking on any RTD vehicle (drinking permitted from containers with lids on
Regional service).
15. Distributing handbills in RTD vehicles or to persons who are a captive
audience (i.e., standing in line for a vehicle).
RTD Code of Conduct – 10-13-16 DRAFT
Page 2

Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 2016-10-13 Code of Conduct (2921 : RTD Code of Conduct)

6. Failing to leave an RTD vehicle upon reaching the destination for which fare
was purchased.

1.C.1.a

16. Littering (including spilled food or liquids).
Disturbances
17. Disruptive, disturbing behavior including loud conversation, profanity or rude
insults, or loud mobile phone use (use of mobile phone speakers is
prohibited).

19. Playing music, singing, shouting, or otherwise willfully making loud sounds
that cause a disturbance to others.
20. Soliciting, petitioning, or otherwise engaging in unwanted conversation with
any other person while such person is a captive audience (i.e., standing in
line for a vehicle, or while riding a vehicle).
21. Engaging in expressive or other activities not authorized by RTD’s Facilities
Use Policy.
Occupancy
22. Taking any animal onto a vehicle or within a fare paid zone unless (1) the
animal's purpose is to assist a person with a disability, (2) the animal is in
training to assist a person with a disability, or (3) the animal is in an
appropriate animal carrier (including locked, standard commercial containers
in the underfloor luggage bays of regional bus coaches).
23. Use of a light rail boarding ramp or bus wheelchair lift for other than disabled
passengers, passengers with ADA mobility devices, or physically
injured/elderly passengers, except with operator permission and with priority
given to the above categories of passengers. (Ramps/lifts are not intended
for patrons with luggage, shopping carts, or bicycles.)
24. Possessing or transporting articles, baggage, or packages that are dangerous
or restrict free movement of passengers.
25. Possessing or transporting any flammable liquid, combustible material or
other dangerous or hazardous item or substance such as: gasoline, kerosene,
or propane, including in a canister or machinery. Also prohibited on RTD
vehicles are: car batteries, dollies, full size grocery carts, and large furniture
items.
26. Carrying any weapon, dangerous instrument (including but not limited to
switchblade knife, gravity knife, box cutter, straight razor, or razor blades
not wrapped or enclosed in a protective covering, or sword), or any other
item intended for use as a weapon except to the extent and in the manner
permitted by law. Legal firearms may be carried if they are unloaded and
carried in an enclosed container which completely conceals the item from
RTD Code of Conduct – 10-13-16 DRAFT
Page 3

Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: 2016-10-13 Code of Conduct (2921 : RTD Code of Conduct)

18. Operating any device used to listen to sound (other than a mobile phone
when being used for communications) without earphones, or if with
earphones at such a loudness level that the sound still causes a disturbance.

1.C.1.a

view and identification as a weapon; this provision does not apply to law
enforcement personnel and persons to whom a concealed carry license for
such weapon has been duly issued and is in force.
27. Writing, marking, scribbling, defacing or causing destruction on or to any
RTD vehicle or property in any manner.
28. Occupying more than one seat when to do so would interfere or tend to
interfere with the operation of RTD’s system or the comfort of other users.
30. Sleeping or dozing where such activity may be hazardous to the person or
others or may interfere with the operation of RTD’s system or the comfort of
RTD passengers or patrons.
31. Entering or remaining on RTD property while the person’s ability to function
safely in the environment of a transit system is impaired by the consumption
of alcohol or by the taking of any drugs.
32. Camping.
33. Storing personal property (except for designated areas such as bike
lockers/racks when using transit).
34. Occupying or traversing landscaped areas (other than lawns intended for
public use).
35. Occupying any facility for more than 2 hours unless such extended
occupancy is due to delay in transit service.
36. Blocking or impeding the movement of another person or blocking an aisle,
elevator, escalator, door or stairway with one’s body or any object, in a way
that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a patron’s movement, or
displaces a person.
37. Occupying, or placing an item or object on, any seat other than the single
seat being occupied by the passenger, in a manner that restricts others from
being able to use that seat.
38. Failing to clear a designated wheelchair/mobility device area upon RTD
request.
39. Impeding the safe boarding or exiting of passengers, or restricting the
opening or closing of doors.
40. Unauthorized use of an electrical or data outlet.
Wheeled devices
41. Using or riding a skateboard, inline or roller skates, bicycle, scooter,
Segway, hoverboard, or other wheeled personal transportation device
(unless used as a mobility aid for the disabled) on any RTD vehicle, facility or

RTD Code of Conduct – 10-13-16 DRAFT
Page 4

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: 2016-10-13 Code of Conduct (2921 : RTD Code of Conduct)

29. Lying on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground or conveyance.

1.C.1.a

property (strollers, non-ridden and non-straddled bicycles, and wheeled
luggage are permitted);
42. Using any wheeled device unsafely (i.e., in a manner that could cause injury
to the rider or other patrons).
43. Placing a bicycle on any RTD vehicle in other than designated locations or
without staying next to the bicycle.
Sanitation

45. Failing to wear shirt, pants/shorts/skirts/dress, and soled footwear.
46. Putting feet up on a seat on a station, platform or vehicle.
47. Fouling any seat or other area (other than designated trash receptacles) with
liquids, soils, greases, oils, foods, litter, urine, feces, other bodily fluids, or
any other substances.
48. Spitting, urinating or defecating other than in facilities intended for such
purposes.
49. Engaging in public nudity or indecent exposure.
50. Exposing one’s anus or genitals.
Other Prohibited or Illegal Activity
51. Any illegal activity under any applicable federal, state or local law, ordinance
or regulation, including but not limited to: theft, possession of illegal drugs,
counterfeiting, littering, vandalism, interference with public transportation,
and endangering public transportation.
52. Failure to obey any directive from an RTD employee or representative related
to RTD operations. For example, RTD’s Trailblazer Operators Guide contains
many procedures and requirements related to ADA policies, including
wheelchair securement, boarding with strollers and other large items,
passenger locations on vehicles, and other topics.
Enforcement:

RTD will comply with the Americans with Disabilities Act and Title VI
of the Civil Rights Act in the administration of this Code of Conduct.
If violations of this Code of Conduct appear or are claimed to be
caused by a disability, RTD personnel are to contact Dispatch or
Security for advice and assistance.
RTD Code of Conduct – 10-13-16 DRAFT
Page 5

Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: 2016-10-13 Code of Conduct (2921 : RTD Code of Conduct)

44. Bathing or washing clothing in RTD restrooms.

1.C.1.a

A person who engages in any of the above prohibited conduct may be warned and/or
ordered to immediately exit the RTD vehicle, facility, or property by an RTD Transit Police
Officer, an RTD Transit Security Officer, an RTD Bus/Light Rail/Commuter Rail Line
Supervisor, or other authorized RTD personnel. Such personnel are authorized to issue an
order to the person to exit RTD property for up to the remainder of the service day.

A person who engages in any of the above prohibited conduct may also, or instead, be
issued a suspension by RTD, suspending the person from all RTD vehicles, properties and
services for a determined amount of time pursuant to RTD’s Service Suspension policy and
procedures.
A person ordered to leave or suspended from RTD property will not be entitled to any
refund of unused fare media that may expire during the time of the person’s exclusion.
Suspension or orders to exit RTD property may be appealed pursuant to RTD’s Service
Suspension policy and procedures.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, riding an RTD vehicle without
evidence that the proper fare has been paid may be treated in accordance with Colorado
Traffic Code 42-4-1416.
In addition to any other enforcement under this Code, illegal activity may result in citation
under any applicable federal, state, or local law, regulation or ordinance, including
Colorado State Statutes 18-9-114 - Hindering Transportation (Class 2 Misdemeanor), and
CRS 18-9-115 - Endangering Public Transportation and Utility Transmission (Class 3
Felony).

This Code of Conduct does not seek to limit, replace, or conflict with
any federal, state, or local law, regulation or ordinance, and does not
limit or prevent any law enforcement agency or entity from taking any
lawful action against any person on any RTD vehicle, facility, or
property.

RTD Code of Conduct – 10-13-16 DRAFT
Page 6

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: 2016-10-13 Code of Conduct (2921 : RTD Code of Conduct)

Situations where a person refuses to leave an RTD vehicle, facility or property after being
ordered to do so may be considered trespassing and may be referred to law enforcement
personnel.

2.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

Transfer FasTracks Sales and Use Tax
Revenues in Excess of Forecasted Sales and
Use Tax Revenues to FasTracks Internal
Savings Account

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 25, 2016

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve transferring FasTracks sales and use tax revenues (.4%) from unrestricted fund
balance to the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) on an annual basis when actual sales and
use tax revenues (.4%) collected for the calendar year exceed the forecasted sales and use tax
revenues (.4%) projected in the adopted budget each year. The actual sales and use tax revenues
will be determined based on the audited financial statements.
BACKGROUND
During the course of preparing and adopting the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and Financial Plan,
many meetings with the Board of Directors and stakeholders were held regarding the lack of funds
and use of the FISA to assist in funding shortfalls in FasTracks. Use of the FISA to cover shortfalls
in operations and maintenance was not popular with many of the Board members and stakeholders,
but staff felt it was a necessity due to current revenue forecasts.
DISCUSSION
During meetings with some of the stakeholders, it was suggested that if FasTracks revenue
forecasts improved in the future those excess funds could be directed towards the FISA. Some
stakeholders felt this could evidence continued RTD support for construction of the unfunded
corridors. This action would transfer, on an annual basis, FasTracks sales and use tax revenue in
excess of the forecasted FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to the FISA account. This would only
occur if there was actual revenue collected above the forecast.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This should not have a fiscal impact as any FasTracks sales and use tax actual collections over the
yearly forecasted projections would already be deposited and be used towards the FasTracks program
generally. This action would direct those revenues to the FISA account instead of the unrestricted fund
balance.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. FasTracks sales and use tax revenues in excess of
forecasted revenue will be annually transferred to the FISA account.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Revenues in excess of forecasted revenue will be
retained in the unrestricted fund balance but can still be specifically transferred to the FISA

Packet Pg. 60

2.B.1

account.

Prepared by:
Heather Copp, CFO/AGM, Finance & Administration
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 61

2.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016

ATTACHMENTS:


RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 62

2.C.1.a

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

RTD Sales and Use Tax Forecast

Place cover image here

Robert McNown, Richard Wobbekind, Miles Light, and
Brian Lewandowski
October 18, 2016
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 63

Presentation Outline
•
•
•
•
•

Economic overview
Model development
Uncertainty
Forecasts and revisions
Comparison with Colorado Legislative Council and OSPB

2
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 64

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Real GDP and Potential Real GDP
Trillions, USD

22
Recession 8 Months

Recession 18 Months

Actual

20
18

Projected

Potential Real GDP

16
Real GDP

14
12
10
2000

2002

2004

2006

2008

2010

2012

2014

2016

2018

2020

2022

2024

2026

4

Source: Congressional Budget Office, August 2016 report An Update to the Budget and Economic Outlook: 2016 to 2026.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Components of Growth
Percent Change
8
6

Year-over-Year

4
2
0

SAAR

-2
-4
-6
2000 Q2
Percent Change
25
20
15
10
5
0
-5
-10
-15
-20
-25
-30
2000 Q2

2004 Q2

2008 Q2

2012 Q2

Government Spending

SAAR

Personal Consumption Expenditures

2016 Q2

Fixed Business Investment

10
8
6
4
2
0
-2
-4
-6
-8
-10
Q2 2000

Year-over-Year

SAAR

Q2 2004

Q2 2008

Q2 2012

Q2 2016

Q2 2012

Q2 2016

Goods Exports

SAAR
20
15
Year-over-Year

10
5
0
-5

SAAR

-10
-15
-20
2004 Q2

2008 Q2

2012 Q2

2016 Q2

-25
Q2 2000

Q2 2004

Q2 2008

Sources: Bureau of Economic Analysis, the National Bureau of Economic Research, and the Business Research Division.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

2.C.1.a

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

National Employment
Thousands, Month-overMonth

500
300
100
-100
Recession 8 Months

-300

Recession 18 Months

3-Month Moving Average

-500
-700
-900
2000

2002

2004

2006

2008

2010

2012

2014

2016

Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics (Seasonally Adjusted), National Bureau of Economic Research, Moody’s Analytics, and the BRD.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 67

State Employment Growth
August 2016 Year-over-Year

5

Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, CES.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Personal Income
United States and Colorado
Indexed, 1970=100
3,500
3,000
Colorado

2,500
2,000
1,500
1,000
500

United
States

0
1970 1973 1976 1979 1982 1985 1988 1991 1994 1997 2000 2003 2006 2009 2012 2015
Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2 Q2

7

Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Household Debt Burden
Percent of Disposable Income
DSR

FOR

14.0

19.0

13.0

18.0

12.0

Financial Obligations Ratio
(Right Axis)

11.0

17.0
16.0

Debt Service Ratio
(Left Axis)

10.0

15.0

9.0
14.0
1980Q2 1983Q4 1987Q2 1990Q4 1994Q2 1997Q4 2001Q2 2004Q4 2008Q2 2011Q4 2015Q2

8

Source: Federal Reserve, Household Debt Service and Obligations Ratios.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Change in Population
Change in Colorado Population
2004-2040
Thousands
120

2nd-fastest state for percentage growth

100

7th-fastest state for absolute growth
Net Migration

80
60

20
0
2004 2009 2014 2019 2024 2029 2034 2039

Natural Increase

40

22nd-most populated state in nation
5th-most net migration since 2010
Only 14 counties with net out migration

Source: Colorado Demography Office.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Colorado Employment Change
August 2015 – August 2016 Total Jobs Gained
Employment in Thousands

2,630
2,620
PBS

2,610

Financial

TTU

MFG

Other

Info

Mining

2016

EHS

2,600

Total jobs
lost: 4,400

Govt

2,590
L&H

2,580

Total jobs gained:
76,000

2,570

Net change:
71,600

Const

2,560
2,550

2015

2,540
Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics, Current Employment Statistics (SA).
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

2.C.1.a

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

Residential Building Permits
2006-2016
July YTD
2015-2016

45,000
40,000
35,000
30,000

Multifamily

25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
Single Family

5,000
0
2006

2007

Source: U.S. Census Bureau.

2008

2009

2010

2011

2012

2013

2014

2015

YTD
July
2015

YTD
July
2016

Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 73

State Taxable Retail Sales in the District
12-Month Rolling Sum
12-Month Rolling Sum
$ Millions
60,000,000
50,000,000
40,000,000
30,000,000
20,000,000
10,000,000
0
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015

9

Data Sources: Colorado Department of Revenue and RTD, based on period month.
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 74

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Economic Summary
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Recession is history
Growth slow and steady
Balance sheets getting stronger
Consumers staying in the marketplace
International economies mixed
Inflation low and stable
Housing costs a challenge
Election weighing on business
Energy prices low (good and bad)

11
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 75

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Model Development: Key Economic Drivers

14
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 76

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Model Development: Key Economic Drivers
Short-term, medium-term forecasts
• Employment: US and Colorado
• Real Gross Domestic Product: US
• Personal income: Colorado
• Retail sales and taxable sales: US and Colorado
Long-term forecasts
• Population projections from U.S. Census and State Demography Office
• Projections by age groups for US, Colorado, and RTD district
• Population age distributions affect savings, labor supply, productivity,
output, and household expenditures

15
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Forecast Uncertainty and Revisions
Previous slides show steady, moderate growth as U.S. and
Colorado economies recover from recession
Colorado economy stronger than national average, both in
long run and in recent recovery

Looking ahead, forecasters encounter uncertainty
Fed policy, Europe, the Middle East, Emerging Markets,
commodity prices, election, etc.
Frequent revisions of forecasts to reflect new information

16
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Moody’s GDP Growth Expectations
3.9

3.4
June 2015
September 2015

2.9

December 2015
March 2016

2.4

September 2016

1.9

1.4
2014

2015
Jun-15

Sep-15

2016
Dec-15

Mar-16

2017
Sep-16

Source: Moody’s Analytics.

17
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Factors Impacting 2016-2017 Revenues
• Growing, but slowing, Colorado employment, sales, and
personal income expectations
• Marijuana Revenue
• Exports
• Energy
• Housing
• Sales tax remittances from Amazon

18
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Error Tracking
Forecast Errors and Revisions

Forecast Percent Error

Forecasted
Quarter

Q1 2015
Q2 2015
Q3 2015
Q4 2015
2015
Q1 2016
Q2 2016

March
December
June 2015 September
March 2016
2015
2015
Forecast 2015 Forecast
Forecast
Forecast
Forecast
-0.88
3.35
0.33
0.63
-2.40
-0.98
3.94
1.38
4.76
2.34
1.82
-0.18
0.98
0.61
3.17
-0.18

15
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Short-Term Forecast

Revisions from prior reports

• RTD total revenues in Q2 0.18% above forecast.
• Weakness projected to carry through 2016
• Reflection of slower growth in general economic
conditions for nation and state.
• Real GDP growth for 2016 now expected at 1.5%
(Moody’s Below-Trend Scenario)
• 2.3% projected in March 2016
• 3.4% projected in September 2015

19
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Forecast Uncertainty
RTD Revenue 2016-2022, Below-Trend Long-Term Growth Scenario
$800,000,000

$750,000,000

Lower Bound
Below-Trend Long-Term Growth Scenario
Upper Bound

$700,000,000

$650,000,000

$600,000,000

$550,000,000
2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

21
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Scenario Planning
RTD Revenue 2016-2022
Dollars

$750,000,000
Stronger Near-Term Rebound Scenario
Baseline
Below-Trend Long-Term Growth

$730,000,000
$710,000,000
$690,000,000
$670,000,000
$650,000,000
$630,000,000
$610,000,000
$590,000,000
$570,000,000
$550,000,000
2016

2017

2018

2019

2020

2021

2022

22
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

District Population
Total by Age Cohort, 1975-2045
Population
1,800,000
1,600,000
1,400,000

Ages 0-29

1,200,000

Ages 30-49

1,000,000
800,000

Ages 50-64

600,000
Ages 65+
400,000
200,000
0
1970

1980

1990

2000

2010

2020

2030

2040

Source: State Demography Office.

23
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

District Population
Share by Age Cohort, 1975-2045
Percentage of Population
60%
50%
Ages 0-29
40%
Ages 30-49

30%

Ages 50-64

20%

Ages 65+
10%
0%
1975

1985

1995

2005

2015

2025

2035

2045

Source: State Demography Office.

24
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Long Term Forecast Uncertainty
RTD Revenue 2016-2022, Below-Trend Long-Term Growth Scenario
$900,000,000
High
Median
Low

$850,000,000
$800,000,000
$750,000,000
$700,000,000
$650,000,000
$600,000,000
$550,000,000
$500,000,000
2015

2020

2025

2030

2035

2040

2045

25
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Forecast Comparison
Forecast Comparison
Colorado Economic
Indicators

Business Colorado Office of State
Research Legislative Planning and
Division
Council
Budgeting

Personal income (% change)
2016
2017
2018
Employment (% change)
2016
2017
2018
Retail trade (% change)
2016
2017
2018

3.5%
3.9%
4.7%

4.3%
4.7%
5.7%

4.9%
5.2%
5.1%

2.3%
1.3%
1.5%

2.5%
1.9%
2.0%

2.3%
2.4%
2.3%

2.9%
4.6%
4.8%

3.0%
3.8%
4.5%

4.3%
5.2%
5.0%

Note: BRD, CLC, and OSPB updates as of March 2016.

26

Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

Integrity of Model Forecasts
Forecasts are updated semi-annually to reflect the most current
economic situation.
Forecasts may be too high or too low, reflecting uncertainty in the
economy.
Forecasts are generated from theoretically sound economic relations,
modeled with state-of-the-art methods of modern econometric time
series analysis.
BRD forecasts do not incorporate “add factors” or other subjective
adjustments of model forecasts.
BRD is independent from RTD with no political or financial stake in the
forecast numbers.
27
Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

2.C.1.a

2.C.1.a

Attachment: RTD_Sales_and_Use_Tax_Forecast_101816_Final_101216 (2924 : Sales and Use Tax

Thank You

Business Research Division | Leeds School of Business | University of Colorado Boulder

Packet Pg. 90

2.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016
Information

ATTACHMENTS:


083116 RTD MFS

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Controller
Heather Deckard, Senior Finance Analyst
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 91

2.C.2.a

MONTHLY FINANCIAL STATUS
AUGUST 2016
To: Dave Genova, General Manager and CEO
From: Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer
Date: October 18, 2016

ACTION

DISCUSSION

INFO

AUGUST 2016
ACTUAL VS.
BUDGET

YTD 2016
ACTUAL VS.
BUDGET

AUGUST
2016 VS. 2015

YEAR TO DATE
2016 VS. 2015

S&U TAX

S&U TAX

S&U TAX

S&U TAX

6.6%

-1.1%

10.1%

3.4%

RIDERSHIP

RIDERSHIP

RIDERSHIP

RIDERSHIP

-3.9%

-5.7%

2.7%

10.9%

FARE
REVENUE

FARE
REVENUE

FARE
REVENUE

FARE
REVENUE

9.8%

0.2%

18.6%

8.2%

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

x

SALES AND USE TAX
AUGUST 2016
(In Thousands)

MONTH
YTD

2016
ACTUAL

2016
BUDGET

VARIANCE

VARIANCE %

2015
ACTUAL

VARIANCE
TO 2015

VARIANCE
%

51,450
365,280

48,284
369,384

3,167
(4,104)

6.6%
-1.1%

46,717
353,256

4,734
12,024

10.1%
3.4%

S&U TAX - YTD
ACTUAL VS. BUDGET

S&U TAX - AUGUST 2016
ACTUAL VS. BUDGET
375,000

52,000
51,000

370,000

50,000
365,000
49,000
360,000

48,000
47,000

355,000

46,000
350,000
45,000
44,000
2016 ACTUAL
2016 BUDGET
2015 ACTUAL

345,000

AUGUST 2016
51,450
48,284
46,717

JANUARY- AUGUST 2016
365,280
369,384
353,256

2016 ACTUAL
2016 BUDGET
2015 ACTUAL

SALES AND USE TAX TRENDS
$54.0

(Millions)

2016 Actual

2016 Budget

$48.0

2015 Actual
$42.0

$36.0

Packet Pg. 92

2.C.2.a

RIDERSHIP
AUGUST 2016
2016
ACTUAL

(In Thousands)

MONTH
YEAR TO DATE

2016
VARIANCE VARIANCE %
BUDGET

8,891
66,753

9,256
70,775

(365)
(4,021)

2015
ACTUAL

VARIANCE %
to 2015

8,656
60,168

2.7%
10.9%

-3.9%
-5.7%

RIDERSHIP - AUGUST 2016
ACTUAL VS. BUDGET

RIDERSHIP - YTD
ACTUAL VS. BUDGET
72,000

9,400
9,300
9,200
9,100
9,000
8,900
8,800
8,700
8,600
8,500
8,400
8,300

70,000

66,000
64,000
62,000
60,000
58,000
56,000
54,000

AUGUST 2016
8,891
9,256
8,656

2016 ACTUAL
2016 BUDGET
2015 ACTUAL

JANUARY- AUGUST 2016
66,753
70,775
60,168

2016 ACTUAL
2016 BUDGET
2015 ACTUAL

RIDERSHIP BY TYPE - AUGUST 2016
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
AUGUST 2016 ACTUAL
AUGUST 2015 ACTUAL

Bus
4,684
5,187

Light Rail
1,743
1,772

Mall Ride
1,026
1,156

A Line*
469
-

B Line*
40
0

BRT*
384
-

West Line
392
372

Other
91
121

MetroRide
62
47

West Line
2,869
2,411

Other
707
781

MetroRide
379
360

RIDERSHIP BY TYPE - YTD
40,000
35,000
30,000
25,000
20,000

*

15,000

*

10,000
5,000
2016 ACTUAL YTD
2015 ACTUAL YTD

Bus
36,375
35,989

Light Rail
13,450
12,586

Mall Ride
8,092
8,041

A Line*
2,084
-

B Line*
47
0

BRT*
2,750
-

RIDERSHIP TRENDS
10.0

2016 Budget
(Millions)

9.0

2015 Actual
8.0

2016 Actual

7.0
6.0

* New in 2016

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

68,000

2.C.2.a

FARE REVENUE
AUGUST 2016
2016
ACTUAL

2016
BUDGET

VARIANCE

13,290
87,091

12,100
86,926

1,190
165

MONTH
YEAR TO DATE

2015
ACTUAL

VARIANCE %
9.8%
0.2%

FARE REVENUE - AUGUST 2016
ACTUAL VS. BUDGET

VARIANCE %
to 2015

11,210
80,498

18.6%
8.2%

FARE REVENUE - YTD
ACTUAL VS. BUDGET

13,500

88,000

13,000

86,000

12,500

84,000

12,000
82,000
11,500
80,000

11,000

78,000

10,500
10,000

76,000

AUGUST 2016
13,290
12,100
11,210

2016 ACTUAL
2016 BUDGET
2015 ACTUAL

JANAUARY- AUGUST 2016
87,091
86,926
80,498

2016 ACTUAL
2016 BUDGET
2015 ACTUAL

FARE REVENUE - AUGUST 2016
7,000
6,000
5,000
4,000
3,000
2,000
1,000
FARE BOX

10 RIDE

2,627
2,694

1,264
1,202

AUGUST 2016 ACTUAL
AUGUST 2015 ACTUAL

PASSES
(ECO/COLLEGE/MO
NTHLY)
6,558
6,104

DAY PASS*

TVMs

MYRIDE*

SPECIAL SVCS

168
-

2,563
1,144

30
-

81
66

FARE REVENUE - YTD
50,000
45,000
40,000
35,000
30,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
5,000
-

2016 ACTUAL YTD
2015 ACTUAL YTD

FARE BOX

10 RIDE

17,270
19,543

9,150
9,476

PASSES
(ECO/COLLEGE/MO
NTHLY)
45,817
43,640

DAY PASS

TVMs

MYRIDE*

SPECIAL SVCS

1,218
-

13,065
7,592

248
-

323
247

FARE REVENUE TRENDS
$14.0

(Millions)

$13.0

2016 Budget

$12.0
$11.0

2016 Actual

$10.0
$9.0

2015 Actual

$8.0
$7.0

* New in 2016

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

(In Thousands)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF NET POSITION - COMBINED
AUGUST 31, 2016
(UNAUDITED)
(In Thousands)

2016
Base System

2016
FasTracks Project

2016
FasTracks Ops

2016
Combined

December 31, 2015
Combined

Change

ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
Cash & Cash Equivalents
Receivables:
Sales Taxes
Grants
Other (less allowance for doubtful accts)
Total Net Receivables

$

124,313

$

32,960

$

15,795

$

173,068

$

339,950

$

(166,882) (1)

57,613
14,026
12,034
83,673

38,408
103,177
7,166
148,751

-

96,021
117,203
19,200
232,424

96,460
1,780
18,453
116,693

35,039
129,926
4,803
377,754

329,341
29,188
540,240

15,795

35,039
459,267
33,991
933,789

35,922
579,721
34,558
1,106,844

(883)
(120,454)
(567)
(173,055)

Capital Assets:
Land
Land Improvements
Buildings
Revenue Earning Equipment
Shop, Maintenance & Other Equipment
Construction in Progress
Total Capital Assets
Accumulated Depreciation
Net Capital Assets

172,258
1,316,912
263,495
619,029
180,011
128,663
2,680,368
(1,230,468)
1,449,900

393,648
1,912,156
343,772
495,384
3,480
2,076,765
5,225,205
(250,641)
4,974,564

-

565,906
3,229,068
607,267
1,114,413
183,491
2,205,428
7,905,573
(1,481,109)
6,424,464

390,250
2,195,281
491,458
921,680
201,950
3,325,283
7,525,902
(1,394,293)
6,131,609

175,656
1,033,787
115,809
192,733
(18,459)
(1,119,855)
379,671
(86,816)
292,855

TABOR Reserves
Restricted Debt Service/Debt Service Reserves
Deposits
TOTAL NONCURRENT ASSETS

13,776
31,813
1,500
1,496,989

6,930
60,515
5,042,009

-

20,706
92,328
1,500
6,538,998

20,211
91,316
1,500
6,244,636

495
1,012
294,362

Inventory
Restricted Debt Service/Project Funds
Other Assets
TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS

(439) (2)
115,423 (3)
747
115,731

NONCURRENT ASSETS:

TOTAL ASSETS

$

1,874,743

$

5,582,249

$

15,795

$

7,472,787

$

7,351,480

$

121,307

DEFERRED OUTFLOW OF RESOURCES

$

50,614

$

24,852

$

-

$

75,466

$

77,736

$

(2,270)

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

2.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 95

(1) Cash will be replenished with COP fund draws for fleet purchases as well as collection of grant receivables
(2) Due to economic changes, represents an overall decline in sales tax revenue collections
(3) Increase due to up-front recording of grants to be drawn, advertising contracts and fare media sales to retailers

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF NET POSITION - COMBINED
AUGUST 31, 2016
(UNAUDITED)
(In Thousands)

2016
Base System

2016
FasTracks Project

2016
FasTracks Ops

2016
Combined

December 31, 2015
Combined

Change

LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts & Contracts Payable
Current Portion of Long Term Debt
Accrued Compensation
Accrued Interest Payable
Other
TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES

$

NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:
Long Term Debt
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Net Pension Liability
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES

53,438
47,775
23,380
7,835
27,850
160,278

$

648,482
321,615
970,097

224,784
10,268
33,183
2,620
270,855

$

2,713,234
156,619
2,869,853

-

$

-

278,222
58,043
23,380
41,018
30,470
431,133

$

3,361,716
156,619
321,615
3,839,950

163,302
61,698
19,953
21,451
24,165
290,569

$

3,387,621
247,771
321,615
3,957,007

114,920 (4)
(3,655)
3,427
19,567
6,305
140,564

(25,905)
(91,152) (5)
(117,057)

TOTAL LIABILITIES

$

1,130,375

$

3,140,708

$

-

$

4,271,083

$

4,247,576

$

23,507

DEFERRED INFLOW OF RESOURCES

$

4,102

$

579

$

-

$

4,681

$

4,701

$

(20)

$

$

$

2,682,289
745,572
20,284
(61,696)
27,007
2,418
22,200
15,000
35,537
(311,672)
3,176,939

$

$

3,004,707
623,880
19,784
(236,476)
35,289
2,418
30,465
23,265
80,832
(311,672)
3,272,492

$

$

5,265
5,265
5,265
15,795

$

$

2,251,062
414,129
4,956
(236,476)
29,726
2,418
2,465,815

$

$

753,645
209,751
14,828
5,563
25,200
18,000
75,567
(311,672)
790,882

$

322,418
(121,692)
(500)
(174,780)
8,282
8,265
8,265
45,295 (6)
95,553

$

1,925,359

$

5,607,102

$

15,795

$

7,548,256

$

7,429,216

$

119,040

NET POSITION
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Restricted - Debt Service, Projects and Deferrals
Restricted - TABOR Reserves
Restricted - FasTracks
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Assets Held for Sale
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Fund
Net Pension Liability - Represented
TOTAL NET POSITION
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET POSITION

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

2.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 96

(4) Increase is due to amounts payable for capital and operations for the Eagle P3 project
(5) Reversal of accrual for TABOR payments on Eagle project that will be reinstated during 2016
(6) Will fluctuate primarily with fluctuations in cash. Replenishment will occur with draws of COP funds and appropriated grants (see (2))

STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION - COMBINED
AUGUST 31, 2016
(UNAUDITED)
(In Thousands)

OPERATING REVENUE:
Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other
Total Operating Revenue

YTD
Base
System
Actual

YTD
Base
System
Budget

YTD
FasTracks
Project
Actual

YTD
FasTracks
Project
Budget

YTD
FasTracks
Operations
Actual

YTD
FasTracks
Operations
Budget

YTD
System
Wide
Actual

YTD
System
Wide
Budget

$
Favorable
(Unfavorable)

%
Favorable
(Unfavorable)

-----------------

-----------------

-----------------

-------------

-----------------

-------------

-----------------

-----------------

-----------------

-------------

$

$

$

$

$

8,446
8,446

87,090
3,663
90,753

86,925
3,198
90,123

165
465
630

0.2%
14.5%
0.7%

80,050
3,663
83,713

78,479
3,198
81,677

-

$

-

7,040
7,040

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Asset Management
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation and Other Non-Departmental
Total Operating Expenses

181,208
29,816
1,605
23,586
11,425
8,548
24,125
7,433
5,006
395
(11,635)
70,708
352,220

186,065
32,050
4,271
28,661
10,842
8,200
29,119
8,264
5,073
1,073
(11,635)
63,097
365,080

353
8,692
260
149
243
11,635
61,266
82,598

(74)
14,043
345
322
860
11,635
74,837
101,968

460
26,742
2,019
1,693
2,016
32,930

343
31,260
3,893
2,419
1,811
39,726

181,668
56,558
1,958
32,278
13,444
8,808
24,274
9,369
5,006
395
133,990
467,748

186,408
63,310
4,197
42,704
14,735
8,545
29,441
11,543
5,073
1,073
139,745
506,774

4,740
6,752
2,239
10,426
1,291
(263)
5,167
2,174
67
678
5,755
39,026

2.5%
10.7%
53.3%
24.4%
8.8%
-3.1%
17.6%
18.8%
1.3%
63.2%
0.0%
4.1%
7.7%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(268,507)

(283,403)

(82,598)

(101,968)

(25,890)

(31,280)

(376,995)

(416,651)

39,656

9.5%

Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense
Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

219,168
61,767
2,086
702
106
(17,922)
265,907

221,630
61,409
607
1,987
(20,300)
265,333

107,622
1,466
4,705
5,501
(69,301)
49,993

103,874
737
1,693
5,862
(80,197)
31,969

38,490
38,490

43,880
43,880

365,280
63,233
6,791
6,203
106
(87,223)
354,390

369,384
62,146
2,300
7,849
(100,497)
341,182

(4,104)
1,087
4,491
(1,646)
106
13,274
13,208

-1.1%
1.7%
195.3%
-21.0%
0.0%
13.2%
3.9%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

(2,600)

(18,070)

(32,605)

(69,999)

12,600

12,600

(22,605)

(75,469)

52,864

-70.0%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

1,802

10,727

116,355

113,155

-

-

118,157

123,883

(5,725)

-4.6%

47,139

97.4%

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET
POSITION

$

(798)

$

(7,343)

$

83,750

$

43,156

$

12,600

$

12,600

$

95,552

$

48,414

$

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

2.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 97

(1)
(2) Variance is due to the timing of payment on management services
(3) Variance is due to the timing of payment on contracted maintenance services
(4) Variance is primarily due to the timing of IT project invoicing for computer hardware, data processing and software maintenance costs

(1)
(2)

(3)
(4)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
1% SALES AND USE TAX REVENUE - SYSTEM WIDE
AUGUST 31, 2016
(In Thousands)

2016 ACTUAL VS. BUDGET

Actual
Budget
Favorable/(Unfavorable)

January
2016
$ 41,168
42,164

February
2016
$ 39,696
39,691

March
2016
$ 44,462
47,441

April
2016
$ 46,084
45,805

May
2016
$ 45,553
47,629

June
2016
$ 52,319
50,261

$

$

$

$

(996)

2,058

$
$

July
2016
44,548
48,109
(3,561)

August
2016
$ 51,450
48,284

September
2016

October
2016

November
2016

December
2016

Total Year
To Date
$ 365,280
369,384

$

$

$

$

$

$

5

$ (2,979)

279

$ (2,076)

% Favorable/(Unfavorable) - Month

-2.4%

0.0%

-6.3%

0.6%

-4.4%

4.1%

-7.4%

3,167
6.6%

% Favorable/(Unfavorable) - YTD

-2.4%

-1.2%

-3.1%

-2.1%

-2.6%

-1.4%

-2.3%

-1.1%

-

-

-

-

(4,104)

2016 VS. 2015 ACTUALS
Net Sales & Use Tax Received

January

February

March

April

May

2016
2015

$

$ 39,696
38,448

$ 44,462
45,956

$ 46,084
42,964

$ 45,553
44,677

$

Change from to 2015

$

$

$

$

41,168
40,878
290

876

June

July

August

52,319
47,064

$

44,548
46,552

$ 51,450
46,717

$ 365,280
353,256

5,255

$

$

1,247

$ (1,494)

$ 3,120

(2,005)

$ 4,734

% Increase/(Decrease) by Month vs. 2015

0.7%

3.2%

-3.3%

7.3%

2.0%

11.2%

-4.3%

10.1%

% Increase YTD vs. 2015

0.7%

1.9%

0.0%

1.9%

1.9%

3.6%

2.4%

3.4%

September

October

December

Total

12,024

2.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 98
Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

November

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
ESTIMATED IMPACT OF FARE AND SALES & USE TAX
YEAR-TO-DATE REVENUE SHORTFALL TO BUDGET
AUGUST 31, 2016
(In Thousands)

YTD Budget vs. Actual
Variance

Fare Revenue

$

Base System
FasTracks

Sales & Use Tax
Base System
FasTracks

Total Fare Revenue and Sales & Use Tax
Base System
FasTracks

$

Estimated FY2016 Range

Variance %

Medium

165

0.2%

1,571
(1,406)

$

Worst-Case

(750)

-0.6%

2.0%
-16.6%

(720)
(30)

(4,104)

-1.1%

(2,463)
(1,641)

-1.1%
-1.1%

(3,939)

-0.9%

(892)
(3,047)

-0.3%
-2.0%

$

(1,500)

-1.2%

-0.6%
-0.7%

(1,440)
(60)

-1.2%
-1.5%

(7,000)

-1.3%

(9,000)

-1.6%

(4,201)
(2,799)

-1.3%
-1.3%

(5,400)
(3,600)

-1.6%
-1.6%

(7,750)

-1.1%

(10,500)

-1.6%

(4,921)
(2,829)

-1.1%
-1.3%

(6,840)
(3,660)

-1.5%
-1.6%

$

2.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 99
Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

$

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
FASTRACKS INTERNAL SAVINGS ACCOUNT (FISA)
AUGUST 31, 2016
(In Thousands)

Actual

Estimated

Risk Level
-------------

2013
-----------------

2014
-----------------

2015
-----------------

2016
-----------------

2017
-----------------

Medium
Medium
Medium
Low

$

$

$

$

$

2013-2017
-----------------

Estimated in APE
2018-2040
-----------------

Total
-------------

IDENTIFIED SOURCES:
Limit Fastracks funding increases for bus and paratransit expansion to CPI
Reduce FasTracks Minimum Unrestricted Fund Balance from $150 million
Reduce FasTracks Operating and Maintenance Fund Balance from 3 to 2 months
Defer the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) relocation for the SW Corridor Extension
Achieve project underruns on FasTracks projects currently under contract

1

2

Sales and lease opportunities for all RTD properties
Request local financial participation in projects above the current 2.5%
Sales tax audit/parity
Total Sources

-

2,796
4,000
9,000

4,958
500
-

7,148
3,500
-

9,716
-

$

24,618
8,000
9,000

$

530,880
-

-

-

12,600

5,653

7,551

25,804

-

22,338

Low
Low
Low

5,563
5,563

15,796

18,058

3,512
19,813

8,333
25,600

5,563
11,845
84,830

10,333
541,213

5,563
22,178
630,816

-

-

(958)
(11,901)
(12,859)

(4,171)
(3,399)
(3,512)
(11,082)

(1,000)
(7,038)
(8,333)
(8,000)
(24,371)

(6,129)
(22,338)
(11,845)
(8,000)
(48,312)

(10,333)
(567,398)
(577,731)

(16,194)
(22,338)
(22,178)
(558,606)
(11,500)
(630,816)

Net Sources and Uses

$

5,563

$

15,796

$

5,199

$

8,731

$

1,229

$

36,518

$

(36,518)

FasTracks Internal Savings Account Balance

$

5,563

$

21,359

$

26,558

$

35,289

$

36,518

$

36,518

$

-

2

552,237
19,500
9,000

Low

IDENTIFIED USES:
US36 Project draws
North Metro Project draws
Southeast Rail Extension (SERE) Project draws
Debt service and operations funding
Return to 3 months O&M Fund Balance
Total Uses

1

$

$

-

This funding was approved by the Board but did not flow through the FISA. It is shown here for illustrative purposes
Sale of Civic Center air rights for $8,063 less $2,500 cost of NAMS study - these are Base System funds

2.C.2.a

Packet Pg. 100

Attachment: 083116 RTD MFS (2918 : August 2016 Monthly Financial Status Report)

2.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

SmartCard Project Update

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016
Information

The Smart Card Program continues to gather taps for EcoPass (business and neighborhood) and
CollegePass riders since the program’s launch on January 2, 2013. There are approximately 475,000
active cards in circulation. During the month of September, 2016, 1.60M taps were recorded.
The Stored Value MyRide Card is a product that can be purchased by the general public currently
enrolled in the public pilot program to pay for transit fares on fixed route buses and rail platforms. Stored
Value is provided on reloadable plastic cards. These cards can be loaded with certain dollar amounts and
used much like a gift card. Once the card is loaded, it can be used to board bus or rail until the dollar
amount on the card is less than the fare needed. Additional value can be loaded onto the card at RTD
sales outlets.
Starting the morning of Monday January 4th, cards were being dispersed to the public pilot program
participants at the RTD retail outlets. As of October 2, 2016, a total of 1,920 cards were issued of
which 1,520 (79%) were full fare and 400 (21%) were discount cards. The average initial stored value
loading is $40.99 with a total value loaded including reloads of $275,100. There have been 96,070
boardings using these MyRide cards with fare payment value of $211,600. Of these boardings; 70%
were local, 28% regional and 2% airport.
All bus installations were completed for operational service. Additional validators will be installed as
buses are purchased.
Additional platform validators were installed for the University of Colorado A Line and B line to
Westminster. More platform validators will be installed on the G Line to Wheat Ridge and the R line to
Aurora. All 191 Light and Commuter Rail platform validators have been installed and are operational.
Program Monitoring and Decision Points (Next 3 months)










October 21st Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
October 28th Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
November 4th
Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
th
November 11
Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
November 18th
Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
nd
December 2
Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
December 9th Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
December 16th
Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs
December 30th
Weekly Program Monitoring Report to AGMs

Packet Pg. 101

2.C.3

Element

Status

Prior Period Activities

Next Period
Activities

Program Components

External Hosting
of SMT
environment


Green
(no
change)

The service provider for this hosting
is NewPush. They are in the
processes of maintaining Payment
Card Industry (PCI) compliance
standards.

RTD in active discussions with King
Soopers and Albertsons-Safeway.

Merchant Retail
Point of Sale
(RPOS)

Stabilization and
Enhancement of
Current Operating
Pass System
(ECO, College and
Neighborhood)

MyRide Public
Portal
Enhancements


Yellow
(no
change)


Yellow
(no
change)


Red
(no
change)

RPOS installed at King Soopers test
store. Site surveys for RPOS
installations at King Soopers
complete.

Disaster Recovery
environment testing has
identified issues which
we are working with
Xerox and NewPush to
resolve.
RTD and King Soopers in
active discussion to
finalize items for test
store. Began conducting
Train-the-Trainer training
at King Soopers test
store.

Site surveys of Albertsons-Safeway
test stores completed.

RTD and AlbertsonsSafeway reached general
agreement on terms and
conditions. RPOS installed
at Albertsons-Safeway
test stores.

For a variety of reasons, there have
been a small percentage of cards in
circulation that require an
administrative action to extend their
usability. Remediation was made to
some of these cards in March 2016
which yielded positive results.
Challenges continue to remain and for
this reason, the status is shown as
yellow.

RTD and Xerox continue
to monitor. Issues are
documented and reviewed
weekly with the Xerox
Technical Team.

This MyRide portal allows the public
to self-administer their MyRide cards.
The MyRide web portal cybersecurity
vulnerabilities are being remediated.

MyRide Web Portal
availability to the public
delayed to complete
cybersecurity assessment
and remediation.

Packet Pg. 102

2.C.3

Element

Status

Prior Period Activities

Next Period
Activities

Program Components
Requirements gathering
exercise is complete.

Ride SponsorAdmin Portal and
Back Office Portal
Upgrade


Yellow
(no
change)

To address Cybersecurity issues and
to extend the life of the system, the
middleware and framework software
must be upgraded for this portal
functionality.

Work with Xerox to
advance the software
upgrade after the MyRide
Web Portal Enhancements
are complete.
This task is currently on
hold.

NewPush has remediated items from
their PCI security audit.


Cybersecurity

Red
(no
change)

Xerox provided security assessment
report for the MyRide portal and
completed cybersecurity remediation
related to this scan.

Xerox is performing a
Payment Card Industry
(PCI) compliance
assessment of the
system.

Third party vendor concluded an
independent security assessment.
Report findings are shared with
Xerox.
Reliability, Maintainability and
Accuracy Test (RMAT)
Phase I: Hardware.
Timeline: Oct 5th – Dec 7th

Program
Completion


Yellow
(no
change)

Phase II: MyRide Web Portal.
Timeline: TBD
Phase III: Admin/Ride Sponsor
Web Portal.
Timeline: TBD

RMAT Phase I testing
continues. Xerox to
address issues identified
during testing.

Final System Acceptance - TBD

Status Indicator Legend

Packet Pg. 103

2.C.3

(Green) No current or anticipated issues impacting scope, budget or schedule
(Yellow) Current or anticipated issue with minor variance in scope, possible increase in budget or
possible delay

(Red) Project is at risk in one or more areas (cost, schedule, resources) and progress is delayed.
Action must be taken to remediate the problem.

Prepared by:
Kim Heldman, Senior Manager, IT
Tonya Anderson, SMT Project Administrator
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 104

2.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

Fiscal Sustainability Update

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016

BACKGROUND
A Fiscal Sustainability Task Force (Task Force) was formed in November 2010 for the purpose of making
recommendations detailing opportunities for operating efficiencies and revenue enhancement for the
Base System to ensure RTD’s long-term fiscal sustainability. The Task Force consisted of 22 members
with 12 of those members being external to RTD.
The Task Force presented its written
recommendations to the Board of Directors in June 2011. The Board of Directors subsequently
approved those recommendations and directed Staff to pursue implementation of each recommendation.
The Task Force reconvened for a final meeting in July 2012 to be briefed on the progress of their
recommendations and provide an opportunity for feedback.
DISCUSSION
The Task Force made revenue enhancement, expense reduction and fiscal policy recommendations to
the Board of Directors which were approved for further consideration and/or implementation. The
majority of the recommendations made have been completed or their status has not changed since our
last report in March 2016. Per Board policy, we continue to report on the status of the Task Force
recommendations as follows:
Recommendations - Completed
Removing the Volatility from Sales and Use Tax Projections
RTD contracted with the University of Colorado, Leeds School of Business – Business Research Division
(Leeds) to provide sales and use tax forecasts beginning in 2011. Each quarter, Leeds has provided a
forecast containing short-term (one year by quarter), medium-term (six year SBP period) and long-term
(30 year APE period) sales and use tax projections. This was implemented to provide RTD with expert
economic analysis and sales and use tax forecasts using sophisticated financial modeling techniques not
available internally. These forecasts are intended to provide a better analysis of RTD’s expected sales
and use tax collections which comprise approximately 2/3 of RTD’s recurring revenues. The CU
contract was renewed for semi-annual forecasts rather than quarterly beginning in 2016.
Service Optimization
In 2012, RTD implemented modifications and reductions in service representing approximately $10.7
million or an 8% net reduction in service. Service optimization was recommended by the Task Force and
implemented with Board approval in order to match services provided with available funding sources.
Since that time, service has been gradually restored as needed within budgetary constraints. Service
modifications were brought forward to accommodate the new FasTracks lines opening in 2016 and we
will continue to assess service optimization.
Fund Balance Policy

Packet Pg. 105

2.C.4

Due to the volatility of RTD’s largest single revenue source, sales and use taxes, the Task Force
recommended implementation of a more robust fiscal policy regarding fund balances. Fund balances
represent financial assets that are available to RTD after allowing for obligations that have been incurred.
Fund balances increase when fund sources exceed fund uses and vice versa. Fund balances, therefore,
exist as a form of savings account to be used for specific purposes when needed and replenished when
economic circumstances allow. In response to this recommendation, RTD implemented a fund balance
policy with a target level of three months of operating expenses for the Base System, which is now
approximately $100 million. The target fund balance for FasTracks has been two months of operating
expenses (with the third month contributed to FISA), but this will change to three months of operating
expenses beginning in 2017 (per the APE).
These targets were established based on levels
recommended by the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) best practices. The Fund
Balance Policy further categorizes the available fund balances into the categories of a Board Restricted
Fund and a Capital Replacement Fund. At 8/31/16, these fund balances prior to adjustments totaled
$53.7 million for both the Base system and FasTracks combined.
Sales and Use Tax Exemptions
In Colorado, legislation establishes products and services that are subject to sales and use taxation and
those that are exempt from taxation. The state, cities, municipalities and special districts in Colorado
each have different sales and use tax rates and often have differing items subject to taxation due to
legislation establishing exemptions. Exemption parity was identified by the Task Force as providing a
benefit to RTD during difficult economic conditions when the state implements exemption changes and
vice versa. In addition, exemption parity removes the complexity to vendors of RTD having different
taxable items than the state. RTD introduced legislation that was passed in May 2013 to establish
parity with the state regarding items subject to sales and use taxation. Exemption parity took effect
1/1/14. RTD estimates that parity generated a net increase of $2.7 million in 2014 based on 2012
figures, however, this is difficult to track due to the way vendors report sales tax components. This
change in legislation has been challenged and a Petition for Writ of Certiorari has been filed with the
Colorado Supreme Court.
Technology and Energy Innovation
RTD conducted a comprehensive energy audit of the oldest and largest operating division (the Platte
facility) to determine the potential scope of savings that may be available through equipment and lighting
upgrades. The audit identified that facility lighting upgrades could result in potentially significant energy
savings. Areas for minor energy savings were identified for other building systems; however, these have
a very significant capital investment and long pay-back periods. Approximately two years ago, Facilities
Maintenance completed lighting upgrades by replacing older metal-halide fixtures with more energyefficient fluorescent fixtures at the East Metro, Boulder, District Shops and Platte operating facilities.
Solar panels were also installed at the East Metro facility. Average savings of approximately $50,000
annually have occurred at the East Metro facility due to the combination of lighting and solar upgrades.
The Boulder facility is remaining even in costs since the lighting upgrades occurred. District Shops is
saving $20,000 annually and the Platte Division is saving over $50,000 annually. RTD budgets for
energy upgrades throughout the District in the Strategic Budget Plan. We will continue to address
energy efficiency in building systems as on-going projects are completed.
Sales and Use Tax Compliance Reviews
The Colorado Department of Revenue (DOR) collects and audits sales and use taxes for RTD. The Task
Force identified an opportunity for revenue enhancement by performing additional sales and use tax
compliance reviews based on the favorable collection experiences of Colorado cities and municipalities
that implemented these reviews. Compliance reviews consist of RTD providing additional resources
from a contracted provider to supplement the DOR’s audit function and is intended to provide the DOR

Packet Pg. 106

2.C.4

with the additional resources necessary to ensure complete and timely tax compliance by vendors. RTD
contracted with Revenue Recovery Group (RRG), an audit firm with substantial experience providing
compliance review services to several Colorado municipalities, and the program began in April 2014.
While assessments from this effort exceeded the costs, it was not clear to what extent those
assessments would be collected. RTD staff decided not to extend RRG’s contract beyond 12/31/15 due
to the limited remaining opportunities for assessments outside of the scope of work of the DOR.
Recommendations – Ongoing
Naming Rights
In August, the RTD Board approved the first naming rights/corporate sponsorship agreement under the
Board-adopted naming rights policy with the University of Colorado for naming the commuter rail A Line
and creating an advertising presence on the Flatiron Flyer bus rapid transit line. In return, RTD will
receive from the University of Colorado total gross payments of $5 million over five years, less
implementation costs and commission, with a possible five year extension if both parties agree. By way
of background, RTD’s naming rights consultant WME/IMG presented to the Board in 2013 an inventory
and financial analysis of RTD facilities, services, and assets that could lend themselves to
naming/sponsorship value-added contracts. WME/IMG completed the valuation of RTD assets and was
given the green light to begin pursuing potential clients, resulting in the public launch of the program in
the third quarter of 2014. Any additional proposed naming rights/corporate sponsorship contracts will
continue to be brought to the RTD Board for approval.
Partnerships and Privatization
The Task Force described this recommendation as a broad area that could include items such as
privatizing routes and administrative and operational functions to reduce expenses. RTD undertook
some actions under this recommendation such as the lease of the DUS historic building, IGAs for
improvements to US36 and the East Line, as well as TOD activities. RTD continues to look for
partnership and privatization opportunities on an ongoing basis. RTD has received an unsolicited
proposal regarding its parking facilities that may present further opportunities for working with the
private sector.
Recommendations – Low Priority
The status of recommendations made by the Task Force and categorized at the 2012 Board Retreat as
having lower priority follows:
Charge for Parking
RTD currently charges parking fees to out-of-District patrons, in-District patrons that park longer than 24
hours, and for reserved parking. In 2013, the state legislature, allowed daily parking fees only at nonDistrict facilities. In July 2016, RTD staff presented a parking management briefing at a study session
that focused on a consultant pay-for-parking study, parking management program update, and
FasTracks partnering projects. Since the inception of the parking management program, $218,659 has
been contributed to the general fund.
Tolling and Managed Lanes
The Task Force recommended investigating the possibility of RTD generating additional revenues
through charges for tolling and managed lanes.
Enacting this recommendation would require
coordination with CDOT and other agencies. The US36 BRT project is an example of how tolling and
managed lanes can enhance RTD operations and save costs. The agreement guarantees running times,
allows for bus on shoulder operations to facilitate schedule adherence on local service, and provides for

Packet Pg. 107

2.C.4

maintenance of managed lanes with no contribution from RTD. Prior to entering into agreements with
CDOT for managed lanes, RTD contributed to maintenance and snow removal on the I-25 HOV lanes.
Home Rule Initiative
The Task Force recommended that RTD consider becoming a “Home Rule” entity which would allow
RTD to collect and audit its sales and use taxes instead of the DOR. This initiative would require
legislation. RTD met several times with the DOR to discuss this initiative as well as sales and use tax
compliance reviews. Although the DOR did not object to RTD performing these services itself, the
Colorado Municipal League and other entities recommended against it. “Home Rule” is a state
constitutional authorization for creating municipalities. It could only be secured for RTD by statewide
constitutional amendment. As discussed earlier in this report, RTD has effected simplification of state
and RTD taxation through legislation that provides for uniformity on items taxed.

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 108

2.C.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Heather
Copp,
Administration

Date:

October 13, 2016

Subject:

2017 Requested Budget Update

CFO/AGM,

Finance

Date: October 13, 2016
&

GM
Board Meeting Date: October 18, 2016

BACKGROUND
The State of Colorado requires that a requested budget be presented to the Board and be made
available for public inspection after giving public notice in newspapers of major distribution by
October 15th of each year. RTD’s 2017 Requested Budget was presented at the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee on September 20, 2016. Public notice was given in the
October 8-9, 2016 weekend editions of The Denver Post and The Boulder Daily Camera. Copies of
the 2017 Requested Budget were made available at that time in the Board office for public
inspection.
The purpose of this Board report is to update the Board with proposed changes and new information
that has become available since the presentation of the 2017 Requested Budget at the FAAC. The
2017 Recommended Budget (final budget) will then be presented at the November 15th Financial
Administration and Audit Committee meeting with a request to forward the budget to the Board for
adoption on November 22nd.
DISCUSSION
The attached power point presentation summarizes the revised assumptions incorporated into the
2017 Requested Budget and the resulting changes from the first draft of the 2017 Requested Budget
previously presented at the FAAC. Major revisions and areas of focus follow:


Sales/use taxes are revised from the first draft Requested Budget previously presented.
The first draft budget incorporated the CU-Leeds School March forecast and the subject
update incorporates the same. The Recommended Budget will be revised further for the
September sales/use tax forecast. In this 2017 budget update, sales/use tax is budgeted
to increase 5.6% over the 2016 projection used in the 2016 Amended Budget.



Total District-wide operating expenses (excluding depreciation) of $594.5 million are
$13.4 million lower than compared to the first draft Requested Budget. This bulk of this
difference is attributed to the reclassification of the TABOR interest portion of DTO service
payment from FT Operations to FT Project. Interest expense is not included in operating
expenses and is shown as a separate line item. Also, further operating expense reductions
were made by all departments to meet the operating expense target established in the
SBP. These reductions were offset by certain necessary increases to operating expense
items.



The District-wide Appropriation of $1,251.8 million is $35.2 million higher than the first
draft Requested Budget. This increase is due to a higher estimate for FT interest expense
to include the TABOR portion in 2017, a higher estimate for the DTO service payment due
to inflation adjustment, increase to FT fund balance requirement, health insurance
increases for salaried personnel, inclusion of costs for material salvage, wages and salary

Packet Pg. 109

2.C.5

adjustments, an increase in LRV spare parts, and other miscellaneous increases to the
overall budget, offset by expense reductions made to departments budgets to bring them
in line with target amounts, and certain capital project amounts shifted from 2017 to
2016.


A possible fuel lock for 2017 will have positive benefit. Diesel fuel is budgeted at
$1.80/gallon for 2017, down from the 2016 per gallon lock price of $2.23. The favorable
impact from the 2016 price is approximately $4.3 million. The futures price is currently
around $1.78 and we will monitor for lock opportunities to provide budget certainty.



Gasoline remains budgeted at $2.65/gallon, down from the 2016 per gallon budget price
of $3.00. The favorable impact year-over-year is approximately $0.6 million.



The total capital carryforward (previously approved capital) is not estimated at this time
but will be included in the Recommended Budget.



The estimated 2017 service availability payment to DTO is $77.1 million adjusted for
inflation and consists of a service payment and interest payment. The service payment of
$36.1M is carried in FT Operations and the TABOR interest payment of $41.0 million is
carried in FT Project.



In FT Project and FT Operations, the Board-Appropriated fund, Capital Replacement fund,
and Unrestricted fund are established at 3 months of operating expenses, up from 2
months previously, per the APE.



The Base System unrestricted fund balance is budgeted at $2 million, which is the fund
balance target in the SBP. The SBP target remains viable after adjusting for the abovenoted expense items and items with favorable impact also noted above.

The 2017 Requested Budget and Fund Balance Report showing the operating and capital sources and
expenditures of the District for the Base System and FT are included as Exhibit I. The following
tables are a summary of the attached Exhibit I. The 2017 Requested Budget column below includes
the revisions noted above (in thousands).

Operating Revenue, Non-Operating Revenue

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Farebox Revenue

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s
$

Other Operating Revenue

117,520

2017 Requested
Budget
$

117,520

Change
$

-

4,797

4,941

144

Sales/Use Tax

341,857

361,155

19,298

Grant Revenue

117,580

105,362

(12,218)

Investment Income

1,300

1,320

20

Other Income

11,979

3,069

(8,910)

Base System Revenue

$

595,033

$

593,367

$

(1,666)

Packet Pg. 110

2.C.5

FASTRACKS PROJECT (0.4%)
Farebox Revenue

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s
$

Other Operating Revenue

-

2017 Requested
Budget
$

Change
-

$

-

-

-

-

Sales/Use Tax

134,382

167,958

33,576

Grant Revenue

237,276

212,303

(24,973)

2,540

2,877

337

Investment Income
Other Income

8,221

FasTracks Project Revenue

$

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s

Farebox Revenue

$

Other Operating Revenue
Sales/Use Tax

382,419

12,653

8,221
$

391,359

$

2017 Requested
Budget
$

8,940

Change

32,891

$

20,238

93,524

1,082
72,812

1,082
(20,712)

Grant Revenue

-

-

-

Investment Income

-

-

-

572

1,000

428

Other Income
FasTracks Operations Revenue

$

106,749

$

107,785

$

1,036

Total FasTracks Revenue

$

489,168

$

499,144

$

9,976

DISTRICT-WIDE

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s

Farebox Revenue

$

Other Operating Revenue

130,173

2017 Requested
Budget
$

150,411

Change
$

20,238

4,797

6,023

1,226

Sales/Use Tax

569,763

601,925

32,162

Grant Revenue

354,856

317,665

(37,191)

Investment Income

3,840

4,197

357

Other Income

20,772

12,290

(8,482)

District-Wide Revenue

$

1,084,201

$

1,092,511

$

8,310

Packet Pg. 111

2.C.5
Operating Expenses, Debt Service, Capital Expenditures, Fund Balances

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Operating Expense

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s

2017 Requested
Budget

$

$

469,492

Change

466,562

$

(2,930)

Interest Expense

27,260

28,275

1,015

Capitalized Interest

2,739

2,739

-

New Capital

109,788

66,646

(43,142)

Debt Payments

51,915

48,605

(3,310)

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

5,563

-

(5,563)

Board Appropriated Fund

10,400

17,400

7,000

Capital Replacement Fund

-

2,700

2,700

Unrestricted Operating Reserve

-

4,600

4,600

Unrestricted Funds

2,062

2,000

(62)

Base System (0.6%) Appropriation

$

679,219

$

639,527

$

(39,692)

Base System Previously Approved Capital

$

118,742

$

-

$

(118,742)

Total Base System Appropriation

$

797,961

$

639,527

$

(158,434)

FASTRACKS PROJECT (0.4%)

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s

2017 Requested
Budget

$

$

Operating Expense

74,040

Change

31,706

$

(42,334)

Interest Expense

90,053

126,061

36,008

Capitalized Interest

30,242

30,242

-

New Capital

410,233

235,581

(174,652)

Debt Payments

9,783

10,293

510

FasTracks Contingency Reserve

15,890

15,890

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

23,364

34,282

10,918

Board Appropriated Fund

4,115

2,642

(1,473)

Capital Replacement Fund

4,115

2,642

(1,473)

Unrestricted Funds

4,115

2,642

(1,473)

FasTracks Project (0.4%) Appropriation

$

665,950

$

491,981

$

(173,969)

FasTracks Project Previously Approved Capital

$

724,479

$

-

$

(724,479)

Total FasTracks Project Appropriation

$

1,390,429

$

491,981

$

(898,448)

Packet Pg. 112

2.C.5

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
Operating Expense

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s

2017 Requested
Budget

$

$

94,721

Change

96,277

$

1,556

Interest Expense
Capitalized Interest

-

-

-

New Capital

-

-

-

Debt Payments

-

-

-

Board Appropriated Fund

5,265

8,023

2,758

Capital Replacement Fund

5,265

8,023

2,758

Unrestricted Funds

5,265

8,023

2,758

FasTracks Operations Appropriation

$

110,516

$

120,346

FasTracks Operations Previously Approved Cap.

$

-

$

-

Total FasTracks Operations Appropriation

$

110,516

$

120,346

$

9,830

Total FasTracks Appropriation

$

1,500,945

$

612,327

$

(888,618)

DISTRICT-WIDE

2016 Re-Amended
Budget
$000s

2017 Requested
Budget

$

$

Operating Expense

638,253

$

9,830
-

Change

594,545

$

(43,708)

Interest Expense

117,313

154,336

37,023

Capitalized Interest

32,981

32,981

-

New Capital

520,021

302,227

(217,794)

Debt Payments

61,698

58,898

(2,800)

FasTracks Contingency Reserve

15,890

15,890

-

FasTracks Internal Savings Account

28,927

34,282

5,355

Board Appropriated Fund

19,780

28,065

8,285

Capital Replacement Fund

9,380

13,365

3,985

-

4,600

4,600

11,442

12,665

1,223

Unrestricted Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Funds
District-Wide Appropriation

$

1,455,685

$

1,251,854

$

(203,831)

District-Wide Previously Approved Capital

$

843,221

$

-

$

(843,221)

Total District-Wide Appropriation

$

2,298,906

$

1,251,854

$

(1,047,052)

The capital carry-forward estimate and any other necessary adjustments will be included in the final
2017 Recommended Budget to be presented at the November 15th Financial Administration and
Audit Committee.
ATTACHMENTS:


Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update



2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816

(PDF)
(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Jannette Scarpino, Senior Manager, Budget and Financial Analysis

Packet Pg. 113

2.C.5

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 114

2.C.5.a

Exhibit I

Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2017 Requested Budget
Base System (In Thousands)

BASE SYSTEM

2016 ReAmended
Budget

2015 Actual

2017 Requested
Budget

$ Change 2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$

$

% Change
2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

Farebox Revenues1
Advertising Revenues
Joint Venture Revenue2
Other Operating Revenues

$

Total Operating Revenue

115,477
4,161
553
633
120,824

$

117,520
3,300
897
600
122,317

117,520
3,399
924
618
122,461

99
27
18
144

0.0%
3.0%
3.0%
3.0%
0.1%

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Private Carrier Operations
Access-a-Ride
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Asset Management
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
Less: FasTracks Service Increases
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Contribution
Allocated Expenditures
Expense Projects Carry-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

160,168
40,919
83,795
30,711
3,593
7,465
42,178
11,100
36,594
10,603
5,036
1,121
(16,927)
416,356

137,820
47,512
100,284
41,614
8,844
51,424
17,307
10,959
47,777
13,450
7,481
1,536
937
(24,601)
7,148
469,492

141,992
66,534
102,794
43,497
7,320
47,994
20,967
11,294
51,555
13,226
6,342
1,361
6,389
(27,569)
9,716
(36,850)
466,562

4,172
19,022
2,510
1,883
(1,524)
(3,430)
3,660
335
3,778
(224)
(1,139)
(175)
5,452
(2,968)
2,568
(36,850)
(2,930)

3.0%
40.0%
2.5%
4.5%
-17.2%
-6.7%
21.1%
3.1%
7.9%
-1.7%
-15.2%
-11.4%
581.9%
12.1%
35.9%
0.0%
0.0%
-0.6%

(295,532)

(347,175)

(344,101)

3,074

-0.9%

Total Non-Operating Revenues

297,306
27,605
70,699
2,425
396
3,033
401,464

310,212
31,645
95,232
22,348
1,300
11,979
472,716

327,723
33,431
89,646
15,716
1,320
3,069
470,906

17,511
1,786
(5,586)
(6,632)
20
(8,910)
(1,810)

5.6%
5.6%
-5.9%
-29.7%
1.5%
-74.4%
-0.4%

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex

105,932

125,541

126,805

1,264

1.0%

(49,941)
(23,361)
145,463
969
73,130

(51,915)
(27,260)
(79,175)

(48,605)
(28,275)
(76,880)

3,310
(1,015)
2,295

-6.4%
3.7%
0.0%
0.0%
-2.9%

88,170
88,170

118,742
2,739
7
7,473
113
2,327
37,016
57,114
5,583
155
231,269

2,739
5,937
82
6,434
1,544
3,274
2,059
42,710
324
4,127
154
69,385

(118,742)
5,930
82
(1,039)
1,431
947
(34,957)
(14,404)
(5,259)
4,127
(1)
(161,884)

100.0%
0.0%
84709.6%
0.0%
-13.9%
1266.7%
40.7%
0.0%
-94.4%
-25.2%
-94.2%
0.0%
-0.4%
-70.0%

165,443

-89.5%

Operating Income/(Loss)
Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating
Grant Revenue - Capital3
Investment Income
Other Income/Gain & Loss

Debt and Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Contributed Capital

Increase / (Decrease) in Debt and Reserves
Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital Carryforward
Capitalized Interest
Facilities Construction & Maintenance
Bus Transfer Stations
Bus Infrastructure
Park-n-Rides
Capital Support Projects
Rail Construction
Rail Transit
Fleet Modernization & Expansion
Capital Support Equipment
Systems Planning
Unallocated Capital

Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity

$

90,892

$

(184,903)

$

(19,460)

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

Operating Revenue

Notes:
1

Farebox revenues include passenger fares for regular route services, special service fares, and farebox revenues collected and retained by private carriers under contract to RTD.
Joint venture revenues include contributions from local entities to provide local match for CMAQ grants for specific services. Joint venture revenues also include contributions from the City of Boulder to maintain
the level of service on the JUMP, BOUND, and STAMPEDE above the level required by RTD's Route Service Standards.
2

3

Federal grant revenues include grants awarded in the current year in addition to carry-forward grant awards.

Page 1

Packet Pg. 115

2.C.5.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2017 Requested Budget
FasTracks Project (In Thousands)

FASTRACKS PROJECT

2016 ReAmended
Budget

2015 Actual

2017 Requested
Budget

$ Change 2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$

$

% Change
2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

Farebox Revenues
Other Operating Revenues

$

-

Total Operating Revenue

$

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Service Increases
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Contribution
Expense Projects Carry-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

688
24,845
644
254
16,927
43,358

846
53,157
850
1,734
24,601
(7,148)
74,040

955
11,214
239
196
1,249
27,569
(9,716)
31,706

109
(41,943)
239
(654)
(485)
2,968
(2,568)
(42,334)

0.0%
12.9%
-78.9%
0.0%
-76.9%
-28.0%
12.1%
35.9%
0.0%
-57.2%

(43,358)

(74,040)

(31,706)

(42,334)

57.2%

Total Non-Operating Revenues

190,255
17,697
2,684
155,191
2,769
8,284
376,880

122,081
12,301
1,535
235,741
2,540
8,221
382,419

152,951
15,007
2,500
209,803
2,877
8,221
391,359

30,870
2,706
965
(25,938)
337
8,940

25.3%
22.0%
62.9%
-11.0%
13.3%
0.0%
2.3%

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex

333,522

308,379

359,653

(33,394)

-10.8%

(15,747)
(57,657)
276,295
5,235
208,126

(9,783)
(90,053)
228,375
18,700
15,995
197,416
360,650

(10,293)
(126,061)
487
29,623
(106,244)

(510)
(36,008)
(228,375)
(18,700)
(15,508)
(167,793)
(466,894)

5.2%
40.0%
100.0%
100.0%
-97.0%
-85.0%
-129.5%

710,154
710,154

724,479
30,242
410,233
1,164,954

30,242
235,581
265,823

(724,479)
(174,652)
(899,131)

100.0%
0.0%
-42.6%
-77.2%

398,843

-80.4%

Operating Income/(Loss)
Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating
Grant Revenue - Capital2
Investment Income
Other Income

Debt and Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Drawdown/(Increase) in FasTracks Construction Reserve
Drawdown/(Increase) in FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Contributed Capital1

Increase / (Decrease) in Debt and Reserves
Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital Carryforward
Capitalized Interest
Fastracks Program

Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity

$

(168,506)

Notes:
1

Includes project third party capital

2

Federal grant revenues include grants awarded in the current year in addition to carry-forward grant awards.

Page 2

$

(495,925)

$

(12,414)

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

Operating Revenue

Packet Pg. 116

2.C.5.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2017 Requested Budget
FasTracks Operations (In Thousands)

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS

2016 ReAmended
Budget

2015 Actual

2017 Requested
Budget

$ Change 2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$

$

% Change
2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

Farebox Revenues
Other Operating Revenues

$

Total Operating Revenue

5,053
5,053

$

12,653
12,653

32,891
1,082
33,973

20,238
1,082
21,320

159.9%
0.0%
168.5%

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Asset Management
Finance and Administration
Communications
Service Increases
Allocated Expenditures
Expense Projects Carry-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

385
8,040
763
3,674
468
13,330

1,877
76,502
5,370
6,405
219
4,348
94,721

52,686
6,256
485
36,850
96,277

(1,877)
(23,816)
(5,370)
(149)
(219)
(3,863)
36,850
1,556

100.0%
-31.1%
0.0%
100.0%
-2.3%
100.0%
-88.8%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
1.6%

(8,277)

(82,068)

(62,304)

36,850

-44.9%

7,948
707
8,655

84,728
8,796
572
94,096

65,531
7,281
1,000
73,812

(19,197)
(1,515)
428
(20,284)

-22.7%
-17.2%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
74.8%
-21.6%

378

12,028

11,508

16,566

137.7%

Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Drawdown/(Increase) in FasTracks Construction Reserve
Contributed Capital

-

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

Increase / (Decrease) in Debt and Reserves

-

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

16,566

137.7%

Operating Income/(Loss)
Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating
Grant Revenue - Capital
Investment Income
Other Income

Total Non-Operating Revenues
Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves

Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital Carryforward
Capitalized Interest
Fastracks Program

Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity

$

378

Notes:

Page 3

$

12,028

$

11,508

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

Operating Revenue

Packet Pg. 117

2.C.5.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2017 Requested Budget
Combined (In Thousands)

COMBINED

2016 ReAmended
Budget

2015 Actual

2017 Requested
Budget

$ Change 2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$

$

% Change
2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

Farebox Revenues
Advertising Revenues
Joint Venture Revenue
Other Operating Revenues

$

Total Operating Revenue

120,530
4,161
553
633
125,877

$

130,173
3,300
897
600
134,970

150,411
3,399
924
1,700
156,434

20,238
99
27
1,100
21,464

15.5%
3.0%
3.0%
183.3%
15.9%

Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Private Carrier Operations
Access-a-Ride
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Asset Management
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
Less: FasTracks Service Increases
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) Contribution
Allocated Expenditures
Expense Projects Carry-forward
Total Operating Expenses (excluding Depreciation)

160,553
48,959
83,795
30,711
4,281
33,073
45,852
11,100
37,238
11,325
5,036
1,121
473,044

139,697
124,014
100,284
41,614
9,690
109,951
23,712
10,959
48,846
19,532
7,481
1,536
937
638,253

141,992
119,220
102,794
43,497
8,275
59,208
27,223
11,533
51,751
14,960
6,342
1,361
6,389
594,545

2,295
(4,794)
2,510
1,883
(1,415)
(50,743)
3,511
574
2,905
(4,572)
(1,139)
(175)
5,452
(43,708)

1.6%
-3.9%
2.5%
4.5%
-14.6%
-46.2%
14.8%
5.2%
5.9%
-23.4%
-15.2%
-11.4%
581.9%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
-6.8%

(347,167)

(503,283)

(438,111)

65,172

-12.9%

Total Non-Operating Revenues

495,509
46,009
73,383
157,616
3,165
11,317
786,999

517,021
52,742
96,767
258,089
3,840
20,200
948,659

546,205
55,719
92,146
225,519
4,197
12,290
936,077

29,184
2,977
(4,621)
(32,570)
357
(7,910)
(12,582)

5.6%
5.6%
-4.8%
-12.6%
9.3%
-39.2%
-1.3%

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex

439,832

445,376

497,966

52,590

11.8%

(65,688)
(81,018)
421,758
6,204
281,256

(61,698)
(117,313)
228,375
18,700
15,995
197,416
281,475

(58,898)
(154,336)
487
29,623
(183,124)

2,800
(37,023)
(228,375)
(18,700)
(15,508)
(167,793)
(464,599)

-4.5%
31.6%
100.0%
100.0%
-97.0%
-85.0%
-165.1%

88,170
710,154
798,324

843,221
32,981
7
7,473
113
2,327
37,016
57,114
5,583
155
410,233
1,396,223

32,981
5,937
82
6,434
1,544
3,274
2,059
42,710
324
4,127
154
235,581
335,208

(843,221)
5,930
82
(1,039)
1,431
947
(34,957)
(14,404)
(5,259)
4,127
(1)
(174,652)
(1,061,015)

100.0%
0.0%
84709.6%
0.0%
-13.9%
1266.7%
40.7%
0.0%
-94.4%
-25.2%
-94.2%
0.0%
-0.4%
-42.6%
-76.0%

649,006

-97.0%

Operating Income/(Loss)
Non-Operating Revenues
Sales Tax
Use Tax
Grant Revenue - Operating
Grant Revenue - Capital
Investment Income
Other Income

Debt and Reserves
Debt Payments
Interest Expense
Financing Proceeds
Drawdown/(Increase) in FasTracks Construction Reserve
Drawdown (Increase) in FasTracks Internal Savings Account
Contributed Capital

Increase / (Decrease) in Debt and Reserves
Capital Expenditures
Prior Year Approved Capital Carryforward
Capitalized Interest
Facilities Construction & Maintenance
Bus Transfer Stations
Bus Infrastructure
Park-n-Rides
Capital Support Projects
Rail Construction
Rail Transit
Fleet Modernization & Expansion
Capital Support Equipment
Systems Planning
Unallocated Capital
Fastracks Program

Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity

$

(77,236)

Page 4

$

(669,372)

$

(20,366)

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

Operating Revenue

Packet Pg. 118

2.C.5.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2017 Requested Budget - Fund Balance
Base System and FasTracks (In Thousands)

2015 Actual

2016 ReAmended
Budget

2017 Requested
Budget

$ Change 2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$ 1,013,977

$ 1,062,244

$

$

105,932
73,130
(88,170)
90,892
(83,855)
41,230
48,267

125,541
(79,175)
(231,269)
(184,903)
(100,273)
352,584
67,408

$ 1,062,244

$ 1,129,652

937,893
937,893

1,058,103
1,058,103

Debt Service Reserves2

37,768

Other Designated Reserves2
Tabor Reserve
Restricted Net Position

1,500
13,782
53,050

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
Unrestricted Net Position

NET POSITION

% Change
2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amortization
Other 1
Total Change in Net Position
ENDING NET POSITION
NET POSITION
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Nonspendable Net Assets

TOTAL NET POSITION

1,129,652

67,408

6.3%

1,264
2,295
161,884
165,443
1,120
(254,748)
(88,185)

1.0%
-2.9%
-70.0%
-89.5%
-1.1%
-72.3%
-130.8%

(20,777)

-1.8%

1,028,335
1,028,335

(29,768)
(29,768)

-2.8%
-2.8%

37,700

37,700

-

0.0%

1,500
14,324
53,524

1,500
14,640
53,840

316
316

0.0%
2.2%
0.6%

5,563
22,200
15,000
28,538
71,301

5,563
10,400
2,062
18,025

17,400
2,700
4,600
2,000
26,700

(5,563)
7,000
2,700
4,600
(62)
8,675

100.0%
67.3%
0.0%
0.0%
-3.0%
48.1%

$ 1,062,244

$ 1,129,652

$

1,108,875

$

(20,777)

-1.8%

$ 2,283,606

$ 2,382,066

$

2,841,873

$

459,807

19.3%

333,522
208,126
(710,154)
(168,506)
(58,305)
319,067
6,204
98,460

308,379
360,650
(1,164,954)
(495,925)
(121,584)
849,658
227,658
459,807

51,274
(466,894)
899,131
483,511
(31,131)
(967,663)
(167,793)
(683,076)

16.6%
-129.5%
-77.2%
-97.5%
25.6%
-113.9%
-73.7%
-148.6%

$ 2,382,066

$ 2,841,873

(223,269)

-7.9%

2,336,770
2,336,770

2,625,419
2,625,419

2,419,636
2,419,636

(205,783)
(205,783)

-7.8%
-7.8%

76,627
2,418
6,502
30,000
40,000
(145,531)
10,016

76,780
2,418
4,354
15,890
25,000
56,300
180,742

76,780
2,418
5,372
15,890
56,300
156,760

1,018
(25,000)
(23,982)

0.0%
0.0%
23.4%
0.0%
100.0%
0.0%
-13.3%

21,444
4,612
4,612
4,612
35,280

23,364
4,115
4,115
4,115
35,709

34,282
2,642
2,642
2,642
42,208

10,918
(1,473)
(1,473)
(1,473)
6,499

46.7%
-35.8%
-35.8%
-35.8%
18.2%

$ 2,382,066

$ 2,841,873

(223,269)

-7.9%

126,805
(76,880)
(69,385)
(19,460)
(99,153)
97,836
(20,777)
$

1,108,875

$

FASTRACKS PROJECT
BEGINNING NET POSITION
Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amortization
Other 1
Contributed Capital & Deferred Interest
Total Change in Net Position
ENDING NET POSITION
NET POSITION
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Nonspendable Net Assets
Debt Service Reserves2
Other Designated Reserves2
Tabor Reserve
FasTracks Contingency Reserve3
FasTracks Start-up Operations Reserve
FasTracks Construction Reserve4
Restricted Net Position
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Fund
Unrestricted Net Position
TOTAL NET POSITION

359,653
(106,244)
(265,823)
(12,414)
(152,715)
(118,005)
59,865
(223,269)
$

$

2,618,604

2,618,604

$

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

BASE SYSTEM
BEGINNING NET POSITION

Notes:
1

Reconciling items reflect cash activity in capital projects, inventory, accounts receivable and prepaids, accruals and capitalized interest.

2

Reserves include funds that are legally restricted by bond covenants, other contracts, Board designation and policy guidelines.

3

Reserves are an appropriated reserve which is available to fund unforseen projects expenses (such as a contingency reserve).

4

Reserves respresent revenues that are designated to be spent in future years for the construction of the FasTracks capital program.

Page 5

Packet Pg. 119

2.C.5.a

Exhibit I
Regional Transportation District
Fiscal Year 2017 Requested Budget - Fund Balance
Combined (In Thousands)

NET POSITION

2016 ReAmended
Budget

2015 Actual

2017 Requested
Budget

$ Change 2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$

$

% Change
2017
Requested
Budget vs.
2016 ReAmended
Budget

$

Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amortization
Other 1
Total Change in Net Position
ENDING NET POSITION

2,817

$

3,606

378
378
411
789
$

3,606

12,028
12,028
3,363
15,391
$

18,997

18,997
11,508
11,508
(3,202)
8,306

$

27,303

$

15,391

426.8%

(520)
(520)
(6,565)
(7,085)

-4.3%
0.0%
0.0%
-4.3%
0.0%
-195.2%
-46.0%

8,306

43.7%

NET POSITION
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Nonspendable Net Assets

-

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%

Debt Service Reserves2
Other Designated Reserves2
Tabor Reserve
FasTracks Construction Reserve4
Restricted Net Position

411
411

3,202
3,202

3,234
3,234

32
32

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

1,065
1,065
1,065
3,195

5,265
5,265
5,265
15,795

8,023
8,023
8,023
24,069

2,758
2,758
2,758
8,274

0.0%
52.4%
52.4%
52.4%
52.4%

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Fund
Unrestricted Net Position
TOTAL NET POSITION

$

3,606

$

18,997

$

27,303

$

8,306

43.7%

$ 3,300,400

$ 3,447,916

$

3,990,522

$

542,606

15.7%

439,832
281,256
(798,324)
(77,236)
(142,160)
361,119
6,204
147,927

445,948
281,475
(1,396,223)
(668,800)
(221,857)
1,208,807
227,658
545,808

52,018
(464,599)
1,061,015
648,434
(30,011)
(1,232,178)
(167,793)
(781,548)

11.7%
-165.1%
-76.0%
-97.0%
13.5%
-101.9%
-73.7%
-143.2%

$ 3,448,327

$ 3,993,724

(238,942)

-6.0%

3,274,663
3,274,663

3,683,522
3,683,522

3,447,971
3,447,971

(235,551)
(235,551)

-6.4%
-6.4%

Debt Service Reserves2
Other Designated Reserves2
Tabor Reserve
FasTracks Contingency Reserve3
FasTracks Start-up Operations Reserve
FasTracks Construction Reserve4
Restricted Net Position

114,395
3,918
20,695
30,000
40,411
(145,531)
63,888

114,480
3,918
21,880
15,890
28,202
56,300
240,670

114,480
3,918
23,246
15,890
56,300
213,834

1,366
(28,202)
(26,836)

0.0%
0.0%
6.2%
0.0%
100.0%
0.0%
-11.2%

FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Operating Reserve
Unrestricted Fund
Unrestricted Net Position

27,007
27,877
20,677
34,215
109,776

28,927
19,780
9,380
11,442
69,530

34,282
28,065
13,365
4,600
12,665
92,977

5,355
8,285
3,985
4,600
1,223
23,448

18.5%
41.9%
42.5%
0.0%
10.7%
33.7%

$ 3,448,327

$ 3,993,724

(238,942)

-6.0%

COMBINED
BEGINNING NET POSITION
Income Before Debt Service and Cap Ex
Debt and Reserves
Net Capital Expenditures
Current Activity
Depreciation and Amortization
Other 1
Contributed Capital & Deferred Interest
Total Change in Net Position
ENDING NET POSITION
NET POSITION
Net Investment in Capital Assets
Nonspendable Net Assets

TOTAL NET POSITION

497,966
(183,124)
(335,208)
(20,366)
(251,868)
(23,371)
59,865
(235,740)
$

$

3,754,782

3,754,782

$

$

Attachment: Exhibit I-2017 Budget Update (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
BEGINNING NET POSITION

Notes:
1

Reconciling items reflect cash activity in capital projects, inventory, accounts receivable and prepaids, accruals and capitalized interest.

2

Reserves include funds that are legally restricted by bond covenants, other contracts, Board designation and policy guidelines.

3

Reserves are an appropriated reserve which is available to fund unforseen projects expenses (such as a contingency reserve).

4

Reserves respresent revenues that are designated to be spent in future years for the construction of the FasTracks capital program.

Page 6

Packet Pg. 120

2017 REQUESTED BUDGET
RTD Financial Administration and Audit Committee

October 18, 2016

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

Packet Pg. 121

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Budget Overview
• Long-term fiscal stability is key if RTD is to deliver the
services and programs of the mission statement in a costeffective manner
• RTD must maintain debt service coverage and remain
within TABOR debt limits
• No service reductions necessary to balance budget in
2017
• Operating expenses will be controlled, within SBP control
totals
• Only minimum/must-have capital and expense projects
• Cost allocation from Base to FasTracks for cost of
operations on full allocation basis
• Unrestricted operating reserve established for first time
• No new debt issued

2
Packet Pg. 122

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Budget Assumptions
•
•

Fare revenue to be flat over 2016
Sales/use tax increase of 5.6% over 2016 estimate
§
§

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

CU-Leeds March forecast
same as SBP

Operating expenses contained, growth at less than CPI
Diesel fuel lock to be determined, assumed $1.80/gallon
Gasoline assumed at $2.65/gallon
Full cost allocation from Base to FasTracks for cost of operations
estimated at $36.9 million
Investment income stable to 2016 due to no material change in
interest rates
Base system minimum capital and expense projects inflated at
3.0% CPI over 2016
Fleet purchases funded by previously issued debt and grant funds
Debt service (p+i) only on existing debt
Base system planned increases to fund balances
•
•
•

Board-Appropriated fund: $7.0 million
Capital Replacement fund: $2.7 million
Unrestricted Operating Reserve: $4.6 million

3
Packet Pg. 123

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Budget Challenges
•
•
•
•

O&M cost
State of Good Repair
Sales/use tax growth volatility
Unanticipated expense increases after SBP approval
§
§

Salaried health insurance
Material salvage

• Favorable fuel lock opportunity
• Deferral of projects

4

Packet Pg. 124

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

Sales/Use Tax Revenue (Base System)
Current Forecast Comparison
Base System Sales/Use Tax
$000s

$365,000

$361,155

$361,155

$360,000
$355,000

$354,292

$350,000
2016

$345,000

$341,857

2017

$340,000
$335,000
$330,000
Adopted Budget

Amended Budget
(Mar-below trend)

SBP

2017 Requested
Budget Update

5

Packet Pg. 125

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Sources – Base System

2017 Requested Budget
Operating Sources - Base System
($000s)
(In Thousands)
Sources - Base
Farebox Revenue
Other Operating Revenue
Sales and Use Tax
Federal and Local Grants
Investment Income
Other Income

2015
2016
2017
Variance Fav/(Unfav)
Actual
Re-Amended Requested
Dollars
Percent
$
115,477 $
117,520 $
117,520 $
0.0%
5,347
4,797
4,941
144
3.0%
324,911
341,857
361,155
19,298
5.6%
73,124
117,580
105,362
(12,218)
(10.4%)
396
1,300
1,320
20
1.5%
3,033
11,979
3,069
(8,910)
(74.4%)

Total Sources - Base

$

522,288 $

595,033 $

593,367 $

(1,666)

(0.3%)

6

Packet Pg. 126

2017 Sources – Base System
Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

7

Packet Pg. 127

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Uses – Base System
2017 Requested Budget
Operating Uses - Base System
($000s)
(In Thousands)
Uses - Base Operating
Bus Operations
Private Carrier Operations
access-a-Ride
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security & Asset Management
General Counsel
Finance & Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Non-Departmental
Less: FasTracks Service Increases
Allocated Expenditures
Interest Expense

2015
2016
2017
Actual
Re-Amended Requested
$
160,168 $
137,820 $
141,992 $
83,795
100,284
102,794
30,711
41,614
43,497
40,919
47,512
66,534
3,593
8,844
7,320
7,465
51,424
47,994
42,178
17,307
20,967
11,100
10,959
11,294
36,594
47,777
51,555
10,603
13,450
13,226
5,036
7,481
6,342
1,121
1,536
1,361
937
6,389
(16,927)
(17,453)
(17,853)
(36,850)
23,361
27,260
28,275

Total Uses-Base Operating

$

439,717 $

496,752 $

494,837 $

Variance Fav/(Unfav)
Dollar
Percent
(4,172)
(3.0%)
(2,510)
(2.5%)
(1,883)
(4.5%)
(19,022)
(40.0%)
1,524
17.2%
3,430
6.7%
(3,660)
(21.1%)
(335)
(3.1%)
(3,778)
(7.9%)
224
1.7%
1,139
15.2%
175
11.4%
(5,452)
(581.9%)
400
(2.3%)
36,850
0.0%
(1,015)
(3.7%)
1,915

0.4%

8

Packet Pg. 128

2017 Uses – Base System
Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

9

Packet Pg. 129

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Sources - FasTracks

2017 Requested Budget
Operating Sources - FasTracks
($000s)
(In Thousands)
Sources - FasTracks
Fare Revenue
Other Operating Revenue
Sales and Use Tax
Federal and Local Grants
Investment Income
Other Income

2015
2015
2017
Variance Fav/(Unfav)
Actual
Re-Amended Requested
Dollars
Percent
$
5,053 $
12,653 $
32,891 $
20,238
159.9%
1,082
1,082
100.0%
216,607
227,906
240,770
12,864
5.6%
157,875
237,276
212,303
(24,973)
(10.5%)
2,769
2,540
2,877
337
13.3%
8,284
8,793
9,221
428
4.9%

Total Sources - FasTracks

$

390,588 $

489,168 $

499,144 $

9,976

2.0%

10

Packet Pg. 130

2017 Sources - FasTracks
Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

11

Packet Pg. 131

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Uses – FasTracks
2017 Requested Budget
Operating Uses - FasTracks
($000s)
(In Thousands)
Uses - FasTracks Operating
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
General Counsel
Safety, Security & Asset Mgmt
Finance & Administration
Communications
Plus: FasTracks Service Increases
Allocated Expenditures
Interest Expense

2015
2016
2017
Actual
Re-Amended Requested
$
385 $
1,877 $
8,040
76,502
52,686
688
846
955
25,608
58,527
11,214
239
3,674
6,405
6,256
644
1,069
196
722
6,082
1,734
16,927
17,453
17,853
36,850
57,657
90,053
126,061

Variance Fav/(Unfav)
Dollar
Percent
1,877
100.0%
23,816
31.1%
(109)
(12.9%)
47,313
80.8%
(239)
100.0%
149
2.3%
873
81.7%
4,348
71.5%
(400)
(2.3%)
(36,850)
100.0%
(36,008)
(40.0%)

12

Packet Pg. 132

2017 Uses – FasTracks
Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

13

Packet Pg. 133

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Uses – Capital (Combined)

2017 Requested Budget
Capital Uses - Combined
($000s)
(In Thousands)
Uses - Capital
Prior Year Approved Capital Carryforward
Capitalized Interest
Facilities Construction & Maintenance
Bus Transfer Stations
Bus Infrastructure
Park-n-Rides
Capital Support Projects
Rail Transit
Fleet Modernization & Expansion
Capital Support Equipment
Systems Planning
Unallocated Capital
FasTracks Program

2016
2017
Variance Fav/(Unfav)
Re-Amended Requested
Dollars
Percent
$
843,221 $
- $
843,221
(100.0%)
32,981
32,981
0.0%
7
5,937
(5,930)
(84714.3%)
82
(82)
100.0%
7,473
6,434
1,039
13.9%
113
1,544
(1,431)
(1266.4%)
2,327
3,274
(947)
(40.7%)
37,016
2,059
34,957
94.4%
57,114
42,710
14,404
25.2%
5,583
324
5,259
94.2%
4,127
(4,127)
100.0%
155
155
0.0%
410,233
235,581
174,652
42.6%

14

Packet Pg. 134

2017 Uses – Capital (Combined)
Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

15

Packet Pg. 135

Attachment: 2017 Requested Budget-FAAC101816 (2923 : 2017 Requested Budget Update)

2.C.5.b

2017 Budget Calendar – Next Steps

Nov. 15

Presentation of 2017
Recommended Budget to Financial
Administration and Audit Committee
to forward to the Board

Nov. 22

Public Hearing and Board Adoption
of 2017 Budget

16

Packet Pg. 136

