Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

April 19, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
April 19, 2011 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board Members were present at roll call. Directors McMullen and O’Boyle were
absent from this meeting.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present to receive awards at this meeting.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
Honorable Mayor McNally, Westminster, representing the US 36 Metro Mayors and
Commissioners Coalition, expressed support for the policy for RTD competitive grants to treat
each corridor equitably while reflecting the individuality of each. Mayor McNally shared the
uniqueness of the US 36 corridor and the collaborative effort between RTD, CDOT, Federal
Highway and other entities. This competitive grant policy will enable augmentation of
existing efforts to secure funds in addition to the RTD commitments.
Gene Putman, Transportation Manager for Thornton commented on item E and item G. He
stated that the cities of Federal Heights, Northglenn, Thornton and Adams County have
worked for 5 years to get this approval from DRCOG. He also noted their support of item G,
Policy for Competitive Grants, and the need to move ahead on all corridors.
George Gerstle, Boulder County representing the 36 Commuting Solutions, offered three
comments: He thanked RTD for the partnership in helping to move the US 36 BRT forward;
He offered their support for the language in the competitive grant policy which offers clarity
in supporting all corridors while recognizing the uniqueness thereof; and he thanked the RTD
staff for their assistance in helping to clarify the language and to understand the current
policy.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Legislative Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Brohl
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James

GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Riley
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Directors Brohl & O’Boyle
Rocky Mountain Rail Authority-Director Daly
Chair’s Report- Chair Lee Kemp
Director Tayer offered up an explanation of his statement on page 4 of the Operations and
Customer Services Committee meeting. Mr. Tayer stated that he wanted to ensure drivers
and TIC have a policy in place so that when there is an incident affecting traffic, the drivers
alert TIC and TIC then posts on the RTD website to alert customers.
Director Daly pointed out the misspelling of George Thorne’s name in the Planning and
Development Committee minutes and the misspelling of Errol Stevens name under parking
management update in the Operations and Customer Service Committee minutes. These
minutes have been corrected.
VI.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Director Bagley indicated there will be a meeting of the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee on Tuesday, April 26 preceding the Special Board
meeting. Discussion items will include GM Evaluation for the First Quarter, state audit and its
completion, requirements regarding final benchmarking tasks, tasks remaining from last year,
and Board Office Management. Paula Perdue will send out an agenda to the team.

VII.

FISCAL SUSTAINABILITY TASK FORCE COMMITTEE UPDATE
Director Tayer noted that the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force is coming down the home
stretch and has been very productive. They have looked at a series of options related to
revenue enhancement, expense reductions, as well as responsible fiscal budget analysis. The
Task Force is looking forward to sharing their recommendations to the full Board.
Director Bagley indicated he has attended 4 of these meetings and he has been inspired by
the effort of everyone involved and he is truly encouraged.
Chair Kemp added that Director Daly should be considered a de facto member of this Task
Force seeing as he has attended most of these meetings.

VIII.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE UPDATE
No updates were available at this time.

IX.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF March 22, 2011
MOTION:

Director Anderson moved for the adoption of the March 22
2011 Board Meeting Minutes.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Directors Hoy and Riley indicated they would abstain since they
were not present for the meeting. Director Deadwyler asked if
she should abstain since she called into the meeting. Chair
Kemp indicated she should abstain.
An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor and 3
abstains (Deadwyler, Hoy and Riley). Directors McMullen and
O’Boyle were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT









XI.

General Manager Washington indicated that he has restarted his quarterly series of
General Manager employee forums, and these are progressing nicely.
General Manager Washington shared that he has initiated a General Manager
Transportation Roundtable with business leaders in the community. The first
roundtable discussion was held April 14, and included the following group of business
and community leaders: Don Hunt (CDOT Executive Director), Nancy Freed (Aurora
Deputy City Manager), Kathy Hodgson (Lakewood City Manager), Diane Barrett
(Denver Special Assistant to the Mayor), Kevin Hougen (Aurora Chamber of
Commerce President), Deborah Obermeyer (Metro North Chamber of Commerce
President), and Tom Clark (Denver Economic Development Council Executive VicePresident. The purpose of these roundtable meetings are to solicit feedback in a
number of areas affecting the agency.
General Manager Washington reminded the Board that he is a member of the APTA
Presidential Task Force to select a replacement for APTA President Bill Millar. The
committee consists of ten people from various agencies around the country. This Task
Force work has started to fervor, so he will be spending many weekends traveling to
various sites with the Task Force. Mr. Washington anticipates leaving out on late
Friday evenings and returning on Sunday’s which should have minimal interruption to
the business. Unfortunately, information about potential candidates is not currently
available.
The General Manager made a FasTracks presentation before the Lakewood City
Council on April 18, 2011. Director Matt Cohen introduced the General Manager, and
the presentation was specifically on behalf of the West Corridor project.
The City of Charlotte, N.C. will host the 2012 Democratic National Convention. The
City has reached out to Mr. Washington regarding sharing of lessons learned and
approach since Denver hosted the DNC in 2008. Mr. Washington was able to share a
great deal of information since RTD was also the Chair for the Transportation Host
Committee which looked at multiple aspects of transportation (i.e. transit, bicycling,
etc)

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve item A thru F on the unanimous consent agenda.
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, item A thru F.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and
0 against. Directors McMullen and O’Boyle were
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

A. Agreement for the Master Planning of Property in the Yale Station area at E. Yale
Avenue/Yale Circle, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an agreement between the Regional Transportation
District and the Yale TOD Partners for the purpose of developing a Transit-Oriented
Master Plan for the Yale Station area that would include parcels of land currently owned
by Koelbel and Company, Mile High Development and the Urban Land Conservancy. The
agreement will provide for an exclusive cooperation period of time not to exceed twelve
months and will further provide that the master planning process will be at the sole cost
and expense of the Yale TOD Partners.
B. Agreement for the Exclusive Cooperative Planning related to RTD property adjacent to
the Alameda Station Light Rail Station, Cherokee and Alaska Place, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to formalize an agreement between the Regional Transportation
District and D4 Urban LLC, a Colorado limited liability company for the purpose of the
creation of specific plans for the coordinated development of the property owned and
property currently leased by RTD and the approximately 60 acres of real property
adjacent to or nearby the RTD Alameda tracts owned by D4 Urban, LLC. The agreement
will provide for an exclusive cooperation period of time not to exceed twelve months and
will further provide that the creation of more specific plans for the coordinated
development of the RTD Alameda property and the D4 property will be at the sole cost
and expense of D4 Urban LLC.
C. Payphone Management Directive
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt a policy to not require pay phones at stations and park-n-rides except
where a specific need has been identified.
D. Agreement for funding the Belleview Call-n-ride
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the South East Business Partnership (SEBP)
and/or South I-25 Urban Corridor Transportation Management Association (SEUCTMA)
for SEBP/SEUCTMA to provide local match funding to RTD for the Belleview Call-n-Ride.
This Agreement is for the period 2012-2014.
E. Agreement for funding the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary for RTD to enter into an Agreement with the Cities of Federal Heights,
Northglenn, Thornton and Adams County for the assignment of the CMAQ grant

awarded to the City of Federal Heights to operate a new Call-n-Ride service to the RTD in
order for RTD to provide the service and for the Cities and County to provide local match
funding to RTD for the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride. This Agreement is for the period
2012-2014.
F. Adoption of 2012 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the 2012 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.
XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G.

Establish Policy for RTD Competitive Grants
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt a policy that specifies that all future grant funds be used for already
planned base system projects, such as capital improvements or service increases. In the
case of FasTracks projects, from this point forward, all grant funds matched using RTD
FasTracks funds should be applied against the applicable corridor budget to fill the
FasTracks funding gap. Adoption of this policy will require staff to:
a. pursue any grant funds that can help close the FasTracks program funding gap and
account for those funds as such;
b. assure that any grant funds awarded to a FasTracks project will be applied to that
project’s base budget wherever possible, not for enhancements or out-of-scope items;
c. for the Base System, advance at least one of the following needs: operational
improvements, cost effectiveness, or safety/security improvement;
d. retain sole discretion in determining which grant opportunities satisfy the criteria listed
in (a and b) above. However RTD staff, at its sole discretion, may pursue grants for
enhancements so long as that grant cannot be used to help close the FasTracks
funding gap.
Any additional grants or other funding obtained by other parties, in support of any
FasTracks project as defined in that project’s environmental document, will not reduce
the RTD FasTracks commitment to that project without prior agreement among all parties
involved. In this situation, RTD would not be responsible for, nor provide, any funds for
local funding match without approval from the RTD Board of Directors.
Additionally, it is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors direct staff to:
a. Case #1: If stakeholders do not agree that DRCOG’s $60 million Second Commitment
in Principle can be used to fund the existing FasTracks project scope, then RTD will
request that DRCOG require each corridor’s stakeholders to apply for the designated
$60 million Second Commitment in Principle on their own, thereby providing the
stakeholders more flexibility on how these funds are spent and removing RTD from
the responsibility of coordinating stakeholder consensus;
b. Case #2: Allow an exception for accounting for the $20 million DRCOG TIP funds and
$4 million in FASTER funds that that were previously awarded to RTD for US 36
since at the time of the award, no formal policy on this matter was in place.
MOTION:

Director Tayer made the motion to approve the policy
for RTD Competitive Grants.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for item G with 13 in
favor and 0 against. Directors McMullen and O’Boyle
were absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
An executive session was not held at this meeting.

XIV.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
Director Bagley referred to two items that were passed under unanimous consent, agreement
for Master planning of property in the Yale Station and the agreement for the exclusive
planning related to the property adjacent to the Alameda Station Light Rail Station. He
requested staff to look at sustainability as components of this development activity (i.e.
walkability, bicycling, etc).
Director Bagley also reiterated that the approval for the two new call-n-ride (i.e. Federal
Heights and Belleview) does not mean RTD will pick up the cost when the grants have
expired.

XV.

NEW BUSINESS
None

XVI.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, April 19, 2011

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Barbara Brohl
Larry Hoy
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Bill James
Kenneth Riley
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District O
District M
District C
District H
District L
District D
District J
District N
District B
District A
District K
District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle

District E
District G

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Bill Bell
Jesse Carter
Rick Clarke
Carolyn Conover
Sherry Ellebracht
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter

Marla Lien
Barbara McManus
Brian Matthews
Doug MacLeod
Tai-Shrae Parish
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed

Jannette Scarpino
Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
John Shonsey
Walt Stringer
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Celina Benavidez, Chris Cruz, Audrey Debarros, George Gerstle, Justin Kelly, Daryl Kinton,
Matt Lutkus, Nancy McNally, Aaron Miripol, Gene Putman.

