Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Crystal Tuggle, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

February 15, 2012

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on February 14, 2012 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors Deadwyler, Malpiede and Williams.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Cohen, Jeet Desai, David Genova, Terry Howerter,
Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Jim Starling, Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Crystal Tuggle, Bill
Van Meter, Del Walker, Phil Washington, Susan Wood, and Brian
Welsh

Others Present:

Ken Burns - CAC, Joe Christie, Stan Gronek – ATU1001, Sherman
Hamilton – Virtegic Group, Daryl Kinton, Dave Lewis – CAC, Doyle
Raines – General Manager Transportation Sector Network Integration,
TSA, Bob Wilson – GLAC, and Melanie Worley - Move Colorado.
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Presentation of the Transportation Security Administration’s Gold Award to RTD
Doyle Raines recognized RTD security for having an excellent security program and
team. Mr. Raines also noted that Chief Tarbert sits on the national panel.
Committee Chair Cohen thanked Mr. Raines for traveling to Denver to present us this
award.

II.

CAC Update
Ken Burns informed the Board that David Lewis is the new Co-Chair replacing Debra
Wilcox. Mr. Burns noted that the CAC received information from a recent DRCOG
report and will receive additional information by February 15, 2012. A new CAC
report will be submitted by March 1, 2012.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 2
Mr. Burns added that General Manger Washington had requested more exposure of
the committee. The Quarterly outreach meeting is coming up next month on March
21, 2012 and we will be discussing the North West Rail. The meeting will be in
Longmont.
David Lewis added that they do see this as their role as part of CAC’s ongoing
educational process. Part of the discussions originally helped for the first FasTracks
vote. Many of the communities are experiencing uncertainties, but he added that
they want to be the advocates for these communities.
III.

Recommended Action


Intergovernmental Agreement with the City and County of Denver and the
City of Aurora for the Peoria Street Grade Separation Crossing.

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and
County of Denver and the City and County of Aurora for the Peoria Street Grade
Separation Crossing. This action authorizes funding from RTD in the amount of
up to $20 Million from the Eagle project for the Grade Separation Project for the
purpose of preparing appropriate National Environmental Policy Act documents,
design, right-of-way acquisition, construction and all related activities.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manger or his designee to execute any subsequent amendments or additional
IGA’s do not exceed the $20 Million RTD contribution authorize in this action.
Bill Van Meter explained the report articulates the various financial commitments
of the different parties and its contingencies. This is an overview of the funds
coming in and the financing for the project.
Director Tayer inquired if this was new information or is this a repeat due to the
commitment of the $20 Million to be replenished by DRCOG and verified that this
is not coming out of FasTracks.
Bill Van Meter explained that DRCOG had to reprioritize a few projects which
were independent of RTD.
Rick Clarke added that this was being brought to the Board since the Aurora was
covered and the other in Denver. The $20 Million is coming out of Eagle
Contingency and is being replaced by the DRCOG funds that have been allocated.
Director Anderson added that she wanted it verified that DRCOG will replace the
$20 Million in funds. Bill Van Meter further noted that per DRCOG policy, the
local governments will have to determine how the funds are allocated.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 3
Director Anderson inquired how much would be taken away from the Eagle
project.
Bill Van Meter noted that an estimated $ 6.1 Million would be used.
Director Tobiassen asked for more information about the Pedestrian Crossings
and Grade Separation.
Rick Clarke noted that the idea is to build along the sides but the concept is still
being worked out.
Director Bagley noted that this intersection has always been a major problem.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the February 21, 2012
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Bagley

seconded

the

Vote on
The motion: The motion passed unanimously.
Directors Deadwyler, Malpiede and
Williams were absent from this
vote.


Recommend Approval of Locally Preferred Alternative (LPA) for the Southeast
Extension.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve a Locality Preferred Alternative (LPA) for the
South East Extension project that consists of a 2.3 mile extension of light rail
transit (LRT) from the current end-of-line station at Lincoln Avenue to just
north of SkyRidge Medical Center; continue east over I-25 to the proposed
new end-of-line station. Three new stations are included in the LPA, two new
Kiss-n-Ride stations at SkyRidge Medical Center and the Lone Tree City
Center, and the new end-of-line station immediately south of RidgeGate
Parkway.
Susan Wood explained the alternative presented is consistent with the
FasTracks plan. Our goal is to have this project completed by the end of
2012.
Director Bagley inquired how this facilitates the Small Starts Application.
Susan Wood explained the amount we are anticipating is $75 Million. In order
to qualify for funding, we must complete the alternatives analysis.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 4
Director Hoy asked for a cost estimate of the 2.3 miles of lines. Susan Wood
noted estimated costs to be $209 Million.
Motion:

Director O’Boyle made the motion
to forward this item to the full
board at the February 21, 2012
Board meeting.
Director
motion.

Vote on
the motion:

IV.

Walker

seconded

the

The motion passed Unanimously.
Directors Deadwyler, Malpiede and
Williams were absent from this
vote.

Update
 West Corridor
Jim Starling noted we are on schedule and the two garages are proceeding through
the design phase. Jeffco parking garage is near completion. He also noted that RTD
has recently received an award from Colorado Chapter of American Public Works
Association for public information and outreach efforts.
Committee Chair Cohen noted that he sees this project everyday and lives and works
near it, further adding RTD and DTCG’s responsiveness to the completion of the
Kipling bike path was exciting. Train testing will begin in March 2012 and a tour will
be organized for the Board.
Director Anderson noted that she gave a presentation at Jefferson County and there
were several concerns regarding RTD charging for parking at the garage. Dave
Genova explained they were using a tiered approach to charging.
Marla Lien noted that she will be reviewing the IGA.
In reference to the Copper thefts, Committee Chair Cohen noted that he recently
attended a west corridor elected officials meeting where a constituent said that there
should be a sign attached that reads “may be energized” at anytime.
Director McMullen noted that a few months ago there was vandalism at the
elevators at the Dayton station and inquired if the rest of the rail lines have cameras
in the elevators.
Rick Clarke added that there are a lot of cameras on the west rail line but no
cameras on the elevators themselves.
General Manager Washington noted that the FTA secretary Ray LaHood was in
Denver noted that Denver/RTD had a lot of visible art.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 5
General Manager Washington also commended Jim Starling, project manager for the
West Corridor, who took over after the untimely death of the previous project
manager. Jim has worked very hard to deliver this corridor on time and within
budget.
 APE
Bill Van Meter referred to the presentation which was included in the Board packet.
A copy of the presentation is also available on the Board website.
Bill Van Meter noted that there have been two day long charrettes regarding options
1, 2 and 3. Much attention was spent on option 3 at those 2 meetings. There are
still areas of concerns with the BRT feasibility between Pecos and DUS, and RTD’s
long term commitment to service levels.
Bill Van Meter further noted that there will be a BRT meeting at the Omni at
Interlocken on February 22, 2012 at 6:00 P.M.
General Manager Washington has commenced a massive communications plan to the
entire district and added that staff has been on a road show discussing all 3 options
in depth. Also, he noted that there have been a lot of questions regarding these
matters and noted that staff is still on schedule for the timelines regarding
recommendations for these options.
Director Tayer applauded staff for their outreach and the efforts to provide
information where intelligent discussions/decisions can be made. He commented
that while the charrettes are critically important, it is equally important that this
whole process be perceived as transparent and open. He encouraged staff to take
this information to the public.
Director Tayer expressed excitement over having a BRT expert to address the public.
He requested that RTD utilize the time with the expert as effectively as possible. He
thinks they should provide him with all the information from the charrettes upfront
and he should be encouraged to visibly walk the RTD corridors as a way of
orientation specifically to the RTD FasTracks. Hopefully this will put the expert in a
better position for addressing questions from the audience that may be RTD specific.
Director Tayer inquired about the half way point with Burlington Northern for the
Northwest Rail in going to Westminster. He and Director Hoy indicated that it is
absolutely critical that they answer our questions. We cannot make a decision
without all the information.
Director Daly inquired why we chose the Westminster City Center to be the end of
the line.
Bill Van Meter explained that we are able to control that segment ourselves and not
have to share the line with Burlington Northern.
Director Hoy noted that Westminster wanted to let the Directors know that they set

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 6
up a special district which included tearing down the shopping center. The city of
Westminster feels like the carpet has been pulled out from their feet. He then
inquired what consideration the staff has given to react to the recent proposal by the
City of Westminster.
General Manger Washington explained that we currently are in the listening,
exploratory, vetting and consideration phase. We are looking at everything and are
completely open to consider everything before we make a staff recommendation to
the Board.
Director Hoy inquired how the public is informed about the public forums.
Pauletta Tonilas explained that the information has been passed along using E-Invites
for stakeholders, elected figures and Chambers of Commerce. Many of them forward
the invites to the newspapers and use social media such as Facebook and Twitter.
We are working on a press release and through various tools we hope people get the
word out and we have been working closely with media outlets to make sure people
are reached. Director Hoy expressed some concern about the timeliness in getting
the Feb 22 meeting notice to the local newspaper as their deadlines had passed.
Director Hoy inquired on what progress has been made with BNSF. Marla Lien
explained that the issues were too complex/intricate to discuss over the phone so a
letter had been sent to them asking for the 6-mile extension to Church Ranch for the
electrified segment.
Director Anderson noted she had a real concern about how we move between south
Westminster station and Church Ranch.
Director O’Boyle noted that we are trying to make real plans using real money. We
should be very specific with regards to what our suggestions are. Also, we need to
address other stakeholders and get their opinions before we make a decision. We
also need to write down our definition of what BRT is so it is defined all the same.
Director Walker indicated that we need to let our constituents know that whatever
efforts that have been made have not been a waste of time.
V.

Other Matters
Director Bagley recognized the new Director for Move Colorado- Melanie Worley.
Director James noted an upcoming Transportations Solutions meeting and confirmed
speakers will be Honorable Mayors Hancock (Denver), Hogan (Aurora) and Harte
(Glendale). The focus will be on building connectable communities.
Rick Clarke explained that the North Metro Corridor will be design, bid and build.
General Manger Washington noted that in the 2013 National budget, a portion of our
Full Funding Grand Agreement is included.

VI.

Next Meeting

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, February 14, 2012
Page 7
The next meeting of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee is scheduled for March 5,
2012.
VII.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Cohen adjourned at 7:20 p.m. to the Planning and Development
Committee.

