Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 9, 2009
Page 1 of 5
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

June 9, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held on Tuesday, June 9, 2009 at 5:30 p.m.

Special Board Meeting

I.

Call to Order/Roll Call
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m. A roll call was taken with 13
present. Directors Busck and Tayer were absent.

II.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
Director Pulliam made the motion to move into Executive Session for the purpose to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f) personnel matters.
Director McMullen seconded the motion. The motion passed.

III.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 5:37 p.m.
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 6:05 p.m.

IV.

Recommended Action
Chair Kemp apologized for the delay during the executive session but stated this
happened only once in 14 years and this is a monumental decision for RTD. He
thanked Cal Marsella for the 14-year run. Chair Kemp commented how great it was
to be able to draw from four highly qualified internal candidates who represented
RTD well and who would have been capable of leading RTD during this interim time.
He shared that he expected a unanimous decision and the Board is quite proud of
the process that they followed to arrive at their choice for the person who will lead
RTD. This agency has depth like none other. He then turned it over to Director
Martinez who coordinated the interview and selection process.
Director Martinez stated it was an honor to be a part of this selection and felt it was
a very professional way of doing business. They got to know the candidates a little
better and appreciate the talents and skills that each one brings to this organization.
MOTION:
Director Martinez made the motion to accept the
recommendation to make Phil Washington the

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 9, 2009
Page 2 of 5

interim General Manager for RTD.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
VOTE
ON MOTION: The Board voted 13 in favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion passed
unanimously.

Phil Washington then provided these comments. “I thank the Board for the
confidence they placed in me to lead this agency. I also thank senior staff who are
the best in the country. I thank the Board and the committee who saw some of that
in the candidates they interviewed. To the consultants, contractors, thanks for all
the work you do. To the backbone of the organization, our employees--both salaried
and represented, thanks for everything that you do. To our stakeholders, internally
and externally we have many major challenges to address right now from
maintaining our excellent base operations to FasTracks. Even with the significant
challenges we face, even with the unanticipated building material cost increases,
even with revenue shortfalls, we still come with an unrelenting optimism that we
will get this investment initiative done successfully. We won’t quit. We won’t quit
because we know there is so much riding on us not quitting. There are the
10,000+ jobs out there, the businesses that will open up along the corridors, the
TODs, the single mom/dad who will take public transportation to get to their jobs or
destination. Someone asked me what economic development means to me. I
stated when I was growing up in southside Chicago, it meant my mother catching
that bus to be gone for 14 hours so she could get to work. If the bus did not come,
she did not work. That was economic development to me when I was growing up.
That’s why we won’t quit—that struggling student out there, that senior citizen that
has to get to Fitzsimmons, the benefit of emission control and congestion reduction,
that’s why we won’t quit. I read somewhere about how great institutions are
seldom built by giant leaps but by small steps taken consistently in the same
direction. We will move this project. The vision that we have is “good to great.”
The great being the buildout of this transit system so it is the envy of the world. As
all great cities are built out, there is an economic renaissance that follows
transportation systems. You can see this over past history in several of our cities-The Nile River and the trade routes, Chicago that opened up as a seaport, economic
renaissance all followed a transportation system.
So to the internal and external stakeholders, for and against, we are going to lead,
motivate, make decisions and hold everyone accountable, fill the perceived
leadership vacuum, and work closely to implement Board policy. We are going to
turn this perceived adversity to advantage. We are going to build this project and
do it well. Our children and grandchildren will benefit from this project.
In closing, the agency has an acting pay policy. I told the Board that I am not going

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 9, 2009
Page 3 of 5

to take a pay increase of one nickel. We are not giving increases out, everyone will
be asked to do more for less so he is not taking one penny. As a matter of fact he
jokes about this but if someone wants to send my child to college and pay my
mortgage, I will work for free.
I thank the Board and everyone for their confidence in him. We will be out in the
community and we will not disappoint. Thank you.”
Chair Kemp closed the meeting out by stating that Phil Washington has stood up to
be someone to be reckoned with. We congratulate you on a good job this far.
Expectations are high and the message we are sending out to the community is that
we are strong and this agency has what it takes to remain strong.
V.

Adjournment from meeting
The meeting adjourned at 6:15 p.m.

Prepared by:

_________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager of the RTD Board of Directors

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 9, 2009
Page 4 of 5
ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
SPECIAL BOARD MEETING
Tuesday, June 9, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Christopher Martinez, First Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William “Bill” McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Larry Buter
Rick Clarke
Carolyn Conover
Jane Donovan
Martell Dyles
David Genova
Kenn Hardin
Cheryl Holmes
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
OTHERS PRESENT
Roger Sherman (CRL)
Jeff Leib (The Denver Post)
Bill Shockley (Owens Corning)
Steve Vickerman (Fluor)
Paul Courtois (Owens Corning)
Linda Wilson (Romero & Wilson)
Ed Romero
Walter Bembry (FRSC)
Darcy Wilson
Saeid Saeb
Franco Williams
Timothy C. Jackson
Robert W. Jackson

District I
District B
District N
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

Cal Marsella
Brian Matthews
Tony McCaulay
Robert Merriman
Brian Middleton
Paula Perdue
Ty Perry
Bill Porter
Scott Reed
Caria Serna
Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster

John Shonsey
John Tarbert
Liz Telford
Jonnie Thomas
Pauletta Tonilas
Beverly Traylor
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Michael Washington
Phil Washington
Greg Yates

Minutes of the Special Board Meeting held Tuesday, June 9, 2009
Page 5 of 5

Rick McNeal

