Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

November 16, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee Meeting held November 15, 2011 in
Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Malpiede; Chair Kemp; Directors Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen and
Walker.
Director Anderson.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Carolyn Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David Genova,
Adrina Gibson, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins,
Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Doug
MacLeod, Karen Morales, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez,
Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa
Sedmak, Daria Serna, Roger Sherman, John Shonsey, Greg Smith, Greg
Straight, Walt Stringer, Jim Sutton, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas,
Christina Tubb, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Dee Wisor – Sherman and Howard.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Malpiede called the meeting to order at 5:40 p.m.
General Manager Washington noted that he had directed staff to be
brief with presentations for tonight’s meetings since all of the Directors
were provided the meeting materials in advance.

FTA ARRA Quarterly Report
Carla Perez explained that staff will be coming to the Board every other month to
provide updates. WIN and DBE/SBE will alternate meetings. Tonight we will focus on
the DBE/SBE report.

Minutes of the DBE Committee Meeting held on November 15, 2011
Page 2 of 2

Director Cohen noted that the West Rail Line has a budget of $700 million and asked
how much of that total will be allotted as our SBE/DBE investment.
Christina Tubb indicated that $70 million will be allocated for SBE/DBE construction,
design, and systems.
Director Cohen asked how the total is only $70 million when we have a DBE
commitment of 19% for the total project.
Michael Washington explained that each contract has its own individual DBE/SBE
goal. It would be better to focus on each individual contract’s DBE/SBE component
rather than the entire project goal.
Marla Lien added that there are some projects that do not have a DBE goal such as
Right of Way Acquisition, therefore the 19% commitment figure cannot be taken off
the $700 million total.
Director McMullen indicated that this is a wonderful and concise report. Whenever
people ask what we are doing at RTD, this is a great reference for the Board of
Directors to use.
II.

Small Business Participating as Primes
There were no questions or comments from the Directors regarding this item.

III.

DTP 19% SBE Participation
There were no questions regarding this item.

IV.

Substantial Subcontractor Commitment
Director Malpiede noted that the Prime Contractors on FasTracks have committed
over half of a billion dollars to small businesses, and you can see that total in the
compliance monitoring report. Director Cohen emphasized that there is over half of a
billion dollars.
Chair Kemp wanted to thank Director’s Malpiede and Deadwyler for their hard work
on the DBE committee. Director Malpiede added that our staff does an excellent job
and they make us look good.

V.

Next Meeting Date – December 13, 2011
Director Malpiede indicated that as we are moving forward the Board should have
quick update every month.

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 5:50 p.m. to the Operations and Customer Service
Committee.

