Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 13, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee meeting held
on Tuesday, January 13, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Not Present:

I.

Chair Tayer, Vice Chair Christopher, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Chacon,
Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director Martinez,
Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen
Director Busck

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Cal Shankster, Caitlin Magee, Bob Lewis, Paula Perdue, Bill Van Meter,
Ron Dodsworth, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Howerter, Phil Washington, John Tarbert,
Dave Genova, Robert Merriman, Roger Sherman, Scott Reed, Bill Porter, Susan Cohen,
Bruce Abel, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Carolyn Conover, Daria Serna

Others Present:

Eric Biga (Veolia), Mike Dino (Patton Boggs), Anne Miano (Patton Boggs), Kevin O’Neill
(Patton Boggs), Kevin Flynn, Bruce Behncke, Jim Wolf (Veolia), Lydia Evanson (Veolia),
Pierre Dehnecke (Veolia)

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

Patton Boggs Briefing – Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer gave a brief update on the “Yield
to Bus” bill which passed unanimously out of Committee in the State Legislature and will now go to the
Committee of the whole. Ms. Ellebracht introduced the Federal lobbying team from Patton Boggs: Anne
Miano, Mike Dino, Kevin O’Neill. Kevin O’Neill gave an introduction to Patton Boggs team. Mike Dino
congratulated RTD on a successful Democratic National Convention. Mr. Dino spoke of how it is a new
time with the change in administration. With the new Colorado delegation in Washington, D.C., there are
some concerns about losing some seniority with the loss of Senator Allard. Positives – Mark Udall is a
friend to RTD. Senate designee Michael Bennett will most likely transfer a lot of Senator Salazar’s staff to
his staff. Congresswoman DeGette improves her seniority. Jared Polis is a new member and has a good
grasp of RTD issues. Congressman John Salazar will move to appropriations which is very advantageous.
Congresswoman Markey will be moved to the Transportation Committee. Congressman Mike Coffman
representing the 6th Congressional District presents a chance perhaps to have more of a dialogue and
improve that relationship. Congressman Ed Perlmutter is a very good friend to RTD. RTD has a good
standing in Washington.

Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Page 2 of 6
Anne Miano gave an overview of items that are upcoming in the current Federal Legislation year.
Kevin O’Neill gave a brief biography on the new Secretary of Transportation. Mr. O’Neill spoke about
RTD’s great reputation and how it will help with the new administration. He reviewed the FY 09
Appropriations bill and the monetary amounts coming to the District, $70 million for the West Corridor and
a little over a million dollars for the southeast corridor. The appropriations bills are expected to pass as part
of the omnibus appropriations bill shortly after the stimulus package is passed. The FY10 process has
started and Patton Boggs is working with Sherry Ellebracht and Bill Van Meter to make sure the District’s
needs are put forward. FY10 will be a focus of the Board’s agenda during the APTA Legislative
Conference.
Regarding the upcoming stimulus bill there are lots of key questions up in the air. The President Elect calls
for 25 billion to be spent on all forms of infrastructure and $60 billion to create a national infrastructure
reinvestment bank. Chairman Oberstar outlined his goals for infrastructure in December 2008 and broke it
down as $12.5 billion dollars for transit, $30.5 billion for highways, $3.4 billion for high speed rail, $1.5
billion for Amtrack and potentially $2.5 billion supplement for New Starts projects that are already in the
pipeline. APTA has asked for $47.8 billion spread over two years. Of that they feel that there are $12.2
billion that transit agencies could spend in 90 days on “shovel ready” projects that would create 340,000
jobs. The questions about the stimulus are: How much money? Whose hands does it end up in? When is
the money coming? Mr. O’Neill believes a type of hybrid will be adopted with the money going to many
different entities.
SAAFTEE-LU will expire September 30, 2009. A challenge will be for the next generation of this bill is how
much money will be available for long term investments in transportation.
Director Martinez asked about the fact that RTD has done so well with other projects, does that help or hurt
the District because other transit agencies need money just to stay afloat and RTD is seeing less reduction
then other agencies. Mr. O’Neill feels it helps in regards to the stimulus package. What is the definition
of “shovel ready” is it ready for construction or projects in the planning process? Ms. Miano responded
projects that could be begun in ninety days but that range could change to 120 days.
The new administration is looking for things that will enhance transit infrastructure throughout the country
and what the impact will be.
Director McMullen asked if there is money in stimulus plan for Operations and Public Transportation. Mr.
O’Neill responded that there is some money and also that there are no earmarks in the stimulus bill but
there will be earmarks in the omnibus appropriations bill.
Director Tayer asked what assurances do we have that projects could go forward. Mr. Marsella responded
that the District is waiting to see what the rules are for getting money.
Director Bagley asked if the criteria will be published of where transit monies will be sent. Ms. Miano
responded that most likely it will be existing formulas and existing programs. The administration does not
want a lot of debate wanted on this bill. Money has to get out to the public quickly to invigorate the
economy.
Director McMullen wanted more information about Colorado’s new senator, Michael Bennett. Mr. Dino said
that Mr. Bennett served 2 ½ years as Mayor Hickenlooper’s Chief of Staff and then 3 years as

Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Page 3 of 6
Superintendent as Denver Public Schools. He is very easy going and his challenge will be balancing
Denver’s issues and needs with needs and issues of the entire State.
Director Kemp wanted to know what long term funding mechanism will exist for transit. Mr. O’Neill said to
expect a fight on how much of gas tax should be spent on highway versus transit. One of the options is
looking at vehicle miles traveled and taxing on that but it presents some privacy issues, and it is not exactly
clear how it would be computed. There may be a pilot program in the reauthorization bill.
Director Christopher wanted to know with the Governor’s lobbying to have the stimulus money come
through state are there any groups that RTD ought to align with to push for more funding through FTA or
existing formula programs? Ms. Miano suggested working through APTA.
The Patton Boggs Briefing ended at 6:28 p.m.

Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Page 4 of 6

FINANCIAL ADMINISTRATION COMMITTEE
Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Not Present:

Chair Tayer, Vice Chair Christopher, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Chacon,
Director Cohen, Director Daly, Director James, Director Kemp, Director Martinez,
Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam, Director Tobiassen
Director Busck

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Cal Shankster, Caitlin Magee, Bob Lewis, Paula Perdue, Bill Van Meter,
Ron Dodsworth, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Howerter, Phil Washington, John Tarbert,
Dave Genova, Robert Merriman, Roger Sherman, Scott Reed, Bill Porter, Susan Cohen,
Bruce Abel, Brian Matthews, Tony McCaulay, Carolyn Conover, Daria Serna

Others Present:

Eric Biga (Veolia), Mike Dino (Patton Boggs), Anne Miano (Patton Boggs), Kevin O’Neill
(Patton Boggs), Kevin Flynn, Bruce Behncke, Jim Wolf (Veolia), Lydia Evanson (Veolia),
Pierre Dehnecke (Veolia)

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m.

Chair Kemp addressed the Committee and spoke about the challenges facing the District regarding budget
issues. He commended Cal Marsella and Senior Staff for their cost cutting measures that they have already
put in place. Chair Kemp also shared that the Board fully supported these efforts and will be looking at
ways to reduce Board spending beginning with using pitcher water from tap and suspending bottled water
both from an economical and sustainability perspective. He also stated the Board will be looking to cut
costs in the meals served and will be providing adequate, not elaborate meals for the Board meetings.
II.

Recommended Actions
a. Senior IT Oracle Database Administrator - Bob Lewis, Senior Manager Information Technology,
introduced this item. This is a key support position for the Oracle database that the District has
implemented. The District put this out to bid; the contract amount is a savings of $50,000 over the
ERP budget.
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a contract in the amount not to exceed
of $200,000 for services of a Senior IT Oracle Database Administrator (DBA) (28DJ024). The
contract is to be awarded to SOl-IT, a small business, following a competitive review of twelve
submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of one year with two additional one-year options.
The contract is being brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD
Resolution No.27, Series of 1985.

Motion:

Director Pulliam made a motion to forward this item onto
the January 20, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Page 5 of 6
Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

b. Certification of Contribution Rate for the RTD Defined Contribution Plan – 2009
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
certify a 2009 contribution rate to RTD’s Salaried Employees Defined Contribution Plan of 9% of each
participant’s eligible compensation.
Motion:

Director Brohl made a motion to forward this item onto
the January 20, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda.

Second:

Director Christopher seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed unanimously.

III. November 2008 Financial Status – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis gave this
report. Ridership is up 7.8% which is 4.7% over plan. Sales and Use Tax – Our current run rate (YTD)
sales and use tax collections is -.4% which is 2.5% lower than amended budgets. The District is within
budget on expenditures.
Director Martinez asked about the decline in use of the mall shuttle. Mr. Merriman responded that with the
implementation of the Southeast light rail, it is reducing the number of boardings from Civic Center. The
mal shuttle is still above 2007 figures, just below plan.
Director Tayer commended staff for the streamlining of the report and discussed working with Mr.
Howerter to continue to refine the reports and maybe add some different reporting mechanisms.
IV. Major Capital Investment Implementation Schedule – Phil Washington introduced this item. Staff wants to
make this schedule more visible for the Board. The schedule was pulled out of Performance Measures as it
is not a goal but a schedule. All of the items have either been approved in the TDP or the FasTracks Plan.
This is the scheduling and timing and it will be reported to the Board on a quarterly basis.
Director Kemp asked about the inter City bus replacement and where is it? Cal Marsella said we are
investigating different ways to make this happen. There are six Bluebird over the road coaches that are
available at approximately half the cost. Ron Dodsworth and Dean Shaklee are investigating this and then
will come back to the Board.
V.

Budget Update – Phil Washington introduced this item. This is a regular agenda item for each Financial
Administration meeting. On February 5, 2009 new Board members will be briefed on budget process. The
February Financial Administration Committee meeting will focus more on the budget deficit and the actions
staff will be taking. Amended budget perhaps going to three to four times a year instead of once a year.

Summary of the Patton Boggs Briefing/Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, January 13, 2009
Page 6 of 6
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer took over the update at this point. The projections have been
received from the State and they are projecting a 4.4% decrease over 2008. This means the District’s
budget will decrease by $45 million with $18 million reduction coming from FasTracks.
Staff is going to issue a RFP in the next 30 days to find a company to electronically review our sales tax
collections and check for problems. This RFP is not to forecast sales tax but to find different ways to
collect sales tax the District is owed.
Director Christopher spoke about checking use tax and Terry Howerter said they would add that to the RFP.
The budget will need to be reduced by $27 million on the Operations side. Staff is looking to mitigate $2025 million. Some of the actions are: a controlled hiring freeze, capital expenditure reductions, employee
wage freezes, and service cuts. FasTracks is working on their projections as well. This will be built into
the budget calendar.
Work on the TDP will begin in February 2009 and will be presented to the Board in June 2009.
Director Martinez wants to see the annotations on amended budgets: where the budget started, where it is
now and what items are being cut from where.
VI. Other Matters – Phil Washington spoke about vendor payments. Staff is meeting with the primes and small
and minority businesses. The goal of these meetings is to streamline the payment process and make
progress on getting payments out in a timely manner.
VII. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be February 10,
2009.
VIII. Adjourn to Operations & Customer Services Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the
Finance and Administration Committee at 7:08 p.m.

