1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, December 10, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:05 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:23 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:09 PM
5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:33 PM
5:03 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:00 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

4:56 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:25 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

5:10 PM
5:15 PM

Chair Anderson and Director Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Will Adams, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie
Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Martel Dyles,
Heather Ellerbrock, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Kenn Hardin, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Doug MacLeod,
Brenden Morgan, Amanda Murray, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard
Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Dean Shaklee, Zamy Silva, Cherie Sprague,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington, Julia Yugel

Others Present:

Adrina Gibson, Gary Forbes, Sherman Hamilton, Rita Kahn, Rita Ho,
Stu Livensparger, Mica Maniece, Nicholas Moller, Ron Murphy,
Thomas Peterson, Dan Pearsall, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett,
Christen Villalobos, Doris Vincent, Gary Van Dorn

B. State of the District (Phil Washington)
General Manager Washington greeted the Board and provided a presentation on his
State of the District address reviewing 2013 goals, achievements and challenges as
well as identifying 2014 goals and anticipated challenges.
General Manager Washington shared RTD is a fiscally sustainable organization and
also sustainable with personnel, with our leadership programs and investment in
human capital. Staff has developed a learning and innovative organizational culture
that allows ideas that come from the bottom up.
The full presentation of the State of the District Address is available in the
December 10, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting Agenda
Packet.
Director Bagley thanked General Manager Washington for his comprehensive
presentation. Director Bagley inquired about a safety related issue, Positive Train
Control (PTC); he hadn’t noticed anything directly related to PTC in the General
Manager’s presentation. Director Bagley shared that he knows there has been an
attempt at the federal level to push for federal funding for PTC and wonders how
staff will be dealing with that in the coming year.
Rick Clarke noted that Positive Train Control is designed to stop the train
automatically. RTD have the PTC system embedded in our Eagle Project; this
mandate is applicable to all commuter rail operations as a Federal Railroad

Administration (FRA) requirement; it is not an FTA requirement which is the
government body that governs our Light Rail operation.
General Manager Washington informed that PTC it is embedded in our Eagle
contract so we will have PTC on our Eagle project and is also embedded in our
North Metro contract. The history behind the PTC mandate was a result primarily
of the Metro Links accident in Los Angeles back in 2008. This mandate, as many
government programs, was an unfunded mandate. The Federal Government says
you will install PTC, but won’t provide the money to do it. The APTA’s position is
that the Federal Government should fund this requirement on the commuter rail
operations. The deadline to have PTC in place is December 31, 2015 for this entire
country. There is a scramble on right now for how transit agencies pay for
instituting PTC, when they’re struggling with the day to day Base-System state of
good repair operations.
General Manager Washington expounded that there is an East/West coast debate.
The West Coast properties, specifically in California, want that mandate and are
pushing for the entire country’s commuter rail operations to meet the December 31,
2015 deadline, mainly because they experienced that 2008 accident; where elected
officials went on the scene of the accident and saw bodies being pulled out, it was
a horrible, emotional experience.
On the East Coast, their thinking is that they have an adequate system and they
don’t have the money to put PTC in place. There is also the East Coast accident on
Metro North where they had a system that did not have PTC; the date is not here
yet but they say it is impossible for them to make that deadline. These are the
factors in the ongoing East/West coast debate.
Austin Jenkins noted that regarding PTC, staff could add that there are issues
related to technology. PTC is extremely complex; it involves radio, it involves
availability, it involves testing and proving of systems on a wide spread basis.
Austin Jenkins commented ultimately PTC involves the freight railroads; it’s not a
small issue that’s just limited to the commuter rail community, PTC really applies to
the entire country and the whole general railroad system.
Rick Clark confirmed that General Manager Washington is correct; staff has ensured
that PTC is in our contracts, both for the Eagle project and for North Metro. Rick
Clark stated that so far, he’s been assured by DTP and Waptec, the supplier; that
they’ll be ready at the time we start service.
Director Folska commented that General Manager Washington gave a great
presentation; that General Manager Washington, the SLT and everyone at RTD
have done a phenomenal job, yeomen’s work, particularly this year.
Director Folska inquired about the DUS opening dates. General Manager

Washington confirmed that May 9 is the festivities; May 11 is the actual move of
operations from Market Street to DUS.
Director Folska wondered what would happen to the RTD parking lot the Board of
Directors use when they attend RTD Board meetings, once the move from Market
Street to DUS takes place.
Marla Lien reported that nothing will happen to the parking lot on May 9th or May
11th. However, Marla Lien informed that the parking lot was part of the land that
was sold, along with Market Street Station. RTD reserved an easement for twenty
(20) spaces in whatever is built by whatever developer takes over the site. RTD
have the existing parking lot space until the space is developed; then we have to be
provided twenty (20) spaces somewhere in the Market street block when the
development occurs.
Director Folska shared that Bill Sirois, Kate Iverson and Patrick McLaughlin are
doing a wonderful job with Transit-Oriented Development (TOD); she hopes to see
RTD put in additional resources in 2014 to ensure that department continues to be
successful.
General Manager Washington noted Director Folska’s comment regarding TOD and
shared there will be a number of areas where RTD will grow, but RTD will grow
smartly.
Committee Chair Walker thanked General Manager Washington and everyone for
their presentations. Chair Director Walker shared that it is still great to be a part of
the RTD agency, and to ride the buses and trains every day.

C. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. _, Series of 2013 Related to the Issuance of RTD Certificates
of Participation
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the
“Reimbursement Resolution”), declaring the intent of the District to use
proceeds from a tax-exempt obligation in the form of a lease purchase
agreement to reimburse itself for certain capital expenditures made in
connection with the North Metro rail line project.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod presented on behalf of Terry Howerter. Doug
MacLeod stated that this action item is a resolution to
authorize RTD to reimburse itself for costs incurred related to
the North Metro Rail Line project once the Certificates of
Participation are issued. The plan is to issue approximately
$480 million in Certificates of Participation to finance the
North Metro project in the early part of the last half of 2014.
However, RTD will be incurring costs prior to that date. In
order for those costs to be reimbursed from the proceeds that
we will receive later in the 2nd quarter of 2014, staff is asking
for the Board to approve this resolution.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Paul Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Radio-CAD/AVL Owner’s Representative Contract Sixth-Year Amendment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to amend the contract with IBI Group (IBI)
as the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s Radio and
Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL)
Systems (Contract 18DH016). This contract amendment is for the sixth
year, which is the final option year of the contract. The scope and fee are
renegotiated annually.
The sixth-year fee is not-to-exceed a limit of
$2,400,000 for a total contract value to date of $12,022,000.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod stated that this action item is asking for
approval to extend the final year option with IBI Group for the
IT support on the CAD/AVL system and associated systems.
Director Tobiassen asked for a quick update; he knows staff
went live with the 800 megahertz system this past year and

wonders what work is left to be performed. Eric Farrington
replied that staff is doing an expansion of the radio system
where staff is using some tower sites greater than the
capacity that was added; staff are closing out a lot of
transition issues and testing; staff are going through and
verifying system acceptance; and staff are also doing planning
for business processes that need to change as part of this new
technology implementation.
Director Tobiassen asked if there would be a future
maintenance contract on this effort and if IBI were part it. Eric
Farrington replied that staff is working on operation and
maintenance planning; IBI will not be providing any assistance,
IBI is only assisting staff with planning.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Menten, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Paul Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Approval of Sales and Use Tax Compliance Review Contractor
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors authorizes the General Manager to approve a two
year contract with an additional one year option with Revenue Recovery
Group to provide sales and use tax compliance review services. The
contract will be paid on a labor hour basis with an annual not-to-exceed
amount of $607,500.
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 17, 2013
Board meeting.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Doug MacLeod stated that this action item is a culmination of
recommendations from the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force,
followed by direction from the Board to staff to seek out
supplementary compliance reviews with the Department of
Revenue (DOR). The DOR currently collects all of RTD’s sales
and use taxes and performs those services for us. This
contract would supplement those services; focusing mainly on

some of the mid-size companies in the district boundaries that
DOR does not have the resources to adequately ensure
compliance at this time. RTD did enter into an IGA with DOR
several months back followed by the issuance of an RFP. We
made a selection through that RFP process of Revenue
Recovery Group. This contract would be paid on hourly basis,
with a not-to-exceed amount of $607,500 the first year.
For comparison purposes, the November report received from
DOR resulted in assessments from their compliance reviews of
$310,000 credits of $43,000 so a net of $266,000 from
those compliance services and staff believe there are
additional opportunities for greater compliance. These
services will start in January, as General Manager Washington
mentioned in his State of the District presentation. This is the
action item to support one of the largest RAM items that will
fund the FasTracks internal saving account.
Director Sisk advised Doug MacLeod that he is in favor of
supporting this action item but is hopeful that since a thirdparty agency will be acting on behalf of RTD, that there is a
certain lessons-learned philosophy for this entity to follow in
terms of how staff wants the contractor to deal with RTD
customers. Revenue Recovery Group (RRG) has a job to do,
but Director Sisk prefers they perform their service without
using a hard or heavy-handed approach, as some collection
agencies do.
Doug MacLeod shared that within the RFP process, part of the
Scope of Work staff requested was qualifications and
experience. Revenue Recovery Group happens to have a fairly
large presence in the State and currently performs a lot of
work for smaller municipalities. They have worked with the
DOR extensively, and in our conversation with DOR, they
stated that Revenue Recover Group is one of their
recommended firms.
Staff does have safeguards in place; there are statutory
requirements regarding confidentiality which is part of the
reason RTD entered into an IGA with DOR before seeking the
RFP. Finally, Doug MacLeod reminded the Board the contract
is paid on an hourly basis as opposed to a contingency basis,
where there might be a tendency or perception that there
would be a more aggressive compliance review process.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Vice Chair
SECONDER: Bruce Daly, Director, District N
AYES: Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Lorraine Anderson, Paul Solano
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

D. Updates

• October 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
The October 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report was presented by Doug
MacLeod. Mr. MacLeod briefly reviewed some items on the Dashboard. He
stated that since the time the Packet was posted, staff is only 1000 riders
off therefore numbers are fairly accurate. The West Line had 419,000
riders, with October ridership the highest month to-date and staff does
expect to hit budget by the end of the year. Staff has received and will be
reviewing the CU Leeds December forecast, which will be presented to the
Board soon.
Several staff attended the 2014 CU Leeds Business Economic Outlook forum
yesterday. The CU Leeds presenters made mention, verbally and in a
handout shared with the audience, about the impact FasTracks construction
is having on the local economy; it’s the main driver in the construction
industry; the project is paying off both in income gains and in jobs. The
Leeds Forecast also expects retail sales to be up 5% in 2014 from 4.2% in
2013; this will bode well for our sales tax going forward.
Doug MacLeod stated that General Manager Washington had spoken earlier
in his presentation about a line item in our financial statement pointing out
the FasTracks internal savings account. Please refer to Packet Page 18, Line
Item 1.d.1.A – Statement of Position, the section where it states “Net
Position.” Note the item highlighted in a brown color; it notes FasTracks
Savings account at $5.5M ($5,563,000). Doug MacLeod concurred what
General Manager Washington stated in his presentation. This figure will
ramp up in 2014 with the addition of the sales and use tax compliance
audits, the Union Pacific Railroad relocation cost savings, etc.
Director Daly remarked that it is very good news that ridership is increasing
on the West Line; he wondered if staff had daily ridership numbers? Doug
MacLeod noted he could get that information for Director Daly.
Director Bagley commented that early on in the presentation on the

Dashboard, there was discussion about ridership increases. Director Bagley
shared that it is apparent to him, the opening of the new service on the
West Line; a totally differentiated service, is the cause for the significant
increase in ridership. The increase is due to offering a brand new service
back in April, which is now starting to mature. Staff said it had the best
ridership in October; when we talk about growing ridership, it’s opening up
new service, especially a differentiated kind of service.

• Third Quarter 2013 Performance Report
The Third Quarter 2013 Performance Report was presented by Jannette
Scarpino. The full presentation of the Third Quarter 2013 Performance
Report is available in the December 10, 2013 Financial Administration and
Audit Committee Meeting Packet, beginning on page 24. Ms. Scarpino’s
presentation was for year-to-date Key Performance Indicators (KPI) for 9
months ending September 30, 2013. The report narrative explains the
variances but Ms. Scarpino noted that some areas are showing improvement
in 3rd Quarter.
Facility Maintenance complaints are trending down from Quarter 1 and
Quarter 2; ridership is higher than it was in the first half of 2013. The West
Line and staffing challenges in certain areas is having an impact on final
resolution of customer complaints which has extended by 4.8 days. This
measure reports on all complaints, against all subject matter in the district.
Staff has not had the resources to rectify this delay but is examining
departmental responses and impact by department on this number; staff is
looking for ways to improve. Bus mechanic vacancies are higher than goal
but recruitment is continuing. Bus performance will be addressed in the Bus
Operations report later in the evening

E. Other Matters
Committee Chair Walker shared that this evening may be his last meeting as a Chair
and he wanted all the Board members to know “it’s been a blast”. He’s thoroughly
enjoyed working with everyone and all the Board members have been phenomenal.
Committee Chair Walker also reminded the Board that tomorrow, Wednesday,
December 11 at 11:00 a.m., the Board office is holding a Board Meet and Greet in
the Atrium; the event is also in honor of and a fundraiser for former Director Matt
Cohen.

F. Next Meeting Date - January 14, 2014
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 6:50 p.m. to the Civil Rights
Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

