Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, October 16, 2012
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Ana Salcido (Temporary)

Date:

October 17, 2012

Subject:

Summary of Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, October 16,
2012.

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Daly; Chair Kemp, Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, O’Boyle, Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.

Board Member
Absent:

Directors Cohen, James, Malpiede and McMullen were absent

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, Martell Dyles, Jane Donovan,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud,
Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Tony
McCaulay, Patrick McLaughlin, Brenden Morgan, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Pranaya Shrestha, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt
Stringer, Pauletta Tonilas

Others Present:

Ferd Belz, Josh Benningnheff, Jennifer Brandeberry, Sherman
Hamilton, David Hollis, Terry Kraser, David Lewis, Bill Moon, Mike
Newman, Jacob Riger, Roger Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Jason
Simmons, Karen Stuart, Dee Wisor
****

Call to Order
I.

Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:57 p.m.

State Legislative Issues
Update on RTD’s potential 2013 legislation by Brandeberry~McKenna team
Ms. Brandeberry explained that there is an election coming in a couple of days and
that will determine the legislative agenda.
She has been meeting with the
candidates. Among the key issues they have addressed is the issue of 3rd party
parking in some areas of Aurora and other locations in the district. They want to
remove the prohibition restricting RTD from contracting with 3rd parties. The good
news is that it can proceed regardless of the outcome of the election. The Cities of
Aurora and Boulder are pushing the legislation as wells as local developers. They
have talked to key legislators and feel confident that they can move the bill forward.
Another issue is charging for parking. There is a lot of pushback from the legislators
on this issue. It can be pursued later at the Board’s discretion. Other issues that are

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, October 16, 2012
Page 2 of 4
more complicated but also more important are the Sales Tax exemption and several
other exemptions passed in 09, 10 and 11; many of these exemptions are temporary
and set to expire in 2013. Marla Lien, Terry Howerter and Sherry Ellebracht have
given a list of ideas on potential ways that we could seek legislative relief on some
of these exemptions so we can capture more revenue. The size of the legislative
agenda will depend on the outcome of the election. Jennifer and Director Tayer as a
member of the Fiscal Sustainability Committee, met with the lobbyists from the
Colorado Municipal League (CML), the Business Trade Association and the Colorado
Association of Commerce and Industry (CACI). They let them know that they are
interested in looking for remedies to the Sales Tax issue. It has been inconsistent
how the legislature chooses to exempt some agencies. There is strong legislative
support to work with RTD and they will continue to work on behalf of RTD to look
for ways to get things done and be successful.
Director Anderson mentioned that she has been attending various chamber’s
meetings as they host the candidates. She thinks they have very limited knowledge
of what is going on with RTD and that is bad. She is concerned that many of them
do not understand what is at stake and wonders how they will make good on their
election promises. The most significant thing is that there will probably be 40 new
people in the assembly. Many of them do not have a background in transportation,
urban planning or understand the role the district plays inside the capitol. The
legislative agenda has to be proactive. She believes Directors have to spend time
with the new people, as there is very little institutional knowledge. It means that we
have to work together as a team to educate them. She will be calling on the Board
to work together in helping to educate the people.
Director Daly asked if they know what percentage of the legislators are in the metro
area. Jennifer responded that is a great question; unfortunately they do not have a
number, but the district represents a good number of constituents. They will try to
find the percentage.
II.

Local Government Issues
Update on local government issues by Roger Sherman
Roger mentioned that they provided in the Board packet a list of the meeting they’ve
had. FasTracks is a big focus. They need to look at what issues come up as the
studies and meetings progress. They are trying to attend meetings and are available
for information sharing. They track candidates and are trying to get to know as
many of those candidates as possible. They are working with Phil Washington to
see how they can be supportive.
Director Deadwyler mentioned that she would like to know what some of the
outcomes/feedback are while they are conducting these meetings. She asked how
the meetings are organized and if they are focused on a certain topic. Roger
explained there are times when they are focused on an initiative that they want to
move forward. They divide the team and all go out and address the issue. Some of
the meetings are to get support for RTD and support for FasTracks. Constituents

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, October 16, 2012
Page 3 of 4
want to know what RTD is doing and CRL provides that information. They are a
conduit for information in a number of ways.
Some of the people listed in the report are officials and Director Deadwyler wanted
to know if they do community outreach. Roger mentioned that they have a team
that does that. Director Deadwyler wants to hear specific outcomes. They do have
the public participating in planning and developing solutions. Director Deadwyler
understands that we are giving them updates, but what she wants to know is what
feedback comes from the public and what they think about RTD. The team does
hear what they have to say; the local governments always bring up what they need
in their municipalities, and they have opportunity to ask questions and present their
concerns.
Director Deadwyler asked how the Board can be given the feedback. Scott Reed
explained that they also have a Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) that is very
active. They work with the public relations team as well so they can increase the
amount of feedback they get. Board members are welcome to join the meetings. It
is a two way street in terms of engaging the public. They also have a local
government planning process. There is a huge amount of information exchanged on
a regular basis and if Director Deadwyler would like specific information they could
work with her to deliver.
Director Bagley noticed that many of the contacts are in the South-central part of
the District. He asked if there was any conversation about the C470 project and the
relation to RTD. Roger replied that they are involved in the C470 coalition that
includes Douglas, Jefferson and Arapahoe Counties that are looking at a highway
solution on that corridor. They have met a number of times with the coalition and
they feel it is a good indicator that transit continues to be an issue. Roger said the
reality is that in that particular process is an east/west highway expansion project
and it is not a transit project.
Director Bagley indicated the reason he was absent from the last Board Meeting was
to attend the Highlands Ranch Community Association meeting with over 100
people. They had over 45 minutes to speak and engaged in many questions. One
question was, is there any way to provide a connection between the two. They
wonder if there is any way to maintain some right of way and provide some
connection in the future. Roger responded that the coalition and CDOT have
committed that nothing they do will preclude any future transit alternative. When
there is additional expansion in that corridor, they’ll take care of bridges, right of
ways, etc. There are so many other outside activities; they need to be plugged in to
what RTD is doing and the directions they are heading.
Director Anderson asked if they see any increase of understanding in the different
areas of the metro about the issues we at RTD are facing. Roger mentioned that
they will hear more in the next few weeks, but everybody wants FasTracks and
wants to get the work done; they are willing to work with RTD to find a solution.
There seems to be a lot of support in finishing this as a region.

Summary of the Government Relations Committee held on Tuesday, October 16, 2012
Page 4 of 4

Director Tayer mentioned that on a personal level, whenever he has been out in the
community, he has seen the connection they are making and that goes beyond any
sort of specific information we are hearing. Sometimes he has to reach out to the
group in order to get feedback on specific issues for his area. At times it would be
good to get an idea of what the specific feedback from the community is.
Director O’Boyle mentioned the C470 coalition is considering three major choices
such as tolling the entire roadway, tolling part of the roadway for some lanes or a
tax payer funding with no additional charge highway. Those are the major options
and of the interest they have is that toll ways generally don’t like the competition
completion running alongside their toll way as it detracts the revenue. That is not an
issue at this stage, but maybe in the future.
III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

IV.

Next Meeting Date – November 13, 2012

V.

Adjourn
Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:20 p.m. to the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee.

