1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
July 16, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson asked all to stand and join in saying the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue called roll. There were eleven present for roll call. Director Menten arrived
after roll call and Directors Deadwyler, Lasater and Tobiassen were absent.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District H

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

5:32 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:30 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Absent

5:34 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:43 PM
5:33 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:30 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Absent

5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:25 PM

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, John Elias, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington
OTHERS PRESENT
Louis Apolinar, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Ricky
Martinez, Mike Newman, Chris Taylor, Joe Triplett, Jim Toweill, Gary Van Dorn, Monte
Whaley

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were no retirees present for this meeting. However, Director Daly spoke about Joe
Stogner, street supervisor who retired with over 36 years of service. Director Daly
indicated that he worked with Joe when he was an employee at RTD. Joe was a
hardworking man and always had a little business on the side. Undoubtedly he has one
now and he wishes him all the best.

V.

VI.

Public Participation


Ricky Martinez, RMR, stated that he does not support the injustice that Rocky
Mountain Reinforcement Company has put him through. He received a pay cut and
they had several safety infractions.



Louis Apolinar who also worked for RMR referenced that RMR has been hired on
two RTD projects, DUS and Eagle. He also received a pay cut and has to scramble
to pay his bills. He is just looking for justice and dignity for the RMR employees.



Jim Toweill with the ironworkers commented they have not heard back from the
Board. This is an ongoing issue with RMR. If RMR is hired to work on the North
Metro project and this has federal funds, this could be an area of concern. He
passed out a handout about RMR. A copy of this handout can be found in the
Board meeting file located in the Board office.



Doug Gregg, Denver, complimented this Board on being one of the hardest working
Boards that he has seen. He also asked about the collection of pictures that were
at the Denver Union Station. He shared a problem that he had with pickup to get
to the Board meeting.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Director Rivera-Malpiede

Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Deadwyler
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Bagley shared that the committee has been meeting for over a month
and a half structuring the core and task goals so that we can move forward with the 2014
budget. Other Board members have been instrumental in this process. He thanked all of
them for their participation. Later this evening, they will vote to approve the GM 2014
goals.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of June 25, 2013
Motion :

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve
the Board meeting minutes of June 25, 2013.
Director James seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Lasater and Tobiassen were absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Bill James, Director, District A
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Tom Tobiassen
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Anderson provided this report:
 Director Lasater hosted a successful town hall meeting in Parker.
 The General Manager Annual Award Recognition was a great event. It was good to
see all of the people receive these well merited awards. She was especially
impressed with the driver who has driven for 33 years without an accident.
 June 27, they had a second Northwest Mobility Town Hall meeting. She believes
this was more successful than the first. She and Directors Hoy, Lubow, and Sisk
participated.
 Chair Anderson noted a number of upcoming events: Directors Hoy and Walker will
participate in the Annual Board Support conference in Austin along with two
members of the staff. Director Walker is running for Region IV representative and
Director Hoy is on a panel looking at the Board’s oversight role during procurement
and construction.
 She attended the NAMS meeting. They discussed rail options for Northwest area.
 Chair Anderson attended the North Metro Quarterly meeting. She thinks General
Manager and his staff did a great presentation and she did not hear any crankiness.
Other Board members in attendance were Director Hoy, Solano and Lubow.
 Chair Anderson attended the MAX program reception on Sunday. Other Board
members who attended were Directors Bagley, Walker and Sisk. It is exciting to
see the middle level managers get together and share experiences.
 Mayor Hancock’s State of the City Address was interesting and upbeat. In addition
to herself, Directors Folska and Rivera-Malpiede were in attendance.
 She attended the DRCOG Sustainable Community meeting this morning.

X.

General Manager's Report






General Manager Washington shared that the North Metro quarterly meeting with
the stakeholders on July 11 was well received. They discussed the North Metro
RFP. There will be a Northwest Quarterly meeting on July 18 where they will also
discuss the RFP for North Metro and the Northwest Mobility Study.
General Manager Washington attended the Conference of Minority Transportation
Officials National Conference which was held in Jacksonville, Florida. He did a
number of presentations. The Colorado Chapter is most aggressive and had much
to share about the DUS and Eagle P3 project.
The 2013 Multi-Agency Exchange Program (MAX) is meeting in Denver this week.
The agencies currently participating in this program are Denver, Los Angeles and
Dallas. This was a brainchild of General Manager Washington and Art Leahy in LA
as a way to share best practices and knowledge sharing across agencies. They are
looking to add Atlanta to this group. His goal is to have a MAX program for every
quadrant of the country. He expects his counterpart, CEO Gary Thomas from
Dallas, to attend the graduation services on July 18.















The 2013 APTA Leadership program is also meeting in Denver this week. They
have a number of presentations and sessions planned. The GM and his staff will be
actively participating on panels and other discussions for APTA Leadership.
Director Rivera-Malpiede has also been invited to participate on two panel
discussions. The APTA Leadership is a 12-month program where the participants
will graduate at the annual APTA meeting in October. Jenni Barket, Legal Counsel,
currently is RTD representative.
General Manager Washington has been asked to be the keynote speaker at
Colorado Futuretek Luncheon on July 20. This organization works with training
youth and underrepresented minorities high school students including providing
internships, etc.
General Manager Washington announced we will be celebrating the 50%
completion of the Eagle project in August, 2013. We have the only PPP in the
country for transit program so all eyes are on us. He spoke to FTA Administrator
Rogoff about this event and invited him to attend.
General Manager Washington announced the DUS Bus Terminal Opening on May 9,
2014. This is ahead of the internal anticipated completion date. This date has
been set and includes the moving of Amtrak in DUS. They stood up an activation
team about a year ago. The grand opening will be May 9, the shutdown of Market
Station will be May 10 and the cutover will be coordinated with the runboard of
May 11, 2014. We are coordinating with DUSPA and USA who plans to open the
hotel and retail facilities in late July.
General Manager Washington shared that around August 1, 2013, DIA will be
moving the Sky ride drop off point to the west side as they shift the work to the
Eastside. This will probably remain until sometime in 2014. They will work with
DIA to make sure proper signage and notification of the change is in place.
Next Monday and Tuesday, Sound Transit will be visiting to learn about how RTD
integrated new lines into our existing system. He has often stated we have
become the farm agency for the transit industry and this demonstrates that more
and more agencies want to emulate our success.
General Manager Washington shared that DRCOG Executive Director Jennifer
Schaufele had asked him, to provide a non-voting staff member to the DCCOG
Board. He has appointed Bill Van Meter as that representative.

Questions/comments from Board members:
 Director Daly inquired if the downtown Denver circulator will be operative at the
grand opening of the DUS Bus terminal. General Manager Washington replied he
hoped so but there is work to be done.
 Director Daly referenced the comments made from the RMR representatives during
public hearing and asked if our compliance team could get with them to share the













XI.

information they had provided to the Board. General Manager Washington stated
he would look at this.
Director Lubow asked about the request for a non-voting member on the DRCOG
Board. General Manager Washington stated he imagine it is to provide staff
expertise with their staff on a number of things. He has been in discussion with
Jennifer for 6-8 months now.
Director James commented that this sounds appropriate. DRCOG is working on
some demand management things and the coordination between RTD and DRCOG
makes sense. Pertaining to Union Station coordination, Amtrak may be on a critical
path. Marla Lien responded that Amtrak and RTD have been meeting and have
resolved most of the critical points. They are planning another meeting around
September and hopefully we can iron out those last few issues.
Director Menten inquired about the MAX program. General Manager Washington
shared it is a program that was started by him and the CEO in Los Angeles and
later Dallas to put together best practices and the sharing of information. This has
saved millions of dollars for the agencies.
Director Folska inquired about the circulators and the street modifications to the
bus bowls. She expressed a concern that if bikes are allowed in this bus bowls it
can be a problem for the visually impaired community.
Director Sisk inquired about the US 36 problem that occurred this morning when
US 36 was closed in both directions. His concern was on our notification process
and how do we communicate this to our users. Scott Reed, AGM communications
indicated they used various media-riders alerts, posted on website, social media,
and dispatched where accessible.
Director Rivera-Malpiede indicated it is important that we have good
communications on these changes to the location for SkyRide at DIA.

Unanimous Consent
A.

2013 Title VI Service Monitoring

It is recommended by the Civil Rights Committee that the Board of Directors review and
approve the 2013 Title VI Service Monitoring Results and the future monitoring on an
annual basis, to comply with federal laws, regulations and guidelines related to Title VI of
the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve Item A,
2013 Title VI Service Monitoring.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on

Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Lasater and Tobiassen were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Tom Tobiassen
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

XII.

Recommended Action
B.

2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP)

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopts the 2014-2019 Strategic Budget Plan (SBP).
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the 20142019 Strategic Budget Plan.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 1 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Lasater and Tobiassen were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [11 TO 1]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano,
Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Tom Tobiassen
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

C.

Approval of General Manager's 2014 Goals

It is recommended by the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the General Manager’s goals for 2014 as
defined in the attached General Manager Performance Evaluation Form.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve
the General Manager’s 2014 Goals.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow thanked the General Manager for
inclusion of some of the comments into his goal;
however, the measurement standard for the “grow the
ridership” goal is not yet a measurement standard that
we can say yes we met that goal. She would like to
see the “grow the ridership goal” at the strategic
planning advance for 2015.
General Manager Washington explained that the reason
why she does not see the measurement goal in this
document is because these are his goals for 2014. In
the meeting, she had given him the task to define that
measurement in 2013. He has a team that will be
looking at this in 2013 and will come back to the Board
in the fall (October) to discuss a possible measurement
goal that can be applied in 2014 per his goal for exceed
expectations.
Director Folska stated she is excited about the “grow
the ridership” goal.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed 12 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Deadwyler, Lasater and Tobiassen were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Jeff Walker, Director, District D
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Gary Lasater, Tom Tobiassen
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

XIII.

Old Business












Director Folska expressed concerns over signage. She would like to see some form
of sub-task group to look at signage in the district (i.e. buses, handicapped areas,
DUS, SkyRide, etc.). The signage should be ubiquitous.
Director Folska would like for the fare taskforce to look at the 10-book ride
expiration date.
Director Bagley reminded the Board that the Railvolution conference will be in
Seattle in late October. This is one of the most important conferences the
members can attend to stay abreast of changes around rail, economic development
and impacts and especially transit TOD. He knows a number of Board members are
planning to attend (i.e. Directors Bagley, James, Sisk, Rivera-Malpiede and Chair
Anderson).
Director Bagley thinks focus on the state of good repair as a safety item is
important.
Director Bagley attended the MAX Program reception and had a chance to talk to a
few of the participants. They stated this is a very productive program where they
have a chance to learn and share ideas-some of them felt it was more worthwhile
than Leadership APTA. It is important that we invest in human capital.
Director Menten referenced a previous Executive Committee meeting where they
discussed having Board members to prepare a trip-tic when they attend
conferences or travel outside of the district using RTD funds. She stated she
believes it is a good idea to have a policy in place to request a trip report and this
adds to the accountability. It also allows information to be shared with Board
members who are unable to attend.
Director Walker shared he too had a chance to speak to some of the MAX
participants. This is a good way to do industry knowledge exchange. He also
referenced some article he had read around the use of P3’s that he found thought
provoking.

XIV. New Business
XV.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:34 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

