Sep 13 2018 1200 PM Executive Committee
DOUG TISDALE: --we are convened here in the Board conference room at 12:03 PM Mountain
Daylight Time on Thursday, September 13, 2018 for a meeting of the RTD Executive
Committee. I will note for the sake of this record that present in this room we have our First Vice
Chair, Natalie Menten, and we have our Secretary, Claudia Folska, and our Treasurer, Judy
Lubow. Also present are our General Manager, David Genova, our Board Executive Manager,
Barbara G. McManus, and our Director, Jeffrey Walker, Chair of the General Manager's
Oversight Committee (GMOC).
We look first at the September Board meeting agenda review. And pursuant to our standard
practice, we have provided you with the draft agenda and the materials that would be submitted
in support of that draft agenda. Just briefly, to help give you a moment to orient, we have two
retiree awards that are listed. We have the committee report to be a part of it. We will have the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management update given by Chair of that
committee, Jeff Walker.
And we also have for your information today in front of you the draft of the minutes for last
Tuesday's meeting of the GMOC. And then we have one unanimous consent item proposed for
the agenda and two recommended action items, and then discussion for the consideration by the
Board of going into executive session, which has to do, as you will recall, with the current
dispute resolution process-- and I should say, processes, in the plural-- between and among
Denver Transit Partners and Regional Rail Partners and the RTD.
So, with that as a review, in the first instance it's the general manager's job to tell us what he
wants on the agenda. So let me ask, is there anything in addition to these items that we show on
the draft Board meeting agenda that you would like to have us add to the agenda?
DAVID GENOVA: I have no other items, chair.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. Then are there any other matters that any of the committee members
would like to see added to the Board agenda for next week's meeting? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I did not want to add, but I just wanted to-- it's easier to
clarify at this point-- we have an Executive Session this next Tuesday, and tentatively have one
on the 20th, Thursday, 5:30 PM. This one was always on that also, this one for the Executive
Session?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes. The Executive Session here is more to brief the Board on how the-we're going to start a mediation with Denver Transit Partners on Monday. So on Monday and
Tuesday, we'll have information to brief the Board on how that mediation is going, and then the
most recent developments that we've been talking through on mediation and then binding
arbitration with RRP. So we want to bring you the latest information there.

And then assuming that we have fruitful mediation on Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday with
Denver Transit Partners, we may be ready to bring the Board an action for settlement of that
claim. Or we may not. And that's the reason why we have a Special Board meeting on Thursday.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, and I think it is fair to say that the Thursday Board meeting is, at this
point in time, on the official record, so that we can give notice, but it's tentative. Because if there
is nothing that comes out of that, then we'll cancel. We'll vacate that meeting. But if there is
something, then, of course, we'll want to be able to talk about it.
DAVID GENOVA: Correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I do not have anything to add. I would be ready to give a motion to
approve this agenda, if we are ready to do that.
DOUG TISDALE: And we'll do discussion in a moment. There's a motion to approve the
agenda. Is there a second on that motion? There's a second. OK.
Now discussion. Director Walker, did you have something?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. A quick question on the executive session. Does that-- if things move
better than maybe anticipated on Monday and Tuesday early, does this executive session cover-I guess not action, but discussion about potential action.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, it would be-- let me just make sure-- it would be giving us, for the
Board to receive legal advice, and then also for you to instruct-- for the Board to instruct the
staff. So we might say, well, is this a reasonable approach or would you like-- or does this
approach seem better? So that's the kind of thing where it would be a combination of the general
counsel providing legal information to the Board in that briefing, and then for the staff to lay out
where we are and receive direction from the Board on where you would like to see us go in the
negotiations.
JEFF WALKER: Right. And I guess what I was thinking was if things are settled on Tuesday
before the Board meeting, could we have the discussion that we planned to take on Thursday on
Tuesday?
DAVID GENOVA: I'm going to say at this point, I don't think so, because we don't have an
action item identified on the agenda.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I'll see what I can do.
DAVID GENOVA: So we wouldn't be able to come out of executive session and then vote on an
item. Is that correct, Barbara?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Right. Because we have the draft of that, but no, obviously, no meat
to it. We just have a skeleton that we'll fill in where appropriate, in the appropriate.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Thank you. That's good.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for considering potential ways of [INAUDIBLE]. Always
appreciated. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: And then under Other-- under your report, we get a-- G line, A line.
DAVID GENOVA: Oh, yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Because I am still not clear what that "early arrival" means. I think when I
got the last written comment, you weren't quite sure if we were still talking FRA. So you don't
maybe have to do that right now. But just making sure the normal practice would be-- you want
to do that [INAUDIBLE].
DAVID GENOVA: I will do that. I'll make a note specifically that I have the latest detail on that.
And then also, if I just may, while we're on the GM report at this point in the discussion, so this
week in the packet, you'll see a little bit of annotation on my GM report that typically just lists
the activities. I've added maybe a one-line descriptor to flush out a little bit more information
about maybe what the subjects were. Like when I say I had a meeting, then there's the
parentheses there that says these were the discussion topics or what we did. So just to give you a
little bit more information. So this week is the first time you'll see that annotated version of my
written GM report.
NATALIE MENTEN: And in the area of the Gold Line they've asked a couple times for a chart.
Nate Currey had made a chart back, we're going close to a year ago, when it was Arvada Arts
Center, whatever it is. That's helpful for people that are like, what does this statement mean, I
don't know what it means. The chart's very visual. It helps them. Is there a way to fill that in
pretty quickly, take that chart? Because not much really would have changed, I don't think, off
the major components of the chart, it would be text, I think.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, I'll look at that. I know the chart you're talking about. It had where we
were, like the different, maybe, agencies and the different milestones that we had with different
regulatory agencies and maybe some other things, and kind of where we were in the process. So
I'll look and see if we can update that.
NATALIE MENTEN: That would be wonderful. That's it, then. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that's an excellent suggestion. Because it helps not only the Board
members to understand that, but there are members of the public and media who will have a
chance to see that chart in that context, if it's reasonably possible for you to do so. That would be
beneficial in terms of our communication to the public and our commitment to outreach. So I
think that's great.

Also, let me add that your use of annotations on your report is exceptionally appreciated by all.
Because there is obviously a lot of that information that is shared by the General Manager with
the Senior Leadership Team in their regular weekly meeting on Wednesdays. But the Board
doesn't know all the magic words about who is Fred and who is Barney and who is Wilma and if
I met with them, what does that really mean. So it helps to have that. That's much appreciated.
Any other comments on the agenda or other discussion on the pending motion to approve the
agenda?
NATALIE MENTEN: None from me.
DOUG TISDALE: Hearing none, would all those in favor of the agenda as indicated here please
indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. Thank you
all very much.
We turn on the Executive Committee agenda to other matters. Are there other matters that any
member wish to bring forward at this time? And we'll pause and make sure.
Yes? Director Menten, you had one. See, if I didn't pause, we would have been done. But I
paused, because I wanted to make sure.
NATALIE MENTEN: Communications. I'm sure things are-- some things are unknown right
now. Others are. We say we're going to have a change there, with Scott's resignation. Is there
anything that you'd like to inform us of or alert us to or just tell us, eh, we're figuring it out, hold
on?
DAVID GENOVA: So obviously the Board is seeing Scott's notice of retirement. And it's
effective the end of-- well, September 27th. And so right now, Scott and I are working through
transition items, which is going very smoothly. Tomorrow morning, I'm meeting with the entire
Communications department, everyone that's available. Some people that aren't available, I'm
actually having in-person meetings with today, because they're traveling or other plans
tomorrow. So I'm having an All Hands so I can talk to them about what's happening and what my
plan is and all of that.
So we will be posting the Assistant General Manager position for communications. And that may
post as soon as the end of this week. I've-- working with human resources on the job, making
some tweaks to the job description and getting that posted.
The other thing I will let the Executive Committee know is that I've made a change to the one
position that we were looking at doing a Deputy AGM. I'm changed that to a Senior Manager. It
will still be over the public relations and marketing groups, but it'll be a Senior Manager position

and not a Deputy. And so we're going to cancel that Deputy recruitment and then post the new
recruitment.
And then the other one that is going on there is for the Senior Manager over media. And that is
an active recruitment, and I have a shortlist that I'm working through on that right now. So I'm
working as quickly as I can, because obviously, that's senior level positions in a department, with
three of them. In the meantime, the direct reports that were reporting to Scott will be reporting to
me. I will be having a weekly meeting every Tuesday morning with the direct reports. And I'm
already seeing some good things through that, some good engagement.
So I think it's a good plan moving forward. And I'm very eager and I'm happy to report that we're
getting an awful lot of activity on those recruitments. So I'm really looking forward to-- I mean
the two that we had posted so far, a lot of good applicants. So I'm looking forward to our future.
DOUG TISDALE: That is excellent. Thank you very much. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Why thank you, Chair. Could you tell us what the difference is between
somebody being a Deputy as opposed to a Senior Manager? Is it just a different job title and a
different pay scale?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, a couple of things. So the requirements for a Senior Manager versus a
Deputy Assistant General Manager are going to be different levels. Obviously, for a Deputy, it's
going to be much higher minimum qualifications to be qualified for the job. The Senior Manager
will be a little bit less. And then, of course, it's a different salary or pay grade for the two
positions.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Well, I think that is important. Because, as you know, some of us are just
concerned about that there's a lot of very high salaries in the upper management field. And it's
nice to look at that and see what trimming can happen.
DAVID GENOVA: And it's my intent to be responsive. And I heard the Board-JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: --and I'm doing it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DAVID GENOVA: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: No, and I think it helps to express that here in this context to validate that that
process has gone forward. And I think that-- I personally am not speaking for anyone else-- I
personally believe that it has been well attended to, and we appreciate that. And any further
insights, as may be appropriate, feel free to give us in the future.
Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Dave, is your search a national search, or is it regional?
DAVID GENOVA: Yes. The Deputy will be national, and the Senior Manager positions will
also be national. So it will be national and internal/external all at the same time.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Perfect. Yes, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: You know, I'm very eager for the plan that Nate had talked about that each
district would be subject to its own PI efforts. And I think it's long overdue. And so I'm
wondering what's happening and has there been delays because of this management issue that
we're missing a whole bunch of people?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, obviously, Director Lubow, when Nate separated from the
organization, some of those efforts that we had going on had gotten stalled. But, you know, the
good news is we have Christina-JUDY LUBOW: She's wonderful.
DAVID GENOVA: Christina Z, I'll call her.
[LAUGHTER]
I forgot her last name. Christina is our Manager of Community Engagement. And she has two
positions that report to her. So the whole notion with this community engagement piece is to do
exactly those kinds of things, you know, working more, not just on a Board member by Board
member, district by district outreach, but just general outreach, in general.
So I think Christina-- many of you have been with her at open houses and things like that-- I
think she's great with the community. And I think she's positioned really well to be able to lead
those efforts, and she's working on those as we speak. And I think we have her resourced
appropriately, with two individuals to help her and work in that area. And so I'm really looking
forward to see what we're going to do in that area.
JUDY LUBOW: And the timeline?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, it's ongoing. So I can't tell you when we'll have certain specifics done.
It's still kind of a plan in progress. But the resources are lined up for her activities. So it's
underway.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much.
Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Dave, I would just suggest, or my hope maybe would
be to find someone in this senior AGM position that really has a strong passion and core ability
to tell great stories. Because you guys have a great story to tell. And a lot of times when we see
people in marketing positions, communications positions, they're not exactly story tellers, you
know, and then can bring about that. But I think that's an important quality to look for.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that is helpful. And may I say, by the way, General Manager Genova
was a great storyteller this morning at the Transportation Transformation. And I wish-- you
know, it might even be worth it some time to see if we could take some of the snippets from his
opening remarks and make that available to all to see. Because I loved how he began at the
podium and he gave his sort of welcoming remarks, following me. And there are some people
who've said that's a tough act to follow.
DAVID GENOVA: It is. I agree with you.
DOUG TISDALE: Point out. But that said, then he migrated away from the podium and started
talking to the audience. Because he had a lavaliere mic on-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, those are cool, aren't they?
DOUG TISDALE: And it was just amazing. And it was a great engaging opportunity with that
room of people. I was very impressed, and I just have to say kudos to you on how that was
handled. Because, Director Folska, he was a great storyteller this morning.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Good.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: It can wait till other matter.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We're in other matters.
DOUG TISDALE: Pardon now? I'm sorry.
JEFF WALKER: Are we in-- oh, yeah. I'm sorry. [INAUDIBLE]. So if we remember correctly,
back in 2011, didn't each director have a newsletter for a while? And I think those were-JUDY LUBOW: Not since I've been here-JEFF WALKER: --discontinued. OK, maybe they were discontinued before I got on.
JUDY LUBOW: No, I had one, too, yeah.

JEFF WALKER: I'm not talking about before. Yeah, it's like a what's going on in the district.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. It went on when I was here.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I didn't know it was on that late. Because I [INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: Out of this department? Or out of Communications?
JUDY LUBOW: Communications.
JEFF WALKER: Out of Communications. Is that correct?
DAVID GENOVA: I'm kind of drawing a blank. But if Director Folska-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
DAVID GENOVA: --recalling it, I'm sure we were doing it.
JEFF WALKER: OK. And the reason I ask is because I don't remember having one back then.
But I was wondering if they went away, why. And I don't need an answer now. But there might
be some lessons learned as to why they were discontinued. What I was told, and I don't
remember who, because it was seven years ago, is that they weren't well read or there wasn't a
whole lot of responsiveness to the production of those from the public. So if there are lessons to
be learned, I'm sure [INAUDIBLE].
DAVID GENOVA: Well, some of the challenges around a regular newsletter is just having
material.
DOUG TISDALE: Content.
DAVID GENOVA: Yeah, content to keep them fresh. But I'll talk to the team about that and get
their thoughts.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We might want to think about maybe doing a spotlight on directors in
the different districts in the Monday Morning Dispatch.
DAVID GENOVA: Oh, that'd be a great idea.
DOUG TISDALE: That's not a bad idea.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Because that way, we could put it in as we were doing things in each
of the districts and spotlight the directors as they're out in their communities.
DOUG TISDALE: If that were to be done, let me suggest that it would probably want to
alternate with the employees. Because I don't want to have-- I'm sorry, my own sense is I think
people would not be interested in seeing 15 bios all of a sudden show up 15 times in a row.

Director Menten, you had a comment?
NATALIE MENTEN: Just that with the mobile lab, I never did grasp the grasstops philosophy
that was to be the mobile lab. It was to go and talk to the grasstops, almost do like a marketing
survey. So I don't know if you remember, that's where mobile lab was going. And I just never got
that. And for me, I saw the big advantage of being actually able, a director being able to check
out a laptop, take it to their ward meeting, house meeting, whatever, have some type of three,
four surveys, you know, why aren't you using the service, what are the challenges? The
grasstops, to me, they like to add and be a chief. It doesn't mean they're using the system.
So just a note, if mobile lab gets going, it never sat with me that it seemed like a marketing thing
instead of a user related thing. So that's all I wanted to comment, as we were on that topic. That's
all I have.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You know, just one thing, I think, Dave, to kind of think about. And we've
talked about it. And it's not an easy thing. I don't know how you can do it. But I think having
some measurable outcomes or try for not causality but correlational outcomes from marketing
effort, marketing communication efforts. I think you can do it with digital analytics a lot easier.
But when we do these outreaches, it's pretty hard to quantify what the impact is or how you're
influencing or changing behaviors or what have you. And keeping that engagement going is
challenging. But I think it would be good to have an active attempt to get a matrix down to
measure the outcome of our effort.
DAVID GENOVA: We have a lot of good metrics on the recruitment piece. Because as people
come into RTD, we actually do survey them on where did you first hear about this? Was it an
ad? Was it internet? Was it an employee? Was it a friend? So we have a good amount of that in
terms of the employee and the recruiting efforts.
But we can also, though, do additional work through market research surveys to gain a sense of
how well the programs. And actually, before we develop a lot of the marketing programs, we are
actually engaging and doing market survey on messaging that would resonate with people. So we
do a lot of that on the front end, as well. But we can do more of it on the back end certainly.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And even what your goals are. And one would hope that eventually, this
genius, brilliant marketing campaign increases ridership, I think. What are the goals of this
campaign?
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Good thoughts and observations. Thank you.

Are there other matters that any Director would like to bring forward at this time? Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, stream of consciousness, but I was thinking of-- this is something that
matters to me, and it gets lost, it really gets lost in all the other work, is focusing on increasing
ridership. We've been focusing on building FasTracks and focusing on operator shortages, et
cetera. But I think personally, it's easy to lose sight of focusing on our-- I don't know if it's called
a vision-- but it's basically where RTD says they want to increase market share of transportation.
And I don't see that as a focus. And I would love it to be the focus. I would love it to be
something that's part of major decisions is how will it impact ridership.
DOUG TISDALE: If I may, let me try to comment on that first. Then of course, General
Manager can comment.
It's unfortunate that there were only about, I guess, four or five of us who were able to attend the
Transportation Transformation Summit today. But that is exactly what that was. That was really
an opportunity to communicate how we are, by virtue of collaborating with others and
understanding what's going on in this transportation transformation, how we will help build
ridership. That's a necessary outcome from that discussion.
So I'm glad you mentioned it, because I think sometimes our efforts don't get understood,
because either A, we don't have a chance to see them, and it helps to have General Manager
come forward and tell us about it. And B, because sometimes even when we do hear about them
or see them, we don't realize that there is a necessary result from that kind of outreach that is
ridership exactly as you're talking about.
All that said, we need to continue, I believe, to make it a focus. But now that I've gone on, let me
let General Manager.
DAVID GENOVA: Absolutely. And especially with parameters, right? Because if we want to
increase ridership, there's a variety of ways to do it. Simplest one is to put the resources where
the riders are. Get a ridership increase right away. But then we've got to look at what trade-offs
are. And so the other thing I shared today, and the Board will have this in the financial packet, is
that light rail ridership is up about 4.6% from last year, year-to-date. And commuter rail ridership
is up about 10 point something percent. But bus is down a few percent, like 3.8%.
So certainly, I think increasing ridership is probably embedded into a handful of our goals we
have across the organization. But as we talk about it, we really need to keep in mind within what
parameters we want to attack that on.
JUDY LUBOW: I would love to see it be part of the analysis of everything we do. Because
ultimately, that is what we're here for.
DAVID GENOVA: Well, it'll certainly be a big part of the comprehensive analysis that we're
going to step into next year, this big picture comprehensive analysis and system optimization that
we're going to do.

And I'll just give a quick example that I thought was good today from the forum. So we had a
panel group. And it was Heather talking about our technology things and what we're doing with
ticketing and those kinds of things and some of the things we talked about on Tuesday night.
But then we also had a Vice Chancellor from DU. And he talked about the DU shuttle that they
have and how it's ride attached to-- so it's a circulator just for students. It's not for visitors yet,
but just for students. And we worked with them and they actually pull into the light rail station at
University of Denver and then circulate their students through the campus. And I think it's an
incredible pilot. But he talked about it in terms of this is serving RTD and it's serving us. And he
says, we don't want our students to drive to campus. In fact, he says, we're thinking of getting rid
of parking. We want everybody to come on transit and then get on the shuttle, and win-win
partnership. So I think there's a huge opportunity for development of more of those kind of
things, too.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, they do that in Boulder.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lubow, more?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Oh, yes, sorry. I would just urge that there be a person whose job it is to
focus on increasing ridership. That's my own personal feeling that it would be a useful thing to
have.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Other comments? Other comments at this time? Other
comments? Third and last call, other comments. Hearing none, we will stand adjourned as of
12:31 PM on Thursday, September 13, 2018.
[GAVEL BANGING]
Thank you all very much.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well done.
DOUG TISDALE: Well done.
NATALIE MENTEN: One note for-- Judy, I don't think you were-- and I'm sorry it didn't make
the Transportation Transformation. Just got to juggle priorities this time of year, and it kind of
came in second. There will be-- it was taped, though I'd love to have just the raw footage of this.
DOUG TISDALE: The video.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The tape of theNATALIE MENTEN: Because that's something that can be used at town halls and a variety of
things. So just plain, raw is fine with me.

DOUG TISDALE: No, it was really good. I think you-- I know you would have enjoyed it. I am
sorry you couldn't make it. But believe me, it would be well worth the time to watch it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I definitely will.
DAVID GENOVA: And this is-- I'll say this is the first in many kinds of things that we'll be
doing that'll be very similar to this. And so the target audience for this was mainly the local
transportation staff folks, from county--

