Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 7,
2011
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Corrected Minutes
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

June 8, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
June 7, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle and Tobiassen.
Directors Deadwyler and Tayer arrived after the meeting began.

Board Members
Absent:

Director Riley.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Jane
Donovan, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Cory Granrud, David Hollis,
Terry Howerter, Genevieve Hutchison, Austin Jenkins, Patrick
McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen,
Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, Mike Turner, Del Walker, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Cameron Bertron – DURA, Dan Cohen – D4 Urban Investment Group,
Jason Fell – City of Boulder, Lloyd Herren – Alameda Station, Jeff Leib –
Denver Post, Tyler Lowe – Alameda Station, Bill Mosher –
DUSPA/Trammel Crow, Howard Noble – Noble Property Group, James
Reurd – DURA, Tracy Winfree – City of Boulder,
****

Call to Order:

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Director Bagley indicated there would be a change in the agenda, and the
first item for discussion would be the DUS updates presented by Bill
Mosher.

 DUS
Bill Mosher noted that the Denver Union Station update will be presented to the Board
every other month. As of May 31st 2011, $150 Million dollars have been spent and the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 7,
2011
Page 2 of 6

project is 40% complete. When the light rail station opens, riders will be able to access
both light rail and the mall shuttle. The bus facility will have a lot of skylights to
optimize as much natural light as possible, and the excavation behind Union Station is
currently in progress. The gas line relocation is currently underway, City approvals have
been finalized, and Public participation has increased.
Director McMullen noted that everything seems to be coming along and falling into
place and that there is a buzz within the community regarding this project.
Director O’Boyle inquired as to when Amtrak would be relocated since the target year is
2014, but which quarter of that year might the relocation take place. Bill Mosher noted
that specific dates have not been set, but the Amtrak relocation will be a focus point in
the coming year.
Director Daly asked if Wewatta is currently open to traffic, and how is pedestrian
traffic controlled. Bill Mosher explained that yes, Wewatta is currently open to traffic
and there are lights and signals to help control and direct pedestrian traffic.
Director Bagley added that the Board Tour of Union Station that was cancelled last
month due to rainy weather conditions be rescheduled since the Board was still very
interested in completing that tour.
I.

Recommended Action


RTD-CCD East Colfax Transit Project Intergovernmental Agreement

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to
complete an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between RTD and the City and County
of Denver (CCD) for RTD’s participation in the East Colfax Transit Project (ECTP).
Funding for this project is included in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget through a
$2 million grant from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA), with $1 million local
match provided by CCD. There would be no net financial impact to RTD.
Bill Sirois explained that this is an IGA with the City and County of Denver and they are
providing a $1 Million dollar local match to the federal grant they received. RTD’s role
would be to have staff participation, but we are not funding this project and would not
incur any financial impact other than staff time designated to the project, which is
already included in our budget.
Director O’Boyle noted that looking beyond the study, is there any sense of looking at a
operating and maintaining a Trolley system should it come about. Bill Sirois explained
that our first priority is the FasTracks program and its completion. Any new idea or
capital improvement project would not be looked at until FasTracks was completed.
Director Tobiassen noted that a few years ago, funding was approved for

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 7,
2011
Page 3 of 6

improvements along Colfax, and inquired what happened to those funds. Bill Sirois
explained that funds were received from DRCOG to be applied to bus improvements
and service planning.
Director Tobiassen further inquired as to what Tour Based Travel Demand Focus
means. Bill Sirois noted that DRCOG is embarking on a new model called the Tour Base
Model that is focused around travel demands.
Director James added that this is a great example of the partnership between the City
and County of Denver and RTD.
Director Hoy added that he was able to ride the 15L recently and it was an extremely
busy route, and inquired how a Street Car/Trolley Car could serve the transit rider
better than a regular bus. Bill Sirois explained that Street Cars are usually used as an
economic redevelopment tool. A detailed analysis will need to be completed to compare
all modes of transportation to see which mode is the best for Colfax.
Director McMullen inquired if the City of Aurora will be involved in this program. Bill
Sirois noted that Aurora will be a participant, but we will be working specifically with
the city of Denver since they are the recipient of the federal funding.
Motion:

Director James made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 21,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The Motion passed Unanimously.

Recommendation for Transfer of Funds from RTD to Denver Union Station Project
Authority

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that: (1) RTD enter
into an Agreement to obtain FASTER grant funds from the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT) in the anticipated amount of $4 million for use in the historic
Denver Union Station (DUS) which may be administered in conjunction with Denver
Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA); (2) transfer funds from 16 Chestnut LLC or a
related entity for construction of a roadway and pedestrian access at 16th Street and
the Consolidated Main Line (CML) to DUSPA; and (3) grant the General Manager
authority to execute any agreements or amendments necessary for this purpose, which
may provide for advance of grant funds prior to receipt from CDOT and may provide
transfer of funds from RTD to DUSPA.
Rick Clarke explained that this IGA would enable RTD to enter into an agreement with
CDOT and DUSPA. Also, we will be able to accept funds to construct a sidewalk
directly from the millennium bridge to the mall shuttle.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 7,
2011
Page 4 of 6

Motion:

Director Malpiede made a motion to
forward this item to the full board at the
June 21, 2011 full Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The Motion passed Unanimously.

Authorization to Approve IGA for funding for the Broadway/Euclid Transportation
Improvements in Boulder

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (lGA) to partially fund the
transit related improvements associated with the pedestrian/transportation
improvement project located on Broadway at Euclid with the City of Boulder in the
amount not-to-exceed $570,000. Funding for the project is included in the 2011
Proposed Amended Budget.
It is further recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $570,000 from the Broadway & Euclid
capital project in the 2011 Proposed Amended Budget to expense to facilitate proper
accounting for the IGA.
John Shonsey noted that this IGA would be for pedestrian/transportation improvements
to the Broadway/Euclid station. The completed project will total $7.4 Million; however
our portion will only equal $570,000.00. The participants in the project are the City and
County of Boulder, RTD, CDOT, and CU. Improvements will be made for safety
concerns to pedestrians and bicyclers. This project was initiated in 2006 by the City of
Boulder, and we are finally ready to accept bids to get this project underway.
Director Brohl inquired as to why these funds were being moved from the Capital
Budget to the Expense Budget. John Shonsey noted that this is a Capital Program, but
not RTD’s Capital Program. Director Brohl further inquired as to if this was a project
that was approved previously, or if this was something new. John Shonsey explained
that this originated in 2006 and RTD participated in the design of the project, but it is a
standalone project initiated by the City of Boulder, CU and the other participants that
are funding this improvement.
Director Tayer noted that this project has been a long time coming because of the
collaborative efforts and processes of all entities involved, and this is a great
opportunity to vastly improve service in this area.
Director Malpiede inquired how often vehicular/bicycle conflicts occur. John Shonsey
noted that there are conflicts daily.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 7,
2011
Page 5 of 6

Director Tobiassen asked if there had been any public outreach and meetings to see if
they have been included in these plans, including those with disabilities to ensure we
complete the best possible project. John Shonsey indicated that this process began in
2006, and since then the City of Boulder has held several outreach programs, and CU
has been directly involved by including their students in this process.
Director Bagley highlighted that this is a great example of extensive intergovernmental
cooperation and inquired when this project will begin. John Shonsey noted that the
project should begin this year with completion by the end of 2012.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the June 21,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed with 13 for (Chair
Kemp, Directors Anderson, Brohl, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Tobiassen)
and 1 against (Malpiede).
Committee Chair Bagley declared the
motion Passed.

II. Updates
 RFQ for Historic Building
Bill Sirois noted that we published our RFQ on the 22nd of May, and proposals are due
by June 20th and our plan will be to release the RFP by early August.
Director James noted that 2 teams are interested, but inquired if any other teams have
expressed interest.
 TOD Update
The presentation in the packet is divided into two sections, mainly as information for
new Board Directors, and a refresher for previous Board Directors. The main focus
tonight will be on the Pilot Program which compares Transit Adjacent with Transit
Oriented Development. The program is testing new tools to allow RTD to foster livable
communities with creativity in use of parking management and catalyze additional
station area development. Currently, the Alameda Station has issues with the transition
from a commuter parking facility to a transit oriented community. There is an
uncertainty regarding future development phasing and we will have to give up
something today for an investment in the future.
Director Tobiassen noted that one word missing from this presentation is “walk-able
communities”. For Transit Oriented Communities, it will be very important to prioritize
the walk-ability of a community. Also, audible cues for those that cannot read signs

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, June 7,
2011
Page 6 of 6

would be a great advantage to make this more user friendly.
General Manager Washington added that the South Lincoln public housing development
was awarded a $22 Million dollar grant. This development is near our 10th/Osage
station that will be revamped to add more housing units, retail, childcare, etc. This area
has little to no parking, and fully utilizes transit, which was a major factor in the grant
being awarded to this location.
 Alameda LLC Bus Barn
This site went out for RFP originally in 2003 and the contract was awarded to Alameda
LLC. They were to buy the property for $3 Million dollars, and build a bridge from the
site to the station within 10 years of closing, otherwise they would owe RTD over $3
Million in damages. Essentially, this contract expires at the end of the month, and they
are working with Greyhound to get a contract finalized with them. However, if an
agreement cannot be reached, we will pursue other options.
Director Brohl noted that if we do not move forward with Alameda LLC and we must
send out another RFP, we need to keep the bridge as part of the project.
Director James noted that this location was within his district and wanted to know the
level of interest from Greyhound. Bill Sirois noted that Greyhound has been engaged in
talks, but has made no commitments yet.
General Manager Washington added that this item will be brought to the Board at the
Study Session on June 28th 2011, and any further action that is needed regarding this
item will be presented then.
III. Other Matters
Director Bagley noted that he and Director Hoy attended the Railroad 201 class in
which they were both totally immersed in how to run a railroad, how railroads work,
drainage, station location, station design, bridge construction, etc and the group that
conducted the class did a great job.
Director Tobiassen added that he had the opportunity to travel from the Southmoor
Station to Union Station for the EMU mock-up blindfolded all the way with a tour guide
who was blind.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for July 5,
2011.
V. Adjourn to FasTracks Monitoring Committee
The meeting adjourned at 7:05 p.m to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee

