2020-06-09
RTD Finance, Admin & Audit Committee
SHELLEY COOK: Hi there, everyone. I'm Shelley Cook, and the Chair of the finance and
administration and audit committee calling that committee to order. We're convened as of 5:30 PM
Mountain Daylight Time. And I would respectfully ask everyone connected to this call to mute
your phones and set your ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, the meetings will be primarily audio recorded. And the audio recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
You can visit RTD-Denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of
Directors page. Sorry about that.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please announce your name and wait for me to call you
before you proceed to speak. Speaking out of turn only adds to confusion to the record into the
proceedings. Please note that at the appropriate time during our discussion and voting processes
later on this evening, I'll call on each Director in turn. So please know that your time to speak will
come. And if possible, please hold your comments until that time.
So at RTD, safety is our core value. And we always begin our meetings with a short safety briefing.
And you've heard this many times, but it's more important than ever now as we begin to reopen.
We're beginning to see a resurgence in some areas of the COVID-19 virus. As such, this
information just bears repeating if we're to remain vigilant in the weeks and months to come.
So avoid touching your eyes and nose and mouth with unwashed hands. Cover your cough or
sneeze with a tissue. And then throw the tissue in the trash. If you don't have a tissue, cough or
sneeze into your upper sleeve or elbow or just not in your hands. Stay home when you're feeling
sick. Self-monitor for flu-like symptoms and consult your doctor's office via phone if necessary.
Clean and disinfect frequently touched surfaces both at work and at home. And when soap and
water aren't available, use hand sanitizer with a concentration of at least 60% alcohol. Wearing a
mask has also been shown to reduce the spread of the virus. RTD patrons are strongly encouraged
to wear masks when using public transportation. For RTD employees, please refer to signage in
your work areas as well as ongoing guidance from the department of safety, security, and asset
management.
And finally, continue to limit close exposure to those outside your household to the greatest extent
possible. This includes practicing social distancing aboard buses and trains and around stations,
stops, and platforms. Thank you for that.

So we have two recommended items tonight. The first one is accepting the CAFR governance. So
what I'll do is I'll turn it over to Doug MacLeod to introduce our external auditor. Go ahead, Mr.
MacLeod.
DOUGLAS MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod, controller. I'd like to
start by thanking our accounting team at RTD led by Sue Sandoval. They spent about three to four
months putting the comprehensive manual financial report together, as well as working on the
report on federal grants and also the national transit database. So they do a great job to work lots
of overtime and lots of unpaid overtime and lots of weekends. So thanks to that team.
I'd also like to thank RubinBrown for the hard work pulling this all together for the audited
financial statements. So with us tonight from RubinBrown, we have Matt Marino and Max
Haberkorn. And Matt Marino is going to do a presentation and make certain disclosures that are
required. Matt, go ahead please.
MATTHEW MARINO: Thank you so much, Doug. Can everybody hear me OK?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. Go ahead please.
MATTHEW MARINO: OK, thank you. As Doug mentioned, we were your external auditors this
year. If you remember back to February of this year, we did give you an update on the process and
told you we were just getting ready to start the audit process at least the year end audit process.
We did do some planning.
So I'm going to walk you through the agenda topic. I'm not going to go through the CAFR in detail
because it is like 150 pages. And we would be here for a long time. So I'm going to concentrate on
the report to governance, which is right after the CAFR, which talks about the audit process and
does some communication that we're required to do as auditors to those charged with governance,
which is the directors of the district. So I'm going to go to, it's the report to governance document.
And it's on page 116 of 295. It's called viewpoints.
Let me flip through this. OK. So here's our staff introductions. As Doug mentioned, I was your
engagement partner. And Max Haberkorn was your Engagement Manager.
We were responsible for performing the audit of the district. And we went through various different
iterations of our planning process and doing the overall audit process in order to get to this place.
We actually started the whole process back in October of last year in order to get here.
When we perform our audit, we have to perform our audit in accordance with our professional
standards. And so the objective and scope of our services, we are going to report on a couple
different things. We report on the auditor's financial statements. We report on the district control
over financial reporting. And we report on compliance over each major federal program. Because
the district receives and expends more than $750,000 of federal funds, the district gets to have an
extra audit in addition to the normal financial statement audit. And that's a single audit.

We have to perform our audit in accordance with our professional standards. So that's not only
generally accepted auditing standards as well as governmental auditing standards. As part of the
audit, there is some limitations to an audit. An audit is not a 100% reperformance of all the
transactions that districts entered into. It's a risk-based approach whereby we go through and we
scope and sample transactions and balances in order to validate that the amounts that are reported
on the financial statements are materially accurate.
As part of the audit process, management has some responsibilities for that process. They are
responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal controls, identifying and ensuring
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and then informing the auditors regarding any
known or suspected alleged fraud. So I'm going to flip over from the objective.
SHELLEY COOK: Excuse me. Somebody is not muted. Please go ahead.
MATTHEW MARINO: You're good. Thank you so much. I'm going to go over to the overview.
I kind of already hit on this. I won't spend a lot of time. But not only did we do the audit process
of the financial statements and single audit, we also did the agreed upon procedures over the
national transit database, as well as we were reporting on the cost of the General Manager's contract
or the former General Manager's contract back in February of this last year.
Let's see. I've kind of already hit on the objective of a financial statement audit and the previous
standard. The next couple of slides, starting with auditor to communications, is my
communications to you as the auditor to those charged with governance. So as we go through this,
I'm on page 125 of 295.
And if you see the left side is what we're required to communicate to you. On the right side is our
responses to you. So we issued an unmodified report on the financial statements of the financial
statements of the district. We issued an agreed upon procedures report with regard to the national
transit database reporting. And we did a consulting engagement over there RTD General Manager
contract. And then we intend to issue our internal control over financial reporting and our single
audit report, which should be issued in the next couple weeks. And then we'll finish that up and
get that issued as well, but we intend to issue an unmodified opinion on those.
We've planned and performed our scope in accordance with our engagement letter. I'm on page
126 of 295. That's part of the audit process, which is to let you know of the qualitative aspects of
accounting practices. So your significant accounting practices are disclosed in note A of your
financial statements or your CAFR.
Why is that important? Because it helps you understand how the district recognizes revenue, how
expenses are recognized, how are assets valued, and so on. There were no new accounting policies
adopted. And the application of existing policies has not changed. We noted no transactions which
lacked authoritative guidance. And there was no significant transactions that were recognized in a
period different than the one the transactions occurred.

On page 127 is management's judgments and accounting estimates. Inherent in every set of
financial statements is judgments and accounting estimates. And we as auditors are to highlight
those judgments and accounting estimates and explain them to governance.
The first one is depreciation. Depreciation is how management and entities that are doing financial
reporting chargeback the cost of long-term fixed assets, such as buildings, equipment. And it goes
through operations as a thing called depreciation. And that just basically spreads the cost to
applicable periods in which it's being used.
There's also estimates for the allowance for doubtful accounts and an estimate of the net pension
liabilities. And so the net pension liability is not a new estimate. But RTD has two main pension
plans, both the salaried and union plan, for which there is an actuarial estimate that is prepared to
help us calculate the net pension liability. And that's disclosed in the footnotes.
Speaking of disclosures, there are several disclosures I want to draw your attention to in the
footnotes of the financial statements. The first one has to do with note B, which talks about the
deposits and investment holdings of RTD. Note D details the capital assets held by RTD.
Note E talks about the long-term obligations of the district, so your bonds and other liabilities that
need to be paid. Note F talks about employee retirement and unearned compensation. So that's
where the pension plan disclosures.
And then note H has to do with commitments and contingencies. And then note K is your
disclosure of tax spending and debt limitations. And so those are all important to point out just
because they are important to gain a context for the financial picture of the district and provide
some additional contextual guidance on what some of the future obligations of the district are
because many of the obligations do stretch into the future.
We had no difficulties performing our audit. There were no proposed audit adjustments that were
reported. We did have one audit adjustment that we had to consider a past adjusting journal entry,
which management has agreed and has waived.
As part of the audit process, we did obtain a management representation letter. And that
representation letter basically just says that when we inquired, management responded truthfully.
And they signed that letter and returned it back to us. Management did not consult with any other
independent accountants. And there were no other matters that affected our retention as RTD's
auditors. Any questions with regard to my communication from a governance perspective, required
communication?
SHELLEY COOK: What I'd like to do is read the recommended action and secure a motion and
second. And then open it up for those kinds of questions, if that's OK. So everybody, the
recommended action is that it's recommended.
MATTHEW MARINO: I have a couple more-- I have a couple more slides. I was writing stopping.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, you do? Go ahead.

MATTHEW MARINO: Sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt you, Director. I apologize.
SHELLEY COOK: No. I was the one that did it out of order. Go ahead please.
MATTHEW MARINO: OK. Yeah. So if there's no questions on that section, I will go on to the
next. So I want to draw your attention to an important standard that was issued just this year in
response to the pandemic.
The Governmental Accounting Standards Board, which is the entity that issues how financial
reporting is to be done for governmental entities, issued a, I'll call it, an emergency standard this
year. It was effective as of May 2020. And what it did is it deferred the effective date of many,
many accounting standards that would have been effective for this year, such as the asset and
retirement obligations, fiduciary activities.
And so a couple of those standards, RTD would have needed to implement this year. Because this
standard was issued, we were able to defer that to the future in order to get this out on time because
it was going to be difficult to get all of the relevant information done in order to get this issued in
time for reporting deadlines. And so the Governmental Accounting Standards Board did a nice
gesture to all of the governmental reporting community and pushed many of these out, which will
allow all entities to deal with operational issues in the near-term and not deal with necessarily
financial reporting issues as soon as they were going to need to. And so that's important to point
out. And so that's GASB95.
And then GASB94 has to do with public private partnerships and how those are to be accounted
for. And so that one's out many, many years. But it provides some additional guidance on how if
RTD were to enter into an additional P3 or a Public Private Partnership, or it might change how
the reporting of the public private partnership is to be reported if there were changes on how the
structure is done. And there's some guidance in that statement that would give you some additional
ideas on how to report that if the facts and circumstances of the public private partnership met that
standard.
So that concludes the things I'm required to communicate to you. Now is the time you guys can
turn it over to a motion and any questions you might have.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I'll do that. Hi, everybody. OK, again, a recommendation, if approved, is
that the Board of Directors accept and enter into the record the district's audited financial reports
relating to the year ended December 31, 2019, as prepared by staff and audited by RTD's
independent auditor RubinBrown LLP. Do I have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval. Bob Broom.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom. And Director Whitmore second. OK. Let's go around and see
if there are questions. So I'll start with Director Broom. Please go ahead.

BOB BROOM: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, Madam Chair. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions. Thank you so much for all your work on this. This is quite the
document. I really appreciate you all taking the time to put this together for us.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No direct question to the CAFR. But just around point we wait for our
performance report. When would we expect that now that we've got CAFR pretty much tied up?
MATTHEW MARINO: Single out report-- is that what you're asking, too?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop.
MATTHEW MARINO: Yeah, sorry. I will. I'll let Miss-- Heather respond to that. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Heather McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather McKillop. I'm CFO. We were hoping to have that
presented this month, but due to a lot of work that service planning is doing on other issues, they

are planning on presenting that in July. And we will have the county by county report available by
July 1st.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you. That's the only question I had.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. I believe Director Mihalik is absent tonight. Director Tisdale,
any questions, comments?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, thank you very much, Madam Chair. Very briefly, the important point to
me, as always, the auditor's opinion, which is found at the middle of packet page 26. And let me
just confirm this constitutes an unqualified or an unconditional opinion by the auditors. Is that
correct, Mr. Marino?
MATTHEW MARINO: That is correct.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for that. And then just lastly, in your discussion relative
to the report to governance, there are some notes that are referenced in the report and that you
specifically referenced in your discussion. I believe it may be at page 126 or 127. I don't have that
right before me. But I actually wasn't able to find those specific notes. Are they in a separate
document?
MATTHEW MARINO: Those would be in the CAFR document, so that-- in your-- behind the
auditor's report and the financial statements, there are notes that details how all those-- so, like, if
you go to page-- let me get to one of them. No, page 54 of 295, that's Note B, which talks about
the deposits and investments held by the district.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate it. Just want to clarify that for the sake of the record.
Thank you. No further questions, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Nothing from me. Thank you for the report.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions from me. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams? Is Director Williams on board?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have no questions. I appreciate this report,
and I hope that we share it with some people who have expressed interest in having us audited.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede-- I'll get it out.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yep, thank you, Madam Chair. I don't have any questions, and I,
too, would like to just say, thank you for this report.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. I just have one person. I'd echo their thanks to other people who have
offered to Mr. Marino and Mr. Haberkorn for your work on our behalf. This is part of what-- it's
that objective look that we rely on and knowing that we're on the right track on things, that we're
doing things as prescribed by the various authorities. So the one question I had was on page 126,
the comment that there were no new accounting policies. And Heather McKillop, I meant to ask
this in all the calls we've had today.
But we adopted some slight changes regarding our fare collections or our fare assumptions last
fall. Would those have been the policies that are reflected here, or are these different policies? It
says, no new accounting policies were adopted and the application of existing policies was not
changed.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, so in your fiscal policy document, which includes the fares, are
also the county policies. So that fiscal policy document that you have, the county piece in it is just
one component piece of the fiscal policy that includes the fares, that the fares would be assumed
to be an accounting policy.
SHELLEY COOK: There was fairly small changes in the wording about how we assumed the
fares to be increased every three years. It was like, fare or equivalent new revenues, or something.
That-- we don't-- that isn't what this is focusing on is what you're saying, correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. it is not-- that is not an accounting policy. That is part of your
fiscal policy around fares.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. With no further discussion then, we have a motion by Director Broom
and a second by Director Whitmore. I am going to just ask if it's all right if there are any votes in
opposition to that motion. If so, please announce your name and indicate that. But otherwise, it
sounds like we have approval, 14-0 with Director Mihalik absent today. Thank you, all.
So let's go ahead to the next item. This is adjustments to the 20-MATTHEW MARINO: Thank you so much. We're going to drop off. We really appreciate being
of service to the district.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much, and forgive me for not having underscored that. We
really appreciate what you do for us.
MATTHEW MARINO: Yeah, we really do, too. And thank you for everything. And if we can be
of a resource to the district in the future, let us know. Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Bye bye now. OK, our next item, adjustments to the 2020 budget. The item
we're acting on right now-- it's recommended by the Financial Administration Audit Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors approve the following adjustments to the 2020 budget.

Increase revenues by a net amount of $3,921,000, decrease expenditures by a net amount of
$6,300,000, decrease payroll expenditures by $7,425,000, and decrease payroll or other
expenditures by $7,425,000.
This recommendation action supports the following GM goals-- core goal number three, strong
financial management. Do I have a motion to approve?
DOUG TISDALE: Move to approve, Director Tisdale.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second, Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Tisdale, second by Director Williams. Now-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Madam Chair, before we get into discussion, I think
it might be appropriate for me to make a motion to amend the main motion. Is that appropriate?
SHELLEY COOK: OK, please [AUDIO OUT].
VINCE BUZEK: My motion to amend the main motion would be to add the following language
after the fourth bullet point of the recommended action. That language would read as follows.
"Subject to the following conditions of approval, colon, number 1, that staff include in the staff
report for the June 23, 2020 Board meeting, a recap of the plans and progress at that point for
addressing the 2020 reductions provided for in the main motion, semicolon.
Number two, affirming that staff is developing possible subsequent amendments as might be
appropriate this fall with Board engagement and guidance on relevant issues through a series of
workshops as laid out in materials provided for the June 4 workshop and otherwise suggested by
the Board and staff members, semicolon.
Three, that the executive committee work with Board members and staff to identify budget
reduction guiding principles for the remainder of 2020 and 2021 through 2026 mid-term financial
plan time frames, comma, and setting out a means for appropriate consultation with the Board by
the GM's task force initiative, period. These principles and process are to be presented for
discussion at the meeting of June 16, 2020, with the aim of finalizing at the Board meeting of June
23, 2020, period."
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Second.
SHELLEY COOK: Who was the second? Sorry.

JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Lubow, second. Got it. OK, so what I'd like to do is open
discussion about the amendments, and I'll preface that by saying we've circulated pieces of this or
the whole thing in earlier versions to folks and gotten feedback and have worked with staff,
including Bruce Abel and Heather McKillop, to make sure that this is workable from their
standpoint that reflects the work underway and addresses appropriately what might be the Board
role in helping the efforts underway.
So I just wanted to preface that and say, sorry for the late final version. It was a matter of working
back and forth, especially once we knew of the laudable work that Mr. Ballard and Bruce Abel
and others are now undertaking to address, especially in the long term time frame, what we'll be
needing to do, what difficult decisions we'll be needing to make. So I really appreciate the back
and forth at the last-- during the last several hours, and also the fact that the executive committee
is willing to work in this way to help make this possible in the time frame that makes it relevant
for the work underway by the staff. So-DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, Director Tisdale, as the maker of the motion, has no objection
to the amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Williams, likewise?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Madam Chair. I'm on board.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so if that's all right, and if it's all right with the group as a whole, I'd like
to just open up comment for the entire thing as a single item, if that would be OK. So first of all,
Heather, can you please present this item for our discussion?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure. OK. All right, just wondering, do you need to vote on the
amendment first and have discussion on that before we have it on the whole motion, or do you
want me to-SHELLEY COOK: Well, that's a good question for legal counsel or maybe Mr. Tisdale or Chair
Rivera-Malpiede. But I was thinking since they accepted that, that we would then ultimately vote
only once on the entire item.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Mr. Ballard.

PAUL BALLARD: Yes, good evening. I'd like to introduce, over the phone, Melanie Snyder, who
is our new General Counsel. This is day two, and she's here with us this evening. And she is able
to answer any questions that you might have.
SHELLEY COOK: Excellent. And welcome. And so sorry to throw you in immediately on a
question about our Robert's Rules of Order Application. So just advise, if you would, are we able
to proceed with a single vote, or shall I call a vote on the motion as presented?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Melanie Snyder. I think it's appropriate
to vote on the amended motion.
SHELLEY COOK: As a single motion, correct?
KATE WILLIAMS: No. No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, well, on the amendment first, and then on the main motion is what you're
saying?
MELANIE SNYDER: The amendment's the main motion, right.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. OK, then let's do a round of discussion on that, if there's any, and then
we'll vote on the amendment. So thank you for that. So Director Broom, do you have any questions
or comments about the amendment? This is the three-item amendments that are conditions. Go
ahead.
BOB BROOM: No questions about the amendment. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No, Madam Chair, but just to reiterate, this is designed to ensure that Board
involvement in these matters moving forward. And I think that's what we should all be looking
forward to. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Dr. Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think this is a good amendment and really sets out
a plan that staff and the Board members can work together productively as we have this everchanging situation. So thank you for your hard work and working with the staff back and forth to
try and get this amendment crafted.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger? Maybe on mute? Let's skip to
Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry, just thinking [INTERPOSING VOICES].
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, go ahead. Go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: They're going to come back to me. OK. Sorry, I just couldn't get my phone
to get me back where I needed to go. I echo Director Catlin's thanks to you for all your hard work
on this and working with the staff. I think that this, it sets out a good starting role for the Board.
These are some really tough, important decisions when we get to 2021. It's a huge amount of
money, and it is now, too. But I think that looking at what our guidelines are, in order to help the
staff and Mr. Abel's committee move forward within those is an important role for the staff.
Thanks-- I mean for the Board. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I also appreciate you putting this amendment
together. It's one of the discussions I know I've had a few times with Director Guissinger. Another
is particular around the guiding principles. I do have a question of clarity for number three. It says
that the executive committee work with Board members. And it's quite vague, and so I'm just
curious how we-- what that might look like and how you envision rolling that out.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, thank you. It's a really good question. And if I may, I'll answer it. So it's
sort of a fluid thing at this point. In fact, one suggestion that CFO Heather McKillop and Barbara
McManus had was to go with Julie Skeen, who's skilled at facilitating and is familiar with RTD's
issues and what we're doing, and pick her brain about that. And she called just prior, and we've set
up a time to talk about that tomorrow.
But preliminarily, we would work with each of you in order to identify what might be the starting
list of guiding principles. And we'd kind of socialize that, and then bring that draft list forward,
and get your ideas as a body next week during the first meeting we have. And then do additional
work. Maybe that's with the recommendations that Julie Skeen comes up with or that uses a Survey
Monkey or that begins to refine those things.
We're wanting to do something that both reflects thoughtfulness and that-- but at the same time,
allows us to timely come up with a group of principles that we as a Board will support as a body.
And that can be useful, then, in comparing to or that is helpful to the staff, that respects the
difference between our role and the role of the staff.
So any ideas you would have would be most welcome, because we are trying to work within that
dual constraint of doing it timely but making it-- assuring that it has integrity and reflects the Board
as a body. That's the best I can offer at this point-- only that we promise to engage with each of
you as well as as a group during our meetings.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. That's actually sufficient, especially if you talk
about preliminary collecting ideas from individual Board members. And that's what I was hoping

to hear in that process, at least as you've defined it, understanding that it's not completely defined
sounds sufficient for me. And I am satisfied with that answer, so thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I wanted to thank you, Director Cook, personally for all the hard
work you've put into creating this motion and getting support for it. I really support it, because it,
I think, helps the Board have more input in an orderly fashion in the budget process, which is so
important, because we're going to be facing major, major decisions. And I particularly am
interested in and support the idea of determining guiding principles.
And that was brought home to me this week, because a few days ago, we were informed that there
was a possibility that we would start actually going forward with some layoffs or at least
contemplating it. And I found that very distressing, because, personally, at this point, I'm not ready
to support that.
And so I just found it distressing. So I am very happy that we have this process set up, where
people can talk about guiding principles and what they want to see, not that my ideas are going to
have to carry the day, but I would like a process to be able to discuss the guiding principles. And
this is it.
So thank you very much. I'm very much in support of this motion.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So the only question I'd just like to get a little more information
about is, when it does mention the GM's task force initiative, could I get a definition of what that
is, please?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, yes, it was my shorthand for the process that was outlined to us by our
General Manager, Paul Ballard. So certainly, I'm open to changing the wording if I'm not using a
good characterization for that.
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, I'm looking for, I guess, what-- who would be the members of the
task force and-- that's-SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, [INTERPOSING VOICES].
NATALIE MENTEN: --looked at-- was that a-- so that the public also understands what does this
task force initiative involve, who does it involve. I'd like a little more information on that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. For Mr. Ballard or Mr. Abel, I don't know if you can address that now, or
if you want to get back with us. Go ahead.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes, ma'am. This was a committee that I just appointed. They had its first
meeting today. Mr. Abel is the chair. It's comprised of staff from across the agency to give us a

good overall view of the entire district. And as I said, they just had their first meeting today. And
they will continue to meet, and they'll be addressing the issues that I enumerated in my email to
the Board of yesterday.
NATALIE MENTEN: That's the only question I have, but-- that's the only question I have
regarding this amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: And a main motion? OK, great. Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Having expressed my consent to the
proposed amendment as the maker of the main motion, and acknowledging that General Counsel
is probably technically correct in suggesting there be separate discussion and vote on the motion
to amend, being arguably beyond a mere ministerial change, I concur in the amendment. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I guess I'm kind of torn on this. I thought we were just going to talk
numbers. I mean I knew the amendment was coming, but the language-- I'm not sure where the
language would be in the document that is being amended by the financials.
Yeah, I'm fine with the amendment. This means that we actually own the outcome of the budget
and how we're able to provide service based on the budget that we helped develop with the staff
and the guiding principles, et cetera. So as long as we're willing to accept that level of
responsibility, that this is our baby now, it's not just staff implementing our demand, but we're in
there with it and staff, that's fine.
There are some pros, strong pros to that with the Board owning-- for the Board having this level
of responsibility for the budget that it approves. So I'm good. thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I have no questions and support the amendment. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I wish I could say it as eloquently as Director Tisdale did, but I support the
amendment and will support the original motion as well. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to reiterate what
Director Walker just said-- that we will own this as a Board of Directors. And this is probably one
of the most important decisions and oversight we have in our job to the public that we were voted
in to represent. And I am-- I really am in favor of this motion, working in collaboration with the

staff to move this agency forward, and making sure that we are providing sound transit for
everyone within our region. So thank you, Madam Chair. I will be supporting this amendment.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. So just to add my own two bits, I agree with much- everything that's been said and would echo what Director Walker and the chair have indicated,
which really is true anyway. You know, the budget is the thing that-- where the buck stops with
us.
And secondly, this was really the product of many people working and thinking about how to
approach this and do so helpfully. So it wasn't me. Thank you for your kind words, but it was really
a lot of back and forth with virtually every one of you. So thank you for what is actually a collective
effort here.
With that, I'll go ahead and call for the vote on the amendment. This is the amendment of the three
items enumerated by Director Buzek and seconded by Director Lubow. These are conditions that
are added past the final bullet to indicate that the approval of these adjustments-- the actual budget
approval will come to us next month-- that these are subject to these conditions of approval.
And I'll go ahead and just quickly run through everybody. Actually, most people have indicated,
so can I ask if there are any opposed to the amendment? Please say your name, and indicate so.
And then we can move on to the main motion discussion.
We've got to allow extra time to get off of mute and everything. I keep forgetting to do that. OK,
I'll take that as approval by 14 people, Dr. Mihalik absent. Then let's move on to the main motion.
CFO McKillop, can you please introduce, and if you have anything to add to the staff report, et
cetera?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Absolutely. Heather McKillop, CFO. I just quickly wanted to reiterate
that this is the culmination of the direction that we believe we received after the last Thursday,
June 4th workshop, which we appreciate everybody's time and effort that went into that workshop.
I know that was pretty intense.
So basically, this is a recap of an increase-- basic showing an increase in revenue, the decrease of
net expenditures, and then identifying a decrease in payroll expenditures of $7.4 million. And
because the Board went with the worst case scenario, we needed to identify an additional $7.4
million in either payroll or other expenditure reductions. So we're prepared to do that moving
forward.
I did want to mention-- it was brought to my attention-- I forgot to include Exhibits A, B, and C.
They were in the PowerPoint presentation that we went over on last Thursday. I will get those
added to this Board report for the Board meeting on the 23rd. I apologize.
We just were trying to get this done very quickly, and I omitted those. I also wanted to point out
that this is really just getting the Board's direction in writing so that my staff and I can prepare the
amended budget for you to be presented in July for you to adopt that amended budget, which will
have these adjustments in it.

And we will also, based on the amendment that you just approved, be briefing you at the meeting
on the 23rd of this month in what we're looking at as far as those additional expenditures that
would total the 7.4. The idea would be to get us at the end of this year to balance that we could
carry over, not assuming reserves, but a balance we could carry over of right around $25 million.
So with that, I'd be glad to take any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, let's just go around, if we can. Director Broom, do you have any questions
for Heather McKillop or otherwise? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Oh, I'm sorry. I had the mute button on.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Go ahead.
BOB BROOM: OK, the district has about a billion dollar budget. And when you look at this report,
it says, adjustments to the 2020 budget. And then as you look, and there's four or five numbers in
there, and they range between 3 million 9 and 7 million 4. That doesn't sound very earth-shattering.
But when you look beneath the surface, like on an iceberg, there's big numbers moving around.
There's $232 million adjustments being made to various revenue accounts and that type of thing.
So there's an awful lot of churning going on here in our budget. And it's a lot more difficult to do
what we're doing here than what we might think by just looking at this memorandum.
The other thing on this is we were saying, well, we don't want to do furloughs right now. We're
taking that off the table. Well, as the time ticks on, when you get to December, you can't do
furloughs retroactively. So if you're going to count on using furloughs to generate funds, you have
to do it now. And I'd like to suggest that we only furlough the employees that are not unionized.
And I'll explain why in just a second.
I think if we were to add furloughs or layoffs on the union side, we'd end up actually paying more,
rather than saving money, because what's going on now is we can start to increase our service
levels, and if we maintain the social distancing and only 15 people per bus and so forth and having
extra people out there doing cleaning, we're going to run out of people, and we'll be right back in
that box where it's mandatory overtime in order to cover those people that we're furloughing.
So we'd be really foolish to cut any in that particular area. But we do need the money to help
generate that $25 million cushion going into next year, because we may not have a $232 million
infusion from Washington to bail us out next year. We were lucky to have it this year, but there's
no guarantees that you're going to see that going forward.
So my thought is, we need to deal tonight with the furlough question at some-- or maybe not
tonight, but at least at the next meeting, we need to vote on that and get something going. Thank
you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Are you interested in comment or a response to that at this point, Director
Broom?

BOB BROOM: No, I think you should let everybody else comment on this.
SHELLEY COOK: Got it. OK, Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I tend to agree with Director Broom with regard to the
furlough layoff issue with the represented employees and no further comments.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: I did have a question. I read the proposed action to be just that, that it was nonrepresented employees that were asked to be furloughed. And at this time, the remaining $7.4
million was left up in the air, whether it be other cost-saving measures or payroll. Am I correct on
that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop, chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the $7,425,000 that's mentioned there for payroll expenditures was
assumed to be all employees furloughed. That's what made up that number. And that was the nine
days.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. So we would have to-- we would have to modify that either
through layoffs or other options that you guys may or may not discuss. So [INTERPOSING
VOICES].
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks for that clarification.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, and for this purpose, we decided on Thursday, remember, just to
have a dollar amount. And then we would determine how we got to that dollar amount through
payroll.
PEGGY CATLIN: Right. OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. You know, I think I tend to strongly support Director Broom's
comments. And one of the things that occurs to me is in our guiding principles, you know, even
though you might say, well, this job is only $20 an hour or $15 an hour, we can get rid of those.
You know, I think those folks, those positions may be pretty valuable and really very important
for those individuals to maintain for their financial well-being. And oftentimes, when we think
about layoffs-- and again, this is just in consideration of these principles, the idea is the first in,
last out, last hired, first fired, all that kind of stuff.

Oftentimes, those people have just gotten a new position. They're finally getting settled in, and it
creates a very unstable economic future for them, whereas people who have been in their position
for very long times maybe might want to take an early retirement. So I think those are just some
things that I'd like to see considered when we're talking about layoffs, if that's where we wind up
going with any layoffs.
And then I think, also, increasing our efficiencies and relooking at our internal auditor on
recommendations regarding various departments that need to maybe be tightened up a little bit, so
I think that it'd be useful to look at the policies the Board has passed over the past 10 years or 5
years, maybe in conjunction with the audits that go along with that to make sure that we are
implementing what the auditor had suggested or recommended, and that was agreed upon also.
So I think those might be some helpful guidelines for us when we look at how we move forward
and what's important with our values and so forth. That's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, appreciated that. And Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thanks. I think that I shared some of the concerns that Director Broom
and others have raised. You know, we were given, really, two options-- a mid-cost and a worst
case. And I think the majority of the Board said, we need to be conservative. As someone said in
a meeting I was in today, plan for the worst case, and hope you can start adding things back in
along the way, hope that things come in better.
That said, I'm not-- you know, we were given the two options. I'm not wedded personally to the
$7.4 million. But I do think that we need to start taking some actions. I don't think it's laying off
or furloughing our operators, if that means-- and apparently it does-- that we'd go back to overtime
and potentially mandating and not being able to maintain social distancing.
That doesn't seem like the right choice, but I do think that starting to move forward with some
reasonable process to furlough. And I think we're dealing with people's lives. I think that Director
Folska pointed out some of this. So it's hard to do.
I still like the concept of tiered furloughs, and I guess if this is going to Mr. Abel's committee, I'd
like to see that. But I agree, we need to-- it's been a while now. Let's move it forward, please.
Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I share on some of the sentiments that have already
been stated on this call. One of those is an observation that I have is oftentimes when we are talking
about budget deficits, we often start with cuts to service. And I would really hope that we move
away from that and prioritize our service and prioritize those that have served us, particularly our
operators. And I know I've mentioned a number of times that I'm really interested in this tiered
approach, and Heather sent around a document that showed what a tiered approach could look like
on the non-represented side.

And so what I would hope, as Director Guissinger is, that I would hope that the tier approach is
looked at in a very real way in the proposal by the committee that is meeting, because I do hope
that we move away from first thinking to-- our response to be cutting service, and our operators
are furloughing and laying off, and instead prioritizing frequent service. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I reiterate a lot of the concerns that have also been raised. And I think
it's important to stress that many of us on the Board want to see tiered furloughs, want to see some
progressive way to deal with saving money that does not impose the most burden on the people
least able to deal with it financially. I, for one, would be very upset with the kind of layoffs that
have been considered, where it would be the last hired operators would be the ones to be laid off.
And that does not sit well with me at all.
So I would urge us to look at progressive ways to deal with cuts, and also even be willing to look
at the idea of some small percentage of salary reductions on the upper end with the people who
have the most money to-- they may not have it to spare, but they do have the most money. And I
think that should be looked at also. That's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I agree with Director Broom that we should be taking action as
soon as possible, and the longer that we drag it out, the more that impact is. When we started with
this discussion, I believe in May, there was a potential at that time to do something in the June
time frame being created. So let's say it would have been one day off-- let's talk about furloughs-one pay per pay period, because the original sent to us way back when was more days than we're
dealing with right now.
But as for impact, if we were to look at nine furlough days, and now with only six months in the
month or the year to spread that out, that's 1 and 1/2 days per month for furlough. And again,
considering the impact that many have taken in this hit from COVID and the economy, the
mandatory shutdown by government, 1.5 days per month, it can be a little bit smaller compared to
some others who have faced a greater bigger impact.
So I just am following up that I agree with Director Broom that the more we're dragging our heels,
the harder this is going to be. And I would say, we seem to be lining up more and more workshops.
And, perhaps, one of the ones that we need to have-- I hate to add on another one, but before we
get later into the year-- is understanding how the collective bargaining agreement has tied our
hands as a Board. I think that would be a benefit to all of us to better understand that before we
enter into another agreement. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I think we do have-- we'll double check and get back to that point in a
later part of the meeting. Thank you, though, for bringing it up. Director Mihalik? Oh, he's not
here. Sorry. Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Regarding the main motion as now
amended, if you would look at packet page 142, the $7.425 million number expressly and
specifically leaves open, as the Board requested in our discussions last week, that these reductions
would be in payroll or other cost reductions with no statement therein of any preference that such
reductions be across the board, nor would it preclude the tiered approach to furloughs that we have
discussed.
Therefore, I support the motion as amended. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Thanks for making those points. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll support the motion, and also, I'll echo what Director Broom said
about not touching the operators, because we'll be right back to where we were, the hole that we
just dug out of with our operators or shortage of operators. We'd be right back there, and then that
opens a whole series of problems with social distancing providing, service that we need to to keep
that spacing between people until things change, and it's safe to be crowded again. So that's it.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: I appreciate all my colleagues' ideas and insights. I have nothing else to add.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wish I could echo Dr. Whitmore, but I can't. I
think that we all need to look at the fact that across the board, all the way from the schools to the
government to Amazon, everybody is-- well, maybe not Amazon. They seem to be rocking it right
now-- but that there are cuts of up to 20% necessary in all workplaces based on the situation that
we find ourselves in.
And although I am in agreement that we don't want to end up not being able to provide the service
that is our goal to provide, which is transportation, I feel that it's unfair to ask solely nonrepresented employees to bear the brunt of this. If I were a non-represented employee at this
moment, I would be looking to join the union in a hurry so that I would be protected.
So I just want us to think about the fact that RTD is in the same boat as everybody around us, and
I'm sure that everybody knows that. There are cuts going on everywhere. I think that if we look at
what our budget numbers are, and we took a-- I don't know-- whatever is our number? 10%, 15%,
20% all across the board, that it would affect everybody. And maybe some of the people who are
non-represented that got cut could go drive buses.
Those are just some thoughts that the conversation brings to me. I will support the movement to
do something, but I am inclined to agree with Director Menten and Director Broom that let's get
at it. The problem is not going away. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. First of all, I would really like to thank
the entire Board for all of their thoughts. I've been taking notes as everybody has been speaking,
and this clearly is a very, very complex and serious matter that we need to address, I think with
both empathy and compassion and realism. I mean I think we have a lot of things at stake here.
I also want to thank the senior leadership team in our Board office and the senior staff at the
willingness to work with the Board to develop strategies thinking outside of the box and coming
up with some alternatives as we collaborate together to figure out what is the best possible
outcome.
And I just want to say to the staff, both represented and not represented, who are listening in in
this call, is that we take this very, very seriously. And we are really all a family, and we have to
figure out how to move this together for the good of the region. And, in fact, RTD is a transit
agency that services the entire economic stimulus for the region. And so we need to move forward
successfully, whatever that is.
And so I would ask each one of you to know that as elected Board members, all 15 of us, you are
our constituents. And I would love to hear from all of you. And I would ask that you contact your
individual Board members as well to share any thoughts or concerns that you might have, because
I think your voice is really important in this process as well. And I invite it and hope that you will
do it.
So I know that this entire Board is committed to making sure that this agency is really doing their
due diligence. And I know how hard everybody's working, and I know how difficult this has been
for everyone. But I really also believe that, together, we can come up with a plan of action that
will be great for the region. So I just wanted to say thank you, and I will be supporting the motion.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So just quickly, first of all, so eloquently, thank you for
what you've said. I just have to agree with everything in regard to the work that's being done,
appreciating everybody rolling up their sleeves. We are in this together, and that's the stance we
want to take.
You said something about asking for public input, and I just wanted to underscore that. I think one
of our principles ought to be-- and this is something just-- I'm injecting here, but is that idea of
transparency and being open and asking our publics for their help with regard to the decisions
we're going to have to make.
So I just wanted to really emphasize that, say I agree with that. I'm hoping that, for example, we
can go forward with something like the balancing act that we had-- a couple of us, with Heather,
had arranged for a demonstration, where we could get pretty readily here some input. So I just
wanted to inject that idea.

From hearing all of you-- and I'm glad that Chair Rivera-Malpiede took notes, because that will
be helpful, I think, as we're talking about two principles-- but one thing I did hear that was pretty
universal was the benefit of early action. And Dr. Broom framed that pretty well. I think everybody
agrees with that, and also the idea of doing things that early that you can that don't involve these
added costs.
Now then there was also this underlying question about what's fair in how we do this. And I think
that's one thing we're going to have to wrestle with as we address these principles, because they're
all valid points of view. Is it fair to take into account that somebody's on the lower end of the rung,
or is it fair to make sure everybody is absorbing some of the burden?
So I think thank you for raising both and, first of all, just acknowledging those are different views
that are equally valid that we're going to have to work through, I think, in both the actions that we
take, but also, hopefully, in some of the principles we identify. So with that, I'll go ahead and go
through the vote, unless there are any other comments by the staff.
But let's do it then. I'll just go in order. Please say yes or no for the main motion as amended.
Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Dr. Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, and I do think we're probably going to have to go a little further, but yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Menten?

NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director or Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and I'm a yes. That makes 13 in favor, 1 opposed, Director Lubow, and
Director Mihalik absent. So thank you all. And then with that, let's move on to-- I've got to get
back to my agenda here. We're on updates, Via Mobility update. We've got a memo here. Can
Chair or CFO Heather McKillop, can you introduce this item, please?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Sure, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. Also, Fred Worthen is
going to help me out. I think he's on the phone also, if there are questions. So we basically prepared
an update on Via Mobility. I know several of you have had conversations with Via, and you've
received several letters from Via requesting that we honor their [? cooling ?] off contact, even
though they're not able to perform the service identified in that contract.
And so we wanted to bring that forward and clarify a little bit about which contract we're talking
about, and also potential implications if we do that. Ultimately, we would like Board direction on
which way-- if you would like to have us modify the contract and pay them the full amount or if
we are going to leave the contract as-is. So that's ultimately where we want to get feedback on
tonight.
So basically, we have three contracts with Via. One consists of an Access-a-Ride and Flex Ride
contract. That has been modified and is not one of the contracts that's in their memo or in question
regarding that. The tier that they are requesting full payment on is the demand response for nonurbanized Adams County and the demand response services contract for non-urbanized Boulder
County. And I put the detail in there. I'm not going to go through that, but you can see the dollar
amounts and some of the contract language.

Via is a private non-profit organization. We do contract with them for various services throughout
the district-- at district as we just noted in the first part. They have sent correspondence to say they
were subrecipient of federal funds for RTD. That's not the case. They aren't contracted to us, but
they are subrecipient to the state of Colorado for rural funds, and they did receive a CARES Act
contribution of $150,000 under their subrecipient status with CDOT.
We have reached out to them on several occasions to talk to them about the level of service they're
providing to see if we could work with them to have them provide services such as our para transit
people are doing with food delivery or medicine delivery or those type of things. And they are
saying that they're not able to do that at this time. They are providing about 20% of their normal
service through the month of April, May, and then my understanding is they've been ramping up
slightly in June.
What is not in question is January, February, and March, as they did perform and fulfill the full
service commitment in those months. So what we wanted to share with you all for all the other
cost sharing agreements that we have with the various counties and non-profits throughout the
district as well as our fixed-route Access-a-Ride and FlexRide.
And the reason for that was because we just have a concern that if we modify this contract and
provide for those additional funds that aren't related to offering the service, that we will probably
get requests from these other providers to do the same. And we just wanted the Board to be aware
of that before a recommendation was made by the Board as to what we should do regarding this
particular contract.
So with that, I ask if Fred has anything to add to that before we open it up for discussion.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, Madam Chair, Fred Worthen, AGM, bus operations.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Mr. Worthen.
FRED WORTHEN: So our cost sharing and private contracts with many jurisdictions and
companies really amount to millions of dollars. To help our partners through these trying times,
we treat everybody equally through negotiated amendments. The contracts allow for an alternative
service, such as grocery deliveries, and we do salaried contract rates to keep as many employees
as possible available to deliver RTD services.
Via has asked for CARES money. However, the CARES Act does not allow for reimbursement
services, if they're not operated due to reduced service levels. So in essence, we couldn't transfer
CARES money over to them, if they're not operating the service, even if we wanted to. It would
be a violation of the CARES Act itself.
So I just want to make sure that everybody understood that we can't just-- that there are very
stringent requirements on how CARES Act money can be drawn down on, and then it's very
specific that we can't give reimbursement for services that are not operated.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, I would just add to that what Fred said is correct. The
other option you would have is using local dollars, which is what that contract is currently budgeted
with is RTD funds. So that would be an option.
SHELLEY COOK: Please, repeat that, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just said the contract is currently funded with local funds, which is
RTD funds. And so even though these fees-- if the Board decided to go ahead and pay them the
full contract amount, even though we couldn't use CARES funds, you would have the option of
using RTD funds to make that payment. We just couldn't bill the feds for that.
SHELLEY COOK: Hmm. OK, and you know that for a fact, correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. So do you have anything else to add before we open it up? And
just let me clarify, you're asking the Board for an indication of whether-- or the committee, I should
say-- what our sentiment is regarding the Via request. And that is after any questions, et cetera.
Am I getting that correct, CFO McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, Madam Chair. What we're asking for is, because this would be a
deviation from the current contract and would set a precedent and exception for Via, the current
contract says that they're to perform so many hours, deliver so many hours of service. And the
contract also states that if those hours of service are not delivered, that we would only pay a prorated amount of the total contract.
And so in order to make that adjustment, we don't feel comfortable doing that, because that would
have potentially precedent setting for these other contracts. So we wanted to bring it to the Board
to find out your sentiment and how you feel about it and if your desire is for us to amend the
contract and allow for payment, even though the services haven't been delivered. Then we would
move forward with that.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So let me go around. Actually, I'll reverse order this time, just because
[INTERPOSING VOICES] So all righty. Let's start with Director Williams. What are your
thoughts, any questions you have, et cetera, please?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm-- it's a very difficult issue for me, because I work with Via Mobility a lot,
and they do give a great service. They serve people with disabilities and older adults primarily,
and transportation is vital to their quality of life in many cases. So my sentiment would be inclined
to support Via in any way possible, but having looked at the fact that we do not have the money to
support all of the other agencies that were affected similarly, I'm somebody standing with a foot
in both camps and am not any help. I'm sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: No, that's fine. Director Whitmore?

TROY WHITMORE: Well, I somewhat echo Director Williams, because I know how important
Via is in my district. I'd hate to see too much of a drop in service quality. On the other hand, I find
it problematic to pay for routes or services that aren't happening.
We simply can't afford to do that. I was hoping for some magical happy medium there to make
this work, but yeah, I'm a bit confused and a bit worried about the situation, at least in the short
term. So I'm not much help either.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, we're searching for a new way. I get it. Director Walker-JEFF WALKER: Amen.
SHELLEY COOK: --go ahead, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I didn't catch, or maybe it wasn't said, why Via said it can't do more
when Mr. Matthews and Mr. [? Helfant ?] went out or reached out to them.
SHELLEY COOK: Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. So my understanding is that they didn't
have the funds to support bringing the people back, even with our contribution, because they're not
getting grants and contributions, donations from other people that they were getting them from in
the past. So even if we paid them some of the funds for some of the service, it's not sufficient to
bring the service back, because they're also not getting the other funds that they potentially would
be getting from other entities.
JEFF WALKER: OK. I got it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair, this is Lynn.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Lynn. I'll go after [AUDIO OUT]. Go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. I didn't mean to interrupt Director Walker's, but this is, to me, a
classic example of two groups looking at the same thing and seeing very different things. And I'm
just wondering if-- I know Director Lubow has some comments, and I would have some comments.
If it might make sense, we can finish with Director Walker for sure, but maybe to take us out of
turn, and then let people comment after. And I'd be happy to have Director Lubow go first.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker, were you done before I take that up? Are you good?
JEFF WALKER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, go ahead.
JEFF WALKER: No, I was going to say that the reason we make contracts is to anticipate various
scenarios. And this is one of those certain scenarios, I guess, that could have been anticipated

twenty percent of service. It's happening, so I guess it was in the realm of possibility, because it's
happening now. So I'm not inclined to modify a contract when everybody else is in the same
situation.
I'm sure that our staff is looking to support however we can, but I don't think we can shoulder the
risk or carry that risk of all the others asking for a contract modification as well. Thanks. That's it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So when we're in a room together, I mean one of the advantages
is we don't go in order. And because a couple of the three that we've heard from so far are like, I
wish there was something else we could do, if there is something you can put on the table during
this early part of the discussion, Director Guissinger, then I'm inclined to go out of order here and
allow your request, if that's OK with the rest of the Board. Please go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: Hello, and this is Judy Lubow. And Director Guissinger and myself are-- we both
have comments in support of Via, although I'll speak only for myself. I don't want to speak for her.
But there is another side to this story that I think people need to hear. And so-- thank you.
You know, for one thing, there was a letter-- there was a lot of letters, but there was a recent letter
that the Via CEO wrote to our CEO, and I think it's unfortunate that the rest of the Board has not
seen it, but I think it should be sent, even after the meeting, because I think it will fill out or at least
give Via's point of view as to what's happening.
But I want to say, first off, that Via's concern is to be a good partner to RTD. And so anything that
I say is basically coming from me, and it's my two cents trying to explain to myself and to other
people a rather complicated situation. But as far as they are concerned, they just want to be a good
partner. So I don't want what I say to possibly inflict any harm on them, if I could be wrong in my
interpretations.
But to summarize, Via is a very well respected charity and nonprofit in Boulder County. They're
the good guys. You know, they just do good work. They help mobility challenged people. That's
all they do. And they do it well.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. . Could I interrupt? I'm so sorry. Can everybody check their phones?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, someone's not on mute.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Judy, sorry.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Yeah, I can hear it, too. But anyway, they're a really premier nonprofit. And
as I said before, they're the good guys doing good work. And most of the people who talked about
them, the Directors were saying, you know, they're in my district, and they do really good work.
And they do.
They have had contracts with RTD for decades to provide various transit needs. And they have
been an admirable partner and, to my knowledge, not causing us any trouble. They've had cost-

sharing contracts with RTD to provide paratransit service in Boulder and Adams County for
decades.
These were previously providing rural services under federal grants, and then when those-- and
this is my understanding, but when those grants started to go away, RTD took up the slack and
started paying them to do the same thing not out of the goodness of RTD's heart, but because it
was clear that these contracts were saving RTD money and not having to pay for additional Accessa-Ride rides, which are much more expensive than these cut rate contract rides. And they are really
cut rate.
According to people that I've talked to, these contracts went on for decades without a problem. So
for decades, for each month, Via got paid 1/12 of the contract price, submitted its monthly
paperwork, and there was never any problem about fulfilling our hourly requirements or concern
about it, because it just wasn't even an issue. It is true that the contracts, as written, were based on
fulfilling annual hourly performance requirements, and if not fulfilled, pro-rata pay reductions
would occur.
But the reality was it just was never an issue. It never came up. Now, however, now is now. Then
was then. Now is the pandemic. And for the first time, service compliance, under this contract-and I think under the other contracts-- is an issue. RTD management says that the contract should
prevail, and Via's pay must be significantly cut.
Now Via has asked in this letter to RTD, which, unfortunately, the Board hasn't seen yet, but
they've asked for some leeway, not charity, but some leeway for payment of a certain percentage
of the pay based not just on the service they do provide but on their compliance and their need for
overhead support. Apparently, our management isn't interested in this kind of compromise, but in
compliance with the contract, which I understand.
But I think this is a much more complicated problem than has been presented. One of the
complications is that there isn't even a signed contract for this year. There just isn't. It wasn't-- to
my understanding, it wasn't signed. The greater complication, however, involves the extra legal
impact on public perception of how RTD treats its longstanding partners in a time of economic
distress.
In my opinion-- this is my opinion, nobody else's-- it's penny wise, pound foolish to tell our partner
of 30 years to just comply with the damn contract and quit complaining while we have received
multimillion dollars of federal relief.
SHELLEY COOK: So I just want to characterize what we're doing. I mean forgive me, Director
Lubow, but I just didn't want to go into the territory of characterizing a reply in that way, if we
could avoid that, please.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you, and I stand corrected. That's fine. And again, this is just my
opinion, and let's move on. Personally, I would prefer to see us do what we recently can to help
our partner and our colleague and all the mobility-deprived people that Via helps so admirably by
coming up with some contractual relief. Considering that there isn't even a contract, we could

negotiate one that pays Via more of the true cost of the services it renders than the cut rate amount
we presently give them under this contract. So that's one-SHELLEY COOK: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: --I was thinking-- I was-- go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: And then any other ideas? I want to wrap up quickly, but focus on what my-JUDY LUBOW: Yes, yes. OK, sorry. Just one additional point. The idea that somehow if we treat
them a certain way, then everybody else is going to be similarly impacted-- I understand that
concept, and it is something you have to worry about. But I have been told that each of the contracts
that Heather listed has been uniquely negotiated. They stand on their own merit, and, thus, if we-whatever we negotiated with Via would also stand on its own merits.
So I support helping them in whatever reasonable way we can. And thank you for your indulgence
in listening.
SHELLEY COOK: Not at all. Director Guissinger, go ahead.
FRED WORTHEN: Director, before we move forward, this is Fred Worthen at AGM Bus
Operations. May I have a moment to respond?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, so I'd like to point out a few things. Although Via refers to these services
as paratransit services, the services they provide are not paratransit services as defined under the
Americans with Disabilities Act. They provide demand responsive services. Their clients are not
required to be disabled or certified under the same requirements as RTD paratransit clients most
follow for Access-a-Ride eligibility.
In addition, their trips are primarily rural in nature with some outside the RTD service area, such
as Estes Park. Although the acclaimed trips they operate would be required to be operated by our
Access-a-Ride services, to be able to use the Access-a-Ride, their clients would need to be
certified, and they would have to have both the beginning and ending points of their trips within
3/4 of a mile of a regular fixed route bus that is not commuter-based.
Regardless of the eligibility and trip estimation, Via has experienced a significant reduction in
demand for services. I'd also like to point out that we have longstanding agreements with many
partners throughout the region itself. The Littleton Shopping Cart is a very good example. It goes
back to 1992. We've had contracts with First Transit through many iterations going back to 1989,
Transdev, which is one of our fixed route contractors, 2005, Senior Resources, 2002.
So we have many, many longstanding partnerships, and we are treating all of our partners equally
through this pandemic.

SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Worthen? OK, Director Guissinger, just allowing-- do you have,
hopefully, more brief points that you'd like to make that we can sort of add as ideas? I'm sorry. I
didn't mean to malign you, Dr. Lubow. I think you covered a lot, and it was good information. So
go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do have a few different points. These are very old contracts, as
everybody's agreed. You know, there's a lot of, like I said, people looking at two things and seeing
things differently. It's not rural, not urbanized area anymore. This is a small urban area, Boulder
County, Adams County, all of those.
You know, Via is working right now with DRCOG and CDOT to take over the work for SRC that
is being-- that SRC is closing down, which is transportation in Denver and Arapahoe County for
elderly people and disabled. And Mr. Worthen is right. This is not Access-a-Ride. It is-- I guess it
depends on how you use the word "paratransit," but it is providing that service for many people.
Mr. Ballard shared his memo with us that had come, I think, from Mr. Abel about the history, long
history of this situation and said Via has estimated that about 20% of its services are for riders who
would qualify for Access-a-Ride. It's an estimate they're in the process of trying to hire a consultant
to quantify that, so it can give us a basis for a little better decision making.
With 90,000 rides, just picking up the Access-a-Ride riders, and those are within the three 3/4 of
a mile of a fixed route and who would qualify for Access-a-Ride, again, it's just an estimate. But
that would cost, if RTD took it back over, over $950,000. That same memo said that SRC estimated
40% of their riders would qualify for Access-a-Ride. I don't have any basis for-- I don't know
anything about what SRC does on any basis, but again, it would be a lot more money than what
RTD is paying.
Judy said, Via is a very well respected and really indispensable service for many people in Boulder
and Adams County. They're about to take over Denver and Arapahoe.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Excuse me. Excuse me, Director Guissinger. If you could just talk without
that background noise. It's breaking you up, and I can't hear what you're saying. And I really want
to hear what you're saying.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm not sure what the background noise is.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Somebody-- I don't know whose background noise it is, but I can't hear you,
and I really want to hear you.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. I don't think it's me. What's that?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, everybody right now, please just look at your phone and verify you've
got it on mute, because we've got somebody who still I think has it-- and it is interrupting things.
So thank you for bringing it up, Dr. Folska. Go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. I believe they are doing grocery delivery, medicine delivery. They
were never refusing to do that work. They laid off or furloughed operators initially, because they
just had to. And all of their upper level management took a pay cut, but they're wanting-- they
really value their relationship with RTD.
As Director Lubow said, there is no contract at this point, and all that we're saying is, let's look.
They've offered a compromise. Let's get back in there. Let's negotiate. Let's write a new contract
that makes sense. And they're not standing on the ground of needing all of this money.
But we do need to sit down and work something out and be a good partner. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: [AUDIO OUT] them to make their [AUDIO OUT]. Director Tisdale.
JUDY LUBOW: Are you muted? I can't hear you.
SHELLEY COOK: For everybody for allowing the two folks who are representing the areas most
served by Via to make their case and for allowing them to come out of order. I appreciate that. So
Director Tisdale, please any comments or questions?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. I do concur generally
with the observations made by Director Walker and appreciate the additional information provided
by Assistant General Manager Worthen. And I recognize that if, in fact, we are dealing with a
situation where Via does not currently have a contract, and the suggestion is, well, we can just
negotiate a new contract with them, I submit that's fine. We can.
I would also suggest that there may be an argument that there's already an implied contract by
virtue of people having performed according to agreed upon or at least understood terms and that,
therefore, there is a contract. All that said, in general, I agree with Director Walker and appreciate
the information from Assistant General Manager Worthen. Thank you, Madam.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Director Cook? This is Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operations, if I may respond
again. One of the things that we have been doing is standardizing all of our contracts or cost sharing
agreements. Douglas County is a little unique, because we're providing money for call center
assistance, but all of our other contracts are based upon an annual number of service hours required.
And we only pay for the service salaries that are operated.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Just clarifying there. Thank you. So go ahead, Director Menten. Director
Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I was trying to get the light on the phone. So let me start by just
making sure that I understand. Right now, we are paying Via Mobility for all of the services that
they are providing within the contracts that we have with them. Correct?
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct, ma'am.

NATALIE MENTEN: And per the document that we were given, I see that it notes State of
Colorado received just under $40 million to dispense out to entities like Via Mobility. Is that
correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather. That is correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: Do we have any accounting line item type handouts, the status on what
Colorado has done with the just under $40 million?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I have that, a PowerPoint from them, that they provided at one of the
workshops that I could send to the Board. And it detailed how they allocated the funds.
NATALIE MENTEN: So since we're having this discussion now, is Via Mobility with a specific
workload that-- I'm still not clear that they're asking for money not for work they're doing, but to
cover their overhead. Is that-- is that really what is summarized in their request? Did I understand
that right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And so if we were to give out, to comply with this request, there
would be two real obvious effects from that. One is our budget situation that we just had would go
deeper. And two, we open up the door to the list of other agencies similar to Via Mobility, whether
they be a government or a quasi government or a non-profit asking for the same funding. Is that
correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the second half is correct. The first half, I just want to clarify, the
700 and something thousand dollars is currently still budgeted for those two contracts. The plan
was that once we were further into the year and understood how much service had been reduced,
we were going to adjust all of those contracts, and then free up that money, and it would be in a
future budget amendment later on in the year. But [INTERPOSING VOICES].
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, it's still in the budget, so it doesn't affect those numbers. OK. Well, the
answer to the big question, which was, what's the guidance from the Board, as was stated-- and I
would need to confirm-- I'd need to go to the language in CARES Act and see if that's true, that
this is actually prohibited in CARES Act money, so I haven't done that.
But assuming that that is true, and this work's not being performed, it's just a request for money to
cover their overhead, I am not inclined to accept this request. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Director Menten. Director Lubow has spoken. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have a few questions just to make sure I'm
understanding this correctly. On package page 143, it says cost share agreements, and there's a
value there for the senior resource center. It says $135,243. And that-- but then there's a second
piece here that says, Access-a-Ride and FlexRide fixed routes, and each one of those listed a

different dollar amount. And some are attached to contracts, and some are just a full dollar amount.
And I just wanted to gain some clarity about what this document is trying to convey.
FRED WORTHEN: So this is Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operations. So the cost share-SHONTEL LEWIS: Fred, your phone is really, really staticky.
FRED WORTHEN: All right. Is this helping? Is this helping any? OK. So the cost share
agreements, the dollar amounts that are shown are what were approved by the Board up to dollar
amounts in December of last year.
So those are dollar amounts that can be drawn down based upon the contracts and services that are
provided. And with regard to the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide, those are similar, really. Those are
Board-approved contracts with dollar amounts attached that are maximums. However, they are
also linked to service provision requirements.
So underneath the COVID, because people aren't operating as much service, they're actually not
drawing down on those dollar amounts. But those are the Board-approved dollar amounts.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much for that. And Fred, on package page 144, it says Fixed
Routes, and there is First Transit. It says the contract was executed on May 11, 2017, with service
beginning May 13, 2017. Term of contract is for three years with two-year option. Can you tell me
what you're trying to convey with this specifically?
FRED WORTHEN: Well, it was just-SHONTEL LEWIS: Not with First Transit. With that-- yeah, with this-FRED WORTHEN: What we were trying to convey is that we have contracts not just for cost
share agreements, but we have directly operated contracts also. And we just want the Board to
understand what the dollar amounts were for these existing contracts and where we are in those
contract cycles.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. So for Via specifically-- and this may come up on the other one-- we've
talked about specific ridership, like what they are able to operate, but it sounds like-- and I'm glad
Director Menten said this, because I was a bit confused. And my question was going to be, could
we fund for the amount of service that they are able to operate? But it does not sound like there is
service in operation, or am I confused about that?
FRED WORTHEN: No, you're not confused. And that's one of the things that is really confusing,
because Via talks about cost that RTD would incur, but that's not necessarily the case. First off,
they're not operating services, so regardless of who the operator is, there's no cost incurred for
those services. But the services that are being operated, we're paying for fully underneath of our
contract.
JUDY LUBOW: Excuse me. This is Judy Lubow.

SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Repeat the question.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm sorry. I just wanted to correct what I felt might be inaccurate.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Fred, are you OK with that?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: It's just my understanding that Via is already performing 45% of what they had
been originally expected to be doing. So they are actively-- they are actively already fulfilling the
contract, just not to the full extent as it was the pre-pandemic.
FRED WORTHEN: That is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: So Director Lewis, does that help with the question you had about whether
they're providing services and getting paid?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, can you say that again, Judy Lubow, please, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, it's my understanding that they-- it's the full amount of hours per annually
is 100%, according to them, they're up to 45%.
FRED WORTHEN: Well, that would be for the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services.
JUDY LUBOW: No, no, no, no, no. I don't believe so.
SHELLEY COOK: Wait. Please go ahead, Fred.
FRED WORTHEN: No, the 40% is the Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services, if I'm not mistaken.
With regard to the cost share payments, they have indicated to us that they're only operating about
25% of the service that they normally operate.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, that's not what they're indicating to Director Guissinger and myself, so
you're getting different information.
SHELLEY COOK: [AUDIO OUT] get out there. Thank you. Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I don't feel like-- in absence of the letter that Director Guissinger and
Director Lubow have shared on this. On this call, I don't feel equipped with enough information
to be able to make a decision in this moment. But I will take a second to just speak to, I think, what
might be a broader issue and then to maybe elevate the conversation from Via and just talk about
this from an agency, and then we're going to talk about Reimagine RTD.
But I think it's worth mentioning that we are living in a new financial world, not nationally, but
globally. And we've had discussions about how we might pivot Reimagine RTD to meet the needs
and the demands of today. And this feels like a timely place to say that, because I think RTD and
our contractors are trying to figure out what public transportation looks like in the face of COVID,
but also from a financial standpoint with financial impact and deficit.
And so I hope that we have a conversation about this, elevate this conversation to really talk about
what we do as an agency, because I'm having a hard time specifically talking about Via without
understanding the broader scope, but that's fair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger. May I correct something else, too?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Via is currently doing about 65% on its Access-a-Ride and FlexRide, and
I appreciate your numbers, Mr. Worthen, but I think that they may be old. They're doing about
45% on paratransit, and it's growing steadily. And also, Miss Terwilliger, the regional
administrator for FTA, has said they're not a subrecipient, which is beyond what I can speak to
exactly. But their expenses are eligible for-- if RTD could share CARES Act funding, could turn
those expenses in to get federal funding, according to the FTA regional administrator.
I guess where I would bring this back is there's a lot more to this story, and really, what needs to
happen is a negotiation. I think Via is very interested to just work something out. They're not
saying, pay us for everything. They're not saying, pay us for our overhead. They're saying, let's
work something out. And that's where I would encourage us to move. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. And thanks, everybody, for forbearance. Director Folska,
please go.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry for the delay. OK. I'm usually ready, but it kind of has been not really
in order. You know, so regardless of whether they-- can they apply themselves? Can Via apply
themselves to receive CARES Act resources or PPP? That's one of my questions. [INTERPOSING
VOICES].
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. No, they are not an eligible recipient of federal funds.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm sorry. Can you repeat that, because there was a noise, and it's really
very hard to follow.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather McKillop. No, because they are not an eligible federal
recipient within the RTD district, as long as RTD is around. They are a subrecipient under the Rule
Act, which is they get those funds directly from CDOT. RTD does not administer those funds. So
no, they could not-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So can CDOT get PPP money or CARES Act money and give it to them?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, CDOT already did. They did receive $39.7 of which $150,000 of
that went to Via for the services they provide under that provision, subrecipient provision. But they
are not a subrecipient to us. Now whether or not a nonprofit is eligible for PPP funds, I am not
aware of that. I don't know the answer to that.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I think I'd like to know the answer to that, so maybe someone could
reach out to Via and ask them if they've applied to that. It seems like whether you're for profit,
non-profit, or government, there are some avenues, and maybe they could explore that a little bit.
You know, the other thing is that the primary folks that they move around are senior citizens. Is
that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, the elderly, actually.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, so I mean those are the folks who are clearly at highest risk of this
virus. And so I imagine that they're not taking them to too many places, other than maybe-- I don't
know-- you know, the doctor's. I feel for Via. I really do. And I know they have an excellent
reputation, but we have to keep ourselves in business first, because if we go away, everybody goes
away, right?
So I think just focusing on the worst case scenario and our core business until we can get through
this period and get tax revenue coming back and so forth, we're going to be pretty austere, I guess.
Those are my comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Folska.
FRED WORTHEN: Director Cook, this is Fred Worthen, AGM. I have two more things. First off,
there seems to be some confusion. We are paying for services that they are operating. But with
regard to the CARES Act-SHELLEY COOK: Wait, a lot of feedback. Yeah, Fred, a lot of feedback.
FRED WORTHEN: Can you-- can you hear me better now?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead. Yeah
FRED WORTHEN: So one, we are paying for all the services that Via is operating. That's part of
our contract. But with regard to the funding of the CARES Act, underneath the Transit DLT
government website, there is a specific question that says, are FTA funds available for public

transit agencies to reimburse third party operations and maintenance contractors for amounts
provided in the contract, given its levels of service provided by the third party contractors are
reduced because of COVID-19.
The FTA's response-- no, federal funds can only be used to reimburse FTA recipients for actual
operating or maintenance costs. So again, we cannot use CARES money to pay for services that
are not being operated. And that's the real question here is whether or not we wish to pay for
services that aren't being rendered right now.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. So you're-- just to clarify, you're reading from some kind of
guidance that FTA has. That wasn't reflected via, for example, Cindy Terwilliger.
FRED WORTHEN: No, this is from the transit.dot.gov Frequently Asked Questions from the FTA.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. thank you. Director Menten?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Go, please. Yeah, sorry about that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, I just want to answer the question. I just looked up. It says nonprofits
are eligible to apply for PPP loans if they are exempt from federal income tax under Section
501(c)(3), they are in existence before March 1st of 2020, and they employ no more than 500 full
time and part time employees. So that was [AUDIO OUT].
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. I don't know. Do we-- is it the case that sometimes we support
or assist our nonprofits in applying for assistance that we're not directly providing, or I mean, is
that something we've done?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We would not assist them in applying for a loan through the PPP
program. That would be with a private bank.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I tend to agree with Director Walker and also
Director Williams. In light of our current budget situation, I really do feel for Via, but I've also
heard discussions with some of our senior resource center people up in Jefferson County, and
they're hurting as well. And so all of these cost share agreements-- to me, I'm concerned that
funding Via for more than the services for which they're contracted would create a slippery slope
with these other contracts.
So I'm just very nervous about that. So I would be inclined to try and look at some other ways to
assist them without direct financial impact. I'm looking at this, and I'm saying, well, if they're at
65%, that would be like me asking my employer to work 55% of my hours but still get my full
salary. So I could be wrong in my assessment of that, but I'm just a little bit concerned about the
slippery slope or cascade effect that this might have with regard to our other partners. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. When I first read this memo, my first instinct was to
think, well, you know, RTD has had to roll up its sleeves and work hard, and we're talking about
furloughs and layoffs and all these different things that work we're considering. And I thought,
boy, maybe Via just needs to do the same thing. And then we get into this discussion, and I'm
hearing directly contradictory information from staff and the staff report and Directors Lubow and
Guissinger, who have spoken directly to the FTA and directly to representatives from Via.
And then when you look at the staff report, there's one paragraph on page 2, five sentences, that
really spells out the whole thing but has no data for us to think about. And I agree with Director
Lewis. There's just not enough information. With all this contradictory information going around,
there is no information in here from which you could possibly make a valid decision.
I find that problematic, and when I see this, I feel like I'm being managed, and I don't like that. So
that being said, I don't think there's enough information for me to make a decision. But I would
want more information, and I would suggest that, perhaps, part of that information is, what is it
that Via is asking for? Because when I read the memo, I thought, oh, gosh, they're only doing 20%
of their service, and they want to be paid for 100%.
Well, now we find out that's not accurate at all. And maybe my assumption was inaccurate, so
anyway, I'll leave it at that. I need more information. And I guess, based on what I'm seeing, I
would get the sense that we might want to consider talking to Via some more. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair, this is Director Williams. After you go around, I'd like to speak
again.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, got that. Thank you very much. Director Broom? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Just for clarification, is the problem that seniors are not taking the services they
previously took, because they're staying at home to try to avoid the virus?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: That is correct.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Boy, I've been writing a lot of notes,
and the more notes I write, the more confused I become. And I'm really, really conflicted here,
because as a Board member, but then also as a Transportation Management Association Director,
the whole vision is to serve community. But in light of this conversation we're having about our
budget, I am also extraordinarily concerned about the CARES money and the requirements for it,

and do we really have money to pay for a contract that will not get reimbursed, when there is no
service being rendered?
So I'm kind of feeling like Director Walker and Director Tisdale, but I'm also feeling like we need
a lot more information. And one of the things I find very, very concerning is that Director
Guissinger and Director Lubow have directly talked to the FTA. And I'd like to know what that
conversation was about and how we move forward, because I agree. As a Nonprofit Director, I
don't want this seen as preferential treatment as well.
So I think we have a whole lot of information to receive back. And what I would just like are facts
and no emotion into this, even though it's an emotional issue. I think at this point of what we're
dealing with as a Board, we are in serious crisis in our budget.
And we really need to take a look at how we're dispensing money, who's getting funded, and who
we're partnering with in terms of making sure that we are being accountable to our constituents
and the legislature and the governor's office and everybody else to make sure that we're doing our
due diligence.
So I kind of feel like I don't have enough information to come up with a decision here, but boy,
this has been quite an extraordinary conversation. So I know that's not any help to anybody, but
that's kind of what I'm feeling right now, so thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. It's helpful. Director Williams, you asked for a second bite
here, and that's fine. Go ahead.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I want to say, again, that I work with Via Mobility
every day. They are, as Director Lubow and Director Guissinger pointed out, vital to the health of
the population that is trans independent. I have a couple of questions that I think and I'm going to
propose when we're done that we ask for more information and that we address this again.
But some of the questions are, right now, I believe, based on the information that we got, that we
see that we have had a $37 million contract with Via for a three-year period. So essentially, we've
been giving Via Mobility $13 million a year to provide service for us, both as Access-a-Ride and
as FlexRide.
My question would be, what would it have cost us to provide that service ourselves? And perhaps
if we look at the amount that we saved by having Via Mobility provide that service, we might have
some incentive to return some of that savings to them.
Then if, in fact, they cease to provide those services, although I don't think it's up to us to bail out
Via Mobility if their budgeting has not allowed them to survive as an entity. They also receive
funding from the Area Agency on Aging in Boulder. A large percent of their funding comes from
them. They receive funding from CDOT under more than one funding stream, not just 5311, but I
believe they also get 5310 funds.

So there are a lot of entities, besides the RTD, that have been funding Via Mobility and for good
reason, because the service that they provide is so vital. So I'm wondering if there isn't a
compromise some place based on what other governmental or quasi governmental agencies are
willing to contribute to help one of the premier services in the area survive.
And I think that we all have agreed that we don't have the information that we need to make a
decision on giving them money or not giving them money and how much money that is. And I'd
like to recommend that we do some further investigation and that we get some hard numbers, both
from Via Mobility and from our staff, and then we try to arrange a compromise that will help Via
Mobility maintain their service now and in the future, because that's something we haven't talked
about is, what happens if we have to pick up all of those riders, if they stop providing FlexRide,
Access-a-Ride, and on demand service? Thanks. Thanks for a second bite of the apple.
SHELLEY COOK: Not at all. Thank you. So for my part, just trying to summarize and kind of
add my own two cents. When you do these contracts, oftentimes, they're carried forward from year
to year, but as I understand it, the way that you structure them is so that you are being accountable
to taxpayers. You're saying, we're providing money to this organization, and in return, they're
doing this. And so you set some standards. That's just kind of the common thing.
One thing I would note, though, is that probably didn't contemplate-- that probably didn't
contemplate a situation like this. So in terms of a strict-- holding them strictly to the terms, you've
got a nonprofit. Oftentimes, they've got a history. They don't have a lot of legal support. They rely
on the longtime partnership and assumptions made on both sides about what they're doing. And
then, suddenly, all that's thrown up into the air.
So I'm kind of sympathetic to the idea that maybe there needs-- if there's a way to find a
compromise-- I don't know-- within or outside the contract-- I wish that could happen, because the
point's been made in this meeting entire that strategically, going forward, it may be more cost
effective to rely on, in some cases, in some areas, for some types of services, third parties. And
that may be a strategic choice that we make as one response that Bruce's group comes up with, for
example.
So in terms of the additional information, what I'm hearing is, first, the letter that we need to get
that. We need to hopefully resolve the conflicts between the two sides and what's being
represented, assuming good faith on both sides. And I know that to be true. Secondly, let's clarify
the FTA guidance because we've also heard that there has been some reflection. And I don't think
it was due to Lubow or Lynn Guissinger, who contacted them. I think they were reflecting
somebody else's context.
So let's just get-- make sure that we're on the same page with regard to the FTA direction. Director
Williams asked for information about whether-- and maybe this is a question for Bruce's group.
Are we being shortsighted if we say, sorry, the contract is the contract, and it turns out that they
can't survive without some help for a compromise solution? And are we then eliminating capacity
that we later could rely on with greater results, more cost effectively? So is there a way to get a
handle on the services they do provide and whether we can provide them?

So those are three items, and including seeing if Bruce's group with Reimagine are-- whether there
is a strategic reason for trying to negotiate with them. And then one thought is having-- we've
already identified our posture with regard to these groups. Can we bring that forward in a
workshop, and is it too late to do that to talk about this more thoroughly with some of those added
bits of information on July 7? Heather McKillop, we talked about that date. Is that a possibility
here?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. Barbara and I had laid
out some possible dates, where we don't have Board meetings currently scheduled that we could
use for workshops. And one of those dates was July 7, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So for those who were wanting more information or wishing there was a
better way, if we ask for more information and get on the same page with regard to the services
provided and that sort of thing and the FTA posture, and then ask Bruce's group whether-- and the
matter of longer range strategy, does it make sense to find a way to help this and/or other, especially
nonprofits, but groups to survive, so as to be an option for us going down the road?
I mean, I guess that's an early question for them, but can we take this up on the 7th with that added
information provided? Is that a decent way forward, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I think what we had talked about, if I'm understanding it right, is that
you would like to use one of our first workshops that we do to discuss contracted services and how
that fits into potentially our future and how we might be utilizing them, what it costs for those
services, those type of things, correct?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And then I guess, in the meantime, getting the added information? Maybe
we'll have a chance to revisit that before then. That's three weeks or something away-- four weeks,
actually. So with regard to Via specifically, I think we need-- I think several people have said we
need more information.
And then maybe during the Interim period, we can begin to get some thoughts from Bruce's group
about whether or not reimagining and having to do that to respond to the new normal, whether it
makes sense to adopt a different posture here, thinking longer term and with sort of a let's work
together, because we recognize we're going to need you, or it's important that you're still around
to provide these vital services, that kind of thing.
So I don't know if this is very good, but more information in the meantime, asking Bruce's group
some of the questions, like Dr. Williams had suggested, as a matter of strategy, and then bringing
that forward to the extent you can in the meantime, so we can identify or talk in a subsequent
meeting about this particular issue, Via, and then a workshop that takes that up on July 7th.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather. So I should be able to, from what I
understand and additional information, I think I have a list of that-- we should be able to get to that
way before July 7th. So we don't--

SHELLEY COOK: So everybody, if we get some additional information, and then maybe at a
subsequent meeting, cycle back around [AUDIO OUT] and say where we are. Is that OK?
JUDY LUBOW: This is Director Lubow.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: Can I just ask that some of the information might be required from Via itself, the
horse's mouth, so to speak? Because we-- so I'd like to leave that open as an option.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you saying we would [AUDIO OUT] questions, and then pose them to
them?
JUDY LUBOW: [INTERPOSING VOICES]. Yeah, because they're the ones who have the
answers, at least from their point of view. And their information-- some of it seems to have been
different than the information we're getting from staff. I'm not casting blame, but I think they
deserve to be able to submit their own information.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: And Madam Chair, this is Heather. Frank reached out to me this
afternoon, so I can get with him.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, any others?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yep, Madam Chair, this is-SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know, this makes me think, particularly since we've had this
deep discussion about our budget and how we move forward, is I would like to have that kind of
like a matrix of all of our contracts to see what everybody's getting and what our commitment is
to them and how long these contracts have gone on. I just think it's good to get a holistic picture
of that whole piece of it. So that would be my two cents worth. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So added information-- that sounds like it would be useful. Does that
make sense, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, so I provided that information in the packet, but I'll be glad to
convert that to kind of a side by side matrix, so you can see it side by side with each of the pertinent
elements of each contract.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Waiting on a final [INTERPOSING VOICES] information. Go ahead,
whoever.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
SHELLEY COOK: Please go ahead, Director.
NATALIE MENTEN: Can I get to the-- just boil it down really quickly as to I heard on the CARES
Act end, and I am working on pulling up the text-- I thought I had it saved to file-- that services
had to be provided just like First Transit or others who are on our line item accounts payable
putting out money for the CARES Act. So I'm trying to get that in front of me, but from the point
of view of RTD staff, the CARES Act says, the service has to be provided. The service has to be
running the bus, whatever it may be.
And then where did we get this-- was this contradictory statement? Where did this generate from
that that may not be correct? Could somebody please state that for me? Because I heard maybe
Director Lubow had said it, maybe Director Guissinger, and then I heard somebody else. It wasn't
the FTA who said it. It was secondhand. What was that, so that I can work on fact checking, while
we're waiting for all of this package to be put together?
SHELLEY COOK: Can we get some of that summarized after the meeting? But what I heard was
that there were questions as to the amount of service being provided, whether or not the FTA had
and what our guidance actually is, whether-- and had the FTA, in talking about this specific agency,
reflected something that differs from the written guidance on the website? Who did that go to?
It just seems like we've got so many-- so I can ask or open it back up again, but what I heard was
the difference in what some people understood because of their conversations with Via versus what
we understand on our side of the thing. And part of it has to do with the letter. Maybe there's some
new information that's come through that isn't available for everybody at this point.
So I don't-- I just want to say, we've had a lot of discussion. There are clearly some areas of
differing understanding. Let's just see if we can get some of that resolved before we go ahead and
make a decision. I heard-- the most common thing I heard was, I need more information. So that's
the thing I was wanting to move forward for in the meantime. Is that OK, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I just wonder if this is, as the words were mentioned, we've got so
many other organizations. And now we're going to have a workshop about one letter, and this slope
is presented, where we have all these others that are listed in the package with cost share
agreements, and as was mentioned by some other Directors, about what about the other areas. SoSHELLEY COOK: Tha's a ---.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'll leave it at that.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's a good point about we're having [AUDIO OUT] about one agency.
I don't think we got-- I think the idea was our general posture with regard to all of our contractors
and whether that is something that the strategy going forward or not, and hopefully, some of what
Bruce is doing and some of what Reimagine is doing can feed into that discussion, then.
But Director Broom and I, in talking about what might be [AUDIO OUT] workshopped, had
identified that in part because of the discussion about Via, but not just to talk about Via. If I'm
hearing you, let's resolve the Via question to the extent we can, but recognizing that we're going
to have a chance to talk about the broader issues raised by all this.
SHONTEL LEWIS: If I may, Director Lewis.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, is it just-- one follow-up question real quick. Is this workshop
envisioned for the evening for whenever it is?
SHELLEY COOK: It's a Tuesday night, correct, Heather McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We have not finalized that. We are just talking about possible dates, and
that's a date that does not have a Board meeting on. So there is a possibility it could be in the
evening, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, which I think is what Director Lubow prefers? Director Lewis, too,
correct?
JUDY LUBOW: Are we talking about evening as opposed to early morning?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, and just recognizing that some folks have less flexible schedules, so
anyway-BARBARA MCMANUS: So Director?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: This is Barbara McManus. So the dates that we spoke about, there's no
meeting on July 7th, because we have traditionally tried not to have a meeting on a holiday week.
Then there is no meeting scheduled for the 28th of July, so we have operations and finance and
executive committee plus the Board meeting in July, so it's a much-- it's a much lighter month. So
Heather and I thought that we would take that opportunity. There is also a study session that doesn't
have a subject attached to it on August 25, and also, September 1st.
So those are the dates that we're looking at that are after hours meetings. But some of the meetings
that we're going to have to schedule are going to-- they're going to need to be during work time.
We have a lot of things going on right now.
We have the General Manager's search. We have the General Manager's evaluation with the goals
being brought forward next month in July. I just wanted to bring that up, because I know that a lot

of the Directors, even in these challenging times, have made their plans around time off from the
schedule that we bring forward in November.
But in these challenging times, we have to utilize what we have. And we have to try to figure out
the best way to get all the Directors together and get the best population in the meetings. And I-I'm in the midst of putting together an email with some of these comments and some of the work
that has to be done for the Directors between now and early fall. And it's very, very rigorous.
And so I just wanted to throw that out there that staff is working really hard to bring everything
forward in a timely fashion. You know, Paul has set up this new committee headed by Bruce Abel.
We're getting into the heat of the General Manager's search. The Directors are going to need to be
available, and it's very, very busy times. And there's multiple things going on.
And I just wanted to throw that out there. Take a look at the yearly calendar that we sent to
everybody. Just know that we're trying to fit everything in. This is like putting a puzzle together
and trying to move forward with the best information that we possibly can and that, you know,
we're hoping, because the Board wants to be so involved in these decisions, that the availability is
there for everyone. And staff will work hard through me and through your questions to get
everything to you to make valid decisions moving forward. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, thanks, and really good points, because we are heaping a lot in terms of
workshops. We'll talk about that in a bit. So I think the gist of your comments is you're trying to
move a lot in a very short period of time. We appreciate that. Sometimes we'll have them at night,
but other times, it will be unavoidable that we'll have some daytime meetings.
And maybe the idea would be to let Barbara know if you have particular constraints, and then
which of the meeting topics that we'll talk about in a bit are most important. So if there is a chance
or any flexibility on her part with regard to those couple of instances that she could move, but
otherwise, I understand. We're just going to have to, all of us, kind of give a bit here in terms of
the dates and times and/or finding ways to accommodate absences, and still allow people to be
involved.
OK, are we good on that one, Heather McKillop, for the meantime?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis, I had a question.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Director.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So I understood, going back to the original topic and moving
away from scheduling, I had a question. I understood that we weren't, in this workshop, just going
to talk about Via, but we were going to talk about this more broadly and have a more broad
discussion. But it sounds-- what I gathered from Director Menten's comment was that this-- what
was being proposed was specific to Via. And I just wanted to clarify that for my own
understanding.

SHELLEY COOK: No and thank you. And I did try to add that, but even though I mentioned it in
regard to Via, it's meant to be the broader issues, some of what we discussed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. OK, everybody. Moving on-NATALIE MENTEN: Menten. Menten, I just want to respond to that. So here's the difference.
The difference is Via is invited to the table, but the others have not. We're going to talk about them,
but then we're opening up the invitation, and we're saying, hey, we're talking about potentially
dispensing money out to cover overhead, even though work may or may not be being performed.
That's the difference.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, so we haven't determined that yet, first of all. And secondly, that's not
how I see that workshop. I mean we can-- that would certainly be something we can reflect to
Heather that it's not a matter of rolling up our sleeves and deciding who we're going to support and
who isn't. I think it's more conceptual and policy-oriented is my take on what we want to do with
the workshop. Heather, is that how you had seen that one as well?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, I think what we talked about is as part of the group that Bruce is
heading up, that there are going to be all these topic areas that need to be addressed through the
resolution of the 21 through 26 midterm financial plans, and we will address those-- he wanted to
address those in kind of groups, subject matter groups.
And so we just need to work through that, because I haven't had a chance to sit down with Bruce
and talk about how that might play out. But it would be more global, not one particular contractor
and not one particular issue. It's more of a global discussion about how we move forward and
where we make changes to-- and how all these different services are impacted.
BRUCE ABEL: And that is generous, if I might-- this is Bruce.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Bruce.
BRUCE ABEL: I think what I was envisioned with your agreement and support is, really, that
we're talking, again, more, as you said, at the global level about process, projects, personnel, and
how we address our financial circumstance as opposed to anything as finite as to whether or not
we will be funding this organization or that organization, but really, more globally, how do we
sustain our overall operations from a process point of view, a personnel point of view, and a
program point of view?
SHELLEY COOK: An overall approach. And the only reason to mention both of them at the same
time is to get some of that thinking going in organizing for the workshop and working back that
that might also help in discussions with Via. But to be very clear, that workshop is not about Via
or any one of the contractors, and it's more along the lines of what Bruce and Heather have just
identified, so thank you both.

OK. So if that's OK, I want to-- Kate told me I need to be done by 8:30, so I'm working on this-the 2021 and 2026 mid-term financial plan. So this is the process that we now kick off. Heather,
please let's get this update on the table. It's so important.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, so this is Heather McKillop. We have an overview, and then I really
want to talk about spending time on the two scenarios, not a lot of time. I hear that. But this is
really important, because this is kind of our kickoff to the 21 through 26.
Just laying out for you, there's no solutions in here. Just laying out for you the difference of what
had occurred between March 31 when we presented this information to you and the current state
that we are from a revenue standpoint and some of the other kind of issues as it relates to that.
So Janette was just going to run through some key points on each slide, and then I will point out
some things that I want you to be aware of, because you'll be seeing these scenarios over and over
again as we run different discussions around revenues and also, as we just talked about, what
changes we may need to make to our whole cost structure. So it is kind of important that we spend
a few minutes on this tonight, so you get that foundation. We'll be working from this going forward.
So that-- if Janette's on, I'll have her run through these slides really quickly, and then I'll talk about
the scenarios or the cash flows that were included in your packet.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
JANETTE SCARPINO: Yes, I'm on. This is Janette Scarpino, Senior Manager of Budget. So
briefly, by way of introduction, let's just visit on the components of the midterm financial plan.
The base system MTFE has developed and includes only service and projects funded from the 6/10
of a percent sales and use tax as well as FasTracks' track operations activity, which we allocate to
FasTracks from base. FasTracks' mid-term financial plan is developed and includes the FasTracks
expense and projects funded from the 4/10 of a percent sales and use tax.
We update the mid-term financial plan annually for cash flow planning purposes to determine our
operating, investing, and financing activity, as well as our services to be provided using our
projected financial resources. So on the next slide, we're going to just dive right into the revenue.
We are using the May forecast from CU Leeds and CU Leeds, their baseline forecast projects a
drop of about 24% in sales and use tax in 2020, from 2019, and then a 3 and 1/2 percent drop in
2021 from 2020.
With respect to unemployment, CU projects unemployment of 10.3% in 2020 and 7.8% in 2021.
This is for Colorado as a whole. And also, with respect to retail sales, CU is projecting that retail
sales will decrease in 2020 and 2021 at a lower rate than the overall sales and use tax decline. And
this is because CU is using the state tax base in their retail sales definition, which does not include
restaurants, bars, and hospitality services, or gas, electricity, or telephone.
I also want to say that retail sales, our sales and use tax in April was down 6% on a year to date
basis from the same year to date period in 2019. And April was deemed to be an economic low

point, as there has been the beginning of a rebound in May. So just want to share that figure with
you that we saw a 6% year to date decrease in April from the same period in 2019.
I think on the next slide, this chart kind of speaks volumes. The blue bars are actual sales and use
tax received, and red bars are projected. Note that we do not, for CU, for the CU forecast, we do
not regain our 2019 sales and use tax levels until around 2025. And if you look at 2020 and 2021,
that projected level of sales and use tax is somewhere between where it was in 2013 and 2014.
The line that we've added here, that purple line that kind of runs up, is the September 19 forecast
from CU Leeds, so the previous forecast that we were using to support our 2020 adopted budget,
that is represented by the purple line, the September 19 forecast. And what this really means is
there is about a $1.2 billion difference in the May forecast versus September over the 2020 through
2026 period, that forecasted period.
Next slide, we're still talking about revenue here. We are assuming that our fair revenue will return
to about 80% of our initial forecast in 2021 and to 90% of our forecast in 2022 because of the
COVID-19 situation that we're dealing with.
We will see-- we're projecting a somewhat higher allocation to the base system in 2021. And that
is because fewer people are actually riding the FasTracks corridors in this COVID time period.
The people who are riding our services are riding base-system services. And so we made
adjustments between base and FasTracks related to the current situation.
With regard to FasTracks, we expect it will shift back, in 2022 and 2023, to be closer to our old
model or our original model. We are also assuming a fair rate increase in 2022 and, again, in 2025.
With respect to grants, we assume that there is no carryover of the CARES Act funding from 2020
to 2021. In other words, we are going to spend it all this year.
Also, we are not assuming any new debt. We have to consider our debt service coverage limits
before we can seriously consider issuing additional debt.
On the next slide, with respect to expenditures, our O&M costs are increased at CPI rates from last
year from Moody's. And we are working on getting an updated Moody's forecast, which may show
lower CPI rates over this time period. The CBA has escalated its seat at the CPI. Our North Metro
costs are projected based on RTD operation, and we expect a full year of costs in 2021.
Diesel is budgeted at $2.00 a gallon over the plan and gasoline at $2.90, but we may see some
savings here. When we look at the diesel futures price in 2021, we're looking at around $1.60 per
gallon. We are not assuming any new projects in 2021, other than the electric vehicles, due to the
Volkswagen settlement and the low no emissions grant. And with respect to other projects, we are
assuming 70% of the asset management plan, and we're programming that beginning in 2022
through 2026.
With respect to our reserves, we are planning to fund small increases to our fund balances for both
base system and FasTracks. We continue on with our goal of maintaining three months of O&M

expenses in our three reserve fund balances. FasTracks achieves this goal over the plan period.
Base does not during the plan period.
Also, regarding the FISA, we expect the FISA to maintain stability. We will be making
contributions to the FISA, at the same time, taking some withdrawals, and FISA funds are drawn
only through 2025. Then we stop drawing on the FISA, but, again, we're expecting the FISA
balance to be stable over the period. And finally, we do not assume the use of 2020 year-end fund
balances in the 2021 through 2026 plan.
In other words, these 2020 ending reserves are maintained in the reserve accounts. And we are not
projecting to spend those dollars in 2021 just yet.
Finally, our next steps-- we have heard that you would like to have in-depth workshops on the
following topics. There may be more topics, but at least, to begin with, the CBA, administrative
costs, our operations, the impact of Reimagine or system optimization plans, social distancing,
contracted services, the fare and pass program policy, and the safety first strategy. There may be
others that you may want to add to that list, which we can address. And that's the end of the slides.
SHELLEY COOK: And as for that, Janette, do you want me to-- or take that at the end?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather-JANETTE SCARPINO: Why don't we-- why don't we take that at the end?
SHELLEY COOK: OK, got it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: OK, so this is Heather. So I'm now on the two cash flow scenarios, the
base and the FasTracks. These are the ones that you saw in-- the same format that you saw at the
end of March in our workshop there. We have updated some numbers, and there's some
highlighting in some of these. So I wanted to touch on some of the things that we need to be aware
of and that we'll probably get updated as we go through the next several months, and also will need
to be addressed to be able to balance this.
So I do have numbers on the left hand side. When I talk about the lines, I will mention those
numbers. So on the first page, we're talking about the base cash flows. Line 1, this is where we
did-- and I notice that we have a typo. We adjusted for May service changes that's to come out
of total fare revenue-- this is based on the Leeds forecast. I'm sorry. This is based on the
information-- wrong line, wrong line. Apologize. This is based on the fare revenue calculations
that Janette just mentioned, that we are assuming an 80% fare revenue based on ridership in 2021,
and 90%, and then after that, we get closer back to normal.
We don't know if that's a realistic assumption at this time or not, but we don't have any better
information. Hopefully, that will mature as we start getting riders back, and we start seeing what
that looks like, and we developed what the system optimization plan will look like for the future.
That will also instruct us as to what that number might look like.

The next line I want to point out is line four, the sales and use tax. Again, this is from the Leeds
forecast, their baseline going out to 2026. The other line I want to point out is line 5, grants. And
there is a green highlighted box in 2022. One of the reasons we highlighted that is because we do
have some concerns, and we want to make sure that we point out, grants are determined on a
variety of factors, including ridership, hours of service, population, and other type of things.
We will be in the same boat as everyone else in that 2020, those numbers, when we start reporting
them, will not be good. And so we have heard rumor that they will not apply the 2020 numbers to
the calculations for the formula from when we report those to the NTD database. But there has
been nothing in writing that we have seen or can get off the APTA website. That knowledge just
has been told in webinars and things like that.
So I am very concerned that that number we have in there is based on a normal NTD reporting
cycle, and when we report that information for 2020, it will potentially have impact in 2022. Now
the interesting thing that might happen is if everybody is in the same boat, we may end up with
close to the same amount of money, because everybody will be reporting much lower numbers.
But I just wanted to point out that we need to carefully monitor that, because that could have a
long term impact on us.
So then I wanted to point out, on line 10, total revenue. For 2021, we're estimating that be $509
million now. We then pay the debt service from line 14 and subtract that, and that leaves us with
$431 million to apply to operations and everything else.
The issue becomes, if you look at line 16, which is based on our adopted budget-- it's not based on
an amended budget, because we don't have one yet. But based on the adopted budget, you can see
that that number is significantly larger than the $431 million. We then have a $3 million
contribution to reserve an online 20. The funds that are remaining after you deduct the O&M
contributions to reserve from our available revenue on line 15, and the negative $118 million.
We then go to line 24, where we have electric vehicles and charging infrastructure as an example.
We kept that in there, because the grant revenue is in line 5 in the grant, so if we choose not to do
that project, then we would have to remove the associated grant funding from line 5. But assuming
we do that and use the grant funding in 2021 as an example, we would be short $134 million on
the base side. That approach applies across the board.
Now, we did not make any assumptions and changes to other projects from the March workshop.
But as I have mentioned on numerous occasions, when asked the question, I think we can safely
say that everything is on the table, including those items listed in line 21 through 26. If we have to
make changes to service, that will potentially impact asset management and how they make their
recommendations as to what should be funded. So that could change also.
So I just want to lay that out that even though these continue to be in here, it's just because we've
shown them that way, and we wanted to show what the assumptions had been prior to COVID.
The difference now becomes, in March 31st, first if you look at the far right hand number under
line 29, if you look at the far right hand number under line 29, you will see a shortfall of $717

million over that time frame. In the March numbers that we showed you, we had a $50 million
surplus. So that is a difference of about $760 million over that time frame.
Somebody just pointed out to me there is no number in 26, line 26 for asset management. That is
on purpose. We did not have any-- the ability to fund in the March 31 model, nor this one, the
ability to fund any assets in 2021.
So that is the base system. Very similar situation on FasTracks. Again, operating revenue on line
one, we have fare revenue. That footnote needs to come out. This is where Janette also mentioned
that we had a slight change in 2021. We have seen dramatic drop-offs on our ridership, and most
of our ridership that has been remaining has been on the base system, so we felt we needed to
recognize the fact that that base system would probably come back faster than FasTracks. And so
we made an allocation change.
We did assume for the future, though, that it would migrate back closer to where it is now. We
don't really have any, again, evidence that that would happen. But we felt that we need to at least
acknowledge that in this, and we can update that as we get more information.
Again, line four is sales and use tax, and this comes from Leeds. This is the FasTracks portion of
that. And then, again, I highlighted line 5, grants, because, in theory, 2022 would be the first year
that we'd be able to start seeing formula money come into the FasTracks based on how long those
corridors have been open. And again, this could be dramatically impacted based on the service
level.
It's always two years in arrears, so what is allocated in 2022 is based on 2020 information, National
Transit Database information. On line 10, this is where things get even stickier on FasTracks right
now. So on line 10, you can see total revenue estimated of $226 million. On line 14, we then deduct
the debt service for FasTracks of $185 million.
We added line 14a to show that we have kind of a problem when it comes to debt service as a
percentage of sales and use tax. If you look at that, in 2021, debt service makes up 95% of sales
and use tax, so 95% of our sales and use tax money that goes to FasTracks is being used to pay
debts. So on line 15, then we show the amount of funds remaining after debt service, which is $41
million.
You can see that the current cost to operate FasTracks is on line 16 and 17. That totaled $144
million on line 19. As you can see, that creates big problems, because we have $41 million in
revenue, and we have $144 million in expenditures.
We then go down to contributions to reserves. The FasTracks internal savings account, line 20,
that is the allocation based on enhanced bus service. So that remains the same. Line 21, we actually
kept this the same. We had used the balance of the FISA that's going into 2021 to help balance
FasTracks in the March information that we showed.

The reason-- we probably could have taken this out and just shown a larger deficit on line 31, but
in the March one, we had tried to balance FasTracks for the period of '21 through '26, and we
needed to use the FISA to do that. So that will still be up for discussion.
Then we have other reserves. This does have three months of reserves assumed for operating. That
could change. Again, everything's on the table. But based on that information, we have a
contribution to reserves of a negative $7 million. That helps offset the shortfall of above. Still
remaining, we have a negative $96 million on FasTracks.
At the end of this period, we are estimating, if you go to the far right hand column, under 20-26,
line 31, we're estimating a shortfall of $500 million. That assumes using $100 million of a FISA.
If you don't assume we use that, then you're short approximately $600 million in FasTracks.
So we've been talking about a cumulative shortfall for 2021 of around $230 million. We get that
from adding lines 29, under 2021 on both base, and then line 31, the $96 million under 2021 on
FasTracks. So that is where we are currently-- kind of our starting place. And as I mentioned, right
now, from a stock perspective, we're feeling that everything is on the table from both a revenue
perspective and an expenditure perspective, because we have a very, very large goal to try to fill
over the next five to six years.
So with that, Madam Chair, I would be glad to open it up to questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: If you briefly describe what you see as next steps, what we're doing
immediately, maybe how Bruce's group feeds into this, et cetera. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, absolutely. So what we're going to be doing is Bruce and I will
be working together. I'll be giving him financial information, and his working group will be
working on exactly what I talked about, looking at everything, so what revenues are available to
us.
I will keep him updated as I see changes to those revenues as we get more and more sales tax data
in. We'll be looking at all of our expenditures, including what service levels will we be running,
and we'll have a little bit of discussion about that and/or the operations committee under Reimagine
RTD. They're going to talk about that process.
But with any type of reduction comes other consequences. So that group will be looking at, if you
do this, what is the consequence to something else? We'll also be looking at contributions. Should
we be adding more to reserves? Should we be using some of the reserves? That's the question.
I think we tried really hard to preserve the reserves for 2020 so that we would have more options
going into 2021. And that also comes down to that conversation we had of the larger the fund
balance we have at the end of 2020, the more flexibility we have to apply those to 2021 and beyond.
And then I think we're going to have to have a conversation as part of that working group, as it
relates to the projects identified both from an asset management standpoint, because those projects

could get reprioritized based on what we're operating and what we need to maintain, and also the
idea that we can't fund at all. Does that change the asset management plan?
And then we also have to look at those projects identified-- State Highway 119, a new facility,
Burnham Yard. All of those things need to be visited to see if-- how those fit into the future. And
the expectation is that we would do that through a combination of the internal working group that
Bruce is heading, as well as a series of workshops with the Board so that we can investigate things
internally, and then bring that to the Board for review and comment and input, and then make
adjustments accordingly as we go throughout the summer.
We are hoping to have a mid-term financial plan be brought to the Board in the September time
frame. That is our goal. We know that that is-- I think Barbara talked a little bit about it is a very,
very tight time frame with a lot of meetings and a lot of work that needs to be done over the
summer. So it is very aggressive, but it is something that we need to work toward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. So what I'd like to do is go around and ask for any questions
or comments to clarify this. My script had everybody in reverse order still, but that was confusing.
So I'm going to go back to alphabetic, and please let's talk or ask questions about the information
provided. And then later, I'll ask for your suggestions about any additional workshops you'd like
to see. But for right now, let's work on these things. So Director Broom, any questions?
BOB BROOM: No questions. It looks like we've got our work set out for us.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. Yeah, we do. Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I want to thank Heather and Janette for a great
presentation. Couple of questions, and, of course, I'm going to talk about FISA, because I've been
talking about FISA forever. And that's just-- I'm not going to let it go. So what I see on the midterm financial plan is that during that [INAUDIBLE] period of 2021 through 2026, we're
contributing $123.6 million to FISA, and in the same time period, we're taking out $103.5 million
in loans.
So at the end of the period, you're netting $20 million into FISA. Is that accurate?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. It is accurate. But remember, you're also
starting with a fund balance of about $106 million-ish. And in the PowerPoint presentation that I
did last Thursday, that very last page had the estimated fund balances going into 2021. So we
actually would have at the end of this period closer to about $120, $130 million in FISA.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that clarification. Pardon me. And I guess the issue that I continue to
have is that we're using funds that when we dip into FISA, we're using funds that are designed for
future lines to support existing lines. And that was just not fundamentally what FISA was created
for. And the more we raid the fund to help balance the budget, it just becomes a slush fund. It loses
its purpose.

And another question I had is looking at line 29 and line 31 that you pointed out on the base and
the FasTracks, at the end of 2026, if you add up those, is it-- is what you're saying that at the end
of 2026, we're going to be $1.2 billion in the hole?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. If you add those two lines, and that was consistent with what
Janette said. We lost about $1.2 billion in revenue based on the forecast that we received recently
between '21 and '26. So yes, we're $1.2 billion less estimated today than we were just at the end of
March in the same time frame.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Thanks for that. And so here's the question that I have, and you can get back
to me with the answer. Since the inception of FISA, how much has been taken out as loans, and of
that sum, how much has been repaid into FISA? And just need totals on that. And that's all I have,
Madam Chair. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Madam Chair. It's a very good presentation, but it's kind of hard to
remember that it is a good presentation when you look at the actual distressing numbers. And as
Director Broom said, we do have a lot of work cut out for us. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. You guys did a great presentation. Janette, as
always, I loved listening to your presentation. It's great for me to follow what you have to say.
Regarding the FISA account, and I appreciate what Director Buzek is talking about very much so.
What is the future of FasTracks if we're putting money into there and the integrity of that account?
And don't think, given these numbers, I would say, what is the future of RTD, period? And our
work is cut out for us, so thanks. Thank you. That's all, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I may have some questions at the end, if I can pass for now. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few. The first one is, Heather, I see that
there is an assumption of increase in fares. And I'm just curious as what that percentage is.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh. Sorry, I didn't know it was turned on. So I believe it's the rate of
inflation. So for 2022, I think it's right around 9%. Now that could change if inflation goes up or
down, but it's based on the accumulative inflation rate for those years.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you. And so [INTERPOSING VOICES]. Oh, go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I just want to say, I can get you the exact number.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, thank you. That would be great. I'd really appreciate that. And so if I'm
reading and understanding this correctly, there might be an opportunity where we are-- there might
be a possibility, a scenario where we're increasing fares and decreasing the amount of service that
we might be able to provide?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is a possibility.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. OK. I will go cry somewhere with this. I really appreciate it. I just-- I
won't spend too much time, because I have a general-- I don't know how. I guess the question is,
are we solvent with these numbers and for how long.
And so I'm just-- I think I just have a general concern as a Director of what transit and public
transportation looks like and with these projections. I always really appreciate, Janette. Even
though the numbers are grave, you give this sense of calm and clarity in every presentation that
you have given to the Board, and I do appreciate that genuinely.
JANETTE SCARPINO: Thank you. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. Thank you. But it does beg the question, and I know we're going
to talk about Reimagine. It does make me wonder what-- when do we start having realistic
conversations that are inclusive of what it means to be in a state of teleworking, what our system
would really look like, what we expect our ridership to look like, and how do we reflect our dollars
and our budget and the resources that we do have?
How to we allocate those in a way that's meaningful and addresses the needs for those who are
most vulnerable and marginalized and depend on our services. So just general, but thank you so
much for the presentation. That's all I have.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Very, very sobering, and I very much appreciate the questions of
Director Lewis asking sobering questions of how solvent we are and what we can look like for
transit given what's going on with the budget. It's going to be a deep discussion. Thank you. That's
it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Lubow. Direct Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No comment.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you all for the presentation.
It is sobering but important. I did have one clarification. I thought in response to Director Lewis's
question, as we heard it, and it may have been because the sound was cut off, but it sounded as
though you said you were using an inflation rate of 9%. And I'm wondering, did you mean to say
an inflation rate of 9%?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, so that's the cumulative amount over three years.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, all right. Thank you. I appreciate that. In other words, you're using a 3%
per annum inflation cumulatively for the three-year period. It would be a cumulative 9%, correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. I just think that there's some emphasis. Thank you very much. That's all,
Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Does the May jobs report offer any glimmer of hope, where two million
jobs were added?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So think it does. I think one of the things that we were a little more
optimistic about and I talked a little bit about last Thursday was we got the April sales tax number,
although a large amount above what we thought we were going to get was attributed to previous
periods. It still was $8 or $9 million more than what we anticipated.
So April wasn't as devastating as what I or Leeds had been projecting for April. So I think there is
definitely some reason to be optimistic that, perhaps, the dip wasn't quite as severe in April as we
thought it would be.
The big unknown is how long is it going to take to come out of this. And right now, that estimate,
even with the recent information that we've seen in the stock market and with jobs, still points to
this is going to be a very prolonged period to get back to where we were just in 2019.
JEFF WALKER: Right. So I think staff has done an excellent job of providing that they can
navigate, create schedules, put wheels on the road, and pick up slack when- or pick up excess
passengers when distancing has been a problem. So I think, like Director Lewis, I think she was
getting towards this, if not fully. I might have missed some of her comments. But we don't know
what we're going to need to provide in the next year, five, six years. We know we can operate
without any type of fare collection for a while and with decimated sales and use tax.
So what's presented here, as excellent of a job as it is, it's based on what we know today, but we
know that tomorrow could bring something totally different. We know how to operate in those
uncharted waters. We've shown that over the last two, three months. So we will-- I don't know.
We'll hope for the best, but I think you guys are doing a good job of presenting this as let's plan
for the worst based on what we know today. And I'm sure when we talk about Reimagine in a few
minutes, we'll get more into that.
But that's all I have to say. Thanks for the great presentation, the clarity you bring to it, the
perspective, but this is all new to everybody. So I won't soldier on and see what you guys come up
with in the next months as the job reports become available. That's it. Thanks.

SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, thank you. Well said, Director Walker. Some good points brought forth
by others as well. And I really appreciate that glimmer, that tidbit of good news that you brought
in with a couple of good numbers. Tremendous report, sobering numbers, but great work by both
Janette and Heather. Thank you so much. That's all I have.
SHELLEY COOK: My cat in the background-- sorry. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. Thanks, Heather. Thanks, Janette. The numbers are what
they are. I think that it speaks to our ability to-- there's a new word these days-- to be nimble. And
I think that we may-- we do-- Heather, we do get sales and use tax from online, from like Amazon
deliveries and stuff right now? Yes?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, we do. And actually, in April, it became the number one generator
of sales and use tax for the first time on online sales, not necessarily just Amazon, but online sales.
So that was interesting to see how all the industries have shifted from where they were just two
months ago and where we're generating that revenue.
KATE WILLIAMS: So that's-HEATHER MCKILLOP: But I do have to say, I did assume large increases in our forecast for
online. So those are already built in.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. That was where I was going with that, because I think that our sales
and use tax will probably-- I think the number of people are still going to buy the same number of
goods. The delivery might just be different, but I don't think that we may ever see our ridership
return to where it has been. And I think that we will definitely see ridership in different areas, in
different numbers, though I think that we will need to continue to look at this kind of stuff. I
appreciate the work that you've done. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Going back to Director Guissinger before returning to
Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Don't have much. Just to say thank you for the report. I think I agree with
some of the earlier comments, and I think that hopefully with Reimagine and some of our other
workshops and planning, we can start to think of new ways to potentially provide some of the
services that we have in the past that was more efficient-- not more efficient, but maybe looking
to other sources and working with our partners more. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Boy, Heather and Janette-- amazing
work in putting together all of these numbers. And all I can think about is the one thing that we
can truly depend on is change. And with that, I've been wondering, during COVID and as we've

been going through this pandemic plan, is what is the future of transit, and how is that going to
change?
And I'm wondering if we are, in fact, at a crossroads, where we have to look at our mission and
what we do as a service to include first-last mile components and partnering with other
organizations and agencies to provide transit to our district?
And I think that the one thing about COVID that it has provided is the ability to think outside of
the box. And I think this is probably the time that that is happening. So for me, it is sobering. But
for me, it's also a time of hope and the time that we can really think about what could be for the
good of the entire region, as we've moved together, but not just as RTD, but as a collaborative with
the whole community to see how we do provide this amazing transit service for the region.
And I think it's something that I keep in the back of my head consistently is that not only is mass
transit changing, but our community is changing, and our environment is changing. And I think
we really need to take those three components into account.
And I am so grateful for everybody who's been working on this. But I think it is an issue we're
going to have to delve into. So thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. And I would echo your thoughts. Thank you. It's time for
big thinking, I believe is what we're realizing and expressing. And there were a couple of people
who had some questions put down of additional information and so forth. So I know staff got that.
We've got-- if it's OK, what I'd like to do is if you could get your suggestions regarding any
additional workshops or any comments about the workshops that are shown to Heather, let's say,
by the end of the week, Heather, would that work? Would that be a sufficient time frame for your
planning and [INAUDIBLE]?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that'd be great. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. I wonder if we can also skip the April 2020 monthly financial status report
listed as an update, but we really had a lot of information about it already. And certainly, we can
always contact the staff. The next thing is that information items, they're just included for our
monthly update. And of course, any questions, et cetera that you'd like to have, including anything
you'd like to see shared with us, we know we can do that.
And so what I'd like to do is, with that, go ahead and call for other matters. Is there any discussion
under other matters? OK, hearing none. Our next meeting date is July 14, 2020. And I'll go ahead
and adjourn the meeting and suggest that we take-- how long would you like, Kate, for a break
here? 10, seven, 10 minutes?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, five to seven.
SHELLEY COOK: Five to seven minutes, everybody.

KATE WILLIAMS: [INTERPOSING VOICES] .
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, let's just have-KATE WILLIAMS: Compromise. Let's have a six-minute break. How's that?
SHELLEY COOK: Six-minute break. OK. Everybody, six minutes. That would make it 8:47.
Thank you all for everything.

