Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, July 5, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 6:48 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present

Arrived
6:46 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Absent

6:50 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Chair
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

6:47 PM
6:46 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

6:48 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

6:49 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Absent
Present

6:47 PM

Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Absent
Present
Present

6:46 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:47 PM

6:51 PM
6:48 PM

Directors Deadwyler, Lasater and Sisk were absent. Director Anderson left after the
completion of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee Meeting.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Lee Cryer, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons,
Tony Forrester, David Genova, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson,
Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr., Barbara
McManus, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Bill
Sirois, Kevin Steele, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, John Tarbert,
Gary Turnquist, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch,
Susan Wood

Public Present:

Homer Anderson, Jenifer Brandeberry, Mike Dino, Aaron Epstein,
Nadia Garas, Matthew Helfant, Brian Middleton, Kent Moorman, Peter
Strange, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, noted that Roger Sherman
of CRL Associates, was unable to attend tonight’s meeting. She said his
report was included in the July 5, 2016 Government Relations Committee
Agenda Packet and asked if there were any questions.
There were no questions from the Board members.

• State Update - Brandeberry McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry, Brandeberry~McKenna (BBMK), commented that the
major event at the State Capitol this time of year is the budget. She said
there has been some forecasting done but the more relevant numbers will be
available in the fall. She stated preliminary forecasts for Fiscal Year 20162017 show the General Fund revenue is expected to be 2.6% short of the
amount needed to fully fund the budget and required reserve.
Jenifer Brandeberry indicated BBMK has also been following the Colorado
Primary Elections. She said BBMK would provide the Board with a summary
of the outcomes. She shared that BBMK will be meeting with the
candidates prior to the fall election. She pointed out that the Senate is
Republican controlled by one seat so she anticipates a lot of money will be
spend on those contested seats.
Jenifer Brandeberry indicated the Transportation Legislation Review
Committee (TLRC) has posed their schedule with the first two meetings

being State tours. She stated the first legislative meeting will be on August
1 with a presentation from CDOT and a discussion of House Bill 16-1031
related to changes to transportation commission districts.
Director Francone thanked Jenifer Brandeberry for her update. She shared
she recently spoke with Senator Baumgartner and he indicated he was still
interested in moving his bill forward (Senate Bill 16-210) related to fixing
Colorado’s roads. She said any assistance or guidance BBMK could provide
would be appreciated.
Director Bagley wondered if Jenifer Brandeberry had a sense of how
accurate the shortfall projections are for the next Fiscal Year. Jenifer
Brandeberry explained that traditionally those figures really do shift over the
summer and fall. She noted Colorado is fairly healthy fiscally because of the
constitutional restraints. She believes there will be a large debate about
infrastructure and funding. Director Bagley thinks there is a lot of
uneasiness and risk avoidance given the uncertainty between now and the
election. He stressed the importance of the Board being thoughtful and
understanding that the economic situation may get worse from what is
forecasted.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, noted both the House and Senate are back
in session. He indicated the Senate has passed their appropriations bill
related to transit which included $150 million for the Eagle P3 project. He
said the House has only managed to get their transportation bill out of
committee. He believes there will be continuing resolutions for
appropriations through the November elections.
Mike Dino reminded the Board that RTD submitted an application for a
Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery (TIGER) grant in
the amount of $12 million for State of Good Repair work along the Central
Corridor. He noted there were 585 TIGER applications submitted seeking
$9.3 billion in funding for the $500 million that is available, so the grant
process will be highly competitive.
Committee Chair Folska shared that when she was in Washington, D.C. for
the Accelerate Colorado trip she heard that Transportation and Infrastructure
Committee Chair Shuster was interested in coming to Denver for a tour and
visit. She asked if anyone had followed up on this. Mike Dino indicated he
would look into Congressman Shuster’s schedule and what he would be
interested in visiting.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 2, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 7:01 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

