Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 9, 2018
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• January 2019 Service Changes
C. Updates

• Service Availability Sept 2018
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - November 13, 2018
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: October 3, 2018

From:

Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer

GM

Date:

October 3, 2018

Board Meeting Date: October 9, 2018

Subject:

January 2019 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the January 2019 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A
resulting in an annualized cost savings of approximately $243,000 and, further, to authorize the General
Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose
service is impacted by these changes.
The Recommended Action proposed falls in line with the following GM Goals.
Core Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Task Goal #1 - Fiscal Sustainability
DISCUSSION
To meet the diverse travel needs of the citizens of the District and maintain a high-performance,
sustainable transit system, RTD has developed a networked family of services for which the different
classes of service have different expectations of performance. We will continue adjusting services in
response to changes in ridership and operational performance of the transit system as a whole. It is also
our responsibility to identify services that are underperforming and recommend modifications,
curtailment or cancellation of service as warranted or recommend new service as changes in the
community warrant and resources allow.
Changes to RTD transit service, have historically been measured by and related to ridership and financial
impacts. However, current labor market conditions continue to be a serious challenge to the recruitment
and retention of bus and rail operators. More to the point, the amount of service being provided by
operators working on their days off is at a level that impedes employee retention efforts and makes it
difficult to meet our commitments to our customers. To better match the RTD’s scheduled service
offerings to RTD’s available workforce, this proposal starts a process to adjust the level of service on
various routes throughout the District. The proposed service adjustments were conceived in accordance
to the Service Policies and Standards adopted by the RTD Board of Directors.
The proposals herein include a mix of service adjustments and reductions. Notable changes include a
proposal to merge Route 26 – West Yale with Route 35 - Hampden. A reduction to service frequency on
the SKIP is also proposed, along with reductions in service of Routes RX and Y. We will monitor
customer response to the implementation of these service changes and propose adjustments and service
alternatives as appropriate in future service change recommendations.
The guiding principles for proposed service changes continue to be:
 Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards;
 The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets;
 The availability of alternative services to affected riders;
 Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services and the ability to
enhance service when possible;

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1




Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin; also disparate effects on low income and minority populations; and
Response to changes in the communities where services are provided

SUMMARY OF PUBLIC MEETINGS
Six public meetings were conducted in Boulder, Englewood, Lafayette, Longmont and at the Blake
Administration Building between September 24th and October 3rd. Comments and further details from
these meetings and the service change website are summarized in Attachment D of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATION
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are communicated to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following proposals have been significantly modified:
Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US287/Route LD – Longmont/Denver:
proposed service restructure is rescinded.

SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES

Routes proposed for service improvements:
Route 26 – West Yale Avenue/Route 35 – Hampden Avenue: merge Routes 26 and 35 into new
crosstown Route 35.
Route 228 – Louisville/Broomfield: extend Route 228 east to Hecla and 96th

Routes proposed for mixed service improvements/ service efficiencies:
Route 0 – Broadway: reroute in downtown Denver
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue: reroute into Denver Union Station
Route 15 – East Colfax: move short turn recovery, trip reduction on weekends
Route 16 – West Colfax: extend weekend short-turn trips at Zephyr-Colfax to the Oak Station
Route 16L – West Colfax: extend short-turn trips at Zephyr-Colfax to the Oak Station
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: change westbound routing through downtown
Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US287/Route LD – Longmont/Denver:
proposal rescinded
Route FF/FF7 – Flatiron Flyer – Boulder/Denver: trip additions and reductions, schedule adjustments.

Routes proposed for service reductions:
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue: discontinue 6:52am westbound trip
Route 46 – South Dahlia: discontinue Cherry Creek loop west of Steele Street
Route SKIP – Broadway: reduce to 10 minute frequency from current 7-8 minute peak frequencies
Route RX – Brighton/ Denver Express: discontinue mid-day roundtrips (10:43am leave Adams County
Justice Center and 12:09pm leave Civic Center Station)
Route Y – Boulder/ Lyons: discontinue mid-day roundtrips (10:57am and 12:20pm leave Downtown
Boulder Station and 11:42am and 1:02pm leave Lyons Park-n-Ride)

Routes proposed for routine running time analysis/schedule adjustments:
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue: running time analysis
Route 15 – East Colfax: move short turn recovery location

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Route 21 – Iliff/Evans: running time analysis
Route 28 – 28th Avenue: running time analysis
Route 131 – East Iliff/Seven Hills
Adjust trip times and blocking
Route AT – Arapahoe County/Denver Airport: respace southbound afternoon employee peak trips to
depart Denver Airport at 2:45pm and 3:15pm,
BOLT – Longmont/Boulder: running time adjustments
Free Metro Ride: run time analysis and review of operator respite time.
F and H Lines – Light Rail: running time analyses to address on-time performance.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The overall financial impact contained in this proposal includes a base system cost increase of
approximately $243,000 annualized at current pre-CBA cost estimates.
EQUITY ANALYSIS
The Federal Transit Administration’s (FTA) Circular 4702.1B provides its recipients of FTA financial
assistance with instructions for achieving compliance with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and
Executive Order 12898 regarding Environmental Justice. In this circular, the FTA requires RTD to
evaluate, prior to implementation, any and all service changes that exceed the established major service
change threshold, to determine whether those changes will have a disproportionately negative impact on
minority or low-income populations. Our evaluation of the proposed January 2019 service changes does
not reveal any disparities in impacts absorbed by minority or low-income populations.

ATTACHMENTS:


Attch A January 2019 service change proposals



Attch B - LD Alternatives



Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (PDF)



Atch D -r225 (PDF)



Atch E - r228 (PDF)



Atch F - r0

(PDF)



Atch G -r10

(PDF)



Atch H -r16

(PDF)



Atch I -r16L

(PDF)



Atch J -r20

(PDF)



Atch K -r35

(PDF)

(PDF)

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1.a

Route 0 - Broadway
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Standardize late night weekend trip times starting/ending inside Denver Union Station with
weekday trip times. This schedule simplification will continue to honor Denver Union Station
overnight closure times, but benefit walk-up and casual riders by having schedules that are more
consistent between the different service days, and easier to remember. Change northbound
routing through Downtown from Welton to Lawrence Street, thereby operating for a longer
segment on 15th Street and a shorter segment on 18th Street. This change is needed in an effort
to address traffic congestion impacts on on-time performance (see proposed change to Route
20). Additionally, a run time analysis is proposed to address certain early trips that have been
reported. Saturday and Sunday Collective Bargaining Agreement compliance related schedule
adjustments. Anticipated resource impacts are estimated to be an increase of 880 service hours
annualized.
Route 10 – East 12th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Reroute into Denver Union Station instead of Elitch Gardens for operator recovery after 7:00pm
weekdays and all day on weekends. A possible operational savings, to be determined.
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Running time analysis, no resource impacts are anticipated.
Route 15 – East Colfax
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Move short turn recovery location from Oneida/Colfax to Leyden/Colfax, for operator restroom
access. Discontinue 1:21am westbound trip on Saturday and Sunday nights, which sees an
average of 9 and 11 boardings respectively. Alternative trips are available 15 minutes before and
after this trip. Possible running time adjustments. Anticipated resource impacts are estimated to
be a savings of 132 service hours annualized.
Route 16 – West Colfax
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Extend the Saturday and Sunday short-turn trips currently using Zephyr/14th terminal to the Oak
LRT Station. This is to address an operator respite problem with the Zephyr/Colfax short-turns.
Additionally, a running times analysis will be conducted. Anticipated resource impacts are
estimated to be an increase of 2,040 service hours annualized.
Route 16L – West Colfax
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
For existing trips currently terminating at 14th/Oak, extend them into Oak LRT Station. For
existing through-trips to Golden, deviate them into Oak LRT Station. This change would facilitate
a known gap in system connectivity. Running times analysis, directed at westbound trips
operating early. Anticipated resource impacts are estimated to be an increase of 2,040 service
hours annualized.

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: Attch A January 2019 service change proposals (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Atch A – January 2019 Service Change Proposals

1.B.1.a

Route 20 – 20th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Change westbound routing through downtown from 15th St. to 18th St. This change is
associated with the Route 0 - Broadway change, so that Route 20 will operate on the segment of
18th St. abandoned by Route 0. This change will also reduce trip times on Route 20 westbound
short-turn trips operating as far as DUS, which crosses the 16th St Mall twice to reach DUS. This
change also more closely matches-up the routing of the short-turn westbound pattern in
Downtown with the through westbound pattern. (On weekdays, there are more short-turn trips
operating into DUS than thru trips, and all trips on weekends are short trips into DUS). No
resource impacts are anticipated.
Route 21 Iliff/Evans
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Running time analysis, no resource impacts are anticipated.
Route 26 – West Yale Avenue
Route 35 – Hampden Avenue
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Merge Routes 26 and 35 into new crosstown Route 35. This change will provide through
connections to Nine Mile, Southmoor and Englewood Stations. No resource impacts are
anticipated.
Route 28 – 28th Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Running time analysis, no resource impacts are anticipated.
Route 32 – 32nd Avenue
Service Standard type - CBD Local – (10% - 15.2 pass. per hr. / 25% - 22.3 pass. per hr.)
Discontinue 6:52am westbound trip. This trip carries 16 passengers, which does not meet the
service standard for 15 minute service. Alternative service can be found on trips 15 minutes
before and 12 minutes after the current trip time. Anticipated resource impact is estimated to be
a savings of 383 service hours annualized.
Route 46 – South Dahlia
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Discontinue Cherry Creek loop west of Steele Street, due to very low ridership (45 boardings on
27 trips averaged per weekday). Allows operator recovery at Adams/Ellsworth senior home. No
resource impacts are anticipated.
Route 131 – East Iliff/Seven Hills
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Adjust trip times and blocking for operator recovery. No resource impacts are anticipated.

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: Attch A January 2019 service change proposals (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Atch A – January 2019 Service Change Proposals

1.B.1.a

Route 225/225D/225E – Boulder/Broomfield via Baseline & US287
Route LD – Longmont/Denver
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Regional - (10% 11.3 pass. per hr./ 25% - 21.9 pass per hr.)
The initial proposal restructuring the Route LD service has been rescinded. Funding remains
available to continue the service into August of 2019. Boulder County and DRCOG have agreed
to provide funding (CMAQ and local match) for the Route LD beyond the beyond the grant period.
Route 228 – Louisville/Broomfield
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Extend Route 228 east to Hecla and 96th Street, into the Boulder County Kestrel Housing
complex. This will provide service to roughly 200 low-income residents. This will also provide a
required end-of route restroom facility to adhere to the new CBA. No anticipated resource impact.
Route AT – Arapahoe County/Denver Airport
Service type – Regional – (10%-11.3 pass. per hour / 25%-21.9 pass. per hour)
Respace southbound afternoon employee peak trips to depart Denver Airport at 2:45pm and
3:15pm, instead of current 3:10pm and 3:25pm. Based upon ridership data from other bus and
rail routes, 2:30pm is the larger employee quit time. No resource impacts anticipated.
BOLT – Longmont/Boulder
Service type – Regional – (10%-11.3 pass. per hour / 25%-21.9 pass. per hour)
Running time adjustments, no resource impacts anticipated.
Route FF/FF7 – Flatiron Flyer – Boulder/Denver
Service type – Regional – (10%-11.3 pass. per hour / 25%-21.9 pass. per hour)
Adjust running times and add 2 FF4 and 1 FF2 eastbound AM peak period trips to address current
overloads. Discontinue 2 FF3 eastbound trips at 9:07am and 11:31pm 2 westbound trips at
10:00pm and 11:00pm, due to very low ridership (3 – 9 boardings) and duplicate service via FF1.
CBA related schedule changes. Anticipated resource impacts to be determined.
Free Metro Ride
Run time analysis and review of operator respite time.
Route RX – Brighton/ Denver Express
Service type – Regional – (10%-11.3 pass. per hour / 25%-21.9 pass. per hour)
Discontinue mid-day roundtrips (10:43am leave Adams County Justice Center and 12:09pm
leave Civic Center Station) due to very low ridership (less than 8 passengers per trip). Anticipated
resource impact estimated to be a cost savings of an estimated 638 service hours annualized.
Route SKIP – Broadway
Service Standard type - Urban Local – (10%-12.2 pass. per hr. / 25%-19.1 pass. per hr.)
Current ridership performance overall exceeds the threshold to maintain 10 minute service
frequency during select portions of the service day. However, the majority of the peak period can
be accommodated by a 10 minute frequency. Consequentially, it is proposed to reduce to the
Route SKIP peak service frequency to 10 minute frequency from the current 7-8 minute peak
frequency, while retaining the current mid-day 10 minute frequency. This change will allow for

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Attch A January 2019 service change proposals (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Atch A – January 2019 Service Change Proposals

1.B.1.a

Atch A – January 2019 Service Change Proposals

Route Y – Boulder/ Lyons
Service type – Regional – (10%-11.3 pass. per hour / 25%-21.9 pass. per hour)
Discontinue mid-day roundtrips (10:57am and 12:20pm leave Downtown Boulder Station and
11:42am and 1:02pm leave Lyons Park-n-Ride) due to very low ridership (range of 3 – 4
passengers per trip). Anticipated resource impact is estimated to be 637 annual in-service hours

Rail
F and H Lines – Light Rail
Running time analyses to address on-time performance. Resource impacts are to be determined.

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Attch A January 2019 service change proposals (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

better on-time performance and a balancing of passenger loads, as well as address current CBA
layover/restroom challenges for the route. This proposal also supports additional short-turn
trippers between Fairview High School and 14th/Walnut, northbound between 3:00pm and
3:30pm to maintain current 7-8 minute frequency and address otherwise potential overloads
caused by BVSD and CU student ridership. No anticipated cost impact due to resource off-set.

Atch B - LD Alternatives

1.B.1.b

Hwy 66

1 -- Peak All Stops

LD Alternatives

Hover

2 -- Mid-Day All Stops
3 -- Peak All Stops

US287 / 21st Ave PnR

1
2

* 1 & 3 are offset @ 30 minute
combined headway

8th / Coffman PnR

3rd

3
Main

Hwy 119

Nelson

Ken P

tt
ra

Baseline

1
Hwy 52

Di
ag
on
al

3
I 25

2

Lookout

US 287

75th

Lafayette PnR

1

S Boulder Rd

Jay

2

1

Valmont
US
287

3

3

95th

Empire

Arapahoe

1

Hwy 7

Baseline

112th

96th St

Empire

Dillon Rd

S Boulder Rd

2
6
hall

Exempla
Medical
Center

wy
st Pk

1
Dillon Rd

2
US 287

Mars

hwe
Nort

Mccaslin

US
3

2

1

3

1
3

2

36
US

US36 / Flatiron Station

Wadsworth

US
36

12
0th

US36 / Broomfield Station

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Attch B - LD Alternatives (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

US 287

Longmont PnR

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes

Monday, September 24th, 2018
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
NOON
Staff in attendance included Jessie Carter, Diane Marquis, Cesar Ochoa, Jeff Becker, Nataly Handlos,
Maureen Sullivan, Doug Monroe, Tegan Rice, and Dave Menter who conducted. There were 16 members
from the public in attendance, and no elected officials.
Rosemary Brown expressed the difficulty she is having boarding at Colfax and Norfolk. She has a walker
and there is only dirt and gravel. The bus drivers have difficulty deploying the lift and during inclement
weather it is very difficult for anyone with a walker or using a wheelchair. She said the drivers often go to
a Store Quest Storage driveway, but this is hit and miss. She asks RTD to correct this situation.
She also had a follow-up question regarding how passengers were counted. (It was explained to her.)
DJ had questions regarding the proposed bond issue for East Colfax. Who was behind it and how was RTD
involved? Lives by the Merchandise Mart, and uses the 12 to get around. He is in agreement with the
stop consolidation, but says RTD has missed a few stops on the list. The southbound at 31st/Downing is
an eighth of a mile from the LRT station and northbound stop at MLK/31st is also an eighth of a mile away
from another stop. Both stops need to be removed.
Kristin Bulin was frustrated with a number of things regarding RTD. She was dismayed that it took RTD 6
years to correct an issue with the Mall Shuttle Doors closing too fast and catching people’s arms and legs.
She spoke of how RTD was the 3rd worst paying transit agency in the U.S. and how RTD chops up the
Operator schedules so they don’t have any family time. They said we don’t treat our drivers right and that
we cut service and bus stops to make people walk farther because we don’t have Bus Operators. But that
it is a cheap and easy fix to treat the drivers better, but we’d rather hurt the passengers rather than treat
the drivers fairly. She said the Customer Service staff lie to customers saying the bus will be there in a few
minutes and then 30 minutes later they will admit that the trip was cut and the next one will be there in
a few. Then because of this passengers have lost their jobs, lost doctor’s appointments which they then
have to pay for and reschedule, and that others have missed court dates and then been fined by the Judge,
all because the work was dropped because we don’t have the drivers. And she claimed this is because
RTD does not want to treat its drivers fairly. She said then RTD proposes cutting service, well the reason
the ridership is bad is because the passengers have given up because they can’t rely on the bus showing
up. But the public has paid for that service through their taxes which RTD is squandering. It seemed to
her that RTD was not following its core duty.
She wanted confirmation or denial that the Board Bylaws say that it must increase fares every two to
three years. (It was explained that the Board reviews the fares every three years, but does not necessarily
change them. The law regarding recovery ratio was also explained.)
She also strongly asserted that the Bus Operators were not properly trained and that they should wait at
stations for transferring passengers from the trains.

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

1.B.1.c

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Carol Streamer Wanted to know what the Route 11 changes were. (Staff explained the meaning of
Running Time adjustments.) She wanted to complain about a recent rain storm where the RTD Shelter at
the regional stop at US 36 & Broomfield Station did not shelter at all – everyone got wet. She said it looks
like a shelter, but it doesn’t shelter at all. She also wanted to know if fares have been set and also to know
if the Route 10 is proposed to still go to the Aquarium.
Scott Ramming Wanted to know why the Route 26 is being combined with the Route 35 now instead of
this past August when the Route 27 was split into the Routes 26 & 27. He also asked about weekend
service for the Route 35 since the Route 26 has weekend service. He also asked about limited service on
the route as well. (Jessie Carter addressed all those questions.) He also asked about the proposed service
changes for the LD family of Routes. He had a number of questions regarding interlining certain LD’s to
other LD’s. (Nataly Handlos answered his questions to his satisfaction.)
Steven Meyer wanted to know if there were any changes planned for the area around 17th and Larimer.
Are there any changes to the shoppers special, his community heavily relies on them? Asked if the old
mall shuttles are being replaced with the red buses, and if he could buy and one.

Wednesday, September 25th, 2018
RTD Administrative Offices
Rooms T&D
6:00 p.m.
Staff in attendance was Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning Scheduling. A brief introduction of the
process was given before the following input was provided by the public: There were 7 members from
the public in attendance, and no elected officials.
Chris Humphries wanted to know how the weekend service would work on the new merged Route 26/35.
It was explained that the service would be provided as it is today, with the section that was formerly
known as the 26 operating on weekends. Chris also stated that there were no attendants available on
weekends at DUS and the new fares proposed are too high.
Carl Crosswhite estimates that his commute would be increased by 30 minutes with the changes proposed
for Route LD. He wants a simple way to get to Denver Union Station from the area served by the Route
LD.
Francie Crosswhite. The FF1 stops everywhere and people prefer the LD because it is more direct. The
time she has seen the LD it has been standing room only.
Robert McSherry thinks change in the R Line to one-car trains was a good idea. It looks more full now.
David Smith would like to see the midday trips on the Route Y maintained, though he uses the peak period
trips primarily. He sometimes uses the midday trips to go hiking.
Chandler Kitsen asked if there is any news on the G Line implementation date.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

1.B.1.c

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Karlyn Huffman request more service on Route 27 and 46 for the three senior citizen towers located at
Yale Station. She reiterated that the rail service is not accessible due to the grade of the ramp and the
lack of an elevator at the station. She also wants to see a traffic signal added at the intersection connecting
the station to Yale Avenue. She also believed that the people who work at the Cherry Creek Whole Foods
will be angry about the proposed Route 46 changes.

Wednesday, September 26th, 2018
Englewood Public Library
6:00 p.m.
The meeting was attended by four people. Questions included the new fares including the availability of
cash payment; service to events at outlying recreational and shopping sites; and earlier morning service
in Littleton. The only comment received regarding the January 2019 service changes was a request for
weekend service on Route 35 along Hampden Avenue.

Wednesday, September 27th, 2018
Longmont Public Library
6:00 pm
Staff in attendance included Nataly Handlos, Diane Marquis, and Tegan Rice. There were 59 members
from the public in attendance, along with Judy Lubow with the RTD Board.
Director Lubow expressed how thankful she was about the decision to pull the proposed service changes
to the LD, and saved the route until at least August 2019.
Abe Meza a student at DU is a frequent rider of the LD. He had several concerns about the proposed
service changes to the LD including: Inadequate shelters at the Broomfield and Flatiron Station, added
time to with the new routing, and concerned that transfers would be more timely for ADA passengers.
He also feels that this change will result in more riders leaving the LD and using cars. Abe also wanted to
know if the current driver shortage was affecting the decision to change the LD routing, and it would have
been very helpful if RTD could have provided a way to see the changes with a map along with the
description.
David ToBack is a Federal contractor who uses the LD to make a connection to get to his employment at
Colorado Tech Center. The new routing would have provided a direct, one set ride to his employment
area.
Polly Christensen from the Longmont City Counsel feels that RTD should keep coming up with
comprehensive mass transit plans. Everyone should work together from Wyoming to Colorado Springs.
We cannot just rely on ridership numbers; we need rail from North to South and East to West to help get
people off the roads.
Brian Buron said it would be very helpful to have information with maps available to have a better
understanding of the proposed changes for routing. Brian spent 40 minutes on the phone with Customer
Service trying to understand the proposed service changes, and how it would affect the 225 routing to

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

1.B.1.c

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Lafayette PnR. He feels that everyone should keep an open mind. He felt that the routing to Flatirons
Station might be a good idea.
Mary Brill asked if the changes had been tabled.
Constance Platt had voiced her concerns about how the meeting was held.
John Keller has recently discovered RTD service to the Airport and is enjoying that. He feels that RTD
security is lacking and needs improvement as assaults are up in the district 66%.
Joe Davison said it takes him an hour and a half to get from Broomfield to Arapahoe Station and if we
make the change on the LD this will increase his travel time even more. He has personally seen 25 to 30
passengers on the buses he uses.
Jake Marsing uses the LD everyday he is a CU student and is thankful the proposal has been pulled.
Margaret Norris if ridership is low then RTD should think outside the box and buy smaller buses. This
would be a long-term solution. This would also help to improve pollution as well.
Colleen Elrod does not think that having the routing backtrack to Flatirons would be quicker. Questions
who was paying the cost to continue running the LD routing as is.
Joan Peak wanted to know more about the grant funding. The route needs more ridership to help keep
it. Feels that half the time the Eco Pass reader is not working. RTD needs to work to keep their bus
because Longmont is growing. She is not accepting that this route will be cut in the future.
Danielle Holmes takes the bus to school at Metro State and it takes her 1 hour and 45 minutes to get to
there.
Susan Foss has been in Denver for 10 years and feels that service has been declining for the last year. She
is concerned about the security at Broomfield and Flatirons station if passengers had to transfer. Wanted
to know more about the fare increases and FastTracks.
Miranda Ramirez changing the LD would make her life harder getting to school in Arvada.
Hermine Ngnomire feels that RTD should do a better job marketing the service changes through digital
campaign to reach more people.
Phil Greenwald wanted to let everyone know that Longmont is hosting a how to ride RTD at the Longmont
Museum on October 17th, from 5p – 9p.
Ed Capizzi wanted to know how people get counted on the bus.
Kristin Bell takes the LD from Longmont to Denver and uses B-cycle to complete her trip. She is concerned
about losing the later trips to get back to Longmont if she has to work late. She thinks we should post
service changes at station with maps. Also feels we have too many stops on 17th. It could improve
ridership to have less stops.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

1.B.1.c

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Wednesday, September 28th, 2018
Boulder Public Library
Arapahoe Room
6:00 p.m.
Staff in attendance included Nataly Handlos, Diane Marquis, and Tegan Rice. There were 17 members
from the public in attendance, along with Director Sisk with the RTD Board, Natalie Stiffler with the City
of Boulder, Elaine Erb with BTC, and Alex Hyde-Wright with Boulder County.
Lois Kraft was confused about the 225 service change.
David Bartlett has a grandchild that attends Manhattan and rides the 225 in the evenings regarding after
school activities and was curious about how the 225 is going to affect the child’s ability to get home.
Maurine Flory is frustrated with the counting of ridership. She can’t get a bus to get to her house from
work in less than an hour on the 209. She lives near Mohawk and with a bike can miss a couple of SKIP’s
because there is no room for her bike.
Laura Kistner is confused about the LD proposal, but if it stays as-is she is ok. She needs the late night LD
trips to get home when she gets off of work at 10:00 p.m., and would like Sunday service near
287/Midway.
David Wheeler has questions about the neighborhood EcoPass.
Derek Sampson wants Sunday service to 287/Midway area. He feels like Broomfield is isolated without
service on the weekends. He would like the 225 to operate on Saturday and Sunday between Lafayette
and Broomfield and the LD to operate on Sunday.
Alicia Karspeck has the same concerns about the 225 changes, but is happy that her kids can still at least
walk up to Baseline and still be able to catch the 225.
Jennifer Nicoll has questions about the new EcoPass program.
Tom Wilke has a question about the added trips for demand on the SKIP if they were for the whole trip
northbound and southbound. Was curious about the Y not stopping at local stops along Broadway. He
occasionally rides the 225 to East Boulder Recreation Center and wanted to know why it was being
removed?
Elaine Erb the LD/225 proposal is concerning for the connectivity of the people living in Niwot. She
wanted to know if the 225 could still operate the loop to the East Boulder Recreation Center. She says
that she wants to ride the LD, but won’t because the headway is inconsistent and says that the service is
not reliable.
Ryan Hardy wants to know what the amount is considered for low ridership to the East Boulder Recreation
Center.
Eric Miller is concerned about the loop to East Boulder Recreation Center being removed from the 225.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

1.B.1.c

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Meeting closed at 6:46 p.m.
Wednesday, October 3rd, 2018
Lafayette Public Library
Comments unavailable, prior to submission of this report.
Arapahoe Room
6:00 p.m.
.

Packet Pg. 16

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Electronically Received Comments
Route

Support

Opposed

1

0

10

Inquiry

1

First
Name
Michael

Last Name

Email

Additional Comments

Tiderman

Michael.Tiderman@Alaskaair.com

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

I am a frequent 0 rider (almost every day I work) and I noted
in the proposed January schedule change flyer that it is being
proposed that the 0 change from a turn at Welton to 18th to
Lawrence to 18th into Union Station, similar to the 15.
I understand the point of this proposed change, but would
encourage for someone to test the timing during the week (if
timing improvement is the desired effect), due to all the
construction down 15th at the moment. Many weekdays,
due to construction, at least one lane is blocked and
sometimes traffic gets backed up quite a bit with lane
closures. I'm not sure how long the construction lane issues
are expected to last, but if someone were able to find out, or
check the timing by having someone time the 0 currently
against perhaps the 15, from Broadway and Colfax stop down
to Union, it may give everyone a better idea of how the lane
closures and construction are affecting routes that continue
to Lawrence before turning.
This proposed change was rather confusing to me. I asked at
the downtown noon public meeting whether the proposed
change also included evening and weekend Route 10 trips
that terminate at Colfax & Federal. Then I left a voicemail for
one RTD staff member and got a voicemail reply from
another RTD staff member.
I'll ask for what I need: I've started attending a church at
32nd Ave & Wyandot Street in the Denver Highlands. In
addition to Sunday morning services, we have a lot of
meetings on Thursday evenings. At these times, the obvious
choices of Routes 32, 44 and 28 are on hourly service. In
addition, they're often within 5 or 10 minutes of each other,
meaning there could be up to 40 minutes each hour without
a bus. The current Route 10 pattern that serves the Aquarium
and Colfax & Federal transfer center gives me another option
if our meeting goes past the other bus times.
I'll also attempt to consider what other riders might need: I
suspect more people will be able to make transfers at Union
Station than at Elitch Gardens. I absolutely support providing
restroom breaks for bus drivers. I'd think there would be
better transfer opportunities at the Decatur/Federal W Line
station than the Colfax & Federal transfer center, but RTD
staff tell me there aren't enough bus berths at Decatur. I'd
like to ask RTD staff if some of the trips to Colfax & Federal
couldn't be retained on evenings and weekends - perhaps to
provide hourly service. Thank you!

Packet Pg. 17

1.B.1.c

20

1

Daniel

Gonzales

Daniel.Gonzales@jacobs.com

46

1

Nancee

Weese

nanceew1@msn.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Service on 20 westbound which continues on to Lakewood is
already quite unreliable. I’m all in favor of moving from 15th
to 18th street but this change is being sold as improving
service into union station, the proposed change makes no
mention of the equally important 20 westbound service that
continues out to Lakewood. Please ensure the proposed
change does not affect reliability for service continuing to
Lakewood, that bus already unreliable.
Once again you are proposing changes to route 46 which are
detrimental to all riders of the 46 ! It is bad enough that you
have reduced the Sunday service to hourly service AND start
AND end the service 30 minutes than before but now you
want to further cut the service to the whole Cherry Creek
shopping area ! You have also cut out the first 2 buses and
last 2 buses at the end of day further inconveniencing
passengers. There are many passengers who take the bus to
Cherry Creek and then connect to a limited bus downtown.
Now if there is inclement weather they can wait in the
shelter at Fillmore Place. They also connect to the 46 either
at Josephine or at Fillmore and would not be able to do this.
Worse than that is that there will be no bus service to the
businesses including Whole Food and other business on Third
Avenue along with the library. I ride this bus on the weekend
and sometimes to Whole Foods during the week and I am not
the only one that takes the 46 to this store. Many of these
stores including Whole Foods would require walking 4 plus
blocks and many times have heavy bags to carry. Walking the
additional blocks will be difficult during the winter with snow
on the ground. There are also employees that I have met on
the bus who work at the mall, Cherry Creek North, and
Whole Foods will be negatively impacted if this change is
made. I will be contacting the Cherry Creek Chamber of
Commerce and manager at Whole Foods to tell them about
your proposal. You will make it difficult for customers and
employees to reach the shops and/or place of employment.
Since many times the fare box on the buses on the 46 aren't
working you don't have an accurate idea of what the
ridership west of Steele is. In closing many of the passengers
(including me) feel that you would like to eliminate the route
46 completely. I work full time in Glendale and cannot
make it to the meetings downtown by 6:00pm or I would be
there tomorrow, Sept 24. I am sending this email on behalf
of all the riders that I have met and know from years of riding
on this bus. We would like at least one of the buses that
were cancelled in August, buses to start 30 minutes in the
morning and 30 minutes later in the evening on Sunday.

Packet Pg. 18

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
We will appreciate you still having the 46 continue on First
Avenue to drive the existing loop.

67

1

Margaret

Gramling

margaretgramling@gmail.com

I’m 62 and have a heart condition. I travel from Littleton to
Stapleton and back every weekday. Please do not eliminate
the stop on the east side of Prince at Caley avenue, stop
number 16079. ***I use it every weekday.***
You’ve already removed the route 89 which added a half-mile
walk to my commute. Please don’t make me walk another
half mile at the other end of my trip!
Thanks for listening!

Packet Pg. 19

1.B.1.c

76

1

Krissy

Alberti

120

1

Lorillie

McCann

John

DeSisto

134

1

krissyalberti@gmail.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Why are you limiting the increase of 15 minute frequency
service of the 76 route to only south of Olde Town? Do you
not think people living north of Olde Town will ride the G
line?
Seriously, I do not understand you're thinking of increasing
service between Lakewood Commons and Olde Town to 15
minutes and leave everyone else out to wait. Few if any from
Lakewood Commons is going to ride the G line, why wouldn't
they just ride the W line?
Service of the 76 needs to increase to every 15 minutes north
of Olde Town too when the G line starts. How far north I'm
not sure, but I would say at least to 80th Av. That's
approximately where I believe the boundary of those using
the G line vs the FF1 exists.

I want to complain about the schedule change with the #120.
Ever since the new schedule change, this route causes me to
miss my connections with the #12 and the #120X. Next time
you have a schedule change, have the connections be better
so we don't have to wait thirty minutes to catch our
connecting buses.

jadesisto@me.com

I am writing to comment on the service offered along Smoky
Hill Road in Aurora. My comment is to request that service
on the 135 Route be extended beyond Southlands mall to the
intersection of Smoky Hill and Arapahoe Roads. This would
enable riders in the neighborhoods southeast of Southlands
mall to have better access to the RTD system. It is currently a
long walk from these areas to the nearest Route 135 stop.

Packet Pg. 20

1.B.1.c

1

225

Robert

Barkley

Robert_Barkley@comcast.net

The verbiage used to describe the proposed service changes
to route 225 is not understandable. Starting a section on 225
changes with references to LD service is confusing. Will
service between Lafayette and Boulder continue along
Baseline? How are CU faculty, staff and students to access
the Boulder Campus? How are seniors to access the East
Boulder Recreation Center and senior resources? Such
drastic changes require a thorough and clear description and
justification.

I live in Lafayette and extremely upset that you are reducing
our ability to get into Boulder via the 225. We have been
using it every week and our only other option is the Jump
which we'd have to pick up more than a mile from our house.
It seems especially unfair since up here in the north we've
been paying that extra light rail tax for years and instead of
getting more service via that unfulfilled promise of a rail line,
you are actually reducing our service! Seems like all we are
doing is subsidizing more service for Denver. Not fair.
Your proposed route changes to Lafayette and Longmont are
ludicrous! These busses are always full and are absolutely
necessary for Longmont commuters!! Many people from
Longmont and Lafayette will lose their Denver jobs!! I have
always touted the RTD EcoPass as the greatest thing since
sliced bread, but if you continue with this outrageous change
I will do everything in my power to badmouth RTD to all who
will listen! Please don’t do this!!!
I would like to express my concern regarding the proposed
changes to the 225 bus route to and from Boulder to
Louisville. My daughters go to school at CU and use the 225
route to come home as it drops them off on Baseline and
Elgin; they just walk down the bike path bordering Callahan
open space to our home on Monarch Court. It is so easy for
all of us; I don’t need to drive to and from Boulder, and we
reduce the number of trips in the car. Please do not remove
the 225 route from Boulder<>Louisville/Lafayette. It is a
great asset to our community.
I am emailing regarding the proposed service change to the
225 route that would exclude stops on Baseline road
between Lafayette Park n Ride and Boulder. I am a CU
student that lives in Louisville. I use that bus frequently to
visit home and during the summer months I use the 225
every day to get to work on the CU campus. My stop is
Baseline and Elgin Drive and I can simply walk through the
open space bordering Baseline to get to my house. Please

225

1

Richard

Behler

rabehler@gmail.com

225

1

Kim

Bubon

outlook_829D0863554763D1@outlook.com>

Carol

Buri

clburi@msn.com

Lara

Buri

Lara.Buri@colorado.edu

1

225

225

1

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 21

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
consider keeping the current 225 route as it impacts those
living on the Baseline corridor. Thank you.

225

1

Liliana

Cerullo

sollasi@hotmail.com

225

1

Annie

Chaloupka

hawk2hof@gmail.com

I heard of the proposed changes to the 225 route to no
longer travel to Lafayette on Baseline. I live in Lafayette and
my husband takes the bus often from work in Boulder to
Lafayette, this would certainly result in him having only the
opportunity to take the Jump on Arapahoe, and because he
rides his bike, if the bike holders are occupied he won't be
able to take public transit.
The plans of also not having the LD1 travel from Lafayette to
Denver would directly impact me as I commute to work at
Denver sometimes.
Pretty much it seems you are planning on isolating Lafayette,
an area of much growth, such that we all have to drive or
wait hours to switch buses. Imagine what that would do for
the students that commute from Lafayette to Boulder and for
anyone doing bike/bus ride.
I completely oppose and why aren't you holding a hearing in
Lafayette? If you are cutting services to our area, the least
you can do is listen to the taxpayers impacted.
I have rode RTD for decades.......from BOulder to Denver for
work/baseball games.....and when my MOM died and I
moved to Longmont...I used it everyday work at CU
Fitzsimmons and downtown CU campus AND for ROckies
games. They commuter buses to Denver were ALWAYS
packed....usually people sitting in the aisles as all seats were
filled (and can I say that men NOT getting UP off thei seats for
a pregnant woman was disgusting behavior)......... As for
Rockies ride....we used to have the highest ridership in the
RTD system. 4 full buses for EVERY game. I met people in line
from Ft COllins, Loveland, wyoming, etc.....who drive to
longmont for the bus service. We filled 4 buses for EVERY
game....then for NO reason...RTD just took it away...saying
NO ONE was riding the Rox Ride....A LIE!!! SUpervisors made
it clear that they did NOT want to work the ROX
RIde....well...it's you JOB........I'm sure they lied to supervisors
so they could stay home and drink beer.
We then had a wed night rox ride via the Longmont Sr Center
but NO advertisement from RTD....no one knew about the
service. we were again set up to fail I not take the RTD LD
bus to baseball games and usually the bus is pretty full by the
time we hit US 36......people obviously depend on this

Packet Pg. 22

1.B.1.c

225

1

Susan

Chavel

outlook_2EE8D73AD4D1D7A3@outlook.com

225

1

Beverly

Garmany

garmanyb@comcast.net

225

1

Daniel

Glick

daniel@danielglick.net

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
service. There is NO alternative that doesn't take HOURS (via
BOUlder.....and several times I had to take the DenverBOulder then BOlt bus to get home). MOre than once we got
in LATE to BOUlder as the FF bus was packed, slowed down
and we missed the LAST BOLT .....once I even RAN to catch
the last BOLT out of BOUlder and they refused to let us on at
the stop sign....we were forced to sleep on the street that
night.
RTD is out to spread false lies about people in Longmont
using their bus service. People DO need it and use it. And IF
they advertised service at their 8th and Coffman
stop....people would use and trust them ore....they have lied
to customers and the RTD Board about usage......they want
our tax dollars but for NOTHING in return. Many have just
faith in RTD and that is NOT our fault...RTD has lied to us and
about our usage of RTD......it is robbery....RTD should be
ashamed for a job NOT well done......we pack meetings with
them in Longmont and they blow us off as unimportant....if
you can't do your job....fire the Board and get people who
want to provide service to all colorado citizens who pay taxes
to RTD.......
My family opposes deleting bus service from Longmont to
Denver. We need less cars on the major highways and within
the two cities. Traffic and pollution is bad enough already.
Our taxes should be used more wisely so that bus service can
continue.
I am writing to let you know that I am opposed to the service
changes proposed to route 225E. This route provides
transportation for the elderly, disabled, students, and
working people. I realize that it might not be heavily used
during the middle part of the day, but do believe during peak
times it is utilized. I ask that you reconsider your proposal.
This bus route provides a valuable service to our community.
I am a resident of Nyland Co-housing community, located off
Baseline Road between 75th and 95th, on the 225 route from
Boulder to Lafayette. This route is not only a lifeline for many
people here (my two children rode it to both University Hill
Elementary School and, later, to Boulder High), but it is one
of the only hopes that Baseline Road will remain navigable
for many people during rush hours. Already, traffic can back
up (in both directions) for more than a mile, and the only way
out is to encourage people to take public transit. Eliminating
this route would be a substantial step backwards for many,
many people. Please do not eliminate this route.

Packet Pg. 23

1.B.1.c

225

1

Jon

Jenkins

jondjenkins@gmail.com

225

1

Lois

Kraft

kraft_lois@yahoo.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Are you kidding me that you plan to remove direct-route
service from the exploding population-growth area of
Lafayette (and Erie, Longmont, you name it) to Denver???
This is a major, major growth area and Denver is already
sorely behind other areas of the U.S. in planning proper
public transportation (read: trains) to get from 20-30 minuteout residential areas to the job epicenter. The RTD North
train-line expansion plans are a complete joke. Busses are the
only way that we have to get to Denver and now you are
compromising that.
When I lived 30 minutes from Chicago I had FOUR directroute options to get to Chicago's Union Station within 4
blocks of my home. Two bus, one subway (El), and one real
train (Metra). Denver is making a conscious decision to
actually regress in its sophistication of travel.
Highway 287 serves everything from Fort Collins, Loveland,
Longmont, Erie, Broomfield, and Lafayette traffic. All of which
had a direct-route to Denver. Now you are asking people to
de-queue, wait (likely 15-20 minutes added PER DIRECTION)
on the commute, endure weather and outdoor exposure,
only to overload the already overloaded busses on the FF
routes traveling to Denver. This problem will get far worse
before it gets better. You must be mismanaging budget if this
is the only alternative.
This is an absolute disgrace to riders everywhere that you
would not work to IMPROVE the direct connections from
suburbs with major population growth to Denver's citycenters. Shame on you for poor planning, poor next
generation thinking (read: trains and better bus lines), and
making decisions that will hurt ridership and access to Denver
for the citizens that you "serve".
Your website already reads "these service changes TOOK
effect January 13, 2019" even though that is IN THE FUTURE.
This shows that you must not be open to additional decisionmaking and input in the course of making your bad decisions.
So much for the public meetings that you are clearly offering
to only let people blow steam.
I'm disgusted and less proud to call Denver-metro my home
today. Please add my voice to whatever modicum of dueprocess review you have before you ruin this service.
Please be aware that the cessation of route 225 service east
of Mohawk DR will
leave thousands of residents without access to the Kaiser
Rock Creek medical center
and HOSPITAL.

Packet Pg. 24

1.B.1.c

225

1

1

225

Marla
Joy

Leonard

marlajoyl@aol.com

Corey

Linsenmeyer

modock13@gmail.com

225

1

Aaron

Malone

aamalone@gmail.com

225

1

Mary

McKibben

mmckibben@bouldercounty.org

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
The changes you have decided to make to the L1, L2, and 225
lines will effectively cut off all direct access for Longmont and
Lafayette residents to use RTD to get to and from Denver.
Flatiron park and ride has no parking garage, no inclement
weather protection, and the FF busses are already often
standing room only to/from Boulder.
The 225 going out of its way to Flatirons does not make any
sense to those of us who ride it. It just makes the trip that
much longer.
Why are you not just decreasing the frequency of our routes,
instead of cutting us off altogether? Longmont and Lafayette
matter just as much as Boulder or any other community.
Please leave us one direct route to Denver!
Can you give me some more detail on the changes to the 225.
I just want to confirm that it will still be running all the way
from the Boulder Station to the Lafayette Park-n-Ride. The
description of the changes seems like it will only run from the
Boulder Station to Mohawk and Talbot.
I recently discovered that major changes are being
considered for the 225 bus route. As a regular rider of this
bus, I find the proposed changes to be unacceptable. They
would majorly impact the large number of people who use
the 225 to commute from Lafayette to Boulder, including
myself. For me, re-working my travel to use other buses like
the Jump or Dash would more than double my total travel
time. Please do not cancel the section of the route that
connects these two towns.
I would like to understand more about this decision, and
would appreciate if someone could reply to this email to
provide ridership data for the 225 route, particularly the
westbound direction during morning rush hours and the
eastbound direction during evening rush hours, or to let me
know where that data might be available online. Additionally,
if there are documents spelling out the official rationale for
this choice, please send me a copy. As a regular rider of this
bus during rush hour, my experience has been that it is
always relatively full for the section between Lafayette and
Boulder. I could understand the proposed changes for nonpeak hours, but I find it hard to accept that there is
insufficient ridership to at least maintain the full service
during rush hour.
I am not happy to hear about the change to 225 come
January 2019. I have been riding the bus since 2001 and I live
over at 665 Manhattan Drive. I do not have a car and rely on
the bus to get to work and around the town, I use the bus 7
days during the week. The bus in the morning is used by
students, working people and seniors. There is no other bus I

Packet Pg. 25

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
can catch to get to work in the morning to the downtown
station. Please let me know what other steps I need to take
to voice my concerns.

1

225

225

1

Pat

Meyers

patricia.novak.meyers@gmail.com

Domenic

Murtari

domenic.murtari@gmail.com

I just learned that RTD has proposed a change in service for
the 225 route. The elimination of the bus running between
Mohawk and the Lafayette PNR would leave the only option
for going east-west between Boulder and the eastern cities to
be the Dash or the Jump. The distance between South
Boulder Road and Arapahoe is quite large. That distance is
only serviced by the 209, which goes towards downtown
Boulder, and does not come close to Arapahoe nor South
Boulder Road, or the 206, which does not run on the weekends and is limited in the runs as far as South Boulder Road.
This change therefore isolates the area east of Mohawk from
any means of getting to Lafayette directly.
My husband and I have taken this bus to go to our daughter's
place in Lafayette. While the ridership is smaller than other
routes, it has always seemed to us to have a fair number of
passengers. We have also used it on occasions to return to
our house when the 206 is not running and we are taking an
AB bus from the airport or an FF bus to Denver. If the bus
stops at Mohawk, passengers currently using the 225 to go
further east would now have to walk from Mohawk across
the Foothills parkway, not the safest passage. As the
population in eastern Boulder county continues to grow, it
seems ill-advised to curtail service in this eastern section of
the service area. The increase in frequency would be
welcome for the 225, but I realize it could not be
accomplished without the decrease in area covered. I am
hopeful that some alternative can be found that still allows
for travel to Lafayette via Baseline. I have found the bus to
be a practical, reliable, and generally pleasant means of
travel in the area. To lose that option would be disappointing
to say the least.
I unfortunately can’t attend any of the service planning
meetings, but I wanted to add my input around the proposed
service changes to the LD routes. I commute daily from the
Miramonte Blv. & 287 stop, and rely on the LD route to
reliably get to work on time. I realize the 225 would still be
available as an option to Broomfield station, but if that
frequency is being reduced to hourly, I find it hard to believe
that my commute would be anything but much longer than it
currently is. I realize the operator shortage is an issue, but
perhaps maintaining the current routing with reduced service

Packet Pg. 26

1.B.1.c

225

1

Leah

Prusiner

leahawsf@gmail.com

225

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
would be an option?
Thank you for your work, I can imagine how difficult it must
be planning these services, but I hope you consider my
comments.
It is proposed to discontinue service on routes LD1 and LD2
south of US 36 due to low ridership and duplicate service on
FF routes. Service would also be rerouted south of Lafayette
Park-n-Ride via US 287, west Dillon Road, SH42 (96th Street),
Interlocken Parkway, Vara and into US 36 & Flatiron Station.
Service frequency would be increased to 60 minutes all day
between 5:30 a.m. and 10:30 p.m., combined with LD1 and
LD3 rush-hour frequency, 30-minute frequency would be
created between both routes between 8th & Coffman Park-nRide and US 287 and Dillon Road. Route 225 would be
renamed between Lafayette Park-n-Ride and US 36 &
Broomfield Station to Route LD3 and reduce service
frequency between US 36 & Broomfield Station and Lafayette
Park-n-Ride to 60 minutes, maintaining the current service
span. Route 225 would be retained between Downtown
Boulder Station and Mohawk and Talbot. Additionally, Route
225 service would move from East Boulder Recreation Center
to Mohawk and Talbot and weekday rush-hour service
frequency would increase to 15 minutes in both directions.
Can you help me understand it? I take the 225 from Baseline
Rd & Indian Peaks Trail West Stop ID: 33365 to Downtown
Boulder.
Is that stop going to be affected? Is Lafayette to Downtown
Boulder service frequency decreasing? I think this is a popular
route as a lot of people live in Lafayette and work downtown
in Boulder.
I support the proposed change. I originally had some
questions and reservations, but my discussions with RTD staff
at the downtown noon public meeting have convinced me
that they've considered all the reasonable options for
minimizing inconvenience to passengers.
Drawing from my travel behavior analyst training, I'd also
advise RTD staff to expect some current LD1/LD2 riders to
switch to Routes LX1 or LX2. This hopefully results in stronger
weekday peak ridership for those routes rather than
overcrowding.

Packet Pg. 27

1.B.1.c

225

1

Raine

Roberts

raro8324@colorado.edu

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
My name is Raine Roberts and I’m a student at the University
of Colorado at Boulder. It has come to my attention that a
proposed change involves the 225 bus route no longer
stopping at and around the East Boulder Rec Center and
Manhattan Dr. I urge you to reconsider this change. I take
this bus almost daily to get to my classes on time, and to take
me home after a long day. I can assure you that many people
at my bus stop (Manhattan Dr and Baseline) and myself
would be very disappointed if this route is no longer is
commission. This change would make my commute more
difficult, especially during the colder parts of the year. I do
not have a car, and this is an extremely helpful form of
transportation for me to get to campus. Again, please
reconsider this proposed change.

Packet Pg. 28

1.B.1.c

225

1

Eric

Rohlinger

erohlinger@hotmail.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I'm writing you today to express my concerns and opposition
to the proposed new route of RTD 228 buses through
Louisville's neighborhoods. Before I get into my reasons why
I'm against it, I would like to propose an alternative that
would be more suitable. The bus should continue east on
South Boulder Rd to north on Plaza Drive, continuing west
onto E. Hecla Dr and then closing the loop by turning south
onto 96th (Hwy 42). My proposed route would have easy
traffic flow patterns with a turn light onto Plaza and light
traffic turning onto E. Hecla Drive. After a pedestrian death
and several near misses crossing at Hecla and 96th, a
stoplight would be welcomed by the community and make
for an easy turn onto southbound 96th for a bus. This route
that I'm proposing would serve Kestrel and may further
increase ridership by including the neighborhoods east of
Plaza Drive and the retirement communities along E. Hecla
Dr, while avoiding the completely residential areas of Paschal
and W. Hecla Drive.
Here are some of my reasons why I, and large number of my
neighbors, are opposed to the change in RTD route 228 as
currently proposed. Most of them concern safety of the
residents near the proposed route.
1) The route runs through a residential neighborhood with
little likelihood of ridership from its residents. Instead it
appears to just be a convenient turn around for the route. 2)
Heavy traffic and speeding is already a concern on W. Hecla
Drive near Cowboy Park due to the incredible number of
young children in this neighborhood and visitors to the park.
Adding a bus route would surely make this worse.
3) Noise pollution would be a problem as this bus route starts
at 6:00am and continues until 11:00pm. This is a quiet
neighborhood with homes that aren't set back very far from
the street, particularly on W. Hecla Drive. 4) West Hecla Dr
near Kestrel is currently too narrow of a street for normal
street traffic due to parking on both sides of the street and
limited sight lines. Speeds over 15mph through this
bottleneck are already a problem, buses should not navigate
this roadway. 5) Traffic will have a hard time seeing a
southbound bus on W Hecla Dr at the corners of Treece St
and at Magpie Lane due to houses blocking sight lines. Very
dangerous situation. 6) Damage is likely to occur to the
roundabout infrastructure at Paschal due to the bus trying to
navigate the turn. Construction vehicles have had a very
hard time dealing with the turn without causing damage, it
will be even more difficult for a bus. I appreciate your serious
consideration of my concerns and hope that you find my
proposal worth a deeper look.

Packet Pg. 29

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Please contact me with any questions or concerns that you
may have.

225

1

Russell

Schoenbeck

Russell.Schoenbeck@me.com

Removing the Longmont bus routes will terribly impact my
family’s life as my wife commutes multiple times per week in
to Denver via these routes.
What exactly will you be doing to continue servicing our
area?
It is also my understanding that Longmont residents have
been paying RTD for YEARS to get a train route; not only do
we not have a train, now you’re cutting routes?
Please explain.

Packet Pg. 30

1.B.1.c

225

1

Jan

Sheperd

janshepmd@msn.com

225

1

Yarrow

Sullivan

yarrow.sullivan45@gmail.com

225

1

Kate

Weinstein

khweinstein@yahoo.com

228

1

Carol

Buxton

carolbuxton@comcast.net

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I just heard about the proposed change to RTD Route 225
between Boulder and Lafayette. My husband and I live in
Anna's Farm, just off Baseline Road in Lafayette, and we take
the 225 into and home from Boulder on a regular basis. Ever
since the JUMP discontinued its route up Baseline Road, the
closest JUMP stop to our neighborhood is 1.3 miles away - so
the 225 is our only realistic option to avoid driving into
Boulder. Please reconsider this route discontinuation in the
interests of the people of Lafayette and the environment.
This email is to inform RTD that myself and many others use
the 225 bus every day to go from my house on Manhattan to
the University and back. It would be devastating if it stopped
servicing this area. There are no other bus routes going in
that direction, and we can't afford anything more than public
transport, since it's provided by the university.
Please continue 225 service to Manhattan drive. We all really
need it, especially in the winter.
I am concerned about your 2019 proposed change to the 225
RTD schedule in Boulder. I take the bus to and from work
each day from 55th and Pueblo to Baseline and Broadway. I
am also concerned for the seniors not being able to take the
bus to the Senior Center at the East Boulder Rec Center, and
the many people of all ages who take the bus to the East
Boulder Rec Center for exercise.
Also, I am wondering if you will still have a bus stop at
Baseline & 55th Street, that will then take people west on
Baseline to CU campus at Baseline & Broadway? Your
description on your website about the proposed changes to
the 225 bus is very confusing. It would be helpful if you could
show proposed maps. I am wondering if the new Route LD3
would come west on Baseline Road from Lafayette and stop
at Baseline & 55th, continuing west to the CU campus? There
are many CU students who are picked up along Baseline Road
(between Baseline & 55th and Baseline & Broadway) that use
this route, sometimes the bus is so full there are many
people standing. I would appreciate an answer back
regarding details for the 2019 proposal for the 225 route, and
the new LD3 route. The way it is written on your website is
very confusing
I am unable to attend the community meeting scheduled for
Lafayette, but wanted to submit some input. I am strongly
opposed to changing the 228 to routing down Hecla, to
accommodate the residents of Kestrel. I understand that
there are a few handicapped residents that find it
inconvenient to get to the South Boulder Rd. bus stop.
However, I think there are other options that Boulder County
could explore that would not impact the other residents in

Packet Pg. 31

1.B.1.c

228

1

Katia

Valencia

katiahoffer@gmail.com

120x/122x

1

Pam

Gale

pamgale@comcast.net

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

Lillia

Boekeloo

Lillia.boekeloo@rtd-denver.com

16/16L

225/D

1

1

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
this neighborhood. Having the bus go down Hecla only adds
to an already busy vehicle area due to the apartments,
Kestrel and "regular homeowners". In addition there are a
lot of children that ride their bikes and play in the area.
It seems to make more sense to have a bus stop on the
southwest corner of 95th/Hwy 42 and Hecla. There is already
a "merge lane" there, where the bus could stop.
Another suggestion would be for Boulder County to work
with the property owners south of Kestrel. If they could
install a short sidewalk, to accommodate wheel chairs, it
would be much more convenient for the residents to reach
the bus stop on South Boulder Rd.
I absolutely oppose this suggestion. You are proposing to
drive a big bus through a neighborhood. Not only will you add
noise pollution through the day, compromise kids and bike
riding safety but also trigger a decline in home values in our
neighborhood. It is unpresedented that a bus would drive
through a neighborhood. Please consider alternatives to
turn the bus around. You could go into the appartment
section via South Boulder and continue on to Kestrel and exit
to the left. Yes, perhaps a slightly longer turn but you will be
saving many headaches in our neighborhood for years to
come . Thank you in advance for your consideration.
I have been using the 120x or 122x bus to go downtown for
years. As more and more of the north area is developed, the
Wagon Road PNR is full by 7:30am. Most of these people
use these two buses to get downtown. We would appreciate
having more buses go straight downtown and not stop at
Thornton PNR. By the time we load at Wagon Road, the bus
is full and there isn't any room for the Thornton people
anyway. Why not have separate buses start at Thornton PNR
and take them downtown. It's pretty plain to see that during
peak hours, there are not enough buses for the PNRs.
Besides, the people who start at the Wagon Road PNR pay a
regional fare....so please give us more direct buses on both
the 120x and 122x.
I support this change. Extending these routes to Oak Station
will allow for more connections for passengers.

I use both the 225 and LD in areas that are being proposed to
cut, I am highly against that cut.

Packet Pg. 32

1.B.1.c

26/35

1

Scott

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

35/26

1

Carlos

Romo

hyperserv@gmail.com

Judy

Nogg

judynogg@aol.com

Boulder

1

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I support the part of the proposal to interline weekday Route
26 and Route 35 service. However, I oppose the proposal to
renumber the new Route 26 as Route 35.
New Route 26 was created during the last (August 2018)
service change from the part of former Route 27 west of
Englewood Station. I think riders in this corridor should have
around a year to become familiar with the new route number
before making further changes.
Further, current Route 35 does not offer weekend service
between Englewood and Nine Mile Stations. RTD staff tell me
that on weekends the new route wouldn't go east of
Englewood Station. I think the fact that new weekend Route
35 doesn't go anywhere that current weekday Route 35 does
would cause further confusion among riders.
It's regrettable that the opportunity to interline these routes
wasn't realized for the August schedule change, which would
allow the Route 35 number to be applied to the portion of
former Route 27 west of Englewood Station without having
to introduce the Route 26 designation. However, now that
Route 26 has been introduced, I think it should be allowed to
retain and develop its new identity.
Frequent flyer on the 35 here. I saw that it is proposed to
merge routes 35 and 26 into a crosstown route 35, and upon
first glance, I think this could be very beneficial. However,
there are not any details listed as to what the scheduling
would look like. Is there any information on what days of the
week this route will be running?
The 26 is current every day, 35 is M-F. For long while, I've
wanted to see the 5 run on weekends. Will the new route be
running its full trip all days of the week, or will only part of
the trip be run on weekends? Any information you have
would be great. I'd love to have an easy trip from the east
side of Englewood over to Southmoor, or straight to SW
plaza, on the weekends. Let me know.
I am very distressed that you are both raising rates and
cutting services in Boulder County. Please don't do it.

Packet Pg. 33

1.B.1.c

FF

1

Carlos

Romo

carlos.romo@alumni.stanford.edu

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Thanks for opportunity to give feedback on proposed RTD
service changes. I moved from Austin Texas to boulder in
2017 and commute from boulder to uptown Denver every
day on the FF2, FF4, 0 and metroride. Generally I am very
pleased with rtd service. Buses come so regularly that I never
check schedules and timing is pretty consistent at about 55
min-1hr versus 40 min to drive. This is one of the things that
makes rtd vastly superior to capital metro service in Austin. It
takes roughly the same amount of time for me to commute
25 miles from boulder to Denver that it took me to commute
3 miles in downtown Austin. I support additional eastbound
service of ff2 and ff4, particularly if it extends beyond 930am.
I would also support additional 0 service during the morning
commute hours from union station or extended metro ride
service beyond 909am. It should dovetail off of the ff2 service
and be available until at least 945. I feel like I never have to
wait long for metro ride in evenings heading to union station
but often I am waiting 10-15 min for metro ride from union
station. That timing can be improved in the mornings.
Last I would just like to comment that rtd should try to
coordinate so that city construction does not so significantly
affect service. There was a period during summer 2018 when
metro rides that normally took 10minutes were taking 30+
minutes due to downtown construction. Surely there is a way
to coordinate so that such significant delays can be avoided.
Thanks for the opportunity to provide feedback. Do not
hesitate to contact me if I can provide further input.

FF1

1

Carl

Sauer

carl@sauertech.com

I am writing you to express my extreme disappointment that
FF1 trips will not be added for the January 2019 adjustment. I
feel that the FF1 service has degraded consistently over the
last few years while the FF2 is consistently adding trips during
the peak commuter hours.
The lack of FF1 service is an insult to to the commuters in
Broomfield and Westminster. Continuing to add FF2 trips
only serves Denver to Boulder commuters while ignoring the
dire need for more FF1 trips. Every time I step on an FF1 it's
completely packed, often requiring passengers to deboard
and reboard so people can depart the over capacity bus. The
fact that FF1 frequency during peak commute times has been
reduced from every 15 minutes or quicker to often times
more then 20 minutes is a slap in the face for US36 corridor
tax payers while the FF2 buses pass half full.
RTD is failing the US36 corridor. FF1 trips must be restored to
a maximum of every 15 minutes wait during peak commute
times and should come ever 7 minutes to alleviate severe

Packet Pg. 34

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
overcrowding and full buses which simply drive by
commuters leaving them out in the cold to wait for the next
bus.
Additionally the service at the us 36&flatiron station is
consistently degraded due to the lack of the FF1 service and
the utterly disgraceful FF4, which never ever comes on time.
When the Flatiron Flyer service was launched you could take
either an FF4 or FF1 into Boulder their schedules alternated
so there was a bus every 7.5 minuted during peak commuting
times. That is no longer the case.
At this point I feel that a ballot measure for the US36 corridor
and Longmont to leave RTD and set up our own transit
system is the best solution to the problem. RTD has no idea
how to deal with the massive amount of commuters on the
us36 corridor and consistently takes the tax revenue
generated by our area and dumps it into fast tracking light
rail projects in other parts of the Denver metro area.

FF4/FF2

1

Amy

Rens

Amy.Rens@denvergov.org

FF5

1

Kimberly

Phu

phu.kimberly@gmail.com

RTD IS A FAILURE.
FF4: Thank you for increasing the frequency of the FF4 buses
in the morning. Most buses have 6-15 people standing from
Broomfield to Denver.
FF2: Will you please consider adding a couple of buses to
the FF2 PM westbound service? A 2:30 and 3:00 FF2 would
relieve the FF1 afternoon buses. When I need to leave work
early for a doctor’s appointment, I’ve found that the 2:32,
2:47 and 3:02 FF1 buses are packed. Many times they are
standing room only.
The FF5 route is poorly scheduled. Heading westbound there
is a seven hour gap from the morning to afternoon where
there is no bus. I understand that this schedule is mostly
catered to a working population, but as a student my only
other option is to take the 15 from campus to Union station
and then the FF1 back up US-36 which takes well over an
hour and a half, not to mention is far less convenient than
the FF5 route. There certainly doesn't need to be a bus every
hour but more frequently in the afternoon would be far more
reasonable and alleviate how packed the 3:55 is every day.
(For example having a 1:15 and 3:00).

Packet Pg. 35

1.B.1.c

FF7

1

Tamar

Beaman

Tamar.S.Beaman@hud.gov

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
As you can see by my work address below, I work about a
block away from Civic Center bus station (which offers no
shelter from the elements in bad weather but that’s another
story). I live 3 miles from the Sheridan/Boulder Turnpike Park
& Ride around 99th and Lowell. I use the parking garage at
88th & Yates. The only bus that goes direct to and from
those locations is the FF7. I work 9:30-6:00 and if I miss the
8:54 FF7 in the morning due to unexpected overflow traffic
from construction on Federal diverted onto Lowell, I have to
take an FF1 or FF3 to Union Station, then transfer to the O or
the 15 to get up to 17th & Broadway where I work. This
takes considerably more time and is inconvenient, especially
when your local buses are not always on time. I hate getting
to that west-side Gate C more than 5 minutes early because
there is NO SHELTER from the blazing heat in summer or the
howling wind in winter, in addition to the place always being
dirty and disgusting with so many local buses stopping there
(lots of cigarette butts, spit on the ground, litter, etc.). But I
digress. So I try to get to the P&R and walk over with about 5
minutes to spare before my bus comes. I would like to see
another FF7 or two running after 9:00 a.m. Also, there need
to be more FF7s from Civic outbound in the evening.
Yesterday my 6:10pm FF7 was 20 minutes late due to traffic
or something, probably to do with the Rockies game. (This
happens time and time again – it’s the last bus home and we
(my fellow FF7 riders) are stuck there with no one telling us
what the delay is or if the bus is even coming). Yet about SIX
FF4’s came by from 6:06 to 6:30! I understand you have a
driver shortage, but how about taking a few of the FF4s and
converting them to FF7 runs? OR change the FF4 routes so
that they have to stop at Sheridan P&R? You might ask why I
don’t just park at Broomfield and catch an FF4? Well, by the
time I get up to Broomfield and catch a bus, I could drive my
own vehicle downtown, so it does not make sense.
Bottom line: We need more buses on the FF7 line, more
frequently and longer into the morning and evening. Or
make the FF4s stop at our Park & Ride in Westminster. Just
because I live in Westminster instead of Broomfield or
Boulder and work on the unpopular side of downtown (not
LoDo), doesn’t mean I should have such skimpy and
unreliable service.

Packet Pg. 36

1.B.1.c

FF7

1

Holly

O'Neal

Holly.J.Oneal@wellsfargo.com

L

1

Bob

Askey

bob.askey@comcast.net

L

1

Kara

Cannon

kara_cannon@yahoo.com

LD

1

Suzy

Belmont

Suzanne.Belmont@nrel.gov

LD

1

Heidi

Bogner

hbogner@msn.com

LD

1

Nicole

Busha

nikkilove307@gmail.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I currently ride the FF7 at 6:54 am and 4:35 pm every day.
We have multiple people standing each morning (some days,
it’s over 25). It’s so bad that if I don’t get in line 10 minutes
early, I will not get a seat which I pay for. The 4:35 bus home
has up to 25 people standing each night. A few people
standing is one thing but when the entire aisle of the bus is
full of people standing, it starts to feel unsafe. We need
more FF7 buses around this time!
RTD delays rail service to Longmont until 2042, and now RTD
wants to cut 2018 bus service to Longmont. Longmont should
cut all its money to RTD and use the money to support
Longmont city minivans and hire Longmont drivers to replace
RTD.
I am extremely disappointed to hear that RTD is "proposing"
to change the LD route from Longmont to Denver. You are
claiming low ridership, but reports and photos have indicated
otherwise. The "proposed" changes will make for a much
longer and much more inconvenient commute for those who
rely on LD to travel between Longmont and Denver.
Considering the taxes that Longmont residents of Boulder
County have been paying to RTD for years for a so called rail
service that has never happened, this is absolutely
unacceptable! There is a meeting scheduled for Longmont as
follows:
I’m writing to ask that you not discontinue service on the LD
south of 36. I use this route for work and to get to Denver
and my ridership times would be significantly increased if I
had to change to an FF bus (+10-20 min). This change would
also reduce overall ridership on the LD since the nearly full
buses I ride during the weekday are mostly people riding into
Denver. We know from research that having to change buses
disuades people from riding. If you make this change you will
hurt dedicated riders, reduce LD ridership and reduce Denver
access for many people in the Longmont and Lafayette areas.
Please reconsider this change.
Asking to please NOT discontinue the 4:56pm LD bus from
Union Station to Broomfield!

I would like to ask that you keep the route for the LD1 and
LD2, this route helps assist alot of people with using our
public transportation to commute home. We are trying to
push public transportation in Colorado to help with pollution
levels, and for some this is their only route home. Eliminating
this route could force some into a bad situation. Thank you
for your time in this matter.

Packet Pg. 37

1.B.1.c

LD

1

1

LD

Nancy

Castilleja

Castilleja@wtotrial.com

Please, please, please do NOT discontinue the LD1 and LD2
bus routes from Denver to Longmont. I ride both these buses
at least 4 days a week. The alternative of taking two buses
to get home would force me to drive.

Nancy

Castilleja

Castilleja@wtotrial.com

Good afternoon, Please, please, please do NOT discontinue
the LD1 and LD2 bus routes from Denver to Longmont. I was
on the LD1 last night. There were a lot of us on the bus that
would have been affected by this discontinuation.

Our bus driver this morning told us that he has heard that the
discontinuation will go through. Please don’t do this. I work
late and am not able to make one of the express buses, and
adding another hour to my commute would force me to
drive. Since I have to work late this week I won’t be able to
be at the meeting in Longmont. I will however be riding one
of the LD buses home. Please, please, please reconsider.
Hi, my name is David Chamberlain and I am a daily commuter
using the LD1 and LD2 routes to commute from Denver to
Longmont in the morning and the opposite in the evening.
Please do not discontinue full bus service to Longmont from
Denver. This is incredibly important to me.
I strongly oppose the suggested discontinuation of the LD1
routes. This bus route makes it possible to live in Longmont
and work in Denver without adding to congestion on our
existing roads. Eliminating it would impose a hardship on me
and my family.
Consider the following:
1. Based on promises RTD made to the public at the time
FastTraks was approved, Longmont would already have
commuter train service. To eliminate the regular single-seat
service currently serving Longmont - to even lower levels
than it was in 2004 is unconscionable.
2. Eliminating the only evening and late evening bus service
from Denver to Longmont will REDUCE ridership on the LX
routes as people, like me, who often work late or at the very
least, past 545pm when the last LX leaves Denver, will stop
using it.
3. Reducing transit options is inconsistent with Colorado’s
goals to reduce carbon emissions.
4. Reducing transit options is a hardship on the disabled
community who don’t drive.

LD

1

Nany

Castilleja

Castilleja@wtotrial.com

LD

1

David

Chamberlain

chamberlaindlc@gmail.com

LD

1

Tom

Cooper

Thomas.Cooper@wsp.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes

Packet Pg. 38

1.B.1.c

LD

1

Coleen

Elrod

colleen.elrod@state.co.us

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
As you are the Lead Service Planner & Schedule for the
Northern routes, please accept this email as my vehement
opposition to the proposed service cuts for the LD routes! I
am outraged! The additional time added to the (already)
time-consuming LD commute, along with the increased
risk/danger to passengers having to transfer at a Broomfield
station, is completely unacceptable. We (Longmont) do not
have our rail, and now we're told that our our LD bus service
is going discontinued.
I've been dependent upon, and supportive of RTD route for
over 15 years. Though I mainly commute during peak hours,
it is relatively often that I need to utilize the LD routes with a
late morning commute; early in the afternoon, or even late
into the evening.
Many frustrating (if not dangerous) scenarios come to mind
with this proposed change. For example, evening commuters
risk being stranded overnight at an Broomfield stop if the FF
is behind schedule and a rider misses the last connection to
Longmont. Even if one doesn't miss the connection, a rider
could be forced to wait at an outdoor stop in Broomfield for
up to an hour. This could be in darkness, and/or in the cold
of winter. This increased risk to personal safety alone, is
unacceptable.
I also think of the many riders who do not drive at all.
Currently, they must coordinate a Longmont City route with
an LD route. As of January, they will have to also add a
coordinating stop with an FF route. This can easily turn oneway of their Longmont-Denver commute into 2 hours!
I do take note that all fingers are pointing to a Grant that will
expire, as the culprit. If this is true, I must ask why it was not
pursued beyond 2018? Who would be responsible for
pursuing this Grant? Why would RTD allow this to happen,
even if not their responsibility? Why are we only hearing of
this now? Does RTD not have any concern for their Longmont
community??!
I understand the staffing issues that RTD has been plagued
with, as you and I have discussed at prior Longmont RTD
meetings. However, it seems increasingly apparent that
Longmont (and all of the NW Boulder County area) continues
to be the target of RTD reductions, yet we continue to pay
the same in fares and taxes for the vanishing service.
Please share this with your peers at RTD, as I'm not aware of
everyone who is involved in this (atrocious) decision -making
process. Also, if you have Judy Lubow's email address, please
share it with me. The link to her email on the RTD site, will
not work for me.

Packet Pg. 39

1.B.1.c

LD

1

Gina

Geton

ginagerton@gmail.com

LD

1

Earl

Harrison

harrison.earl@gmail.com

LD

1

Viktoria

Lawson

viktoria.b.lawson@gmail.com

LD

1

Robert

Madachy

MADACHY@msn.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I must ask that RTD takes a long and hard look about the
elimination of the LD line going into Denver. Longmont only
has a few express buses to take us to Denver and back home.
Now it is being proposed to take more routes from us. I
would be fine with deleting the LDs if you were adding some
more LXs. Many nights I have to work late and take the LD at
6:30PM or even the 7:30. This doesn’t put me home until 8 or
9 PM. With the proposed changes I can assume it would even
be longer and I would have to take two or three busses to get
home. It is not safe for a woman to be waiting in the dark for
busses. Longmont put up a lot of money to keep RTD running
between Denver and Longmont and RTD is talking about
canceling our service. This doesn’t seem fair. Many of the
Longmont riders will probably stop riding in January between
the price hikes and eliminating our service. PLEASE I AM
BAGGING PLEASE DON’T TAKE OUR BUSSES.
I am writing to provide comments on the proposed LD route
changes for January 2019. The proposal to discontinue direct
service to Denver Union Station will sever Longmont's access
to the RTD network and make an already long trip completely
prohibitive on public transit. Today, when I ride an LD1 or LD2
bus, the overwhelming majority of customers
boarding/exiting along 287 are riding the bus to/from Union
Station. By forcing these customers to now take a much
longer route and add a change of bus, it now is easier to
simply drive to Denver and puts more cars on area roads.
I am extremely disappointed in RTD's proposal and feel that it
does not serve the community of Longmont. Personally, this
change will force me to abandon taking the LD route into
downtown and limit the times I can even use the LX buses
during commute hours since I often need to take an LD bus
one-way due to already limited schedules.
I strongly encourage RTD to re-evaluate this change and
maintain Longmont's link to the Denver area's primary transit
hub and not isolate Longmont from the greater RTD network.
Please don't get rid of these services between Longmont and
Denver!
I was reading your Proposed January 2019 Service Changes
for the LD liines and it makes several references to LD3. Is
LD3 going to be a new route? Does it already exist? I see no
reference to route LD3 anywhere in your current schedules.
I plan on attending the Oct 3 public meeting in Lafayette, but
before going I want to make sure I am not missing something
already available (Route LD3).

Packet Pg. 40

1.B.1.c

LD

1

Robert

Madachy

madachy@msn.com

LD

1

Juneliz

Maginnis

Rj3maginnis@comcast.net

LD

1

Keith

Manek

keith.manek@gmail.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I was reading your Proposed January 2019 Service Changes
for the LD liines and it makes several references to LD3. s
LD3 going to be a new route? Does it already exist? I see no
reference to route LD3 anywhere in your current schedules. I
plan on attending the Oct 3 public meeting in Lafayette, but
before going I want to make sure I am not missing something
already available (Route LD3).
The LD buses that come out of Union Station in the afternoon
between 4:15, 4:20, 4:56, 5:16 and 5:31 are usually always
crowded. Some of them may not be completely full, but
neither are the Boulder FF buses. I know because I also go
down to Boulder from time to time.
I’ve taken McCaslin buses in the morning on occasion, and
they come every 8-10 minutes and are not always crowded,
maybe one person per double seat.
I find RTDs proposal to eliminate the LDs that takes
passengers from Lafayette straight to Union Station very
disturbing to say the least. It will require all people to change
buses at least once, if not twice, when service has been
seamless. It will greatly increase commuting time for many,
many people, and force a lot of us to begin driving to other
PNRs to get straight bus service from point A to point B.
Currently, I walk to one of the stops along 287 and now will
have to consider driving 4-5 miles to get to McCaslin PNR to
make it to work on time, thereby defeating the purpose of
taking mass transit and keeping extra cars off of the roadway.
If the LD did not exist, I would never have accepted
employment commuting down to Denver. It is too congested
on the roadways and expensive to drive and park. I have
been taking the L to and from Denver every weekday for the
past 10 years. The direct trip down to Union Station on one
bus makes it convenient. I cannot see supporting RTD with
my tax dollars if direct service is not continued. It seems that
RTD could continue direct service to and from
Longmont/Lafayette/Denver at least during rush hour. Those
buses are crowded.
The Flatiron bus service doesn't start until 6 am in the
morning. A lot of us need a bus prior to that time. Perhaps
the L could eliminate one of the bus between 5-6 am and fill
those buses, make other adjustments to the schedule and
eliminate so many buses on Saturday.
Please don't end the LD1/LD2 bus route. At a time when
metro denver traffic is getting worse, at a time when we
need to be expanding public transportation (for many
reasons including helping the climate), at a time when cities
like Lafayette and Longmont are growing and Denver is

Packet Pg. 41

1.B.1.c

LD

1

Jake

Marsing

jakemarsing@gmail.com

LD

1

Kristina

Martinez

krisnmsu24@yahoo.com

LD

1

Janeen

Neri

fixed.palette@gmail.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
adding jobs, now is not the time to cut these lines. It's the
time to expand and try to add new riders. These routes are
used and needed by many people. Ending these lines will hurt
RTD more by forcing people to find alternative (non RTD)
means of transportation. More people will be lost than those
who will deal with the bus transfer(s). RTD should be
expanding service and making it easier for people to ride.
RTD should be trying to grow and not shrink. We can't just
keep cutting service and hoping that things will get better.
Boulder county needs this route and I am sure I am not alone
in saying, please keep this route.
How many different ways are you going to find to screw
Longmont and it’s residents? First, you fail to live up to your
promise to the community on Northwest Rail. Now, you’re
cutting our city’s direct service to Denver in more than half.
It’s absolutely wrong. If I were the City, this would be the
final straw in our relationship. But, I’m not the city. I’m a CU
Denver student who relies on the LD1 and LD2 for reliable
transportation to get to class on time. Without the 9:26 and
1:01 LD on Tuesday/Thursday I wouldn’t be able to make it to
class those days. You say it’s a ridership issue. But, my LD
busses consistently are at least 50% full, even I non-peak
hours. That’s better than lots of routes you aren’t
threatening. Yet, because this is a Longmont-centric Route,
you want it gone. It’s really shameful. Essentially ending
non-peak hour direct service between Denver and Longmont
hurts RTD’s perception in our community and hurts RTD’s
long-term bottom line. Please retain the LD1 and LD2 direct
service between Denver and Union Station.
My bus driver just announced that there is a plan in January
to eliminate these routes that I use Monday - Friday to get to
work.. why???? How am I going to get to an from work and
home ? Please explain to me why these routes are being
eliminated and what else I can do to stop these routes from
being eliminated. I will write everyday until I get a valid
response.
I was at last night’s Longmont meeting, and I felt the need to
write in to say that at least 2 of us in the audience were
actually paying attention.
I’m not usually in favor of changes that add a transfer,
because it can intimidate newbie bus riders. But after hearing
the explanation of the proposed changes, I’m a bit sad they
got delayed. It sounded like they were faster, more frequent,
and cheaper, which is a hard combination to hit! And both
“faster” and “more frequent” helps a route appeal to
newbies. I was very impressed with the solution overall, it
seemed like not only a cost-saving measure, but a genuine

Packet Pg. 42

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
improvement in service. I know you folks probably can’t
endorse any specific initiatives, but I’ll be on the lookout for
ballot measures that increase RTD’s funding. I’m pleased with
how efficiently my tax dollars are being spent, and it sounds
like having a bigger pool for driver/mechanic salaries would
help you out a lot. :)

LD

1

Sarah

Nofal

ssnofal@gmail.com

LD

1

Brittany

Pettrone

www.bluemoondigital.co

LD

1

Enrique

Rivera

echico24@gmail.com

My name is Sarah and I am a patron who often uses the LD1
to commute from Lafayette to Union Station. I would like to
voice my opinion for the proposed route change for the LD1. I
am not in favor of any change that would alter the route or
frequency of this bus. It is the only bus that does not require
several transfers to get downtown in a timely manner. Any
other route adds a significant amount of time to my daily
commute. Please do not remove one of the best forms of
transportation for myself and those who take this bus along
with me.
I appose the cancellation of LD1 and LD2. I live in Old Town
Erie and catch the LD2 @ Diamond and 287 in the morning
to get to work @ 16th and Larimer and return by the LD1 or
LD2 after work. Canceling these routes would create great
hardship for my self and many other bus riders. There are
many passengers that get on or off through out Lafayette.
The 7:33 LD 2 at Diamond and 287 in the morning typically
has 8+ riders that get on there. I know people that would
like to take the bus if there were more time options in the
morning and evening. One specifically would be getting to
Denver before 8am.
I hope you take this in to consideration and NOT cancel the
route.
I work in downtown Denver and am a frequent rider of the
LX1/2 lines. There are times when I cannot make the last LX
bus leaving at 5:45 P.M. from Union Station and am forced to
take the LD line back to Longmont. Despite the low ridership
of the LD lines it is the only option I have going from Union
Station/ Work to Longmont/ Home. I don't drive and don't
own a car so I depend on the Longmont/ Denver routes on a
daily basis, to include Saturdays. Adding an additional line
(the 225) would add to my already lengthy commute. In my
opinion the Longmont/ Denver routes should not be changed
at all. As a rider I do see how many people ride and depend
on all the LD and LX routes on a daily basis and these changes
would effect the riders negatively. Longmont is the only city
that have limited bus lines to and from the city unlike Boulder
or Denver. If lines are cut or changed it may require riders to

Packet Pg. 43

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
move to a place that has better bus service outside of
Longmont itself.

LD

1

Will

Ronco

william.ronco@gmail.com

I am disappointed to hear that you're considering reducing
service between Longmont and Denver!
Longmont needs MORE transit, especially to Boulder and
Denver - cutting back this service is the wrong choice!

LD

1

Allison

Rothermel

allisonrothermel@hotmail.com

To RTD regarding proposed service changes to Route LD1 and
LD2. As more commuters travel from the Longmont area to
Downtown Denver for work and school, it is important to
have several public transportation options. Unfortunately,
light rail has not been established in Longmont; therefore,
commuters must rely on RTD Regional Routes to get to
Downtown Denver and back. The LD Southbound Routes are
very important to morning commuters when the LX Route
does not run. The LD Northbound Routes are very important
during the afternoon commute back to Longmont. If a
situation is happening along I-25, many riders choose to
avoid the area (avoid the LX) and take the LD routes. Also, the
final LX route is at 5:45 pm, whereas the LD has several later
options. Additionally, the LX Northbound Routes seem to be
at or near capacity during the afternoon rush hour. It would
be very beneficial to add additional northbound rush hour LX
routes if the proposed changes are implemented.
In conclusion, my feedback is the proposed service changes
to the LD routes would have an adverse impact on riders. If
the proposed changes are implemented, additional LX routes
are strongly recommended for the northbound
afternoon/evening rush hours.

Packet Pg. 44

1.B.1.c

LD

1

Loraine

Street

loraine.street@bclplaw.com

LD

1

Jenny

Turner

jenny.blindsay@farmersagency.com

LD

1

Jason

Walke

jason.walke@gmail.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I understand that the proposed change to the above routes is
that they will end at the Broomfield exit. Here are my
Comments: I take the bus to Denver every day and have
gotten off at Broomfield several times to catch a FFlyer to
Denver. They are always packed and I’ve had to stand each
time. So I no longer attempt to catch a FFlyer. If you
discontinue the bus as is I will have to take 3 buses to work.
From Lafayette to Broomfield to Union Station and then hop
on the Metro Ride. The ride home will be very inconvenient.
I will have to get off the bus at Broomfield and cross over the
bridge to catch a LDI or LD2.. It’s going to extend the length
of time it takes me to get home in addition to being out in
the elements for longer periods of time both coming and
going to work. In bad weather I already am at an
unprotected bus stop. Longmont/Lafayette LD1/LD2 always
seems to be the ugly stepchild. In recent years they finally
adjusted the schedules so that both of these routes stop
along 287 and Empire Road and have more than just three
Saturday buses. There is still no service on Sundays. I
propose that the routes stay as they are.
I would like to ask that you keep the route for the LD1 and LD
2, this route helps assist a lot of people with using our public
transportation to commute home. We are trying to push
public transportation in Colorado to help with pollution
levels, and for some this is their only way home. Eliminating
this route could force some into a bad situation.
I commute from Broomfield to Denver each weekday, and I
purchase a $171 monthly pass every month. I understand
the logic of eliminating the LD routes south of US-36 as these
duplicate FF routes. This will require me to transfer at
Broomfield station, but I think that is reasonable. My
concern, however is the proposed decrease in frequency of
225 (which will be renamed LD3). Today during rush-hour,
either an LD bus or 225 stops at 287 & 10th Ave (which is
where I live) every 15 to 20 minutes. The proposed changes
indicate that 225's frequency will be every 60 minutes. This
change in frequency in addition to the transfer required at
Broomfield station, will have a significant negative impact on
my commute next year. If at all possible please increase the
frequency of the 225 (which will be renamed LD3) to less
than every 60 minutes.

Packet Pg. 45

1.B.1.c

LD

1

Cynthia

Wilson

CyWilson@tiaa.org

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I oppose the January 2019 “LD” proposed service changes.
You have taken away from Longmont (and Lafayette and
Niwot) so many promises that have been made through the
years, and now this?
I have been commuting from Longmont CO from the
ParkNRide on south Main Street (Hwy 287) to downtown
Denver either via thru Market Street and now Union Station
since February of 2007. I have had both knee replacements
which now need to be replaced again, as well as needing a
hip replacement. The LD1, LD2 and LX buses have given me
mobility to keep my job in Denver. (Why we ended up with
LD1 and LD2 busses has been a mystery to me. It seemed to
run smooth and fine with just L and LX buses.) The complete
removal of the LD1 and LD2 busses south of US36 will only
bring me hardship and exposure waiting in the weather
elements. This not only affects me but and all the other
disabled people, both those unstable in their walking gait, a
blind gentleman and others with vision problems that ride,
and those that are wheel chair confined. Our winter
weather can be particularly cold blustery weather, and some
years much snow, let alone there be any ice that may have all
of the handicapped such as myself unstable on our feet or in
their wheelchairs.
It is my understanding that either going south or north (I am
not sure at this time) that there will be some tunnel I will
have to walk through under US36 to get to the other side of
US36 to get on another bus? This could put me at risk of
injury, and even the possibility of not being able to get to my
job.
The suggestion of using the FF buses will be a joke,
particularly when there are sports events in downtown
Denver. Tell me it is not so that there are often times FF
buses that have only standing room only? I am not able to
stand very long, let alone an entire trip. Would you also
propose that I wait again in the weather elements for the
next FF bus that might have a place to sit? I have been on the
LD busses with drivers who have jockeyed up and helped out
the FF bus drivers whose busses were too full.
Do we even need the LD2 Northbound from Union Station
bus times and the LD2 Southbound to Union Station bus
times? It seems the LD2 travel the same routes as LD1 except
skip a couple of stops along the way. (Except please consider
changing the 10:16 pm from an LD2 to an LD1.) Whoever
dreamed up not stopping in Lafayette on the last run north
must of not gotten enough sleep the night before making
that decision.
At the same time, why not look at having fewer LD1

Packet Pg. 46

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
Northbound from Union Station bus times and fewer LD1
Southbound to Union Stations. Right now Northbound to
Longmont there are 3:15, 4:15, 4:55, 5:25, 6:01, 6:31, 7:31,
8:31 and 10:16 pm (a total of 9 LD1 runs). Why not change
that to 3:30, 4:30, 5:30, 6:30, 7:30, 8:30 and 10:16 pm (and
eliminate 2 of them for a total of 7 LD1 runs)? Look at doing
much the same for Southbound from Longmont to Union
Station.
There are many better proposals than what is being
suggested in your brochure on proposed changes. Please and
thanks for considering other means of saving money for RTD,
or at least try a different schedule eliminating some of the
runs and their times first.

Packet Pg. 47

1.B.1.c

LD1

1

Juneliz

Fernande

juneliz.fernandez@gmail.com

RFS

1

Ricky

Kraus

rickybriankraus@icloud.com

RFS

1

Katie

Yarian

kyarian@towermetrodistrict.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I oppose the proposed changes for the LD1 route. I am a
single mother of 2 school age children. We are dependent on
the LD1 bus route to get my children to school and for myself
to work since we cannot afford a car. It would bring undue
hardship to my family if this route were to be eliminated.
Having to take alternate routes would mean a longer
commute time, less sleep for my family, longer exposure to
the elements which is definitely a major factor taking into
consideration our climate in Colorado. The LD1 is a very
frequently used route and has multiple users who are
handicapped as well and this would also leave them exposed
to the elements for a prolonged time and longer commutes
for them as well.
An alternative option could possibly be to reduce the amount
of trips instead of completely eliminating the route and all
scheduled times. It would be helpful to choose these times
based off of amount passengers. Eliminating the LD1 is unfair
to the community that lives in the Lafayette and Longmont
areas. Many of the people who use this route are doing so to
commute to work and or school. It would bring so many
people who are dependent upon public transportation undue
hardship. I have extreme respect for the drivers and
understand the shortage of drivers and appreciate all the
service RTD provides. It would greatly affect and sadden the
Lafayette and Longmont community if the LD1 service were
to be discontinued.
Thank you for your time and I hope RTD takes the publics
concerns and needs into consideration.
When Is RTD Denver To Add Underground Subway Rail
System?
Last year I submitted several email requests for a look into
the Majestic Commercenter Business Park (off of Tower and
32nd Pkwy) which has been steadily growing over the past 10
years. There are no bus routes that drive through the
business park, although many of the employees utilize bus
services to get to work, but are often walking 1-2 miles to
reach their place of business from the nearest bus stop.
There are over 1000 employees, including an Amazon
distribution center and a Fed Ex warehouse, both of which
have said they have many employees who currently use the
bus system.
If possible, I would love to see a route come down E. 32nd
Parkway, at least stopping around Himalaya Road, which is
our main intersection within the business park. I believe this
would put most employees within 0.5-0.75 miles from their
work, and I think many more employees would consider
taking the bus if it was more convenient to do so. The route

Packet Pg. 48

1.B.1.c

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
could turn around at either Lisbon or 31st Circle to take it
back to Tower Road, or even come up Windsor for an
additional stop closer to 38th and Windsor where many large
warehouses are clustered. Please let me know if there is
anything else I can do to assist in this consideration!

Packet Pg. 49

1.B.1.c

RX

1

David

Rasmussen

RasmussenD@zachrygroup.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I would like to request that the 12:09 bus leaving Civic Center
Station NOT be discontinued. This is the only option for
people on the east end of Denver to get back to Brighton
before the 3:15 bus.
I have been riding the RX bus the past 7 years (the old RC and
R routes too). I have seen the ebb’s and tides of this route.
For people working downtown, many work a “4-9’s” and 4”
schedule. The midday bus allows for these people to continue
to work that 4 hour day and still be able to use the bus to
return home.
The only option for bus service would be for these folks to
travel from the east end of Denver to Union Station, ride the
120x to Wagon Road, then take the 120 to Brighton.
The 120 bus has been extremely unreliable in schedules and
runs altogether. And it only runs every hour. This option will
increase the travel time by at least 30 to 45 minutes, if
everything is perfect.
Also, there are a lot of students at local colleges that ride the
“noon” bus out of Denver. By elimin ating this bus, will place
a hardship on these students. The 12:09 bus leaving Civic
Center also allows for early return trips to Brighton due to
weather conditions. This is more prevalent in the winter
months. There have been several times in the past when
severe snow storms have shut down businesses in downtown
Denver. The 12:09 will allow for folks to get out. If eliminated
(12:09 bus), the 3:15 bus and all after that, will be extremely
over-loaded, not to mention the interior of Civic Center
building becoming over-crowded.
If you want to discontinue the 10:30 am route from Brighton,
that’s fine, but don’t eliminate the 12:09 from Civic Center
Station - PLEASE And please get the North end rail line built
and running asap! Once that is up and running, modifying the
RX route would have less impact on people. Don’t leave the
North end of metro Denver out of the loop. We have been
the last on the list for many, many years and are tired of
getting the short straw. We have paid our RTD taxes for
years and years, and continue to do so. We’d like to get
something back for that money we have paid in.

Packet Pg. 50

1.B.1.c

1

Y

Totals

1

71

Scott

10

Ramming

MSRAMMING@msn.com

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes
I wish to echo the concerns of Boulder County Alternative
Transportation Coordinator Scott McCarey. At the August 21,
2018 Board of Directors meeting, Coordinator McCarey spoke
in opposition to the midday cuts proposed for Route Y. The
reason for the cuts given as being "low ridership" rings
hollow, since Boulder County wishes to pay for the service
beyond what it warranted by RTD service standards. The
underlying reason for the cuts appears to be the continuing
operator shortage.
I'm also shocked that a representative of Boulder County had
to make this request during the portion of RTD Board of
Directors meetings reserved for comments by members of
the general public. I hope that RTD has since been able to
work directly with Boulder County to achieve a more
mutually satisfactory proposal.
TOTALS

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment C– Summary of Electronically Received Comments & Public Meetings
January 2019 Service Changes

Attachment: Summary of Elecctronically Received Comments & Public Meetings – January 2019 Service Changes (3590 : January 2019 Service

1.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 52

Atch D - r225
1.B.1.d

CU
Campus

ay

Public

US

36

S Boulder Rd
Lafayette PnR

Talbot

Talbot
w
th

P kw

y

US 287

Baseline

r
No

t
es

US
Route 225
Local Stops

36

Weekday Only
New Routing

US 36 & Broomfield Station

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: Atch D -r225 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Baseline

Baseline

Mohawk

dw

Foothills

oa
Br

US 287

Downtown Boulder Station

Attachment: Atch E - r228 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

1.B.1.e

Atch E - r228

Route 228
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Paschal
Courtesy Rd

Hecla

Proposed Jan19 New Routing

Û

pp
ia

Û

Via
A

Louisville Plaza

S Boulder Rd
Main St

Garfield

Hecla
Kestrel
Housing
Development

Packet Pg. 54

1.B.1.f

Atch F - r10

B

la
k

e

Attachment: Atch F - r0 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Union Station

ce

18
17

th

th

Tr
e

m

on
t

15

th
Broadway

w
La

n
re

Route 0
Current Routing (Unchanged)

Colfax

Proposed Jan19 New Routing
Proposed Jan19 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 55

1.B.1.g

18

Attachment: Atch G -r10 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

C

he
s

tn
ut

Atch G - r10

th

Union Station

th

17

th

W
ew

at

ta

15

ta

W
az
ee

ew
W

at

Route 10
Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan19 New Routing

Packet Pg. 56

Atch H - r16

Attachment: Atch H -r16 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Oak

Quail

1.B.1.h

Colfax

Zephyr

Simms

Oak Station

Wadsworth

14th Ave
14th Pl

6th Ave

Federal Center Station

2nd Pl
Route 16
Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan19 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: Atch I -r16L (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

1.B.1.i

Atch I - r16L

14th Pl
Nelson

Quail

Oak

Colfax

W Rail Rd
Oak Station

Route 16L
Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan19 New Routing
Proposed Jan19 Discontinued Routing

Packet Pg. 58

1.B.1.j

Atch J - r20

t
ke

M
ar

B

la
k

e

Attachment: Atch J -r20 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

Union Station

w
La

n
re

ce

18

A

a
ur

ria

Pk

wy

17

th

th

18th Ave
on
t

15

th

Route 20
Current Routing (Unchanged)
Proposed Jan19 New Routing
Proposed Jan19 Discontinued Routing

Colfax

Broadway

Tr
e

m

17th Ave

Packet Pg. 59

Havana

Atch K - r35

Evans

Peoria

Monaco

Englewood Station

Colorado

Dartmouth

Wadsworth / Hampden PnR

University

Federal & Evans

Hampden

Hampden

Broadway

Santa
Fe

Federal

Southmoor Station

I-25

Sheridan

Nine Mile Station

Southwest Plaza

Wadsworth

Bowles

New Route 35
Current Route 26
Current Route 35

Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: Atch K -r35 (3590 : January 2019 Service Changes)

1.B.1.k

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date:

From:

Bruce Abel, Director, Special Projects

GM

Date:

October 3, 2018

Board Meeting Date: October 9, 2018

Subject:

Service Availability Sept 2018

ATTACHMENTS:


Service Loss Memo Sept 2018

(DOCX)



Copy of Lost Hours Sept 2018

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Gina Callahan, Deputy Assistant General Manager, Bus Ops
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 61

To:

Dave Genova, General Manager and CEO

From:

Gina Callahan

Date:

October 2, 2018

Re:

Service Availability - September 2018

RTD fixed-route bus operations provided slightly over 99.56% of all scheduled hours of bus service in September 2018.
Lost service hours for personnel related reasons reflect a decrease during the month of September over the same time
last year. This is the third consecutive month that reflects a significant decrease in personnel related service loss hours
compared to 2017 and earlier this year. The overall year to date number does remain at an increase over the year to
date last totals from last year.





September 2018 – 173.24 hours
September 2017– 1,568.21 hours
Year to date hours for 2017 – 4,080.05 hours
Year to date hours 2018 - 9,328.25 hours

While RTD did provide in excess of 99.56% of all scheduled hours of service in the month, it was necessary to cover
2,579 shifts by operators working a 6th day (one of their scheduled days off). This represents approximately 20,632 hours
of service being provided by a “6th day” RTD operator and does not include the mandated service hours provided by our
contractor partners, First Transit and TransDev. This number is also trending downward with the September numbers
lower than August 2018 and September of last year.
Additional information regarding bus operator headcount follows:

Headcount - Bus Operators - September 2018
Category

Budgeted

Current

Vacancies

Vacancy Ratio

PT

136

108

28

20.59%

FT

945

850

95

10.05%

Total

1,081

958

123

11.38%

Bus Operators - Recruitment/Retention
Category

Hired

Separated

Hired

Separated

September

2018
18

16

21

32

Year to Date

218

171

199

222

2017

Other items to note include improvements in the vacancy rate, recruitment numbers and retention numbers over 2017.
Contributing to our service/staffing challenges in September were two project related service disruptions that required
bus bridges (including the 10-day state of good repair project downtown) and numerous large special events (Taste of
Colorado, Rocky Mountain Showdown, Rockies, Broncos and Great America Beer Fest, among others). Staff continues
to collaborate with our partners to address and implement measures to attract, retain and sustain skilled employees.

Packet Pg. 62

Attachment: Service Loss Memo Sept 2018 (3603 : Service Availability Sept 2018)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.b

Lost service hours review
weekday hours
Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD
missed runs

pullout delay

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

5.54

61.36

66.90

RTD & Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

10218.00 wkday
total
%

2014
Jan-14
Feb-14
Mar-14
Apr-14
May-14
Jun-14
Jul-14
Aug-14
Sep-14
Oct-14
Nov-14
Dec-14
total
2015
Jan-15
Feb-15
Mar-15
Apr-15
May-15
Jun-15
Jul-15
Aug-15
Sep-15
Oct-15
Nov-15
Dec-15
total
2016
Jan-16
Feb-16
Mar-16
Apr-16
May-16
Jun-16
Jul-16
Aug-16
Sep-16
Oct-16
Nov-16
Dec-16
total

2017
Jan-17
Feb-17
Mar-17
Apr-17
May-17
Jun-17
Jul-17
Aug-17
Sep-17
Oct-17
Nov-17
Dec-17
total

2018
Jan-18
Feb-18
Mar-18
Apr-18
May-18
Jun-18
Jul-18
Aug-18
Sep-18
Oct-18
Nov-18
Dec-18
total

0.00

6.13

6.13

5.54

67.49

73.03

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

0.27
0.39
1.06
0.17
0.14
0.59
0.36
2.20
0.08
0.10
1.13
1.23
7.72

3E-06
4.3E-06
1.2E-05
1.9E-06
1.6E-06
6.5E-06
4E-06
2.4E-05
8.9E-07
1.1E-06
1.3E-05
1.4E-05

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.16
12.05
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
6.59
7.27
8.11
7.40
84.35

14.26
24.32
4.03
8.05
3.59
4.49
3.42
7.19
9.06
7.27
8.11
7.40
101.19

0.00012
0.00021
3.5E-05
7E-05
3.1E-05
3.9E-05
3E-05
6.3E-05
7.9E-05
6.4E-05
7.1E-05
6.5E-05

2.10
12.27
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
2.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
16.84

12.43
12.44
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
6.67
7.37
9.24
8.63
92.07

14.53
24.71
5.09
8.22
3.73
5.08
3.78
9.39
9.14
7.37
9.24
8.63
108.91

7.1E-05
0.00012
2.5E-05
4E-05
1.8E-05
2.5E-05
1.8E-05
4.6E-05
4.5E-05
3.6E-05
4.5E-05
4.2E-05

0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
9.11
23.48
54.09
93.55
385.21
264.07
829.95

0.37
1.22
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
9.11
16.56
19.51
38.49
91.16
100.33
281.03

0.37
1.66
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
18.22
40.04
73.60
132.04
476.37
364.40
1110.98

4.1E-06
1.8E-05
3E-06
2.4E-05
1.5E-05
5.7E-06
0.0002
0.00044
0.00082
0.00147
0.00529
0.00405

1.49
0.00
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
7.43
0.00
15.14
1.24
30.23
77.25
141.57

8.15
9.38
7.16
7.28
8.41
5.16
16.58
9.55
5.50
16.47
11.08
35.32
140.04

9.64
9.38
7.16
8.65
13.63
7.36
24.01
9.55
20.64
17.71
41.31
112.57
281.61

8.4E-05
8.2E-05
6.3E-05
7.6E-05
0.00012
6.4E-05
0.00021
8.4E-05
0.00018
0.00015
0.00036
0.00099

1.49
0.44
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
16.54
23.48
69.23
94.79
415.44
341.32
971.52

8.52
10.60
7.43
9.47
9.72
5.67
25.69
26.11
25.01
54.96
102.24
135.65
421.07

10.01
11.04
7.43
10.84
14.94
7.87
42.23
49.59
94.24
149.75
517.68
476.97
1392.59

4.9E-05
5.4E-05
3.6E-05
5.3E-05
7.3E-05
3.9E-05
0.00021
0.00024
0.00046
0.00073
0.00253
0.00233

210.12
522.58
794.17
27.30
27.08
7.13
1.50
18.26
273.44
508.47
288.29
402.13
3080.47

61.15
56.12
22.57
15.59
12.02
9.14
6.17
9.22
79.36
134.03
64.51
86.29
556.17

271.27
578.70
816.74
42.89
39.10
16.27
7.67
27.48
352.80
642.50
352.80
488.42
3636.64

0.00301
0.00642
0.00907
0.00048
0.00043
0.00018
8.5E-05
0.00031
0.00392
0.00713
0.00392
0.00542

90.12
353.01
297.34
126.16
38.56
84.22
89.34
45.37
36.04
99.36
20.58
83.30
1363.40

41.03
41.22
13.41
9.11
11.21
17.01
6.28
7.35
10.34
4.54
8.14
14.49
184.13

131.15
394.23
310.75
135.27
49.77
101.23
95.62
52.72
46.38
103.90
28.72
97.79
1547.53

0.00115
0.00345
0.00272
0.00118
0.00044
0.00089
0.00084
0.00046
0.00041
0.00091
0.00025
0.00086

300.24
875.59
1091.51
153.46
65.64
91.35
90.84
63.63
309.48
607.83
308.87
485.43
4443.87

102.18
97.34
35.98
24.70
23.23
26.15
12.45
16.57
89.70
138.57
72.65
100.78
740.30

402.42
972.93
1127.49
178.16
88.87
117.50
103.29
80.20
399.18
746.40
381.52
586.21
5184.17

0.00197
0.00476
0.00552
0.00087
0.00043
0.00057
0.00051
0.00039
0.00195
0.00365
0.00187
0.00287

5714.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD & Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

21.16
51.27
11.41
22.55
26.21
25.39
13.41
20.35
58.35
43.15
40.11
111.83
445.19

99.16
79.85
185.83
75.08
58.72
122.46
47.49
69.41
393.93
238.15
212.28
487.58
2069.94

0.00087
0.0007
0.00163
0.00066
0.00051
0.00107
0.00042
0.00061
0.00345
0.00208
0.00186
0.00427

203.23
201.85
240.77
149.91
132.91
155.65
208.36
517.45
1147.46
750.66
313.27
437.72
4459.24

67.53
95.80
42.67
31.70
52.25
47.48
106.92
257.36
420.75
354.65
136.47
188.65
1802.23

270.76
297.65
283.44
181.61
185.16
203.13
315.28
774.81
1568.21
1105.31
449.74
626.37
6261.47

0.00132
0.00146
0.00139
0.00089
0.00091
0.00099
0.00154
0.00379
0.00767
0.00541
0.0022
0.00307

425.95
732.78
889.87
1230.98
1763.33
1021.99
138.13
91.61
93.44

66.03
137.68
165.12
193.83
172.60
149.93
84.40
47.62
61.74

0.00431
0.00762
0.00923
0.01244
0.01694
0.01025
0.00195
0.00122
0.00136
0
0
0

1078.95

545.58
829.13
1357.62
1657.46
2011.51
1276.97
164.33
110.11
105.47
0.00
0.00
0.00
8058.18

118.46
166.96
198.54
225.55
184.73
168.02
87.15
52.89
67.77
0.00
0.00
0.00
1270.07

664.04
996.09
1556.16
1883.01
2196.24
1444.99
251.48
163.00
173.24
0.00
0.00
0.00
9328.25

0.00325
0.00487
0.00761
0.00921
0.01075
0.00707
0.00123
0.0008
0.00085
0
0
0

6388.08

491.98
870.46
1054.99
1421.60
1935.93
1171.92
222.53
139.23
155.18
0.00
0.00
0.00
7463.82

Contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

4504.00 wkday
subtotal %

RTD
missed runs

125.23
173.27
66.35
97.38
100.40
58.58
174.28
468.39
811.88
555.66
141.10
61.97
2834.49

46.37
44.53
31.26
9.15
26.04
22.09
93.51
237.01
362.40
311.50
96.36
76.82
1357.04

171.60
217.80
97.61
106.53
126.44
80.67
267.79
705.40
1174.28
867.16
237.46
138.79
4191.53

0.0019
0.00242
0.00108
0.00118
0.0014
0.0009
0.00297
0.00783
0.01304
0.00963
0.00264
0.00154

78.00
28.58
174.42
52.53
32.51
97.07
34.08
49.06
335.58
195.00
172.17
375.75
1624.75

119.63
96.35
467.75
426.48
248.18
254.98
26.20
18.50
12.03

52.43
29.28
33.42
31.72
12.13
18.09
2.75
5.27
6.03

0.00191
0.00139
0.00556
0.00509
0.00289
0.00303
0.00032
0.00026
0.0002
0
0
0

1670.10

191.12

172.06
125.63
501.17
458.20
260.31
273.07
28.95
23.77
18.06
0.00
0.00
0.00
1861.22

pullout delay

10218.00 wkday
total
%

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: Copy of Lost Hours Sept 2018 (3603 : Service Availability Sept 2018)

2013
total

