Oct 9 2018 0530 PM Operations & Customer Service
Committee
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
[AUDIO OUT]
[INAUDIBLE]
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry. OK. It's recommended by the Operations and Customer Service
Committee that the Board of Directors approve the January 2019 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in attachment A, resulting in annualized cost savings of approximately
$243,000.00 dollars, and further to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes. The recommended action falls in line with the following General Manager's goals: Core
Goal #1, successful delivery of transits services; and Task Goal #1, which is Fiscal
Sustainability. Do we have a motion?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: That would be Director Lubow.
KEN MIHALIK: Seconded.
KATE WILLIAMS: and a second Director Mihalik. Now, we'll go back to where we were before
that, and we'll ask Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter if they want to speak to us about this.
MICHAEL FORD: I'm going to introduce this a little bit and turn it over to Jessie. We came to
you last month to give you a draft proposal of the January 2019 Service Change, for, you know,
your consideration. Since that time, we've had six meetings with the public to talk about the
proposed service changes.
We met in Boulder, Englewood, Lafayette, Longmont, and at the Blake Administration building.
Obviously, we take input in there, and then go back and kind of noodle that information, and
then bring back to you an update of the proposal for 2019. With that said, I'm going to turn it
over to Jessie to go through the particulars of the service change proposal.
JESSIE CARTER: OK. Thank you, Michael. Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and
Scheduling. As Michael just mentioned, we did have our public hearings. We had six.
Not necessarily characteristic of our experience with public hearings, we did have quite a big
turn out this go around. So we actually had one meeting in Longmont, which was a large
meeting. It had 60 participants. And we have one in Lafayette. And that was participated by 86
members of the public.

There are two primary points of interests in this particular proposal. The 225LD was by far the
largest issue. One thing I do want to mention about the 225LD proposal, as you saw in the Board
Report, we are rescinding that proposal after finding that we have about $710,000.00 dollars left
in the CMAQ Grant to actually continue the services. That would take us into the August 2019
time frame if we were to expend that, if the Board so chooses.
At the same time, we are still receiving input on another proposal, which is the 228 proposal in
Louisville. And we're hearing from a number of people who are impacted by the new routing
going down Hecla. There are a number of residents in the area that believe that the new routing
actually disturbs their current, you know, peace of mind and safety in the neighborhood.
Director Chuck Sisk is aware of the situation and is hopeful that the city of Louisville along with
the HOA representing the neighborhood can come to an agreement for a final recommendation.
So again, we are still receiving input regarding that.
With that, some of the comments coming from the public hearing, turn it back to Michael or
open for comments or questions.
MICHAEL FORD: We're happy to take your questions at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I see some Directors who'd like to ask some questions. Director
Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I wanted to express the thanks of my constituents for
rescinding the changes that were proposed for the LD. And also, since everyone was told and we
know that it's going to-- the same changes are going to be discussed again in a few months, that
we really want to work with RTD staff as well as the stakeholders to see if we can come up with
some way to keep that going or at least a compromise. So to be continued. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. Director Solano.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: Thank you, Chairwoman Williams. I'm adamantly opposed to
cutting the Brighton Route to the RX. I think we have a growing population out there, and we
have new employment centers that have arisen out there. And I don't think this should be cut.
And one more question-- could I? How much in savings are we taking in by cutting services?
JESSIE CARTER: This go around when you heard the report of the total amount, was
$243,000.00 annualized. The actual-- the R change by itself is a smaller amount. I do you want
to clarify. We are not cutting the entire RX route. We are looking out at the midday trips, which
have been proposed for discontinuance before because of low ridership. We're looking at no
more than 6 boardings per trip on that.
So at this point, those two trips would be equivalent of two hours per day. So what I'll do is I'll
run the numbers. Because we were just looking at the hours in the report in Attachment A. I can
give you the exact dollar amount offline.

PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: OK, one more. Have we reached out to Brighton regarding these
changes and what Brighton could do to try to jump start the ridership themselves by advertising
communication, et cetera?
JESSIE CARTER: Right. I'm going to restate that we did actually propose this route to be
discontinued back in, if you remember, back in 2012. At that point in time, Brighton did do some
direct marketing, and also RTD did as well.
I don't know that it's a question of awareness of the time frame that the routes are being made
available. I do believe it's-- there really just isn't a market for it. So that's something, again, I'd
like to talk to you a little bit more offline to kind of point to what the issues are.
PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: I tried to call you.
JESSIE CARTER: I know. And I apologize, officially-PAUL DANIEL SOLANO: And one more thing-- the $243,000.00 in savings would pay for the
Access-a-Ride issue that we are talking about tonight. So food for thought.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Solano. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, just a quick question on the 16L, now. And that is, yeah, I've got one
constituent, and I'm sure there's more. Why can't you just pull into the station? Is what their
comment is. And that's what this does, right?
JESSIE CARTER: That's exactly what this does.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I'm just a bit surprised at the hours, over 2000 hours. So, you
know, maybe that's true because by the time you come in, you come back out, all of that. But
how many trips in a day-- do you know off the top of your head, how many--?
JESSIE CARTER: Don't have it off the top of my head, unfortunately. However, I can get you
that information offline. But I will tell you that, in some cases, it actually requires us to employ
another vehicle to you actually make that extension.
And there are a couple of good reasons to do it. It comes out of cost, but it's also all part of our
CBA, our Collective Bargaining Agreement, that would allow us to go from an area that we don't
really have a restroom for our operators to get to the station where they do. So this change isn't
just about extending the service connect to the rail at Oak Station. It's about giving our operators
a chance to use the restroom.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so it is adding a bus?
JESSIE CARTER: It's adding-- it's not pulling in a mid-day bus. So it's basically-- it does add a
bus but not a complete bus. It's not a full pull out. Instead of pulling a bus into the garage, we're
leaving it out, in inservice, during a time period.

NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Well, the one constituent, longtime friend, will be very happy
about this, because he's-- OK. Thanks. That's it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Nobody else? OK. Seeing nobody else in the queue. I guess we're going to
go to a vote on this? So-LORRAINE ANDERSON: Excuse me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh, I'm so sorry. Director Anderson, feel free to speak, please.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Well, I don't really have anything on this. I think staff has done a
good job in listening to people and changing things. So my kudos to the staff.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that input. OK. We are going to go to a move now. I didn't
write down-- I guess Director Mihalik did.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm the mover.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lubow, if you'll vote. And Director Mihalik, if you'll vote.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: And I'm a yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Anderson. We will mark you accordingly. OK.
Looks like we have, counting Director Anderson, we have 11, Yeses, and one, No. That one no,
for the record, is Director Solano. So this will pass from the Committee.
And I think our next move will be updates. So I'm assuming that everybody read the updates,
particularly on service availability in September of 2018. Is there any discussion there?
LORRAINE ANDERSON: I have a question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, you are recognized, Director Anderson.
LORRAINE ANDERSON: Thank you. You know, we have the 72L that leaves from-- I guess
it's actually Wheat Ridge or maybe Unincorporated Jefferson County. But most of the passengers
are from my district in Arvada. And I keep getting complaints about buses leaving early, buses
not showing up, and so on. And, of course, everybody thinks it's because of the G line. So if staff
would just contact me and let me know what the issues are with the 72L, I would certainly
appreciate it-- and, also, if there is a remedy. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Anderson. Mr. Ford, anything to say?
MICHAEL FORD: We'll check it out, and we'll follow up and make contact.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Director Hoy, you have something you want to say?

LARRY HOY: Yeah, I would like to say thanks. I noticed the Gina prepared this report, and it
made me think about her. And Lorraine's comment about the 72L -- I had some things going on
with one of the Flatiron Flyer routes.
And Gina, who is the machine she is, she never quits. She got that all solved, and she did it
quick, without employees. I don't know if she reshuffled how things happened in the morning.
But it was getting to be a regular problem.
And when I talked to her, it just-- the problem went away. And so often, when the problem goes
away, we kind of just go on our merry way and forget about it. And this, tonight, made me think
of it. So tell Gina-- I don't see her out here. But tell her, thanks, because she did a great job-MICHAEL FORD: Will do.
LARRY HOY: --I have to say.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Hoy. I have also found many times that Gina
Callahan is somebody that is good to know. Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just a real quick question relative to
the report that is found on page 62 of the packet. Looking at the bulleted points, I take it one of
those is September 2017.
MICHAEL FORD: That's correct. There's a typo there, and I was meaning to get to that. The
bolded one is '18 and the shaded one underneath should be '17. And I think we did try to get
something to the Board Office, but, unfortunately, it didn't happen. But my apologies, and we
will be more diligent next time.
DOUG TISDALE: No, and I appreciate it, because the point is I just-- I had a quick question.
That is, it looks as though September was dramatically improved over last year, whereas, our
year to date hours lost have doubled over what they were last year. And I'm wondering, is that
because it was lumped up early and we're on a better trajectory now, and we are in fact
improving that? If you can just help me understand that discrepancy.
FRED WORTHEN: That is actually correct. The first quarter was actually a little rough for us.
But we've made significant progress both on headcount and on service reliability through the
summer and into the fall.
DOUG TISDALE: Great, thank you. I'm glad I gave you the chance to explain that, because it's
nice to promote that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Seeing nobody else, do we have any further comments on any of the
updates? No? Thank you, gentlemen. Do we have any other matters that anybody needs to
address?

I think if not, we will close this meaning out. And y'all can thank me for running a shorter
meeting than Director Mihalik.
[LAUGHTER]
And we stand adjourned here. Our next meeting is on November 13th and we'll see you all then.
I know it wasn't fair.
[LAUGHTER]
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

