1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, July 9, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Solano called the meeting to order at 6:12 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:10 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:10 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:16 PM
6:16 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:08 PM
6:07 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:07 PM
6:07 PM
6:08 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:13 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:12 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:09 PM

Paul Solano

Vice Chair

Present

6:07 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Committee Chair
Director, District D

Absent
Present

6:14 PM

Directors Deadwyler and Menten arrived late.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke,
Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, David
Genova, Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara
McManus, Judy McMurphy, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Zamy Silva, Walt Stringer, John
Tarbert, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Doug Grass, Stanley Gronek, Diana Horton, Douglas Howey, Johanna
Medina, Mei-Ling Rodriguez, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• BroncosRide 2013 Update
Bruce Abel explained as we move towards the beginning of Broncos season
staff reviews our special service plan for the BroncosRide. This year there
are several adjustments, given the West Line opening. He shared that while
we eventually anticipate that the Broncos Ride service from stations served
by the W Line will be replaced by trains, at this time we are keeping the
service from the Federal Center Station. Bruce Abel also explained that we
would be making changes to the Federal Shuttle. For the 2013 Broncos
season the north portion of the shuttle will not operate as the owner for
RTD’s BroncosRide parking location has decided not to continue our
arrangement.
Director Folska asked for an explanation as to why we have a BroncosRide
shuttle but other sporting events, celebrity golf tournaments, etc. do not
have a RTD sponsored service. She also wondered about light rail frequency
and number of cars per train when there are special events. She hears many
complaints from her constituents that RTD does not have adequate light rail
service during these times. Bruce Abel explained that we are bound by
Federal Transportation Authority guidelines on offering charter service;
federally funded transit agencies should not provide service to special events
that occur on a limited basis and would be served by private charter
companies. He said that there are exceptions for routinely scheduled special
events like the routinely reoccurring Broncos games. We communicate our
services to the public and the fares match our fares for other service (i.e.

BroncosRide from a regional Park-n-Ride would be a regional fare;
BroncosRide from a local Park-n-Ride would be a local fare, etc.) Bruce Abel
stated that we also do a service for weekend Rockies games. He shared
that the reason we have those two services is they meet the service
standards; Rockies weekday games do not meet the threshold. Bruce Abel
and Austin Jenkins explained that staff looks closely at special events and
works with Visit Denver to try to accommodate the number of riders with
the appropriate number of light rail cars; however, this is always a work in
progress.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Judy McMurphy shared that the team from the Smart Media Technology
program is going to be focusing on testing over the next few weeks. This
will include testing the handheld Smart Media reader for fare inspectors, the
retail point-of-sales (RPOS) machines, as well as our external web portal.
She said that she will be able to report the results of the tests at the next
Operations and Customer Service Committee meeting.
Bruce Abel stressed that the outcome of these tests is very much going to
determine staff’s ability to maintain the timeline that has been
communicated to the Board previously. He wants to make sure all Directors
understand that.
Director Folska asked if one of the RPOS machines had been brought to the
Blake facility and if not, was it possible to bring one for a demonstration.
She also asked if we would be testing the machines with people with a
variety of disabilities. Beverly Scott stated that one had not been brought to
Blake but it would be possible. She explained that the RPOS machines are
the point-of-sales machines that will be used by our Smart Card partners,
not by customers; however, the web portal will be used by our customers
and staff is working with one of our vendors to ensure ADA compliance.
Director Hoy asked for clarification on our situation with 7-Eleven. He is
wondering if ‘no response’ means 7-Eleven indicated they did not want to
participate or they just did not respond at all. Beverly Scott said that 7Eleven did not respond to RTD at all. They have a very specific process that
we followed but they have not responded.
Director Hoy asked if staff has sorted out the issue of the CollegePasses and
summer school or whether we have a plan to address the issue. Bruce Abel
said they not only have a plan but a process is in place. He explained there
were two elements related to this issue. The first is that we did not receive
the software from our supplier until later in the game than we had
anticipated. The second issue is that when we went to use the software to

implement a process of suspending the cards, we learned that the
universities had not been following the administrative process they had been
instructed to follow so that we could use the suspend feature.
Director Deadwyler asked for more information about the issues we are
experiencing with the APOS printers. She understands they are under
warranty but wonders when staff expects the issues to be resolved. She
also asked if we have any printers that can do the job. July McMurphy
stated that there is one printer at the Blake office that is having issues. The
printer is printing the picture as a black square on the card. She said staff is
working with the vendor to determine the root cause so it may be resolved.
Judy McMurphy stated that there is a printer at the RTD call center that is
currently meeting our supply needs.

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Eric Farrington informed the Board that due to continued issues with the
system we have asked the vendor to send a Senior Central System Engineer
(SCSR). He will be arriving from Germany tomorrow.
Director Deadwyler asked how long we anticipated he would stay to monitor
the system and whether RTD is paying him. Eric Farrington stated that RTD
is not paying him. At this time we have not accepted the system so INIT is
sending him here. Eric Farrington has met the engineer in the past; he has a
great deal of skill and understands multiple modules within the system. Eric
Farrington feels that within a few weeks the system should be running
smoothly.
Director Folska asked for clarification as to what Eric Farrington meant when
he said we have not accepted the system. Eric Farrington explained that
this is our radio and computer aided dispatch and automatic vehicle location
system. This is what dispatchers use to track buses, manage on-time
performance, monitor vehicle health, make automatic stop announcements,
etc. The cost of this system is $37 million. Eric Farrington stated that we
have installed it on approximately 90% of our buses and our entire light rail
vehicles. He said that we have been testing it for a while because it is not
working how we think it should. Bruce Abel explained that with every IT
project the vendor has to pass certain tests and milestones before we accept
it. Director Folska asked when staff expects the next stop announcement to
be functioning on all of our vehicles. Eric Farrington stated that would be in
September.
Director Bagley stated that installation has been going on for about two and
a half years. He asked what our original schedule was for completion and

how long this process has taken at other transit agencies. Eric Farrington
said that staff originally planned for a two year installation time-frame. He
explained that the length of time to install the system on each vehicle was
substantially longer than expected. It was projected to take 8 hours and is
actually taking 14-18. He expected that installations should be complete
toward the end of August or beginning of September. Eric Farrington shared
that no transit agency in the United States has completed one of these
projects in less than 3 years; he has talked to one agency that took more
than 12 years.
Director Rivera-Malpiede asked what our plan B is if the engineer is not able
to get the system working properly. Eric Farrington stated that he is
confident the engineer will be able to fix the system. It is an issue of
system slowness. The vendor is able to repeatedly fix the issue but then it
begins to run slowly again. Eric Farrington said that when there are issues
we are able to run the system in a fall back mode and after working with the
databases it is fully functional within hours. General Manager Washington
explained that if the system is slow and we go into fall back mode the buses
are not going to stop running; we just fall back into a basic radio mode but
we can still communicate with our drivers. Trent Ratcliff informed the Board
that the warranty period does not begin until we have accepted the system.
Director Menten asked if this new system was due to a new regulation
created by the FCC. Eric Farrington explained that the FCC has changed the
regulations regarding the bandwidth of radios and our old radios were not in
compliance. The ruling on the regulation was made about 20 years ago but
the implementation deadline was December 31, 2012. General Manager
Washington stated we received a waiver since we have been working on
implementation.
Director Lubow noted that we have had many problems over the last several
years. She is concerned that the vendor may fix the issues for right now
but they will come up again in the future. Eric Farrington stated that we do
have a 6 year warranty so the vendor will be on the hook to make sure they
fix anything that goes wrong during that time. General Manager Washington
stated that we are dealing with a very complex system but that is why there
are milestones and acceptance testing. He said staff is confident the system
will work and if not, the vendor will be held accountable.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley asked staff to provide the Board with an update on the attacks at
the Lamar and Nine Mile stations. General Manager Washington said he would get
the Board additional information.

Director Menten asked when the Board would be receiving information on route
performance. Bruce Abel said there is a Study Session scheduled for July that will
have a presentation from Bus Operations. He also expects that the Finance
Department will present additional information in the September/October range.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 13, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Solano adjourned the meeting at 6:48 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

