Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede,
District C Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A
MINUTES

GM Executive Search/GM Oversight & Performance
Management Committee
August 24, 2020 at 1:00 PM
REMOTE MEETING
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Catlin called the meeting to order at 12:53 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Catlin, Vice Chair
Guissinger, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and
Directors Cook, Lewis, Menten, and Walker

Other Directors present:

Directors Buzek, Broom, Lubow, Mihalik,
Tisdale, Whitmore, Williams

Others present:

Paul J. Ballard, General Manager; Barbara
McManus, Board Office Executive Manager;
John McKay, Board Office Administrator;
Gregg Moser, Krauthamer & Associates

B. Discussion of Process
Presented by Committee Chair Catlin. The committee discussed the proposed timeline
and the procedure for the selection of the designee for the position of Chief Executive
Officer and General Manager.

C. Review of Survey Responses
Presented by John McKay, Board Office Administrator.

D. Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of
personnel matters regarding General Manager/Chief Executive Officer selection and
candidate finalists Debra Johnson, Adelee Le Grand, and Tina Quigley; §24-6402(4)(e)(I), C.R.S., for determining positions relative to matters that may be subject
to negotiations, developing strategy for negotiations, and instructing negotiators
regarding General Manager/Chief Executive Officer compensation and contract; and
§24-6-402(4)(b), C.R.S. to receive legal advice regarding the same.
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to proceed into
executive session.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed by 7 in favor and 0 against.

Committee Chair Catlin declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The committee then moved into executive session. Upon conclusion of the executive
session at 2:50 p.m., the committee resumed the meeting in open session.

E. Recommended Actions
•

Designation of General Manager
The General Manager Executive Search/Oversight & Performance Management
Committee (Committee) presents to the Board a motion to approve the attached
Resolution No. ______, to identify one of three finalist candidates as RTD’s General
Manager, subject to negotiation and execution of an employment contract.
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to proceed into
executive session.
Director Buzek seconded the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The motion passed by 6 in favor and 0 against.
Chair Rivera-Malpiede was away for the vote.

Committee Chair Catlin declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

F. Updates
G. Other Matters
Gregg Moser presented a recap of the interview process and discussed continuing
public outreach efforts.

H. Next Meeting Date – TBD
I. Adjourn
Committee Chair Catlin adjourned the meeting at 3:03 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

