2020-08-24 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, then I'll call the open meeting of the General Manager Executive
Search Committee meeting to order at 12:53 PM on August 24, 2020.
So I will again go through the roster of attendees for the record. We have Director Buzek,
Director Lubow Director Guissinger, Director Menten, Director Tisdale, Director Walker,
Director Whitmore. And on the phone we have Directors Broom, Cook, and I guess we have
Director Lubow also on the phone. No, I guess she dropped out. And then also on the call we
have Paul Ballard, Gregg Moser, Barbara McManus, and John McKay. Am I missing anyone?
OK. And if Director Rivera-Malpiede joins us, then we will include that for the record as well.
So there's been some confusion, I understand, about this meeting and what it intended to do as
opposed to what we're doing tomorrow. This meeting is really intended to provide a high level
overview of the search process and not necessarily our full discussion and deliberation in our
selection.
So we're going to really be talking about the merits of each of the candidates in tomorrow's
meeting. But what we wanted to disclose today for everyone was what we have learned over the
weekend and so to prepare us better to go into Executive Session tomorrow.
It was suggested that as a starting point that we forward our first and second choices to Gregg by
email by 1:00 tomorrow. But-- (TRAFFIC NOISE) hear some feedback, I don't know what that
is.
It was suggested. But then I heard from a couple of Directors that they're not necessarily
comfortable with that without hearing the other Directors' thoughts and the pluses and minuses
for each of the candidates. So I kind of wanted to hold that open for discussion as far as process
goes.
I think I'll start with you, Director Guissinger. Do you have thoughts on that?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I do.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: You know, I know we've used this, do a straw vote, before in the past.
But we're down to three really good candidates. And we don't have an avenue for having
discussion before we make that decision. And I would prefer to have the discussion in the
meeting tomorrow night and then weigh in with this kind of a straw vote and see where we are.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Gregg, I think-- Gregg Moser-- I think the idea behind that and what
we've done in the past is that it might get things started and we might be more efficient and it
might be time saving. Your thoughts on that?

GREGG MOSER: Yeah, I think it's helpful to have some level of discussion to see where each
of you are at, and [AUDIO OUT] that someone saw that somebody else didn't see and that could
help them and guide them in their decision and an interesting reflection point. So I think there is
value in that. I mean, I'm certainly happy to take input from folks. But I think that it is
worthwhile having a discussion. I've seen that play out in other searches to have a positive
impact.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any other directors who have thoughts about this? I'm flexible
either way. I think that we all will benefit from the discussion and hearing our other Directors'
points of view prior to even taking a straw vote. So it might make tomorrow's meeting a little bit
longer, but I'm open.
Oh, I see, under my little bar, that Director Buzek has his hand raised.
VINCE BUZEK: I do. Thank you, Madam Chair.
I agree with Director Guissinger for a couple of reasons. I appreciate the input of my fellow
Directors and also trust their judgment and experience in these matters. Also, I'm sure the other
Directors, like I have received, a lot of input from key stakeholders in my district, mayors,
mayors pro tem, and things like that, with regard to their thoughts on it as well. And if other
Directors have received that kind of input as well, I'd like to hear that before we start winnowing
down that list. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: And that's meant to take place in tomorrow's Executive Session.
I see that Director Williams joined us.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm sorry. I have a staff meeting at this time also. So I had to go there first.
Now I'm here.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's quite all right. Welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Whitmore, you have your digital hand raised.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. While I'm not fond of lengthy Tuesday night meetings, I really
agree with Lynn and Vince. I need to hear from all of you folks. Because this is tight, in my
mind. So I think the discussion would be extremely helpful, Madam Chair. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Any other comments from Directors regarding this process? Well, seeing no
digital hands raised, other than Director Whitmore's, who hasn't taken his down yet. If that's all
right with everybody, I think that we will go ahead and dispend with the proposed straw vote to
Gregg. That'll take one thing off of his plate in terms of tallying those points of view.

So I guess, Directors, those of you who have buddies who are not on this call, if you would
convey that information to your buddies so that they don't feel pressured to get something to
Gregg by 1:00 tomorrow. That would be appreciated.
So any discussions of the specifics regarding the GM's employment agreement and
compensation we're going to be discussing in this Executive Session. But keep in mind that those
are merely parameters that Gregg has learned from the candidates in his discussions over the
weekend, and the actual negotiations will take place only after the Board [AUDIO OUT] makes
a selection for a GM [AUDIO OUT] tomorrow.
And following our Executive Session today, we'll also meet with [AUDIO OUT].
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin, you're cutting out.
PEGGY CATLIN: Am I? I'm sorry. I'll get closer.
I said, following our Executive Session, we'll also need to approve the resolution and its
associated board report regarding the designation of the General Manager. The name of the
person identified as the General Manager will be added to the resolution after we select that
person tomorrow night. And those were included in your packet. So hopefully you've have a
chance to take a look at them. Director Guissinger and I have worked with the Board Office to
try and finalize those.
We're also going to hear about the results of the public outreach survey, which closed at
midnight last night. Barbara, what's that going to look like, after the Executive Session? What
are we going to learn?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, I think we have that on the agenda to speak about before we go
into Executive Session. And I forwarded to all the Directors the survey results when I received
them, which was just a short period ago. And John is ready to share them for our discussion at
this point.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. For the record, I noticed that Chair Rivera-Malpiede has joined us.
Welcome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know if you heard the discussion moments ago regarding the straw
poll that we were going to conduct by 1:00 PM tomorrow with our first and second choices. I
think it was stated by a number of Directors that they would prefer to benefit from a discussion
from fellow Board members before they even do so much as a straw poll.
For the record, I've noticed that Director Lewis has joined us. Welcome, Dr. Lewis.
So just in case your buddy is not on this call or on this Teams meeting, if you could get in touch
with them to let them know that that's no longer an instruction. And I believe the only two are

Directors Folska and Mihalik. So those of you who are buddies with them, if you could convey
that information I'd appreciate it.
So with that, I guess, John, are you going to be sharing the survey results on the screen? Is that
the plan?
JOHN MCKAY: Yes, I can. The main data, or the main compilation of the data, rather, is about
43 pages long. So I'm not really sure the extent to which we can digest that, other than I can sort
of break down what you'll see once you get into it. And then the key stakeholders is much
shorter.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So Barbara, you sent that at 12:46, so right after this meeting convened.
So those of you that want to check your in basket for that.
OK, John, do you want to give us an overview then, please?
JOHN MCKAY: Sure. Give me one second to share.
OK. Can you see my screen now?
PEGGY CATLIN: I can see your face.
BARBARA MCMANUS: There we go.
JOHN MCKAY: OK. So let me scroll down to the table of contents. So there are comments-there actually are quite a few comments for each of our three candidates. And then there are
comments-- the comments are reported for scores of 1 through 10 for each of the three. So let me
scroll down a little bit farther.
So here is the overview for all of them. And this is how the votes-- or not the votes, but the
feelings are distributed at 3% think that Debra Johnson is not qualified at all, whereas 11-- or,
sorry-- 37% feel that she is very qualified. And that's how it breaks down.
Here are the mean scores for all of them. And then you'll see the number of comments provided
for all three. So there are 264 individual comments on that 1 to 10 scale for Debra Johnson, et
cetera. So once you get into it, you'll see the anonymized comments and tallied-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
JOHN MCKAY: [INTERPOSING VOICES] the score they were given.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Buzek, yes?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I don't see the pages moving. I'm still on the cover sheet. Is it just me?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Mine are moving.

[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mine are moving as well.
DOUG TISDALE: Mine are moving.
VINCE BUZEK: Must be me.
JOHN MCKAY: All right. The same is true for all three. Let me try to jump out and come back
in.
OK. Director Buzek, can you see that?
VINCE BUZEK: I see your photo.
JOHN MCKAY: Oh, good.
VINCE BUZEK: Hello. Are you there?
JOHN MCKAY: I am. Are you?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm good.
KATE WILLIAMS: Stop it, you two.
JOHN MCKAY: It looks like-- hopefully he's hearing and seeing this. But anyway, it continues
for 43 some-odd pages that there is a lot of information for everyone to look through tonight. So
best of luck with that.
Like I said, the key stakeholders' data is much shorter. Let me share that as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: John, may I ask a question? Where it says score of 8 comments, does that
mean people, that's comments of people who scored her an 8?
JOHN MCKAY: Exactly. So anybody who gave her that score, all of their comments are tallied
under that heading.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And they're all just together in one paragraph, that's a bunch of different
comments.
JOHN MCKAY: Correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
JOHN MCKAY: Correct.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm making sure. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam-- I am not seeing his-- [AUDIO OUT] what Director
Guissinger is referring to on the screen.
JOHN MCKAY: Let me go back to that. So for example, so not as many people obviously
responded to the key stakeholders piece. So there were folks who gave Debra Johnson a 9. Their
comments are tallied. Folks who gave her a 10, their comments are tallied. But no one gave her-no one who gave her a score of less than 9 gave comments to Debra Johnson. So let me scroll
down to that.
Does that make sense? So she only had commentators saying, you know, who gave her a rating
of 9 or a rating of 10, only those folks provided comments. So of course, those are the only
things that are tallied under her score here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
JOHN MCKAY: And for Adelee LeGrand, she had two folks who gave her a 7 and one folks
who gave her a 9 who commented. That's not to say that other folks didn't give her a higher
score. They just didn't comment.
PEGGY CATLIN: So John, Director Buzek still only sees your picture on the screen.
JOHN MCKAY: OK. Well, he's lucky then.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm sure he agrees.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, I am.
JOHN MCKAY: Does anybody have any questions about what they will see once they get into
this survey data?
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there questions of Directors? It looks like we have an awful lot of-- does
somebody have their phone on chime? If everybody could mute their phones, that would be
helpful.
But I think there's a lot of information to digest. And we will need to be doing that prior to our
meeting tomorrow at 5:30. So are there any questions?
I don't see any digital hands waves. So I think it's pretty telling that the overall scores are pretty-or the high end are pretty consistent, at least on the general comments, all in the 30s, 30%. So
that underscores the thought this is going to be a tough and close selection.
Any more on the survey before we move into Executive Session?

OK. I'd like to entertain a motion to go into Executive Session pursuant to 24-6-402(4)(f)(l)
Colorado Revised Statute for consideration of personnel matters regarding General
Manager/Chief Executive Officer selection and candidate finalists Debra Johnson, Adelee
LeGrand, and Tina Quigley. 24-6-402(4)(e)(l) Colorado Revised Statute for determining
positions relative to matters that may be subject to negotiations, developing strategy for
negotiations, and instructing negotiators regarding General Manager/Chief Officer compensation
and contract and 24-6-402(4)(b) Colorado Revised Statute to receive legal advice regarding the
same.
Do I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Directors Williams and Malpiede. Are there any opposed to
entering into Executive Session? I don't see any hands. Those folks on the phone, I don't want to
overlook you. Is there any objection?
OK. So as we're all becoming accustomed, we now minimize this frame and enter into the
Executive Session Teams meetings. So I'll give everybody about five minutes to get their
technology straightened out.
She is participating in the RTD candidate forum, which is where I believe Barbara McManus and
John McKay have to go as well. So she will not be joining us on this call. But we do have a
quorum.
For the record, we have Director Buzek, Director Guissinger, Director Mihalik, Director Lewis,
Director Tisdale, Director Walker, Director Whitmore. We have-- I'm getting a text message
from Director Cook. We're still waiting [AUDIO OUT], or Director Williams just joined us.
I'm wondering if Director Cook is having some challenges. Nope. She just wants to talk. OK.
So I think we're going to be talking about next steps. Ms. McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: So tomorrow, tomorrow evening is what we think might be the final
special Board meeting, where the Directors will go in to the meeting. We will discuss the survey
results. Jeff Tranguch will be joining us from Communications to speak to that and probably
explain it a little bit better than John and I did in how everything is broken down.
Then the Chair of the committee, Director Catlin, will speak to the process from start to finish.
There's a lot of interest right now, but I've received a couple of phone calls the end of last week
with folks not understanding what the full process was. So we'll do a high level overview of the
process from start to finish and how we got to the meeting tomorrow evening.

We'll go into Executive Session. We'll have discussions. We'll do deliberations and hopefully
come out with a General Manager. I don't know how the Board feels about Paul Ballard's
comments about having a one, two, and three in the scenario financially that we're at right now.
But I think that everybody should give that some consideration.
And then after the deliberation, Gregg will make phone calls to the choice candidate and to the
other two candidates before we come out of Executive Session, so that when we make the
announcement everybody has been communicated, everybody's been communicated to. And then
Pauletta has press releases that she will send out according to the decision that was being made.
Do I have any questions? Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: --so I can unmute. I'm trying to unmute. Wait. Unmute.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're fine. We hear you.
KATE WILLIAMS: You hear me?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: And Director Menten has her hand raised as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm wondering if we could have a flip chart, a big Post-It pad like we had
last time. That was really effective for us to make-- I don't know if everybody else remembers-to make notes and do rankings and things on it. It helped.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, we won't have one ahead of time. Because the decision was
made that we're not going to send any of the choices to Gregg. So we'll have to do that within the
session. And Gregg, are you prepared-- I don't know if Gregg's on the call-- but I can work that
out with Gregg. He can bring up the spreadsheet, like he did the last time, and we can go through
that evaluation process.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I just think it would help.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I have two questions. First is whether the public comments that we
received in the two PDFs, one from the public who participated in the online feedback and the
second document which was the stakeholders feedback, are those going to be published on the
website?
PEGGY CATLIN: I think we're still waiting to see what Melanie's suggestion is at this point. But
she's not on our call. So I'll have a conversation with her offline.
Director Buzek.

NATALIE MENTEN: Oh, I still have another question.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'm sorry. You did say you had two. Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So in that same vein, I want, as far as I believe the two
documents that we received are public records, so I would be sharing those, even if we don't post
them on the website.
PEGGY CATLIN: Which documents are you referring to? You're breaking up.
NATALIE MENTEN: The TWO documents we received a little bit earlier today with the public
feedback and the stakeholder feedback.
PEGGY CATLIN: Again, I said that I believe that we need to clear this with Melanie first as to
how we make that public.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then the next question is I thought on our agenda had been
discussing the resolution, but that might be tomorrow's-PEGGY CATLIN: No, we have to-NATALIE MENTEN: --the resolution. And my question is, if we did go with the suggestion of
candidate one, two, and three, how that would change the wording of the resolution.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, this is Barbara, and I would have to check it with Melanie. But
in my mind, if we couldn't meet a negotiation, then that same document would move forward to
candidate number two. We certainly don't want the candidates to think moving forward that, OK,
well, if you negotiate too high, we're just going to go right down the line. I mean, that's not, to
me, that's not a very good picture to paint forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: Does that answer your question, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I guess I'll think through the question. But maybe we can talk a little more
about that tomorrow.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Buzek is in the queue. And then I think-VINCE BUZEK: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Do you want to weigh in on this?
VINCE BUZEK: You ready for me?
PEGGY CATLIN: I am ready.

VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. Yeah, with regard to the one, two, and three ranking, that's fine
to do but that stays in Executive Session. By no means should that come out to the public. My
god, you know, if we work our way down the line, think, oh, I'm the third choice, go to hell. I'm
mean, yeah, OK. Good. As long as we're on the same page. Thanks.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah. We are on the same page. And you know, like I said, Gregg
will make the calls to the candidates before we come out of Executive Session. If negotiations
for some reason fall apart down the road, then number two may not be available, and we may get
number three. So with that understanding, that's how we'll still move forward.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good thing we got three good candidates. Put your hand down, Vince.
PEGGY CATLIN: Were you done, Vince? OK. Are there any other comments? Because we do
need to talk about the resolutions and the Board report. Have you all had a chance to review
them? Would you like-VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Are there any suggested changes to that? I don't see any hands raised, so I'm
assuming that that's, that people are accepting those as written. OK.
Just, I have a point of clarification in the process. This is a special Board meeting and it will be
chaired by Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I'm happy to provide, as the committee chair, the timeline
that Barbara proposed. But I understood that Chair Rivera-Malpiede will be hosting, or we'll be
chairing the actual special Board meeting. So I just wanted to make that clarification.
OK. Are there any other matters? Hearing none, our next meeting date has not yet been
determined. But we will move into the-- a couple of activities when determining who should be
part of the negotiation process. And then follow that by our other duty, which is review of our
Interim General Manager's performance. So stay tuned. That will come.
Director Menten, you have your hands raised.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. I forgot one other question. Where are we at on expenditures for
our what I think we said is $200,000 budget for this search? Where are we at?
PEGGY CATLIN: I do not know. But maybe Barbara McManus can get that for us.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah, I can get. We've only received one additional invoice for Gregg
Moser. I can't remember what the amount was, but I can follow up with you and let you know.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: That would be good to know.
Are there any other matters?

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We actually have to do a vote to move this item forward.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Do I hear-- do I hear a motion to approve the Board report and the
resolution as written?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Director Williams.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
PEGGY CATLIN: Buzek, second. Do I hear any objection? Hearing none-BARBARA MCMANUS: Could we actually poll? Could we actually have Vince and Director
Walker and Director Buzek? Because this is committee and we need committee members
moving this forward.
KATE WILLIAMS: Sorry, I'm good with that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're muted-PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. OK. I'm going to poll. Because not all Directors are on this call,
I'm going to poll. Director Mihalik?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We only actually need committee members. We need a quorum of
committee members.
PEGGY CATLIN: All right then. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Cook? Are you there?

SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I know Chair Rivera-Malpiede is not here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: How about Director Lewis?
PEGGY CATLIN: Just a minute. Director Lewis? I didn't mean to overlook you.
JEFF WALKER: She had to log off because she-BARBARA MCMANUS: I didn't see her on. But I wanted to check.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, she was on briefly.
JEFF WALKER: She had to log off. But she sent a chart that says aye.
BARBARA MCMANUS: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you, Director Lewis.
All right. So the motion passes in committee. And we will take it to the full board tomorrow.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for setting me straight on the protocol here.
Director Menten, do you still have a comment?
NATALIE MENTEN: No. Sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's OK. Just double checking.
BARBARA MCMANUS: You're muted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You can tell.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I'd like to entertain a motion to adjourn this meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
PEGGY CATLIN: Guissinger. Is there second?
JEFF WALKER: Walker.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Walker. Any opposition? We are adjourned at 3:03 PM.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you, everyone.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, all.

