Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, July 14, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 9:20 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Absent
Present

9:23 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

9:19 PM
9:24 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

9:19 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

9:19 PM
9:19 PM
9:19 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

9:20 PM
9:19 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

9:19 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Present

9:19 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

9:19 PM

Directors Anderson, Lasater, and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mark Baudermann, Frank Buczkowski, Rick Clarke, Susan
Cohen, Heather Copp, John Dawson, Kevin Diviness, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Anthony Forrester, David Genova,
John Gonzales, Cory Granrud, Nate Herman, Kate Iverson, Tina
Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Tony McCaulay, Robin
McIntosh Jr., Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales,
Andy Mutz, Tom Papadinoff, Paula Perdue, Mike Peters, Scott Reed,
Steve Reilly, Pranaya Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Karen Stanley, Henry
Stopplecamp, Kirk Strand, Liz Telford, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter,
Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Brian Welch, Susan Wood,
C. Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

GB Arrington, Greg Barber, Chris Barker, Barbara Brodman, Sarah
Camacho, Sarah Clark, Karen Creamer, Jane Donovan, Joni Goheen,
Art Griffith, The Honorable Jim Gunning – Mayor of the City of Lone
Tree, Sherman Hamilton, Scott Hoffman, Eugene Howard, Negar
Karimi, Kelley Kneib, Anders Lindgren, Frank Marigold, Julie McCabe,
Lorna Moritz, Roger Partidge, Joe Reed, Dave Sachs, Roger
Sherman, Jeanne Shreve, Karen Stuart, Arleen Taniwaki, Gary Van
Dorn, Molly Vega, Megan Wagner, Roger Wilson

Committee Chair Folska highlighted RTD’s participation during the July 7, 2015
Transportation Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) meeting. She acknowledged the
participation of David Genova, Interim General Manager, and Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen.
Other Directors in attendance were Director Francone, Director James, and Director
Menten.

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman, from CRL Associates, acknowledged that the last time the
committee met was the night of the Denver Municipal Runoff Elections. The
election resulted in seven (7) new council seats, including Kevin Flynn, who
at the time served as RTD’s Public Information Manager for the Eagle P3
project. Roger Sherman noted that density, congestion, and how transit fits
into these two issues will be some of the items that will be taken up by the
Denver City Council.

Roger Sherman mentioned that the candidate deadlines for the November
municipal elections have various dates through the end of August. Once
those submissions are official he will prepare a snapshot of the candidates
and distribute it to the Board.
He noted that Wheat Ridge will include a ballot measure looking to limit the
Urban Renewal Authority and City Council in approving Tax Increment
Financing over $2.5 million.
Director Francone asked about the possible annexation of Southwest Plaza
to Bow Mar. Roger Sherman replied that he has not heard anything further
since the developer suspended the efforts in late April. He said he would do
some research to see if there has been any progress.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Megan Wagner, Director of Client Services for Brandeberry~McKenna,
noted that both Jenifer Brandeberry and Julie McKenna were on vacation.
Megan Wagner thanked the Directors who attended the Transportation
Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) meeting. She acknowledged that the
committee asked very tough questions yet the answers provided by David
Genova, Interim General Manager, and Chair Pro Tem Tobiassen were great.
She also thanked the Directors who have confirmed their attendance to the
Council of State Governments West Conference Meeting: Transportation
Presentation on July 27th. Committee Chair Folska confirmed her attendance
for this event.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Committee Chair Folska noted that Mike Dino from Squire Patton Boggs was
not in attendance due to a scheduling conflict. She referred the Directors to
the Federal Update included in the Government Relations Committee Agenda
packet for July 14, 2015. The update included information on the MAP-21
and Highway Trust Fund (HTF) long and short term solutions as well as
Fiscal Year 2016 Transportation/Housing and Urban Development
Appropriations Bill.
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, indicated that the House of
Representatives just introduced another MAP-21 bill that would provide
short term reauthorization. She noted that the Senate is against any short
term extension as they would like to see a six year bill. Sherry Ellebracht
said it would be magical how they would come up with a long term funding
solution, making a short term funding more likely. She added that the House
Committee on Ways and Means Chairman Paul Ryan is trying to buy some
time to come up with some tax reform. The bill should be on the floor
tomorrow.

Committee Chair Folska stated that Congress does not have a collision of
courage to pass something like a gas tax to fund the HTF. She shared a
couple of conversations she recently had: one with a Transportation Planner
professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and another with a
Transportation Planner professor at the University of California at Berkley.
She noted that both professors thought that a percentage and not a regular
tax would be more beneficial in funding the HTF. She suggested this may
be something for Squire Patton Boggs to think about and evaluate.

D. Other Matters
Director Francone encouraged the Directors to actively search for opportunities to
talk to the State Legislators from their District and educate them on what RTD
does. She mentioned that it was clear from the questions during the Transportation
Legislation Review Committee (TLRC) that a lot of the legislators do not know what
RTD does and how the agency interconnects with the Colorado Department of
Transportation and the Denver Regional Council of Governments.

E. Next Meeting Date - August 4, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 9:30 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

