2020-10-22 GMO-GME
PEGGY CATLIN: --22nd. This is the GMOC. And as I mentioned, I'm not going to call roll out. I'll just
mention that in addition to myself, we have Directors Guissinger, Cook, Lewis, Walker, and Chair RiveraMalpiede. So as others join in, we will, for the record, make note of that. Also joining us today is John
McKay, Paul Ballard, and Barbara McManus.
So just to get started, I'm going to review the agenda a little bit and discuss a few things. I tried to reach
out to most of you regarding the draft white paper. As I went through it, I made the determination in my
own mind that it really wasn't ready for discussion. And I know that staff had asked for input, and I'm not
sure how many Directors had provided input at this point.
But when I canvassed most of you-- and Director Lewis, I tried texting you and reaching out, it was late.
But by the time I-SHONTEL LEWIS: I didn't get any communication from you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I did. I did. I can forward it to you again. And I even confirmed that with Director
Guissinger.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I didn't get a communication from you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Well, we'll talk about that later.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It might be a [AUDIO OUT] mail. I think that's what she told me.
PEGGY CATLIN: Anyway.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Say that again, Director Guissinger. You said what?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It might be a voicemail. Was it-PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, it was a voicemail. So anyway, but those of you I spoke with had not yet had time
to look at the paper. So I spoke with Chair Rivera-Malpiede and we decided that it would be probably best
to postpone that discussion about the white paper. And after you have all had a chance to look at what
was really just a starting point for staff to kind of capture things that went on during the year, then we can
put the appropriate structure to it and get it going.
I see that Director Menten has joined the call as well.
So then, the item number C, Ballard evaluation. I actually had reached out to Heather, because she has
communication with her APTA workforce development team across the country. And she said that she
would she would ask her peers in the agency for how they they effectively evaluate their general
managers. And she was able to get a couple of drafts, or a couple of evaluation pieces from two
agencies, one of which I thought was pretty good.
Now I know Barbara McManus did forward those examples to you all. And I thought maybe we could use
that as a guide. The one from Pierce Transit I thought was simple and fairly straightforward. And maybe
you all could look at that and give me your thoughts. That would be great.
I see that Barbara has her hand raised. Barbara? You're on mute.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Too anxious. Good morning, everyone. I just wanted to add to Director Catlin's
statement regarding the white paper that we're asking any of the lessons learned comments that come
from the Directors be emailed to us directly. We did capture a couple from the meeting last week, but we
are asking those folks to also forward them to us so that we have an exact capture of what those lessons
learned are in the Director's words, number one.

And number two, I only forwarded those evaluations, Director Catlin, to you. So the rest of the group does
not have it. I didn't realize that you had gotten them ahead of time from Heather. So I sent them to you for
first review. So they don't have it, but I will forward those.
PEGGY CATLIN: You know what? I apologize. I thought that it had been sent out since I got it from you.
Let's just say that we have a simpler form and maybe a guideline that we can go by. I think we all agreed
that we did not want to overcomplicate this and that we wanted to focus on the 120 days. But I think, if
you would just share the Pierce Transit one, Barbara, I think that would just-- and we could even pare that
down.
And then, Paul, I really would like you to take a look at that as well, just to see if that's-- it if we could use
that as a guide and then plug in the items from the memo that you received prior to your start date. And
we can maybe go from there and set up a meeting in the next couple weeks to kind of just close that
process out with Chair Rivera-Malpiede and myself.
What do you think, Angie?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that sounds great.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I see that-- Natalie, are you on the phone as well as on your computer?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Ending in 8-4? OK.
OK, are there any other questions about agenda item number C?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And I was told that Paul needs to leave at 8:30. He's going to be speaking to Karen
Stuart's group up in Broomfield about the N Line. And that's where Director Buzek is as well.
OK. Let's move on to Debra Johnson, the first 120 days. And also, followed by that a small Roman
numeral I, or one, our Board retreat and our Board SLT retreats. Those both fall within the 120-day
period. So I think that timeline is maybe what we want to talk about.
Barbara, I know you had some thoughts about this. Would you like to share the process?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure. So there is a period of time from the 1st to the 5th of February where Debra
is going to be wanting to meet with each of the Directors. I don't know what that looks like, whether it's
two-on-ones, one-on-ones. But that time period falls from the 1st of the 5th of February. And then on the
6th of February is the Board-only retreat.
Then moving forward, we have the 120 days ends on March 8, and the Board SLT retreat is on March 6.
So that timing works out perfectly with the work that Debra's set up for herself and the Directors in the
120-day plan. Myself and my team have been doing some research on what these retreats might look like
this year if we are in a virtual setting. And some of the folks that we have spoken to who are doing
strategic planning meetings such as this currently have found that a retreat, normally we do a half a day.
And in the experience of some of the folks that I've spoken to, anything longer than three hours on a
virtual call is really lost time.
So we are looking to change that structure a little bit. And I'll be speaking about this in Executive
Committee later today as well, about doing it either a morning and an afternoon or two mornings in a row,
hopefully a Friday and a Saturday so we can keep the dates that we've already had on the calendar that
the Directors have probably earmarked.
So more to come on that as we glean more information from folks that are moving forward. And of course,
Heather is preparing a document that we'll bring forward-- well, I guess we'll bring it forward next month,

with regard to the 2020 plan, where we are with that, and what may be pushed to 2021 in terms of the
agency goals.
So that's where we are with the retreats and how we're pushing that forward, what we're looking at in
terms of how that may look differently this year, and how that fits into Debra's plan. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Barbara. And I'm going to call on Paul here, because he has his hand
raised. But I just wanted to point out that the reason-- we are not charged with the Board and SLT, the
Board-SLT retreats. This committee is not. It was just put on the agenda for information to highlight the
fact that Debra's first 120-day plan and her evaluation that comes out of that 120-day plan does include
the opportunities for the Board and the Board-SLT retreat outcomes to be incorporated into that 120-day
plan.
So that's why that's here. But did not want to imply in any way that this committee was taking charge of
that process. It's just, it's part of the mix. So Paul.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. I thought I would just take a minute and update the committee. I had one of my
regular 90-minute phone calls with Debra yesterday, and her move is moving faster than she thought it
was going to. Her furniture has already been picked up. It's going to be delivered to Denver this weekend.
So she's definitely coming. Well, her stuff is coming. And she's going to fly out Saturday, accept all of her
stuff, and then go back to work in Long Beach on Sunday.
But everything's moving along from her end. When I talk to her, she's clearly really looking forward to
getting into the job. So just thought I'd pass that along. She's definitely coming and I think she's going to
work just next week there. And she's probably going to be here a week early. She'll probably be here like
the 3rd, or in town getting things set up. And so she'll be around. So everything's moving well on her
schedule and just want to make everybody feel good she really is coming.
So that's all I wanted to say.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And she's not changing her start date, though, right, Paul? She's just coming-PAUL BALLARD: No. But she actually, I mean, she's really pretty sharp. She said, I want to come in early
and get all my paperwork done so I can hit the ground running on Monday. I don't want to be stuck filling
out paperwork and getting ID cards and stuff like that.
And I said, well, we'll certainly do our best to accommodate that. So she's got her priorities in order.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Paul. Lynn, did you have something else to add here?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I did. I had talked to Pauletta also about the plan and the plan of meeting
individually with Directors in February. And I mentioned that I thought that should be sooner. I would like
that to be sooner. We've got so much going. And from my perspective, a big one is the Accountability
Community, but everybody's working on different things. Pauletta sounded like she thought she was
meeting with us earlier too.
But I think that's important. And I guess I would like to-- I don't know if that schedule came from her, but I
would like to request that one-on-one meetings get moved up from February.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah. I would be surprised if that came from her. You are her priority, quite frankly. And
I will mention that to her. You, as a Board, you're her priority. And I will mention that to her.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Paul. And I want to express my appreciation for you being that conduit. I know
that when we hired you those long seven months ago, that was going to be your-- you mentioned that you
wanted to make a smooth transition and that you would help in any way. And that really is helpful to us.
I see Director Cook has her hand up, and then Barbara McManus.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, I just wanted to say I agreed with Lynn, that it seemed-- we'd hoped to talk to her
and have her talk to other people too ahead of that February timeframe. So thank you, Lynn, for bringing
that up.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks. And as you look at that roadmap that we put together, if there's similar
comments, please get those to us. Barbara.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, yeah, looking at the roadmap, I don't think that's the first opportunity that
Debra has in mind meeting with you. I think that in that five-day period, if you'll look on the guideline, it
says she wants to communicate observations and discuss major issues with the Board, which, again,
dovetails with the Board going into its retreat.
So I think with her may or may not know ahead of time what those dates were, that dovetails beautifully
with some of her thoughts and ideas that she will meet with the Directors in that short period of time to
help Directors move forward and give them some ideas about what they would like the agency to move
forward doing. Yeah, she's not waiting until that time period. That five-day time period is for a specific
reason.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Could somebody please re-send me that roadmap? I don't seem to be
able to put my hands on it.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Director Guissinger, you have the same issue with email chains as I do, since you're
on a Mac, and the original email gets buried below some of the responses, and they're hard to retrieve.l
so I can understand that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I didn't know it was a Mac issue, but-PEGGY CATLIN: It is. It is. And in fact, there was a communication from, I believe it was Tai-Shrae but
there were a number of responses that had followed that. And so I didn't see the original communication.
Anyway, just sorry to other Board members and staff that that is a technology issue.
Does anyone else have any comments on the 120-day, first 120 days and how we want to proceed?
Director Walker and then Director Cook. You're on mute, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: OK. So the first observation is it looks like she's already started working. And the second
one is, I thought it looked good. I took her-- I'm going back to the other sheet- Board priorities, I took that
as her first communications, like sit downs, face to faces with the Board members in that first 25 days.
But everything else looked good to me, the way that it flowed from one phase to another. I didn't see what
the date of 120 days was. I guess it comes out to the beginning of February to the Board-only retreat,
Board focused retreat. But yeah, I thought it looked good. That's it.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Peggy. I'm kind of going from memory, and it's not reasonable within the
first 25 days, but certainly in the 120 days. And she would do it anyway, is my gauge of her. But having a
chance to get out into each of the Districts, just to become acquainted with the region and the huge area
that we serve and to have a sense for the individual or particular concerns and preferences and things

like that, along with meeting with stakeholders within those Districts, but actually seeing, visiting, I guess,
would be something that would be desirable, to the extent that we can do it within COVID. So I'm just
adding that thought.
And then a question about, shall we submit suggestions regarding roadmap to you and to Barbara? Is
that what you're saying?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you very much.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm going to-- let's see. [INAUDIBLE] want to close? I have something in chat from
Director Tisdale, which means he has joined the meeting. Hi, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Good morning to you all.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I can't read the whole thing because it's off my screen. Would you like to articulate
what you sent me in a text?
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah, I was just saying that 120 days is approximately March 9. I think already Walker
had made the comment sometime in February. 120 days from the start date is approximately March 9.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. OK. I wanted to point out that to your point, Director Cook, last night when we had
our joint meeting with the Transportation Commission, CDOT commission, it was mentioned that-- or
Debra was on the call. And that was good. That was a way to introduce her to other key stakeholders.
And she made mention that her first day, on the 9th, she was going to start at 4:00 AM at the district
shops. So just to get to know the people. So she was planning to truly hit the ground running, as Paul
Ballard suggested.
I see Directors-- and you weren't on that call, Director Cook-- so I just wanted to mention that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. That's super.
PEGGY CATLIN: So Director Guissinger and Director Walker, you still have your digital hands raised. Did
you want to make some additional comments? OK. All right. Thank you.
Any other comments on the 120 days? Director Walker, your hand's still raised. But OK.
I think we're going to be able to complete this meeting fairly shortly. So some of the agenda items moving
forward, I think our focus does need to be on the 120-day plan. So I would like to get your ideas for
agenda items moving forward. Using the roadmap, we can probably kind of work through her plan maybe
as we go along on future agendas and just see what priorities we want to talk about.
That being said, we have eight meetings scheduled between now and the end of the year. And we don't
necessarily need to have a meeting just to have a meeting. So they're just place holders. And also, we're
scheduling an hour. And out of respect for everyone's time, we can carve up some of these agenda items
into smaller bites so that we don't protract the meetings any longer than necessary. Thoughts? Other's
thoughts on that?
I don't see any hands raised. If you would, though, let Barbara know if you have any conflicts, such as the
one this morning that Vince had, that would be helpful. And also, I'll work with Barbara and Lynn to do
agenda items moving forward, if that's OK with you all.
Moving on to Other Matters. Are there any other matters to bring forward? Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you
have any thoughts?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I don't. The one thing I was thinking about, though, is Barbara, as soon
as you see Debra Johnson's list of key stakeholders that she's going to work with, I think it'd be great for

us to take a look at it to make sure that if there's anybody else we feel she needs to be meeting with, that
we can add that in for her. Because I don't know who is putting that plan together.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes. Pauletta has been working to put that plan together. And I'm supposed to
see a draft copy of that sometime this week. So as soon as I get that, I can get that draft copy out to folks.
And I don't know what that schedule looks like, per se. I don't know that a schedule has been set up. But I
know that anybody that has requested time, I've asked Pauletta to put on a list in what she feels is priority
order for us to review.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that would be good for this group to be able to add to it or whatever.
Director Lewis, I see your hand is raised.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, thanks. I appreciate that suggestion, Director Angie Malpiede. I think that's a
great idea.
One of the requests I have as we are reaching out to stakeholders and Debra's meeting with stakeholders
within our District, that we ensure that the Directors of that District are aware of those meetings. In the
past, I've been excluded from meetings and other electives have been invited to those meetings. And so I
would ask that we make sure that the District and the representative of that District is aware of those
scheduled meetings and those stakeholder meetings.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great suggestion.
PEGGY CATLIN: Really good suggestion. OK. Anything else? Any other matters?
OK. We are adjourned at 8:29 PM. Thank you all, and we'll speak again, some of us will speak again at
the Executive Committee meeting.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. See you then.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you all.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Bye.

