1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

STUDY SESSION
September 30, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Bruce Daly
Director, District N
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Claudia Folska
Director, District E

Status
Present
Present
Present
Remote
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM
5:23 PM
5:29 PM
4:51 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Director, District A

Absent
Present

5:28 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:15 PM
5:25 PM
5:43 PM
5:36 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:28 PM
5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:05 PM

Director Deadwyler participated via phone. Directors Menten and Rivera-Malpiede arrived
late. Director Hoy was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Phil Eberl, Terry Emmons,
David Genova, Terry Howerter, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Vivian Morales, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, Walt Stringer, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

II.

Tina Francone, Alec Garbini, Joe Triplett, Monte Whaley

2015 Requested Budget (Jannette Scarpino)
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer, thanked the Board for their time this evening to
review the first draft of the 2015 Requested Budget. He said that Jannette Scarpino,
Budget and Financial Analysis Manager, and Susan Cohen, FasTracks Program Control
Manager, were with him to answer any questions.
Jannette Scarpino reminded the Board that the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) was presented
previously along with assumptions and key elements of the 2015 Requested Budget. She
reiterated that the 2015 Requested Budget was just a first draft; staff is not asking for any
appropriations at this time. She shared that staff believes this budget is representative of
the General Manager’s goals.
Jannette Scarpino noted that any changes to the Base System and FasTracks Operating
budget will be minor; however, the FasTracks Capital budget is preliminary as the capital
carry forward was not included since it is based on a September 30th close.
Jannette Scarpino said the highlights of the sources for the budget on a combined basis
are:
 Fare revenue of $124.9 million in 2015 is budgeted to remain flat from 2015 due
to expected minimal growth in ridership and no fare rate increase.
 Staff is budgeting $535.1 million for sales and use tax which is 5.9% over 2014.
This figure is from the CU Leeds forecast.
 Grant revenue is budgeted to decline about $53.1 million from the 2014 Amended
Budget due to identified decreases primarily in West Corridor New Starts grants,
CMAQ grants on Eagle and US36, and carry forward grants for park-n-Rides, the
Free Metro Ride, and SmartCard.
 Investment income is projected to decrease $0.2 million due to continued low short
term rates and deployment of invested funds.
Jannette Scarpino pointed out that as more information becomes available and the capital
carry forward budget is finalized, capital grant revenue estimates will change accordingly
in the 2015 Recommended Budget.
Jannette Scarpino stated the highlights of the uses for the budget on a combined basis
are:
 Operating expenses are expected to decline $58.7 million from the 2014 Amended
Budget due to project completion, 2015 expense projects now scheduled in 2016
and beyond, and expense projects reclassified to capital.






Staff is budgeting principal payments for debt of $62.5 million which is essentially
unchanged from 2014.
Interest expense is essentially remaining flat at $97.35 million.
Base System new capital expenditures are budgeted at $94.5 million.
FasTracks new capital expenditures are estimated at $511.4 million.

Jannette Scarpino explained that at this time there is a small difference between the 2015
Requested Budget and the SBP that are outlined in the Board Report included in the
September 30, 2014 Study Session Agenda Packet as item (7)f; this will be covered in
part by staging the work in 2016 of certain capital expense projects as well as a savings
of about $1.7 from the 2015 diesel lock. She also reiterated that there is not capital carry
forwarded in the budget at this time.
Jannette Scarpino informed the Board that the next steps are:
 Publishing the 2015 Requested Budget for public review and comment on October
15, 2014
 Present updated 2015 Requested Budget to the Board at the October 21, 2014
Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting
 Present the final 2015 Recommended Budget to the Board at the November 18,
2014 Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting
 Request approval of the 2015 Adopted Budget on November 25, 2014
Jannette Scarpino shared that staff is available to meet with any Director one-on-one for
further review. She asked if there were any questions or comments.
Director Bagley inquired what staff believes is the biggest potential issue for the budget in
2015; he wonders what keeps them up at night. Jannette Scarpino explained that about
three weeks previously there were some difficulties balancing the budget which “upended”
her some. She said that her biggest concern is that RTD has limited resources and RTD
must operate within those constraints. Terry Howerter stated that he has a great staff so
he sleeps very well. He believes the policies that have been put in place by the Board are
very important. He shared that he used to worry about an economic downturn but said
the fund balance policy really gives him peace of mind.
Director Bagley noted that the fund balance policy is not something that RTD has always
had in place. He thinks it is critical to build it into the budget but to try not to rely on
those balances during difficult times.
Director Lubow asked for more information about the unexpected items that were
presented to staff after the SBP was approved. She recognized that there is contingency
money built into the budget but wonders if these unexpected costs were even more

unexpected than the contingency accounted for. Jannette Scarpino referred to the
explanation of the unexpected items under (7)f of the Board Report that is in the
September 30, 2014 Study Session Agenda Packet. She explained that the contingency
money in the budget is the fund balances that staff has been hesitant to draw on.
Director Lubow noted that the fund balances are based on some federal standards but
wonders if the amount is really enough. Terry Howerter explained that the fund balances
were set based on Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) best practices of
having three months of operating expenses. He feels that based on the most recent
recession the fund balances the Board set are very good.
Director Folska asked Jannette Scarpino to read paragraph (7)f into the record which is:
(7) Operating expenses:
f. Certain items budgeted in the 2015 Requested Budget totaling $7.7 million
materialized after the SBP was approved, including RTD’s increased contribution
to the union benefit plans, a maintenance campaign in Rail Operations for a LRV
half-life overhaul program, and additional dollars for the Civic Center rehab
capital project. These items will be covered in part by staging the work in 2016
of certain capital and expense projects approved in the SBP for 2015 as
follows:
1) Track Maintenance Equipment for $1.0 million (capital)
2) Power Switching on Emergency Crossovers at SW, CPV, SE, CC for
$2.0 million (capital)
3) Grade Crossing Upgrade & Rail Replacement at Speer & Stout Street
for $0.352 million (capital)
4) Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System for $1.0 million
(capital)
5) 3 Lane Bus Wash Replacement for $1.4 million (expense)
Director Folska inquired what type of revenue was included in the other revenue totaling
about $9 million in the 2015 Requested Budget. Jannette Scarpino explained that is
miscellaneous revenue such as advertising, rental income, etc.
Director Solano expressed confusion about the Certificates of Participation (COPs)
budgeting. He asked if these were budgeted separately. Terry Howerter explained that
due to the different tax bases the COPs are separate for Base System and FasTracks.
Base System utilizes COPs for items like replacement of rolling stock. FasTracks has some
COPs for purchase of light rail vehicles as well as the recently issued COPs for North
Metro.

Chair Sisk expressed concern that our fare recovery ratio is only at 22% currently. He
shared that in attending Rail~Volution in Minneapolis he hears of many other agencies
having a much higher fare recovery ratio. General Manager Washington stated that what
comes out of the Fare Study will be paramount in what RTD’s fare recovery ratio might
be. It is impacted by fares, ridership, service area, etc. General Manager Washington
expressed concern over expectation management of the fare study results. He reminded
the Board how important it is to not make assumptions that fares will go up or down. He
is also concerned that people expect that fares will go down but somehow service will go
up which does not compute mathematically.
Chair Sisk requested farebox recovery ratios for various agencies in the US. General
Manager Washington said that staff would provide that; however, it is important to keep
in mind the differences between the agencies and RTD.
Director Daly shared that ever since he has been on the Board the farebox recovery ratio
has always hovered around 21-22%. He stated that there is nothing radical about this
figure.
Director Rivera-Malpiede said at Rail~Volution there was a lot of comparison between
Minneapolis and Denver; however, the reality is that Denver is much larger in terms of
square footage. She thinks it would be beneficial to see the miles of rail and bus service
along with the farebox recovery ratio to understand the differences.
Director Walker agreed that during Rail~Volution people were trying to compare RTD to
other agencies but he found the size of our District fare outweighs that of many other
districts. He imagines that even though the farebox recovery ratio has remained steady
around 20% it must be hard to maintain as expenses increase but RTD’s fares have not.
Terry Howerter stated that Director Walker was correct. Fares have not increased since
2011 while operating expenses continue to grow but staff has managed to control it.
Director Walker asked if staff prepares a document that shows RTD’s unfunded budget or
wish list. Jannette Scarpino said that a list of deferred projects is included in the SBP but
there is not an official document that is distributed to staff.
Director James wonders why there is such attention on farebox recovery. It is simply a
ratio of two numbers, each of which can be high or low for a variety of reasons. He
pointed out that a lower farebox recovery ratio could mean the customer is riding for a
lower rate. He does not understand why a high farebox recovery ratio is automatically a
good thing. Terry Howerter stated that he would like to see operating revenue cover
operating expenses. If the operating revenues do not cover expenses then those
additional funds come out of the sales and use tax revenue which is volatile. General

Manager Washington believes that people put a lot of undue emphasis on the farebox
recovery ratio. He said that a 75% farebox recovery ratio probably means that
organization has very high fares. He reiterated several Directors statements that it is very
difficult to compare agencies because each one is unique.
Director Bagley commented that he often shares information on the subsidy per passenger
with people in his area; when people hear this information and learn that the Free Mall
Ride is the best performing route it really blows their mind. He said that often people tell
him that RTD is giving away service. Director Bagley noted that fares are also a political
issue.
Director Solano shared with the Board that he has conducted his own research on this
topic. He found that most agencies do not run a profit but they are efficient. He believes
that RTD cannot be compared to other agencies but needs to focus on how we can be
efficient.

III.

Other Matters
General Manager Washington announced that Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager
(AGM) of Rail Operations, submitted his resignation and will be leaving around December.
General Manager Washington will appoint an acting AGM and begin a national recruitment
for the position.
Director Anderson shared that she was recently in Memphis where they have a streetcar
system that is not running. She said their transit agency estimates it will take between $6
to $40 million to repair the vehicles. She thanked General Manager Washington and the
staff for their dedication to RTD’s State of Good Repair. This demonstrates where RTD
could be with the mall shuttle if staff did not manage our assets so well.
Director Lasater said he has been having some animated conversations in Douglas County
due to the potential elimination of Call-n-Rides in the area. He commended staff for their
ability to work with an interesting situation he brought to their attention. There are people
who use Call-n-Ride as their only form of transportation but were not able to attend the
public meetings due to the hours of the Call-n-Ride service. He stated that staff is
extending the hours of service on the days of the public meetings to riders can attend.
Director Lasater hopes the riders come to the meetings with recommendations from the
community to come to a resolution on the eliminated service.
Director Bagley stated that he had three comments:
 He had a meeting with Roger Partridge, Chair of the Douglas County
Commissioners, about the Call-n-Ride service in Highlands Ranch and Parker. He
believes that Douglas County will come forward with not just a program of putting





money into something but really working with RTD. Director Bagley shared that he
informed Mr. Partridge that communication, cooperation and collaboration are very
important to RTD. He said that Mr. Partridge really picked up on that. Director
Bagley believes that there will be an attempt to make a model out of Douglas
County because there are two Call-n-Rides operating in that area.
40% of the Board attended the Rail~Volution Conference; in addition to himself
Chair Sisk and Directors Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede and Walker were in
attendance. He shared that he went on three tours. One focused on Transit
Oriented Development in extended communities, one was a Bus Rapid Transit tour
that really demonstrated what happens around BRT stations, and the last was a
tour of University of Minneapolis and their transportation.
8 Directors attended a recent tour of the hotel and train station at DIA. He feels
this is an outstanding demonstration of what RTD can do when we partner with
other entities.

Director Daly recognized Brian Matthews’ assistance in organizing the tour at DIA. He
thought that Kim Day gave a very nice introduction. He appreciated the tour and thanked
those involved.
Chair Sisk thanked Paula Perdue as she was instrumental in getting the DIA tour
scheduled. He also thanked the staff that represented RTD at Rail~Volution. He thought
that staff did a wonderful job showing what RTD does and the national presence we have.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Sisk adjourned the meeting at 6:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

