Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 20, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
February 20, 2007 at 5:30 p.m.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
15 members present.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
G. Derek Woolfall, System Support Supervisor – 28 Years of Service
Stephen C. Colvin, Maintenance Mechanic – 22 Years of Service
Dwayne Marquez, Bus Operator – 22 Years of Service
None of the retirees were present to receive their award. Chair Martinez acknowledged their
work and thanked them for their dedication to RTD.
Board Resolution of Commitment to RTD Riders
Chair Pro Tem Christopher read aloud the resolution of Commitment to RTD Riders which was
approved by the Board on January 23, 2007. This resolution will be posted as a public notice
in the RTD room at 1600 Blake Street.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
L.W. Morrow, Denver Colorado, acknowledged Fat Tuesday and Black History Month as he
shared his discussions with GM on fuel cell. He indicated that one of the challenges is to
change attitudes in Colorado while acknowledging some resistance to his ideas. He stated
Colorado needs to be more pro-private industry.
George Robinson introduced his colleague, Mr. Pete Silverson, who relinquished his 3 minutes
back to George for public speaking on the issue of the Parent Television Council (PTC) and the
Campaign for Commercial Free Childhood (CCFC) call on RTD to stop advertising violent video
games on public transit. For more information on these groups, please refer to the handout
included as part of the Board minute book.
Cal Marsella passed out the current RTD policy on advertising standards and indicated that
Marla Lien and the legal counsel will provide guidance on this issue. Chair Martinez requested
that once this guidance has been received, the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing
Committee will review this issue.

David Roth expressed a continuing concern on RTD’s role in the University Station Zoning and
Development activities. Director Brohl indicated she had made several offers to the
Associations for a community meeting but as of this time, they had indicated they would get
back with her if such a meeting is needed. Mr. Roth indicated that the Associations may not
represent the full interest of the community and suggested a door to door type written
response may be more appropriate.
Errol Stevens, Sr. Manager, Property Management, provided clarification of the current status
of the zoning effort and the next steps. Cal Marsella stated that Denver City Planning had
passed the rezoning with the next step moving to City Council but reiterated that at this time
RTD has taken no position on this issue. It is not timely for RTD to weigh in until a proposal is
received. Director Elfenbein stated his support of this position. Cal Marsella also shared that
the initial consensus was to include retail space as part of the TOD policy.
V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
Audit Committee
Director Tayer reported on the Audit Committee meeting held 2/5/07. If more information is
needed on the Audit Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes of that meeting.
Planning & Development Committee
Director Ruchman reported on the Planning and Development Committee meeting held 2/5/07.
If further information is needed on the Planning and Development Committee, please refer to
the Committee minutes.
Legislative Committee
Director Pulliam reported on the Legislative Committee meeting held 2/20/07. This meeting
included an update on a couple of bills that RTD is watching or supporting, namely the Parking
Management Bill, Bill supporting incorporation of areas in Aurora, and the Indemnification Bill.
If further information is needed on the Legislative Committee, please refer to the Committee
minutes.
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Director Chacon reported on the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting held jointly with the
Study Session on 2/6/07. If further information is needed on the FasTracks Monitoring
Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.
Financial Administration Committee
Director Kemp reported on the Financial Administration meeting held 2/12/07. If further
information is needed on the Financial Administration Committee, please refer to the
Committee minutes.
Contracted Operational Services Committee
Director Yamrick reported on the Contracted Operational Services Committee meeting held
2/15/07. Marla Lien offered additional clarity on the question of can the funds acquired as a
result of the Fiddler Green Parking agreement be used for RTD local projects. If further
information is needed on the Contracted Operational Services Committee, please refer to the
Committee minutes.
Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
Director McMullen reported on the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee
meeting held 2/15/07. If further information is needed on the Operations/Customer
Services/Marketing Committee, please refer to the Committee minutes.

Ad Hoc Reports
Chair Martinez indicated that Ad Hoc Committee reports will be added to the Committee
agenda each month as these meetings occur. He requested comments from any of the Board
members who may have attended an Ad Hoc meeting this month. Director Elfenbein shared
feedback from the DRCOG meeting that the primary focus was on starting the 2035 plan and
funding concerns. It was also noted at a subsequent DRCOG meeting, the 2035 modeling plan
was shared. Board members requested a copy of this plan.
Chairman’s Report
Chair Martinez shared that he sits on a committee for a mentee/protégé program being jointly
developed by CCA, CDOT, City and County of Denver and various minority groups. He thinks
this is a good effort and he is delighted to be a part of this activity to increase minority
representation. Chair Martinez indicated good attendance by Board members at the recent
CCA luncheon, North Chamber of Commerce and WTS Awards Dinner. Chair Martinez
accepted the award as Employer of the Year at the WTS dinner on behalf of RTD and feels
honored to be associated with such a great transit agency.
VI.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 23, 2007
MOTION:
Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the January 20,
2007 regular board meeting minutes.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 15 votes in favor (Brohl, Busck,
Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez,
McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and
0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
1. Presentation to the Southwest Transit Association’s Annual Conference in Austin,
Texas on February 12, 2007
Cal Marsella made a presentation on FasTracks to transit representatives from Texas, New
Mexico, Arkansas, Arizona and Kansas. He perceives these types of Association meetings
to be good collaborative efforts.
2. Presentation to the Hillsborough County Business Community and MPO in Tampa,
Florida on February 16, 2007
Cal Marsella made a presentation that was well received by the Hillsborough County
Business Community. He has also received numerous requests from other agencies that he
has had to turn down but appreciates the recognition that RTD has received on a National
basis.
3. Presentation to the Legislative Transportation Caucus
There was no action taken from this presentation but had a good discussion on the Parking
Management Bill and indemnification.
4. Testimony on Parking Management Bill
Cal Marsella testified on the Parking Management Bill which was voted 6-1 favorably.
Director Pulliam attended these proceedings with Cal and provided wonderful support
which the Committee likes to see.

5. Presentation to Vectra Bank’s “Business for Breakfast” Series on February 20, 2007
Cal Marsella made a presentation on TOD at the Business for Breakfast series. This event
was attended by Directors Kemp, Elfenbein and Quinlan. He has received requests for
copies of this presentation.
6. Other Matters
Cal Marsella has been involved with the indemnification group which was an expressed
priority from the Board. He has discovered this to be a major undertaking but they are
making progress. Patton Boggs will be lobbying for this issue but this takes some upfront
money to invest. Hopefully the money can be recovered as new groups come on board.
Cal Marsella will meet with Russell George, new CDOT Director, next week. CDOT has
some major challenges with funding and has several EIS that have been completed but
lack funds to implement or move forward.
The WTS Awards Dinner was a clean sweep for RTD. In addition to receiving the
Employer of the Year Award, Marla Lien was the recipient of the Woman of the Year and
RTD co-accepted the award for project of the year (TREX).
Director Yamrick commented that in her discussions with APTA, the RTD Contracted
Services had also been recognized for their contributions, especially the work of Bruce
Abel.
VIII.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved that the Board of Directors adopt
the Unanimous Consent Agenda.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly,
Elfenbein, Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Light Rail Accident Performance Indicator
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the change to the performance indicator measure for Light
Rail Accidents from <2 per month to <3 per month due to changes in the Public
Utilities Commission (PUC) definition of a reportable accident as presented to the
complete Board at the February Study Session on February 6, 2007.

B.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant for FasTracks
Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the Contract Amendment to Front
Range Systems Engineering Consultant (FRSC), a Joint Venture of LTK Engineering
Services and Parsons Transportation Group, in the amount of $15,341,000 bringing
the total contract value to $22,010,119. Funds for the award are contained in the
2007 FasTracks Budget and 2008 FasTracks Program.

C.

Approval of FasTracks Stakeholder Participation Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approves the FasTracks Stakeholder Participation Policy to serve as a
guideline for stakeholder input and involvement throughout the implementation of the

FasTracks program.
D.

Implementation of Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real Property Acquisition Policies
Act of 1971
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee the authority and responsibility
to implement and administer the requirements of the Uniform Relocation Assistance and
Real Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1971 for federal or federally-assisted funded
projects including the promulgation and administration of such rules, regulations and
guidelines as may be deemed necessary to carry out such programs and policies.

E.

Vacation of Easement for Bus Shelter at Grape and Colfax Avenue
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to vacate an easement by and between McDonalds Corporation and the
Regional Transportation District covering 198 square feet (.00454 acres) located on the
southeast corner of Glencoe and Colfax Avenue (an existing RTD shelter location) so
that property at this location may be redeveloped. A new shelter will be purchased and
installed by the developer, along with street improvements, and RTD will receive
$1,000 for the vacation of the easement.

F.

DUS Master Plan and EIS/PE Contract Amendment and Project Budget Increase Request
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute a Contract Amendment with the
Union Station Alliance – Joint Venture (USA) for the additional work related to Denver
Union Station in the amount of $8,700,000. The total current contract amount,
including previous amendments, is $9,696,278. This amendment will increase the
contract value to $18,396,278. This amendment is required to pay for additional work
necessary to complete the FEIS, amend the DUS Master Plan and complete the 15%
preliminary engineering (PE) by the Master Developer. Funding for this amendment is
available in the FasTracks budget for Denver Union Station.

G.

Transfer of Funds for 2007 Budget for Group 19 Fixed Route Contract
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to transfer funds totaling up to
$1,416,000 to the purchased service line item of the “Group 19” fixed route service
contract in order to adequately reflect the 2007 cost of service for the “Group 19”
fixed route contract. The sources of funds for the budget transfer include: up to
$966,000 from fuel line items in “Group 14”, “Group 15”, “Group 16”, “Group 17”,
“Group 18”, and “Group 19” fixed route budgets, up to $350,000 from the RTD diesel
fuel line item and up to $100,000 from the access-a-Cab contracts line item.

H.

IT Consultant – Ciber
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the first year option in the amount of $525,000 to
extend the contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK008).
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to Ciber through the competitive bid
process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus two one year options to renew
based on positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract was not to
exceed $525,000. The second year addition of $525,000 brings the contract amount
up to an amount that requires Board approval. The first year option is to begin on
March 1, 2007 and remain in effect for one year until February 29, 2008.

I.

IT Data Center Cooling Upgrade Project – 2007 – Construction Award
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a contract to the lowest responsive,

responsible bidder, TC2, in the amount of $590,408 for the IT Data Center Cooling
Upgrade project or alternatively to the next lowest responsive and responsible bidder.
The total cost of this project is $626,040 including contingencies. Funding for this
project is contained in the 2007 RTD budget.
J.

IT Consultant – LM Telecommunications
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the first year option in the amount of $250,000 to
extend the contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services (15DK009).
This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to LM Telecommunications through the
competitive bid process. The contract allowed for an initial year plus two one year
options to renew based on positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the
contract was not to exceed $250,000. The second year addition of $250,000 brings
the contract amount up to an amount that requires Board approval. The first year
option is to begin on March 1, 2007 and remain in effect for one year until February
28, 2008.

K.

IT Consultant – UniVerse/Legacy Programmer(s)
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award
a contract amendment to initiate the first year option in the amount of $249,000 to
extend the current contract for Non-personal Services for an IT ConsultantUniVerse/Legacy Programmer (16DK001). This contract was originally awarded in
2005 to 5280 Solutions, LLC (a WSCA company) through the competitive bid process.
The contract allowed for an initial year plus two one year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. Year one of the contract was not to exceed
$249,000. The second year addition of $249,000 brings the contract amount up to an
amount that requires Board approval. The first year option is to begin on March 1,
2007 and remain in effect for one year until February 28, 2008.

L.

Resolution No. 3_, Series of 2007 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number 3 (the “Bond Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds), Series 2007A in a par amount not to exceed $80,000,000.

M.

Contracted Fare Inspection
It is recommended by the Operations & Executive Committees that the Board of
Directors authorize the transfer of the responsibility for fare inspections services from
represented headcount positions to contracted security positions and the transfer of
$560,000 from the Light Rail Fare Enforcement project to the following job classes;
Electro-mechanic, Signal Traction Power Maintainer, Track Maintainer, General Repair
Mechanic, Technical Services, Unit Shop Technician, Support Vehicle Technician,
Revenue Technician, and Electronic Technician.

N.

Recommendation for Lease Amendment at Fiddler’s Green
It is recommended by the Executive Committee and the Contracted Operational
Services Committees that the General Manager be authorized to execute a lease
amendment with the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District releasing 530 parking
spaces leased to RTD for transit use at Fiddler’s Green and serving the Arapahoe light
rail station, in exchange for the payment of $1,888,484.94 as of February 21, 2007
with interest accruing thereafter, by FBID.

O.

IX.

RESOLUTION NO. 4_, SERIES OF 2007
(Mileage Differential for Eligible Board Members)
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board adopt the modified
Resolution NO 4, Series of 2007, which updates the Board policy on mileage
differential for eligible Board Members.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
P.

Approval of May 2007 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services/Marketing Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the May 6, 2007 Service Change package as revised and
summarized on Attachment A resulting in a net annual cost of approximately
$1,847,400, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these
changes.
MOTION:
Director Ruchman made the recommendation to approve
the proposed May 2007 Service Changes
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Kinton indicated he had received recent
communications from a constituent concerned about the
changes to the 6X and that she would lose the return trip
from downtown to the Federal Center. Bill Porter
explained that 2 of the trips had been removed but the
reverse route has still been maintained
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez
Unanimously.

Q.

declared

the

motion

PASSED

Approval of Amended Bylaws
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board adopt the amended
bylaws.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the recommendation to approve the
Amended Bylaws
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

Director Quinlan stated he felt the Oath language should
remain as it is. Director McMullen citing other changes
that have been made to the bylaws, expressed the desire
to be more inclusive of other personal considerations in
2007.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 12 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Ruchman, Tayer, and
Yamrick) and 3 against (Kemp, Kinton and Quinlan).

Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

R.

RESOLUTION NO. 5_ SERIES OF 2007
(Salaried Employee Pension Trust-Trustee Appointment)
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the recommendation to approve
the appointment
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

X.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS

XI.

NEW BUSINESS

XII.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to move into Executive
Session to discuss Contract Negotiations-Railroads C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(e) and Contract negotiations-Federal CenterGovernment Services Administration, C.R.S. 24-6402(4)(e)
Director Elfenbein seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 15 votes in
favor (Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Christopher, Daly, Elfenbein,
Kemp, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam, Quinlan,
Ruchman, Tayer, and Yamrick) and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

ADJOURN
Meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, February 20, 2007

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, Chair
Bill Christopher, First Vice Chair
Neill Quinlan, Second Vice Chair
Barbara Brohl, Secretary
Lee Kemp, Treasurer
Noel Busck
Juanita Chacon
Bruce Daly
Bill Elfenbein
Daryl Kinton
Bill McMullen
Wally Pulliam
Dave Ruchman
John Tayer
Barbara Yamrick
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Cal Marsella
Bill Bell
Rod Dodsworth
David Genova
Marla Lien
Tony McCaulay
Geoff Noble
Liz Rao
Michael Sheehan
Joe Smith
Stan Szabelak
Bill Van Meter

District B
District J
District G
District D
District I
District K
District C
District N
District A
District H
District E
District L
District M
District O
District F

Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Phil Eberl
Greg Johnson
Lloyd Mack
Richard Morton
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed
John Shonsey
Errol Stevens
Pauletta Tonilas
Larry Warner

OTHERS PRESENT –
Holman Carter – ATU 1001
Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News
Victoria Oliver – Denver Police Department
John Hulse – Spectrum A/V
L.W. Morrow – EFC
Terrence Jackson
Kelly Monaghan
Bruce Behncke – Veolia
George Robison – Parent TV
Peter Simonson – Campaign for a Commercial Free Childhood
Rick McNeal
Rich Mahan
David Ross
Pedro Ramos – JP Morgan
Alan Skel – KMGH
Genevieve Lind – KMGH
Stephen Sehumann

Susan Altes
Dennis Cole
Sherry Ellebracht
Bob Lewis
Caitlin Magee
Jerry Nery
Bill Porter
Daria Serna
Roger Sherman
Henry Stopplecamp
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington

Frank Cannon – USNCO
Larry Gibson – DMJM Harris
David Levy – DMJM
Roger Chapin – First Transit

