Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
Corrected Minutes
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Office Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 11, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held
May 10, 2011 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Tobiassen; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl,
Deadwyler, Daly, Hoy, James, Malpiede, O’Boyle, and Tayer.

Directors Cohen and Riley were absent.
McMullen left early.

Directors Bagley and

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tom Barlow, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Rick Clarke, Jessie
Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Bob Downes, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry Howerter, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Brian Matthews, Doug MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Kevin
Parker, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Trent Ratcliff, Susan Sandoval,
Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Walt
Stringer, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Eric Biga – Veolia, Bert Bondi – Bondi & Co., Jeff Leib – Denver Post,
Stanley Gronek, Treasurer – ATU Local 1001, Rich MacIntosh Transportation Software, and Cheryl Wallace – Bondi & Co.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Operations & Customer Services
Committee Meeting to order at 7:15 p.m.

Recommended Action
 August 2011 Service Changes
Bruce Abel indicated that the first action item would move the Service Changes to
Public Comment.

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 2 of 5

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors approve moving the proposed August 2011 Service Changes on to public
review and comment.
Motion:
Director Tayer made the motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 17,
2011 Board meeting.
Second:

Chair Kemp seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director O’Boyle inquired if Airline
schedules were considered with regards to
the change to the AT. Jesse Carter
indicated that we did look at and speak
with employers and HR representatives
from DIA. Brue Abel added that the
majority of the ridership of the SkyRide
routes are DIA employees.
Director Malpiede asked for clarification to
the changes to the 65 and 105. Jesse
Carter explained that the 65 would now
end at Southmore Park-n-Ride on weekends
due to low ridership, and the 105’s early
morning trips will now begin at Ulster and
Tubbs instead of the Arapahoe Park-n-Ride.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.

Committee Chair Tobiassen indicated he would entertain a motion to move the
following two action items together.


Amendment of MV Transit ADA Paratransit services contract 17-DH-007 for the
provision of "Belleview Call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services.

It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing
ADA paratransit services contract with MV Transit (17-DH-007) for the provision of
the “Belleview Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the
duration of the existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $261,375. This cost
includes an estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The
service is scheduled to begin January 2, 2012 and run through the end of the current
ADA Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2012.


Amendment of Special Transit ADA Paratransit Services contract 17-DH-028 for

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 3 of 5

the provision of “Federal Heights Call-n-Ride” Demand Response Services.
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing
ADA paratransit services contract with Special Transit (17-DH-028) for the provision
of the “Federal Heights Call-n-Ride” services. This contract amendment will be for the
duration of the existing contract. The cost shall not exceed $184,875. This cost
includes an estimate for fuel which will be treated as a pass through expense. The
service is scheduled to begin January 2, 2012 and run through the end of the current
ADA Paratransit Services contract, December 31, 2012.
Bruce Abel indicated that these two action items are to amend the current contracts
to allow for price breaks and coordinating opportunities.
Director Daly inquired as to who determines the boundaries for the Call-n-Ride
program, since they work in a limited yet specific area. Bruce Abel indicated that a
planning committee is created with the local government to identify the exact areas
which need to be serviced. Occasionally, the local government will bring in members
of the community as well for their input.

II.

Motion:

Chair Kemp made the motion to forward
these two items to the full board at the
May 17, 2011 Board meeting.

Second:

Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed Unanimously.

Information Items
 Quarterly reports for Contracted Services
Bruce Abel highlighted on the main points concerning the Quarterly reports for
contracted services in the Board Packet. Mr. Abel noted that on-time performance
has been negatively affected by traffic and growth in the community, causing a need
for schedule changes. Miles between lost service road calls have had significant
progress in the last two quarters, and the increase of rider complaints are being
further investigated.
Director Daly noted that the operator complaints regarding fares and strollers have
been ongoing for a year now, and inquired if this is still an issue. Carolyn Conover
explained that it is still seen in complaints. Additional complaints are reported if the
rider feels challenged by the operator to show proof of discount fare, or if they are
asked to move from priority seating areas for ADA compliance. Director Brohl added
that we are obligated to be ADA compliant, but some of our passengers are not
courteous to other riders.
Director Daly asked what the policy was regarding passengers standing holding

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 4 of 5

children, or pregnant mothers standing. Bruce Abel explained that current policy
requires the driver/operator to request a fellow passenger to move to accommodate
the need, but they cannot force them to do so. If the passenger refuses to do so,
that is the end of the conversation.
Director O’Boyle commended staff on the continued decline in the number of
complaints.
 Summary review of access-a-ride 1st quarter reviews
Larry Buter noted that for the last 6 to 12 months staff has been discussing various
complaints and accommodations for the access-a-ride program. Bruce Abel added
that this will be part of our quarterly reports to advise the Board of activities
undertaken as part of the paratransit oversight process.
Director Tobiassen inquired as to when the video systems would be installed in all of
the access-a-ride vans. Bruce Abel indicated that that item was requested and is
included in the 2011 amended budget request. The first 12 vehicles have the
cameras already installed, and once the amended budget is approved, we can install
the cameras in the remainder of the fleet after that.
Bruce Abel noted that as the last meeting Director Tayer inquired as to how we
communicate service interruptions with the public, and what the process is. Bus
Operators are trained to contact dispatch if they are running 10 minutes late during
normal weather operations. Dispatch will then make the real time call as to what is to
happen next. Mike Gil added that there are many different circumstances that go into
effect such as time of day, amount of buses, span of service, location, etc. Director
Tayer asked what the criterion was for calling in a delay. Bruce Abel noted that
anytime there is a major delay the operator is required to contact dispatch, but there
is a fair amount of discretion on behalf of the dispatcher.
 Service interruptions communications process
John Tarbert explained that the quarterly report included information from the 1st
quarter of 2011. Director Hoy inquired as to why we do not collect fare from fare
evaders the first time they are caught. John Tarbert noted that RTD has a database
that names are cross checked against from the last 10 years. If an evader’s name is
not in the data base, they are given a warning.
Director Deadwyler added that her grandson recently received a warning because he
rode the light rail without paying, and was very appreciative of the security patrolling
the transit system.
 Comparative study of Diesel, CNG and Hybrid technologies
Dean Shaklee highlighted information provided in the Board packet noting that Hybrid
is the most costly technology at the present time. Even though there is better fuel
efficiency, the high capital acquisition costs cannot be overcome, and their life cycle
costs are usually 15.9% more than standard diesel buses. CNG buses are minimally
lower, but new CNG buses require new fueling stations and modifications to existing

Minutes of the Operations and Customer Services Committee Meeting held on May 10, 2011
Page 5 of 5

maintenance facilities which can range from 8 million to 57 million just for one
facility.
Director Tayer noted that Hybrids were so much more expensive regarding Operating
and Maintenance costs, and was curious as to why that was. Dean Shaklee
explained that they are considerably more expensive because their components are
much more costly.
Director James added that he and Director Bagley had shared this information with
Senator Mike Coffman and since he is very interested in Hybrid technology.
Director O’Boyle noted that this report mentioned a significant difference between
Denver and the rest of the country with respect to CNG because of our altitude and
was curious to know how big of a factor that was in terms of performance and fuel
savings. Dean Shaklee noted that at this altitude, any internal combustion engine
has less power than it would have at sea level. With CNG, we would be losing about
25% of power compared to a diesel engine. Even bus manufacturers, such as
Cummins void their manufacturer’s warranty if the bus is operated over 5,000 feet.
Director Daly added that this information would be passed along to the Fiscal
Sustainability Task Force since they had recently discussed an alternative fuels
assessment.
Director Daly and Chair Kemp noted the House Bill that was passed today will not
affect RTD since special districts were out of the bill.
 IT Tech Update
Trent Ratcliff gave updates during the Finance Administration & Audit Committee
meeting.
III.

Other Matters
None

IV.

Next Meeting Date – June 14, 2011

V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:25 p.m.

