Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 12, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

March 12, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March12, 2009
at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, 2nd Vice-Chair Busck;
Treasurer Tayer; Directors Bagley and Chacon;
Via phone: Directors Daly, McMullen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella; Paula Perdue

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb, Denver Post

Call to Order:

Chair Lee Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:05
p.m.

Cal Marsella reviewed the action items on the March Board agenda. There were
no major concerns.

I.

March Board Meeting Agenda Review
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
March 17, 2009.

Director Tayer seconded the motion
Vote on
The Motion: The Motion PASSED unanimously.


Unanimous Consent



Approval of Contract Amendment with David Evans and
Associates for West Corridor Final Design Consultant and Design
Services during construction, contract No. 15DH007
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 12, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 2 of 6
designees to execute all documents necessary to award and
implement a contract amendment to David Evans and Associates
(DEA) for the following services: inclusion of final stakeholder
comments into the Issued For Construction (IFC) documents;
Additions to the Scope of Work: and Design Services During
Construction (DSDC) for them and their consultants to administer
field design changes and to inspect portions of the construction
for which they have certified the design. The total increase in
contract No. 15DH007 is $2,660,802.00. Funds are included in
the budget for the West Corridor.


Approval to Release the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
Supplemental Environmental Assessment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors direct the General Manager to release the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility (CRMF) Supplemental
Environmental Assessment for public and agency review.



Approval of New FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee
Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors appoint seven citizens to the
FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee; one member to fill a
vacancy created by a resignation from the Committee and six new
members for pro-rated terms of one to three years.



IT Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of RTD’s
Radio and CAD/AVL Systems
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute
all documents necessary to award IBI Group (IBI) a contract to
become the Owner’s Representative to Support Replacement of
RTD’s Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle
Location (CAD/AVL) Systems (RFP 18DH016) in the first-year
amount not-to-exceed limit of $722,000. Due to the complexity
of the project, the subsequent year’s scope of work and fee will
be reviewed and negotiated annually. IBI was selected through
the competitive bid process. The contract has a 5-year period of
performance with a one-year option to extend the period of
performance. The RFP required eight (8) percent Disadvantaged
Business Enterprise (DBE) participation. The notice to proceed is
estimated to be on April 1, 2009. The contract value for
subsequent years will be determined based upon RTD’s need for
services.



Inducement Resolution- FasTracks Private Activity

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 12, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 3 of 6
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that
the Board approve the attached Inducement Resolution (the
"Resolution") expressing the intent of the Board to issue private
activity bonds, pursuant to Section 142 of the Internal Revenue
Code, to finance a portion of the costs of its FasTracks program.


Cost Containment Transfer Request
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer
$19,563,202 from the budgeted expenditure accounts, as
summarize below, to a reserve for the purpose of controlling the
2009 RTD budget.



Recommended Action



Approval of Projects to be Submitted for Economic Stimulus
Formula Funds Available to RTD
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and
Staff to apply for approximately $72.8 million Economic Stimulus
grant funds under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act
(ARRA) of 2009, to be allocated to the Base System and
FasTracks projects as outlined in this board report.
It is further recommended by the Financial Administration
Committee that the Board authorize the transfer of $8,994,000
from the Intercity Bus Procurement Project and $3,815,007 from
the Transit Development Reserve to fund projects not included in
the 2009 Adopted Budget. These funds will be reimbursed by the
ARRA grant funds in the 2009 Amended budget. See Attachment
I.
Service Change package as revised and summarized on
Attachment A resulting in a net annual savings of approximately
$6,806,860, and, further, to authorize the General Manager to
execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators
whose service is impacted by these changes.

Discussion: Cal Marsella indicated there were two items on the
recommended Economic Stimulus Package that had been changed
since the last presentation:
DUS—the staff is recommending $9.2 million which will close the
gap on the DUS station. DRCOG has approved $18.6M.
US 36 Queue Jump—The $15M queue jump request was not
approved by DRCOG. RTD will do a 50/50 split with CDOT and has
recommended 7.5 M for the US 36 queue jump. The US 36 Coalition
is working with CDOT on their share of this cost.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 12, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 4 of 6
Director Busck asked where the money goes when it comes back to
us. Cal Marsella indicated that part of the $220M BRT will be
reduced by the $7.5M that was accelerated by the economic
stimulus package.
Cal Marsella stated that staff had not changed the recommendation
of the Pine Junction request from Director Daly but would leave this
up to Director Daly to bring it before the full Board for a decision.
Director Tayer requested that Cal provide a clear explanation of the
cost containment budget recommendation.

II.

GM Contract Amendment
Cal Marcella indicated there are two items for discussion at the G.M.
Evaluation Committee next Thursday: (1) the wrap up of his
assessment of performance for 2008 (2) Contract Amendment for
the deferment of his salary increase and performance bonus

III.

Metro Mayors Task Force Update
Director Busck provided his assessment of the Metro Mayors Task
Force Update. He stated this has been a learning experience and that
one of the lessons learned is the importance of keeping the partners
close to the hip in communicating what is going on. The Metro
Mayors group needs to be informed and they are working on a vehicle
to provide this ongoing communications. One of the things he finds
unusual is the Mayors stepping out now for a vote in 2009. The
bottom line however, is the RTD Board will make the decision on
whether to go to the polls sometime in August.
Chair Kemp added that it is clear they want FasTracks built by 2017
and there was consensus yesterday at the meeting for this to
happen. Before this happens however, there are lots of things to be
vetted including looking at the options that have been put on the
table by this group. The key date in this process is August 18th
when the ballot needs to go to the Secretary of State. RTD will back
up from this date to develop the “to do” list necessary to make this
happen.
Director Busck indicated that now that they have worked through the
political process and confirmed the numbers for themselves, it is now
time to bring Cal Marsella back into this loop to work this next phase
along with the Board and the Metro Mayors Task Force. The bottom
line however has to be the Metro Mayors understand that while there
may be a call for a resolution to include “at risk” corridors into the
East and Gold Line, RTD will not jeopardize the $1B FFA monies or
put our concessionaires in an awkward position.
Director Bagley added it is important to maintain partnership with our
Metro Mayors perpetuity.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 12, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 5 of 6
Chair Kemp added that they have a proposal being circulated now
with Mayor Quinn and appropriate parties relative to establishing an
ongoing committee that will include representatives from businesses
as well.
Cal Marsella commented about an article written by Jeff Lieb
concerning comments made by Jon Caldara that accused RTD of
being deceptive (lying) about FasTracks. Cal reiterated the process
that RTD went through including all the various organizations such as
DRCOG, who vetted the assumptions and model. Per a quote by
Scott Reed, “Jon is concocting a statewide conspiracy that
would have included the Office of State Planning and Budgeting, the
Colorado Legislative Council, the Denver Regional Council of
Governments and two different highly respected financial firms.
All of the RTD estimates were based upon their collective work. The
financial plans were public and there was no upside for RTD to overestimate finances or low-ball costs.”
Chair Kemp and Director Busck added that the presence of Tim
Romer helped validate the credibility for the Mayors, especially a
number of new Mayors who were not around in 2004 when
FasTracks was approved.
Cal Marsella stated the staff meeting with the FTA was exciting and
encouraging. There is great buy-in with this new administration and
they are looking to RTD for a success story on PPP.
Director McMullen commented that staff had done a good job and not
one error had been found. He recommended the Board put forth a
resolution of unity. Chair Kemp indicated it was premature to do so
until the staff has had a chance to review the options requested by
Metro Mayors.
Director Martinez noted that the Metro Mayors have spent 5+
months educating themselves and looking at other alternatives. The
RTD Board has not looked at a lot of solutions and is not there yet.
The full Board needs to see the options before coming to a final
conclusion.
V.

Other Matters
Chair Kemp went over some basic process/procedural matters related
to Open Meetings/Records and asked the Board members to please
be cognizant of these requirements and let the Board office know of
meetings or changes to agendas.
Chair Kemp also shared that the Board is creating a Board enewsletter that will be used to communicate what is happening in the
Board office as a way of keeping in touch with the employees and
people. Director Martinez asked if it would include some of the cost

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on March 12, 2009 at 12:05
p.m.
Page 6 of 6
cutting activities by the Board and Chair Kemp responded yes.
VI.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 12:54 p.m.

