1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee/Operations and Customer Service Committee/Financial
Administration and Audit Committee
Tuesday, August 13, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

 DTP and John Laing WIN Program Contribution

• Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) Program Update on Participation Statistics
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - TBD
F. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Service Committee

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services
• Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor Articulated Buses
• Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses for access-a-Ride Service
C. Updates

• Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review
• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update

• Smart Card Project Status Update
 Update on 6 Hour Special Events Pass - No Back Up
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - September 10, 2013
F. Adjourn to Financial Administration and Audit Committee

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

• Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report
• Second Quarter 2013 Investment Report
• Fiscal Sustainability Recommendations Update
• June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - September 10, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 8, 2013

From:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights
Division

GM

Date:

August 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Workforce Initiative Now (WIN)
Update on Participation Statistics

Program

ATTACHMENTS:


WIN-Presentation- final (PPTX)



August 8 Delegation letter

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Adrina Gibson, DBE/SBE Compliance Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: WIN-Presentation- final (1668 : Workforce Initiative Now (WN) Program Update)

1.C.2.a

RTD Board Review
August 13th, 2013

WIN Program- Current
Participation Stats

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: WIN-Presentation- final (1668 : Workforce Initiative Now (WN) Program Update)

1.C.2.a

WIN Participants
9 Active Cohorts for a total of 193
193 total participants enrolled
– 131 placed/new hire/ job seeking
participants and 62 incumbent workers

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: WIN-Presentation- final (1668 : Workforce Initiative Now (WN) Program Update)

1.C.2.a

Program Participant
Progress
Ø Average starting wage for participants was $15.46 per
hour ($32,157 annually)
Ø 22 Placements within Quarter 2
Ø 91% of Placed Participants retained employment for 30
days (cumulative)
Ø 93% of Placed Participants retained employment for 90
days (cumulative)
Ø 92% of Placed Participants retained employment for 6
months (cumulative)
Ø 21 enrolled participants (including incumbent workers)
completed training activities
Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2.b

August 8, 2013

I, James Cook am currently the Delegated Authority for the Civil Rights Division while Kenn Hardin is out
on vacation. I am delegating approval of the Board Submittal documents in IQM2 to Adrina Gibson.
Should there be any questions or concerns, please contact me at 303.299.2190.
Sincerely,

James Cook

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: August 8 Delegation letter (1668 : Workforce Initiative Now (WN) Program Update)

To Whom It May Concern,

2.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of Access-aRide Call Center services with First Transit, Inc. This contract is for three years, with two one-year
options for a total 5-year amount not to exceed $11,074,125. This proposal represents the most
responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-026, to
provide “Access-a-Ride Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be
effective October 1, 2013.
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires that public entities operating a fixed route system
also provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities that is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD adheres to the U.S. Department of Transportation, Part
37 regulations (Transportation for Individuals with Disabilities) which regulate paratransit services. All
policies regarding services were developed in concert with a citizen advisory committee comprised of
individuals from the disabled community. The original design of the Access-a-Ride program was adopted
by the RTD Board of Directors and was forwarded to the Federal Transportation Administration for their
approval.
The current Access-a-Ride structure consists of one Call Center Contractor and four Service Provider
Contractors. First Transit operates the Call Center while MV Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, Via
Mobility, and Global Transportation provide the service. In addition, all paratransit eligibility functions
are handled by Easter Seals of Colorado.
On May 29, 2013, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price proposals to
provide Access-a-Ride Call Center Services. This service represents the re-bid of service currently
provided by First Transit. The RFP was mailed to 11 firms that indicated an interest in proposing on this
service. In addition, announcements were placed in transit publications. Proposals were due on June
28, 2013.
DISCUSSION
Four (4) proposals were received in response to RFP 13-DH-026 for the Provision of Access-a-Ride Call
Center services. Proposals were received from First Transit, MTM, SCR, and Veolia Transportation.
It is the recommendation of the evaluation committee formed to evaluate proposals received in response
to RFP 13-DH-026, that RTD award a contract for Access-a-Ride Call Center service to First Transit.
This recommendation is based upon the evaluation of the proposals according to the evaluative criteria
as set forth in the RFP for this procurement. The evaluative criteria established for this procurement
were: a) understanding/approach and organization for implementation (40%); b) experience of firm and
individuals proposed for key positions and disciplines (30%); and c) price (30%).

Packet Pg. 9

2.B.1

The evaluation team consisted of Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services; Larry Buter,
Manager of Paratransit Services; Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services; David Terada, ITS
Administrator; Joy Volz, Paratransit Quality Assurance Supervisor; and Chris Sills, Paratransit Safety and
Training Compliance Officer.
The members of the evaluation team individually reviewed the technical proposals submitted by the four
proposers. Each team member evaluated the proposals on how well the proposal met the evaluative
criteria set forth for the procurement and assigned a score for “Understanding and Approach” and for
“Experience and Proposed Key Positions.” Based on the average of the individual scores received in
these categories, First Transit was the highest rated technical proposal followed by Veolia Transportation
and MTM. SCR was the lowest rated technical proposal. The score for the “Cost” element of each
proposal was calculated by the RTD procurement staff and was then added to the technical score of
each proposal to determine the overall score or rating of each proposal. The total overall scores resulted
in First Transit being the highest rated proposal followed by MTM and Veolia Transportation. SCR was
the lowest rated proposal. First Transit received an overall total score of 91 (out of 100); MTM received
an overall total score of 79. Veolia Transportation received a total score of 77 and SCR received an
overall score of 74. It was the consensus of the evaluation team that First Transit presented the best
proposal in terms of understanding of the project, proposed management team, proposed
organization/business plan/approach to deliver the requested service, and proposed price.
First Transit was the lowest priced proposal. The difference in price over the five-year period between
First Transit and MTM was $497,683. The overall rating represents the evaluation process conclusion
that the strengths of the First Transit technical proposal outweighed the strengths of the MTM, Veolia,
and SCR proposals. While the strengths of the MTM proposal included an experienced General Manager,
the proposal was determined to be weak in the areas of pay scale for reservationists and for not
identifying a Training Manager. The strengths of the Veolia Transportation proposal included an
experienced Firm, General Manager, and proposed use of “Reveal,” software designed to improve
efficiencies. However, the proposal failed to identify the Scheduling, Reservations, or Dispatch
Supervisors. In addition, the evaluation committee felt that the Veolia Transportation proposal
inadequately scheduled enough resources for both the reservations and dispatch departments. Finally,
the strengths of the SCR proposal included an experienced General Manager, scheduling software
experience, and experience with providing both paratransit and Medicaid transportation services. The
evaluation team was concerned with SCR’s proposed Assistant General Manager who did not meet the
minimum years of experience required in the RFP. In addition, SCR proposed installing “Opti-Run,” a
software designed to assist with creating driver schedules to match service demands. The Access-aRide Division purchased this software several years ago, thereby making the SCR proposal less
advantageous to RTD.
A key strength of the First Transit proposal was the proposed management team. Under this team’s
leadership, the Access-a-Ride Call Center consistently meets RTD expectations. The team is
experienced in providing Call Center service for RTD and there will be no need for startup and,
consequently, no disruption of service when transitioning to the new contract. First Transit proposed
“Info Manager” software designed to monitor system performance and allows staff to make necessary
adjustments. In addition, First Transit proposed to provide up to 50 Mobile Data Tablets for use in the
anticipated non-dedicated vehicle component of the Access-a-Ride program.

RECOMMENDATION

Packet Pg. 10

2.B.1

It is the recommendation of staff that First Transit be awarded the Access-a-Ride Call Center Contract
for three years with two one-year options for an amount not to exceed $11,074,125. This proposal
represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals
(RFP) 13-DH-026, to provide “Access-a-Ride Call Center” Services.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The recommended action is based upon the evaluation committee’s determination that the recommended
firm’s proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal received in response to the RFP
issued by the District. This determination is based upon the evaluation of technical and price issues
consistent with the evaluative criteria established by RTD and communicated in the RFP document.
An RTD internal financial analysis indicated that the estimated cost to provide these services would be
higher than the prices offered by the recommended service provider. The estimated cost was based on
current and projected wage rates and other operating expenses based on RTD’s current experience
operating the Telephone Information Center (TIC).
Funds for the provision of the first year of service under this contract are included in the adopted 2013
amended budget and in the 2014 requested budget. There are no proposed start-up costs, and
therefore, there is no start-up cost impact on the 2013 budget. Funds will be requested in future
budgets for the provision of service in future years.
ALTERNATIVES:
1)
Award the contract to First Transit, Inc., as recommended
2)
Award the contract to MTM, the second ranked proposer. This is not recommended as it
does not reflect the outcome of the evaluation team’s evaluation process and RTD’s
procurement process.
3)
Resolicit the RFP. This is not recommended as the proposal process has resulted in a
responsive and responsible proposal and is less expensive than the RTD internal cost
estimate (ICE).
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED BY CONSENT VOTE [UNANIMOUS]
Bill James, Director, District A
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

2.B.1

Packet Pg. 12

2.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor
Articulated Buses

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to New Flyer of America Inc. for the
purchase of 52 – 60’ low-floor articulated buses and associated spare components in the amount not to
exceed $34,636,614, with an option to purchase up to 140 additional articulated buses over a five year
period.

BACKGROUND
RTD’s existing 9100 Series NABI articulated buses have exceeded their FTA service life of 12 years. The
buses are 13 years old and have accumulated on average 380,000 miles of stop-and-go transit service.
Their structures have experienced heavy damage due to rust, corrosion and fatigue. They have become
unreliable and require intensive maintenance to keep them in service. The adopted Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP) calls for the replacement of the 9100 Series buses over the next three years, 40 buses in 2013,
40 buses in 2014 and 18 buses in 2015.
On May 28, 2013, the Board of Directors approved the Downtown Denver (18th/19th Street) Circulator
service plan. Twelve (12) of the requested New Flyer articulated buses will be expansion buses to be
used for this service. This initial order includes forty (40) buses to replace forty (40) existing 13-year old
2000 Model Year NABI buses, and twelve (12) expansion buses to be used for the new Downtown
Denver (18th/19th Street) Circulator bus service.
The Request for Proposals (RFP) was issued on February 27, 2013 for the procurement of articulated
buses. The RFP solicited proposals that offer buses in different power configurations: clean diesel, CNG,
hybrid electric and battery electric. Proposals were received on May 17, 2013.

DISCUSSION
Proposals were received from four companies: New Flyer, Nova Bus, North American Bus Industries
(NABI) and BYD Motors.
The proposers submitted their costs as follows.

New Flyer

Clean Diesel
Bus
$637,000

CNG Bus
$698,519

Hybrid Bus
$810,974 (Series Hybrid)
$846,706 (Parallel Hybrid)

Electric Bus
No Bid

Packet Pg. 13

2.B.2

NABI
Nova Bus
BYD

$653,019
$716,000
No Bid

$708,347
No Bid
No Bid

$865,110
$985,200
No Bid

No Bid
No Bid
$1,235,000

Staff has performed an in-depth life cycle cost analysis of the different power configurations to
determine the most cost effective and efficient propulsion power system for the new buses.
The hybrid buses are $173,974 (for the series hybrid) or $209,706 (for the parallel hybrid) higher in unit
cost than the diesel buses. Accordingly, RTD would only be able to purchase thirty (30) to thirty-one
(31) hybrid buses for the available budget instead of the forty (40) replacement vehicles desired.
Based on RTD’s experience of 20% better fuel economy for the hybrid buses and its current diesel fuel
purchase price, it would take between 34 and 41 years for the return on investment (ROI) on the hybrid
buses. This far exceeds the twelve (12) year useful life of the vehicle. Accordingly, hybrid vehicles were
eliminated from further consideration.
Current generation electric buses are running on batteries exclusively. They are twice the unit cost of
the diesel buses. They are still experiencing issues such as short operating range – only 155 miles
between battery charges and less than half of RTD normal operating range requirement of 400 miles,
and heavy bus weight. Accordingly, the current electric vehicles were eliminated from further
consideration.
The CNG buses are $61,519 higher in unit cost than the diesel buses. Currently, CNG fuel is about 50%
lower in cost per diesel gallon equivalent than diesel fuel. In order to convert to CNG operations, RTD
must also invest in new CNG stations and safety modifications of existing maintenance and parking
facilities. The CNG stations required for fueling CNG vehicles at two RTD divisions, Platte and East
Metro, are estimated to cost upward of $3,540,000 per each division. The facility modifications to these
two divisions alone to bring them into compliance with fire codes for safe operations of CNG fuel are
estimated to cost up to $8.8 Million for Platte and $12.3 Million for East Metro. The total facility
upgrades for the two divisions are estimated to result in a $28.1 million investment. This analysis does
not include RTD’s Boulder operating division nor any of the four (4) private contractor operating
divisions.
The CNG analysis by staff indicates:






Savings in CNG fuel cost will be more than offset by the higher cost of bus purchase and
upgrading the maintenance and parking facilities.
Prices of natural gas and diesel fuel have been historically extremely volatile. There is no
guarantee that the current pricing advantage of natural gas over diesel fuel will continue into the
future.
There are no significant air quality impacts to convert from diesel to CNG operations. Both new
clean diesel and new CNG buses have significantly lower emissions than the older buses they
replace. The emissions of new clean diesel and CNG buses are considered to be the same.
The CNG facility upgrade will take at least two years to implement. Going with CNG buses will
delay the bus procurement process at least two years.
In the past CNG buses showed higher maintenance costs than diesel buses. However, in the last
several years, CNG engine technology has improved. Even though CNG buses require certain new

Packet Pg. 14

2.B.2






costs for CNG related maintenance such as CNG engine sparkplug replacement and high pressure
fuel system maintenance, staff has assumed CNG and diesel maintenance costs to be equivalent.
The reliability and durability of CNG engines are still questionable at high altitude and cold
weather conditions, coupled with the usage of low energy natural gas available in Denver metro
area.
High altitude conditions cause loss of engine power and hotter engine operating
temperature. Cold weather causes CNG engine starting problems. Denver’s natural gas has lower
energy content than the rest of the country. Low energy gas causes engine operating issues.
CNG is a combustible gas at very high pressure (3,600 pounds per square inch of pressure).
Safety and security for the operation of CNG are of concern.
The high cost CNG stations and associated facility upgrades may become obsolete in 12 years at
the end of life of the buses under this procurement. Electric vehicle technology appears to be the
preferred technology of the future. A number of electric buses are currently in production or
under demonstration by bus manufacturers. As electric bus technology is still in its infancy, it
currently has issues such as high purchase cost and low operating range. In the upcoming years,
it is expected that the technology will advance and production processes will improve, allowing
the bus cost to come down and the operating range to increase.

There are risks that the very large investment in CNG facility upgrades and CNG buses may not pay off;
that the savings on CNG fuel may not be realized due to commodity price fluctuations; that the CNG
technology may become obsolete to better engine technologies currently being demonstrated such as
electric vehicles; and that CNG operational difficulties may be experienced under RTD’s high altitude,
cold climate and low energy natural gas usage. Based on the above considerations, staff has
recommended that RTD stay with clean diesel technology as a good public policy.
The proposals were also rated according to their proposed costs and company technical ability.
New Flyer submitted the highest rated proposal in both costs and technical ability. New Flyer’s proposal
is the most responsive, responsible, lowest cost and best value proposal. New Flyer meets and exceeds
RTD technical specification requirements. New Flyer has the experience and qualification in the
manufacture of transit buses, being the largest and financially stable manufacturer in North America.
New Flyer offered a lifetime warranty against bus structure corrosion damage. New Flyer proposed a
delivery schedule that meets the implementation timeline for the Downtown Denver (18th/19th Street)
Circulator service.
The articulated buses are low floor for ease of passenger boarding and de-boarding. They will be
equipped with a wheelchair ramp and two wheelchair access areas to allow for ADA compliance. Their
clean diesel engines will meet the latest EPA regulations and will reduce exhaust emissions up to 90%
from the level of the existing buses. The buses will be equipped with an automatic passenger count
system and a security digital camera system. The articulated buses for the base transit service will have
two passenger doors and 57 passenger seats. The articulated buses for the Downtown Denver
(18th/19th Street) Circulator service will have three passenger doors and 46 passenger seats. In addition,
the circulator buses will have the exterior BRT package. They will have a progressive and modern look
with aerodynamic and streamlined appearance.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This current contract is for the purchase of 52 articulated buses and associated spare components in the
amount not to exceed $34,636,614. The funding for this contract is approved and available in the
District’s 2013 Adopted Budget.

Packet Pg. 15

2.B.2

The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 140 additional buses over a five year period.
Pricing for additional option buses will be based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary price
adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
Additional buses to be purchased from the options will require separate
authorizations from the RTD Board of Directors.

DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, New Flyer has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of its
DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

To authorize the General Manager to award a contract to New Flyer for the purchase of 52diesel articulated buses and associated spare components. This is the recommended
alternative.

2.

Award the contract to New Flyer for 52 CNG articulated buses.
This is not the
recommended action as it would delay the bus purchase at least two years due to the long
process to construct the CNG fuel stations and modify the maintenance and parking
facilities. CNG requires higher bus purchase costs and multi-million dollar facility costs,
which will offset the CNG fuel savings. There are risks of operational difficulty for CNG
buses in RTD’s high altitude and cold weather conditions, in addition to the availability of
only low energy natural gas in Denver metro area. In addition, no funding has been identified
to finance the necessary capital improvements.

3.

Do not authorize the award of the contract and re-solicit proposals. This is not desirable as it
would result, at the very least, in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost
of the project.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 16

2.B.2

Packet Pg. 17

2.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 8, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses
for access-a-Ride Service

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to Supreme Bus for the
purchase of up to 103 new cutaway buses for the access-a-Ride service in the amount not to exceed
$5,228,589, with an option to purchase up to 350 additional cutaway buses over a five year period.

BACKGROUND

RTD uses the cutaway buses for its access-a-Ride service. The buses are based on the cutaway van
chassis and have an average service life of about 5 years. The new buses will replace existing buses
that are five, six, and seven years old, and have reached the end of their service life. The Invitation for
Bid (IFB) for the bus procurement was issued on June 4, 2013. Sealed bids were received on August 6,
2013.

DISCUSSION
Four companies submitted their bids, Supreme Bus, Intermountain Coach, Colorado West and Arizona
Bus Sales. The bidders submitted their costs as follows.

Supreme Bus
Intermountain Coach
Colorado West
Arizona Bus Sales

Bid Price
$50,763
$51,049
$52,167
$52,452

Supreme Bus was found to be the most responsive, responsible low bidder after all submittals and
options had been evaluated.
The new cutaway buses will be based on the Ford E-350 chassis. They will be fully ADA compliant.
They will be equipped with a wheelchair lift and wheelchair tie-down equipment for two wheelchairs.
In addition, they will be equipped with a security camera system.
FINANCIAL IMPACT

Packet Pg. 18

2.B.3

This contract is for the purchase of 103 cutaway buses in the amount not to exceed $5,228,589. The
funding for this contract is approved and available in the District’s 2013 Adopted Budget.
The contract allows RTD the options to purchase up to 350 additional buses over a five year period.
Pricing for additional option buses will be based on the initial base pricing plus an inflationary price
adjustment computed using the US Department of Labor’s “Producer Price Index” or PPI which is
published monthly.
Additional buses to be purchased from the options will require separate
authorizations from the RTD Board of Directors.

DBE PARTICIPATION
There is no DBE requirement for transit vehicle purchases. Each vehicle manufacturer is required by the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) to submit a DBE plan for FTA approval. As part of the required
proposal submittal documents, Supreme Bus has submitted a certificate attesting to FTA’s approval of
its DBE plan.
ALTERNATIVES
1.

Authorize the General Manager to award the contract to Supreme Bus for the purchase of
103 cutaway buses to be used for the access-a-Ride service. This is the recommended
alternative.

2.

Award the contract to Intermountain Coach, the second lowest bidder. This is not the
recommended action as it would contradict with RTD’s procurement practice.

3.

Do not authorize the award of the contract and re-solicit bids. This is not desirable as it would
result in a delay of the delivery of the buses and may increase the cost of the project.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk

Prepared by:
Lou Ha, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 19

2.B.3

Packet Pg. 20

2.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

July 25, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review

Information

RECOMMENDED ACTION
No Board action is required. This report provides information regarding the results of an independent
expert review of the Access-a-Ride Driver Training provided by our ADA service contractors; Global
Transportation, Horizon Coach Lines, MV Transportation, and Via Mobility Services.
BACKGROUND
In 2011 RTD hired KFH Group, an expert consultant qualified in and experienced with Americans with
Disabilities Act (ADA) paratransit service and otherwise unaffiliated with RTD, to review, audit and
prepare a written report on the training programs of each of our Access-a-Ride contractors to ensure
that all vehicle operators were being trained to proficiency in passenger assistance as required by the
ADA and the RTD Service Contract. In addition, the results of the review would assist staff in the
preparations of the updated Scope of Work for the new Access-a-Ride Service RFP scheduled for release
in July 2013. The focus of the review was on the following areas:
1. Passenger Assistance (PASS) Training – ensuring that vehicle operators are trained to proficiency in
all areas related to passenger assistance and sensitivity and that the vehicle operator will be prepared to
secure and assist with (as needed) all types of mobility aids.
2. A review of the materials used for other components of the operator training program that relate to
passenger safety – which included a “desk” review of defensive driving programs, emergency
procedures, and any other safety related training.
DISCUSSION
As cited in the report submitted by KFH Group (copy attached), each Access-a-Ride contractor conducts
their own training program using their own materials as well as the standard PASS training module. All
of the contractors trained operators to proficiency and provided the basic two-to-three week training
program that relies to a large extent on behind-the-wheel training. The report did cite that some of the
contractors had better training programs than others based on the performance of trainers.
The PASS training was used by each of the contractors, however, the quality of the training varied
based on the trainer’s ability to communicate and use a variety of media to make the appropriate points.
Some trainers were more effective than others which KFH Group concluded had an impact on training to
proficiency.
No shortcomings were noted by KFH Group as all of the contractors were meeting the minimum
requirements for training vehicle operators to proficiency regarding safety and passenger assistance, and
therefore no action plan to bring RTD into compliance with the ADA was required or recommended.
However, KFH Group did note that some contractors were doing a better job on training than others.

Packet Pg. 21

2.C.1

While all contractors have been and continue to be in compliance with the ADA and contractual
requirements, the differing levels of competence could produce different levels of quality and safety. It
was recommended that training be consolidated through one professional entity. In this scenario one
vendor or RTD itself could be responsible for, at a minimum, the PASS training and perhaps all other
training with the exception of a contractor’s corporate policies and other training specific to the
contractor.
As part of our oversight of the Access-a-Ride program, the Paratransit Services staff routinely reviews
private contractor training programs in order to confirm that the topics covered meet the requirements of
their respective contracts with RTD. Based on the report submitted by the KFH Group and staff
recommendation, the following action items have been implemented in order to improve the overall
training programs and services offered to our passengers:







Creation of a new, full-time position within RTD’s Paratransit Services Group; a Paratransit
Safety and Training Compliance Officer. This position is responsible for oversight and
management of the safety and training programs for RTD’s paratransit contractors.
Enhanced safety policies on wheelchair securement and lift operation. RTD is now
requiring all paratransit operators be certified as being trained in this area.
Increased communication about safety and customer service training between RTD and
the paratransit contractors through monthly meetings conducted by the RTD Paratransit
Safety and Training Compliance Officer.
Additional oversight of the paratransit contractors by RTD staff, including on-street
observations and improved and increased classroom observations.
Inclusion of additional safety equipment in new-vehicle purchases which includes lift belts
and on-board cameras.
Implementation of an approval process for all paratransit contractor trainers by RTD.

Based on the recommendations made in the KFH report, the RTD Paratransit Services staff spent several
months reviewing the possibility of 1) contracting out the PASS portion of training to one entity or 2)
bringing the PASS portion of training in house to RTD.
As VIA Mobility was the company recommended by KFH to take on the consolidated PASS training, the
staff analysis was based on the VIA facility and a rough estimate of cost provided by VIA. The option
of contracting out PASS training to one entity was rejected due to the logistical challenges and the
requirement that training take place at the VIA facility in Boulder and costs of such a proposal. Although
the KFH report indicated that consolidated training would reduce training costs, just the opposite is true.
Each paratransit contractor would still be required to have trainers on staff to handle the other non-PASS
related training requirements. Contracting out the PASS training to one entity would end up costing the
paratransit contractors and RTD more. Additional concerns were raised regarding accountability and
who would be held responsible if an operator failed to perform PASS related functions appropriately.
A task force comprised of staff from the Access-a-Ride and RTD Training Departments explored the
feasibility of having RTD Training provide the PASS training for all Access-a-Ride operator trainees.
Individuals from RTD Training and RTD Paratransit Services attended actual driver training classes taught
by VIA Mobility in Boulder. Their primary role was to determine how they could replicate the training
environment at RTD and facilitate training that would be both economically feasible and within the

Packet Pg. 22

2.C.1

constraints of limited classroom space. The RTD Training staff was comfortable that RTD trainers could
handle the PASS training. However, there were problems with regard to an available training space.
When considering training in one location for the sake of consistency, it was noted that with a program
as large as Access-a-Ride, RTD would need to hire several additional trainers which would yield the
same results as having multiple trainers at our various contractor facilities. It has already been
established that the core training materials are identical. The next steps, which have already begun,
include reinforcing the importance of making sure that students retain the materials presented and to
present the materials in such a fashion as to ensure that outcome. To that end, RTD staff meets
regularly with training managers in order facilitate a platform of consistency. The meetings are an
opportunity for trainers to learn from one another and offer them access to the same relevant
information.
Based on the task force’s review of current practices and weighing the suggested changes, their
recommendation is to continue having the paratransit contractors train their own drivers and for RTD to
enhance overall safety and training oversight. RTD contracts with companies for the purpose of
providing paratransit services and fully expects that these companies train their respective operators
accordingly. The overall changes made to compliance oversight have resulted in an improved classroom
experience for the trainee. The improved experience for the trainee has resulted in better performance
on the road. The better performance on the road has translated into fewer “training” related complaints
received by RTD.
RECOMMENDATION
There is no recommendation for Board action or resolution. Had the KFH Group identified any areas of
noncompliance with the ADA, RTD would have developed an action plan to bring RTD into compliance,
and a Board resolution if warranted. This report is for information only.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact as there is no change to current procedure following enhancements as
outlined above in response to the KFH Group report. Operator training costs are included in the contract
pricing currently in effect for the paratransit contractors.
ATTACHMENTS:


Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 23

Review of Regional Transportation District (RTD)
Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA)
Paratransit Training

The RTD has requested consultant assistance to review the training programs of
each of its contractors to ensure that all vehicle operators are trained to proficiency in
passenger assistance as required by the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The
focus of this effort will be on the following:
1. Passenger Assistance Training – ensuring that vehicle operators are trained to
proficiency in all areas related to passenger assistance and that the vehicle
operator will be prepared for virtually all types of mobility aids. The
consultants were requested to observe these sessions.
2. A review of materials of other components of the training program that relate
to passenger safety – this includes a “desk” review of defensive driver
programs, emergency procedures, and any other safety related training. This
included an interview with training staff and a review of the material
presented.
The first part of this effort will attempt to define the term, “Train to proficiency,
followed by a review of safety training materials of each of the four contractors,
followed by our review of their Passenger Assistance training program.

ADA COMPLEMENTARY PARATRANSIT REGULATIONS AND
GUIDANCE
ADA paratransit regulations leave virtually all of the decisions in regard to
training, in the hands of the local transit system. There is considerable leeway in the
regulations for local decision-making in all areas of operation and management of the
service. Nowhere is this more evident than in training, where the regulations simply
call for “training to proficiency.”

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

1
Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

2.C.1.a

2.C.1.a

Each public or private entity which operates a fixed route or demand responsive system shall
ensure that personnel are trained to proficiency, as appropriate to their duties, so that they
operate vehicles and equipment safely and properly assist and treat individuals with disabilities
who use the service in a respectful and courteous way, with appropriate attention to the
difference among individuals with disabilities.
Guidance from the Federal Transit Administration (FTA)1 further indicates that
there are many approaches to passenger assistance. Commentary contained in
Appendix D to Part 37 related to Section 37.165 of the DOT’s ADA regulations states
that the regulatory language is a mandate to transit personnel to use their “best efforts”
to secure any mobility device that meets the regulatory definition of a common mobility
device.
Further, there are no specific industry standards (other than on an ad hoc basis)
and there is no sanctioning body. Stated in the Appendix D to Part 37—Construction
and Interpretation of Provisions of 49 CFR Part 37,
The Department is not requiring a specific course of training or the submission of a training
plan for DOT approval. However, every employee of a transportation provider who is involved
with service to persons with disabilities must have been trained so that he or she knows what
needs to be done to provide the service in the right way.
While there are no specific industry standards, there are common practices and
generally accepted procedures common to virtually all large urban paratransit systems.
The terms “trained to proficiency” and “best efforts” imply the need for the following:









Recognized Passenger Assistance course – often modified by local system
At least one week of behind the wheel training
A skilled and knowledgeable trainer
Documentation of the training
Appropriate well maintained vehicle lifts and securement equipment
Refresher training
Safety memos
Appropriate monitoring of service by RTD

1

Appendix D to Part 37—Construction and Interpretation of Provisions of 49 CFR Part 37, discusses this
issue in the commentary, getting to the intent of the regulations.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

2
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

The U.S. Department of Transportation (DOT) ADA regulations at 49 CFR §
37.173 states:

In the area of service monitoring, there is even less guidance from FTA, other
than the understanding that the local transit system is responsible for all actions and
must meet the requirements of the ADA regulations. Therefore it is incumbent on any
transit system to monitor its service.
Training to Proficiency
Using the criteria listed above, the RTD is following the letter and spirit of ADA.
RTD and its subcontractors have policies, procedures, training programs, and
monitoring of service that is well within generally accepted practices among large
urban transit systems as interpreted by this expert witness. RTD management does due
diligence in its monitoring of training for each of its operators.
A.

B.

C.
D.
E.

RTD’s Lift and mobility device securement training programs improve upon
training conducted by the Community Transportation Association of America
and the Colorado Association of Transit Agencies. 2
The length of the passenger assistance training (use of the lift and securement
of mobility devices) is within the norm of generally accepted training
programs, using the most up-to-date methods available.
The length of the behind-the-wheel training is within the generally accepted
practices in the industry.
RTD has an internal manual that provides guidance in all monitoring
activities. There is staff specifically assigned to monitoring the contractors.
RTD supplies vehicles, lifts and securement systems that meet the
requirements of ADA

REVIEW OF OVERALL TRAINING
Each operator conducts their own training program using their own materials as
well as standard PASS training. This first task called for a review of the overall
program and materials. Each uses an appropriate defensive driving program and
emergency procedures. It should be noted however, that VIA’s emergency procedures
training material is considerably more comprehensive than the other contractors.

2 The Community Transportation Association (CTAA) Passenger Assistance Training program is

recognized as a good comprehensive approach to passenger assistance. CASTA also conducts training
using the same trainer that conducts CTAA training

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

3
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

2.C.1.a

2.C.1.a

Coach conducts 19 days of training at 8 hours each class for a total of 152 hours.
The material is gathered from a variety of sources and placed together in the New Hire
Training Manual, which is often simply photocopied from other materials. In some
cases prepackaged National Transit Institute (NTI) material is used. This includes
terrorism training and workplace safety. The defensive driving class is made up of
Coach material and a variety of other sources.
Other material related to a variety of conditions was gathered from other
websites. There were different procedures in different sections. For example – different
sets of emergency procedures are in two different documents given to the auditor.
There is also a behind the wheel handbook.
MV
MV presented a complete, concise training Study Guide as well as an MV
Employee Handbook, both professionally bound. The Employee Handbook is
company specific and the study guide includes a series of DVDs for NTI warning signs,
defensive driving, and other areas. This is a good set of manuals and guides for
prospective vehicle operators.
This two week training class includes at least one week of behind the wheel
training.
VIA
VIA has a very comprehensive training program above the minimum
requirements and well above typical industry standards. The training is 16 days (over
three weeks) at 10 hours each day for a total of 160 hours of training. If a driver is not
ready additional hours will be dedicated to that individual.
Additional safety related training include the National Safety Council’s defensive
driving class and a four hour review of company safety policy. Approximately 10 – 15
hours is dedicated to wheelchair securement and other passenger assistance practice
over and above the two day PASS class. Each driver is given a VIA Mobility Services Bus
Operator’s Manual and it is reviewed as well.
Overall their material and training programs are concise and conducted by
skilled and very experienced trainers. Ultimately the quality of the training is the
responsibility of the trainers and their managers. VIA gets very high marks for
knowledge, skills, experience, and their ability to impart this knowledge. The reliance
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

4
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Coach

2.C.1.a

VIA and its safety

Global Transportation
Global provided a packet of information with a number of loose policy
statements and certification forms. The National Safety Council Defensive Driving
Course is used. There is a Paratransit Driver Training Manual, which has a wide range
of information in no particular order. It appears that the information is there, just not in
an order one might expect. Global conducts two weeks of training, including one week
behind the wheel.

PASASENGER ASSISTANCE TRAINING
Global Transportation
Course Material
Global uses the CTAA PASS Handbook as the primary training tool and each
trainee receives one. The trainer used a lot of anecdotal experiences and supplemental
stories to go along with training material. Several additional videos on disabilities were
used and a demonstration of the bloodborne pathogen kit was used to supplement the
training.
Beyond the basic handouts, the Global PASS training included the following
materials:







Drivers Manifest
Wheelchair and Lift Procedure Handout
Global and RTD Policy Statements
Worksheets and tests for each topic
Stroke Identification Handout
Dialysis Information Sheet

Videos included:





A disability video developed by Brenda with a chapter devoted to many
disabilities RTD operators will encounter
Alzheimer’s Disease (by Jacob 2)
The 10 Commandments of Communication with People with Disabilities
The CTAA Emergency Evacuation Video

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

5
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

is on these staff with appropriate videos and other material.
department are very professional.

2.C.1.a

A blood borne pathogen video

Global devoted 10-30 minutes per section of the PASS book (some longer). For
almost every section there were verbal, physical and written tests to ensure each
participant’s understanding of the training. During the PASS training, 4.5 hours were
spent on hands-on wheelchair securement and lift operations. Each participant secured
two types of manual wheelchairs, an electric chair, and a scooter. The Global trainer
would not end the session until she was convinced that the students were comfortable
with securement and lift operations. The Global trainer stressed securement and had
very detailed instructions for the entire process, including the exact position the QStraint device should be in the floor mount. All Global participants were instructed and
participated in hands-on guiding for the visually impaired. Each also was blindfolded.
Emphasis was placed on not only directional and elevation change, but changes in
surfaces.
Wheelchair Securement and Lift Operations
During the PASS training there is 4.5 hours spent on this section alone and each
student was active the entire time. The trainer informed me that during the road
training section securement and lift operations would be covered in depth again. In
addition, each student was a guide and was also blindfolded and guided on to the lift
during the PASS training.
For Global, the basic principles are emphasized regarding tie down positioning
and angles, proper wheelchair positioning and how much a chair should move. Four
types of chairs were used and it was noted that if a unique chair seems too difficult, the
driver should call dispatch and request the safety manager. The trainees were required
to tie each of the four types of chairs down until they got it done correctly at least twice.
The trainer made a particular point in stressing holding the chair while on the
lift. If participants forgot, the trainer would make them start the process over. Due to
the new Braun lifts, the trainer instructed the participants to clearly instruct the
passengers to hold on to the railing and leave their breaks engaged, then hurry onto the
bus to pull them in. This is updated from the CTAA PASS book, which does not cover
procedures using the new Braun lifts.
Course Summary
Strengths


Use of experiential and anecdotal lessons to supplement the PASS book.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

6
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)









Limited use of videos for supplemental purposes only. Brenda was the
conveyer of all critical information and videos were used to help make a
point. Videos were not used as stand-alone training.
The Global trainer is a clear and effective communicator and a savvy trainer.
She reads the students well and will spend extra time on subjects when the
students don’t fully understand. She knows the material backwards and
forwards.
Adapting to new procedures as needed.

Weaknesses


For Global, no schedule or syllabus was given.
conducive to training.

The facility was not

Instructor
The Global trainer is a true expert and has excellent command of the material.
She doesn’t have to spend much time reading the material. She provided extensive
anecdotal experiences to highlight the importance of the lessons. She is an excellent and
effective communicator. She kept the attention of everybody in the room. Even though
the PASS book is the primary training tool, the trainer could have taught the course
without it. She had at least one anecdote for every section covered. She only uses
videos as a supplement to hands-on or personal training.
The Global trainer is a professional trainer. She was consistently engaging
participants. She conducted many hands-on demonstrations (assisting people out of the
bus seat, using the pathogen kit, etc.). She was constantly asking questions to the
trainees and also insisted on them reading a few paragraphs in each section of the PASS
book.
The Global trainer has all participants read from the PASS book. She consistently
asks “Does everybody understand? Any Questions?” For every section she would put
participants on the spot and required participation.
Trainees
The trainees at the Global PASS session were alert and attentive. The trainer
wouldn’t let participants daydream and would call out (playfully) people for yawing.
The participants were hesitant to participate during the morning of the first day, but
became much more comfortable as time progressed.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

7
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

2.C.1.a

At the beginning of the second day of the Global PASS training there was a
comprehensive review of everything covered in Day 1. Participants showed good
understanding of the major concepts and remembered most of the details when
prodded. The trainer also assigned homework on disabilities in which the trainees
presented to the class. Also, the trainer hammered, with repetition, many main
themes/procedures into the heads of the trainees, including “Don’t Assume. When in
doubt, call dispatch. File an incident report when anything out of the norm happens.
Offer assistance (don’t give it without permission). Be patient.” All Global trainees had
“some” level of confidence. All were well versed in the major issues and procedures.
Facilities and Equipment
The entire Global facility was not conducive to training. The computer didn’t
work for many of the DVD’s. The facility is dilapidated and dirty. The trainer is also
the safety manager and as a result there were several interruptions by drivers during
the training session. There were also noisy distractions coming from the garage.
Training equipment included 4 wheelchairs (2 manual, 1 electric and 1 scooter),
white canes and a walker.
MV Transportation
Course Material
MV uses the CTAA PASS Handbook as the primary training tool and each
participant is given one. No course schedule is given to the trainees. The MV trainer
went through the book very rapidly, with little to no use of anecdotal lessons, examples,
or videos. Day 2 started on p. 99 and skipped 20 pages on lift and securement
procedures. There were no substantive materials used other that the PASS book and
the RTD handbook.
The trainer basically read through the book with little expansion on any of the
material. Very few questions were asked by or of the trainer. The trainer completed
2/3 of the sections by the end of Day 1.
During the PASS phase of MV driver training there is about two hours of
securement training. They spend one full day (8 hrs) on securement before they can
become a driver. MV has 12 chairs that they use of varying typologies, but only manual
chairs were used during the PASS training. The MV trainees were much more
comfortable with the Q-Straint devices, but there was a significant drop off in attention
to detail compared to the Global training.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

8
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

2.C.1.a

2.C.1.a

All MV participants were guides and guided with a blindfold. Errors like not
mentioning if the steps were up or down, change in surfaces, or properly supporting
the customer were not corrected during the training. Many of the drivers watching the
training from a distance were noting that the trainees were not doing the activity
correctly, but the trainer was not correcting the mistakes.
Wheelchair Securement and Lift Operations
Multiple wheelchair typologies were not used during the PASS training but
multiple types of chairs are covered on the securement training day. Holding the chair
on the lift was instructed but not “stressed” during the MV training. Again, the training
regarding “never leave a customer on the lift” (CTAA PASS Handbook), was not
followed because of the new Braun lifts with a steep angle going into the bus. It is
difficult to assess the wheelchair securement training having not seen it to the full
extent, but the attention to detail regarding Q-Straint placement and passenger
sensitivity during lift operation and securement was below the standard that Global
Transportation taught to.
Course Summary
Strengths


The main strength of the MV driver training program is the full day
dedicated to wheelchair securement and lift operation, beyond what is
covered in the PASS training.

Weaknesses









No mention of punitive results for major violations of policy
Limited direct interaction between trainees and trainers.
No introductions. Trainees don’t know or show comfort with one another.
All subjects are treated with the same weight. No emphasis on major safety
issues.
Uses PASS methods and no emphasis on how this information integrates
with MV/RTD.
Safety is the only focus and little attention is given to sensitivity.
Two students fell asleep during the training and were not woken up.
Employed descriptors like “blind, deaf and disabled.”

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

9
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

A video on emergency evacuation of cut-away busses was used as a stand-alone
training tool for the class. It was the only video used in the PASS training and there
was no follow up discussion regarding the video’s content.

2.C.1.a

Most of the MV PASS training is a simple reading of the PASS Handbook. The
only anecdotal examples given were hypothetical and there were little real world
examples. The trainer knew where to access the information and resources but did not
have the ability to answer many questions. Another difference between Global and MV
was that the lack of comprehensiveness in MV training, which lead to a lot of “what if”
questions from the trainees. Most of these questions were covered in the Global PASS
sessions but not in the MV training.
The MV trainer was not a great communicator. She did not hold the trainees
attention well (2 students fell asleep). The MV students were not particularly engaged.
They were not asked many questions or directly engaged in the training outside of the
hands on portion. Even during the hands on portion the trainer didn’t correct mistakes
made by the students during the training. The training had a “going through the
motions” feel to it.
The MV program has no nuances. All information covered was outlined in the
CTAA PASS Handbook. There was no substantive conversation beyond what is
covered in the book.
Trainees
The MV trainees were not attentive at all. One trainee didn’t pay attention
throughout the session. The three others were tired (two of which fell asleep). As time
progressed the participants became slightly more engaged.
The MV students seemed comfortable with wheelchair securement, likely due to
the fact that they had already spent a full day on wheelchair securement. However,
attention to the details including where the tie downs were located in the floor and on
the device were not as specific as with the Global training.
They were less confident when it came to the sensitivity portion of the training.
Throughout the training the participants (and trainer) used the improper descriptor for
people with disabilities (handicapped, disabled, blind, deaf, etc.). The portions of the
training that were less understood by the trainees were procedural measures outlined
by the ADA. The trainees seemed to think there was flexibility in trip denials for
difficult passengers with cognitive disabilities or people with service animals (3 of the 4
participants were afraid of dogs). It was not clear to the trainees that ADA paratransit
vehicle operators face a variety of difficult situations that require extreme patience, and
that facing these challenges are inevitable.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

10
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Instructor

2.C.1.a

The MV training facility was adequate for four trainees. With an additional
observer (six people total) the room was too cramped. The training room is in the
administrative offices and was very noisy in the morning. The computer did not work
for showing some of the training videos.
For the MV PASS training there were only two manual wheelchairs used, but
MV has 12 wheelchairs of varying typologies they use for securement training beyond
the PASS lessons. MV also uses canes, walkers, and blindfolds for the PASS training.

CUSA Transit Services
CUSA was not prepared for this training. They had a new trainer who was not
yet up to speed and had not been certified. The class held was simply a
demonstration/simulation of training. The trainer is an experienced transit manager,
but is new to this kind of training. He was to be trained as a PASS trainer in July 2012.
Course Material
The new hiring training manual is a large document that details the activities for
each of the 14 days of training. This manual puts together a wide variety of training
material from a variety of sources. While PASS training is used, the material in the
manual was different from the PASS training. There was no support material available
nor any videos or examples/anecdotes. The instructor simply read through the PASS
training. The reading was completed in one day. This was not indicative of how
training should be conducted.
Wheelchair Lift and Securement
Four types of wheelchairs were available for practice. The practice consisted of
going through the motions with a supervisor and the auditor. The auditor could not get
a good sense as to the actual training. The New Hire Manual states that there is a day
and one half for wheelchair lift and securement.
Course Summary
Strengths


The COACH PASS training at the time of the review did not exist as a new
trainer was hired and would wait almost four months before being certified
as a PASS trainer.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

11
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Facilities and Equipment

2.C.1.a





There was no instructor available. It was not clear what materials would be
used to supplement the PASS handbook as the new training manager had not
yet researched that issue.
The trainer has subsequently informed us that they used a certified trainer
(Misty Martinez) and conducted a full two days of training complete with
videos. In addition, there are an additional 8 – 10 hours of hands on securing
and assistance for other passengers.

Instructor
Mr. Doster stated that he will be certified as a trainer by mid July. While we
anticipate that he will do a good job, based on his transit experience, RTD safety staff
should observe his class in the near future.
Trainees
There were no trainees at this simulated training.
Facilities and Equipment
The facility was in a separate trainer on-site. It was adequate. Training
equipment included four wheelchairs (two manual, 1 electric and 1 scooter), white
canes and a walker.
VIA
Course Material
VIA uses the CTAA PASS Handbook as the primary training tool and each
trainee receives one. There were five students that sat through two days of PASS
training. The trainer used a lot of actual experiences and supplemental stories to go
along with training material. Several additional videos on disabilities were used and a
demonstration of the blood borne pathogen kit was used to supplement the training.
The training was well paced and was supplemented by a variety of videos, some
off the shelf while others included footage of actual experiences at VIA. For almost
every section there were written tests to ensure participants understanding. During the
PASS training wheelchair securement was reviewed and a variety of wheelchairs and
scooters were demonstrated. VIA devotes two full days to wheelchair securement,
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

12
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

Weaknesses

2.C.1.a

Wheelchair Securement and Lift Operations
During the PASS training there is two hours spent on wheelchair securement and
hands on passenger assistance. The trainer informed me that during the road training
section hands on securement and lift operations would be covered in depth for two
days. In addition, each student was a guide and was also blindfolded and guided on to
the lift during the PASS training.
The trainer made a particular point in stressing holding the chair while on the
lift. Due to the new Braun lifts the trainer instructed the participants to clearly instruct
the passengers to hold on to the railing and leave their breaks engaged, then hurry onto
the bus to pull them in. This is not the same procedure covered in the CTAA PASS
book. In this case, the PASS manual is out of date and new procedures are appropriate
and have been adapted by VIA and the RTD.
Course Summary
Strengths








Highly professional organization
True culture of safety
Use of “Customer” over “client.”
Use of actual examples as lessons to supplement the PASS book.
Limited use of videos for supplemental purposes only. Videos were not used
as stand-alone training
The VIA trainer is a clear and effective communicator and an excellent trainer
Trainees were consistently engaged

Weaknesses


No real weaknesses.

Instructor
The instructor is excellent. He conducts training throughout Colorado and is a
recognized expert in paratransit training. He is well versed in the latest techniques and
in fact his safety department recently developed a set of straps designed to keep a
passenger on the lift. This strap is now being used across the country. The trainer
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

13
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

beyond the two hours that were spent on hands-on wheel chair securement and lift
operations. Each also was blindfolded. Emphasis was placed on not only directional
and elevation change, but changes in surfaces.

2.C.1.a

Trainees
The trainees at the VIA PASS session were alert, attentive, and consistently
engaged in the process. The trainees were fully engaged, worked together, and did not
drift at all. They all appeared to be properly motivated and looking forward to their
jobs.
Facilities and Equipment
The VIA facility is excellent for training purposes. It is in their new facility in a
quiet training conference room, isolated, yet there were a number of management staff
that came by to introduce themselves. All equipment worked properly.

SUMMARY OF ISSUES
Following is a summary of our findings at each training program:
1. Training to Proficiency – All contractors train operators to proficiency and
provide the basic two – three week training program that relies to a large
extent on behind the wheel training. However, some are doing a better job of
training than others. The issues here revolved around the overall training
program, the use of the PASS training, and the capabilities of the trainers.
a. Uneven Training Programs - Clearly some contractors have better training
programs than others. VIA and MV both had professional comprehensive
training programs, while VIA and Global had effective, professional
trainers.
b. Use of PASS – The PASS training (discussed below) is used by each of the
vendors, however, the quality of the training varied widely based on the
trainers ability to communicate and use a variety of media to make the
appropriate points. Two of the classes – VIA and Global made
appropriate use of other media, as well as an abundance of examples to
punctuate a point. These two had classes that went two full days with
additional hands on training on subsequent days. At least one additional
day is devoted to hands on practice. VIA has two days beyond the PASS
training. All state that they are doing the hands-on training.
c. Capabilities of Trainers - Without question, some trainers are more
effective than others and that will have a very significant impact on
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

14
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

relied on the experiences of VIA to use as examples. He used videos to emphasize a
point, but relied on his own skills to train the participants. He personalized the
training for the five participants and ensured that each understood the lessons.

training to proficiency. Our experience and the experience gained in this
review point to the importance of a professional trainer that can keep the
trainees motivated. Global and VIA had excellent trainers that kept the
trainees motivated. MV’s class featured a number of trainees that fell
asleep as the trainer simply read from the PASS training guide. The two
day class was over in less than two days.
2. PASS Training – PASS is the recognized training program in the industry. It
has a number of flaws in it, in that it has not kept up with the changes to
wheelchairs, doors, lifts, and the location of the lift. Specifically:
a. Changes to the new Braun lift are such that it is not practical to push a
person in a wheelchair into the vehicle while the operator is standing on
the ground holding the wheelchair. The edge of the lift is at too steep an
angle.
b. The lift doors are now positioned to prohibit a person of average height
from being able to reach a wheelchair that is inside the vehicle.
c. In addition, the positioning of the lift at the rear side of the vehicle (Many
RTD vehicles are configured as such) makes backing in (the preferred
approach) problematic as there is not enough room to maneuver.
While CTAA’s PASS has not kept up with these changes, RTD and VIA have
adapted their approach and the other contractors are following along, thus ensuring
that trainees get the latest information. The RTD monitoring and active involvement is
one of the strong points of the training program. VIA appears to lead the effort and in
fact have developed a simple strap system to assist in boarding and alighting.

RECOMMENDATIONS
While all of the contractors were meeting the minimum requirements for training
vehicle operators to proficiency regarding safety and passenger assistance, some are
clearly doing a better job than others (assuming Coach has put their new program in
place). VIA and Global stand out based on the quality of their trainers, while VIA and
MV stand out for their curriculum. RTD Safety/Training staff should monitor Coach’s
training program to ensure they are now conducting the appropriate training.
The lack of uniformity leads to different levels of vehicle operator competence,
often based on their company’s training. Further, the differing levels of competence can
produce different levels of quality and safety. It is recommended that training be
consolidated through one professional entity. In this scenario one vendor or RTD itself
will be responsible for at least PASS and perhaps all other training with the exception of
contractor’s corporate policies and other training specific to the contractor.
RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

15
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

2.C.1.a

RTD can take on that role and ensure quality and up to date training. In fact, the
consultant believes that the best way to ensure high quality training is for RTD to take
on that role directly, giving it complete control over this critical aspect of training. This
will ensure the long term viability of the training program. VIA has also demonstrated
that it is very capable, based on their expertise in training, their training program, their
facility and dedication to the community. Consolidating training would serve a
number of purposes:
1. Uniform/High Quality – This is the best option for quality/uniform training
and service.
2. Lowest Cost – Contractors would not bear the cost of hiring trainers and their
hourly costs would be slightly reduced through elimination of duplicative
trainers and economies of scale.
3. Ability to monitor and change as needed – This approach would be the most
flexible to react to changes in the environment enabling RTD to react quickly
to the types of changes seen over the past few years.

RTD ADA Paratransit Training Review

16
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Assessment of RTD Paratransit Safety Training -KFH - Final (1644 : Access-a-Ride Driver Training Review)

2.C.1.a

2.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and
Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project
Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
The Radio and CAD/AVL Replacement Project is replacing a 1993-era radio and dispatch system. The
radio system had to be replaced because of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules setting a
deadline to narrow the bandwidth of the then used radio channels. The old CAD/AVL system was tightly
integrated with the radio system. The cost of upgrading the old system approached the cost of
implementing a new system.
RTD joined a state-wide public safety radio network using new frequencies for channels, saving money
and improving coverage over an RTD owned and operated system. INIT, Innovations in Transportation
was selected as the CAD/AVL vendor, Motorola is the vendor for radios and Sprint for cellular data. To
mitigate the risk of not making the FCC deadline, RTD requested and was granted a one-year extension
to 2014. With the near final installation, RTD will soon fully meet its FCC obligations.
To date, the CAD/AVL and Radio Replacement Project completed the radio-only deployment for Light
Rail, Transit Police, Paratransit and non-revenue vehicles, including capacity improvement of 6 radio
tower sites, fiber and microwave networking and console installation. The paratransit vehicles were
upgraded to cellular data radios for the Access-a-Ride dispatch software. The Bus Dispatch Operations
Control Center was remodeled and all technology upgraded. About 98% of the fixed-route bus fleet has
been installed.
Factory Acceptance Testing, Factory System Integration Testing, Onsite Pre-revenue Onboard and
System Integration Testing and Radio system testing were all completed successfully. Mini-fleet testing
is mostly complete and should be finished in September. System Acceptance Testing will start after
passing mini-fleet testing. It is a minimum of 60 days to “burn in” the system and look for potential
concerns. Training of Operators, Dispatchers, Street Supervisors, System Administrators and Maintainers
is complete. An Operating and Maintenance Plan is developed and in place. Should significant problems
arise, a Disaster Recovery system is part of the overall design and fallback procedures to operate with
only the voice radio system are in place.
High severity problems are no longer an issue and the system appears to be stable. Installations are still
projecting to complete at the end of August. Buses out of service for repair may cause a slight
completion delay of approximately four vehicles into the first week of September. Below is a capsulated
summary that is followed by a list of current and upcoming activities.

Packet Pg. 40

2.C.2

MAJOR PROJECT ELEMENTS STATUS
Key

1

2

Element

Status

CAD/AVL Contract

High severity problems are no longer an issue and the system
appears to be stable.

Testing and Problem
Resolution

CAD/AVL
Installations

CAD/AVL Contract
3

4

 Because of the previous level-one problems, the 60-day mini-

Yellow


Yellow



fleet test will extend into mid-September. This item is shown
as yellow because of the delays in completing the testing.
977 of 1004 buses were installed as of 8/2/2013.
Projections still show August completion. Buses out of
service for repair may cause a slight completion delay of
approximately four vehicles into the first week of September.
17 of 21 Street Supervisor vehicles were installed as of
8/2/2013. This item is shown in yellow because of delays
from the original schedule objective.
The database for over 13,000 stop announcements is being
modified to shorten the announcements so that they will
finish before the next stop. Stop announcements will be
deployed in September, after all buses are installed and
testing of the revised data is complete. The ASA Advisory
Panel (ASAAP) will meet for a final review of the
announcement system prior to formal launch. ASAAP has
participated from inception and is comprised of
representatives of people with disabilities and the RTD
customer panel.

Automatic Stop
Announcements (ASA)

Green

CAD/AVL Contract
Database Interfaces

management interfaces are going through detailed
 Asset
testing. These interfaces are expected to go into service in
Green August.

UPCOMMING ACTIVITIES / EVENTS
Activity / Event

Time Frame

CAD/AVL Mini-fleet testing

7/2012 - 9/2013

Fixed-Route Bus Installations

7/2012 - 9/2013

Formal / Final CAD/AVL System Acceptance Testing

4th Quarter 2013

Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 41

2.C.2

Packet Pg. 42

2.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 8, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

August 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Smart Card Project Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
The Smart Card Program continues to effectively gather rider taps for bus and train EcoPass and
CollegePass riders. During the month of July, 2013, 982K taps were recorded on bus and train
validators, an expected continued reduction from prior months due to a decrease in college pass use.
College Pass SmartCard use is expected to rise again as colleges begin their fall semesters in August.
The Smartcard Customer Service Center, (Operated under an RTD contract with Xerox by Celina, Inc.)
continues to distribute new cards upon request, issue replacement cards and answer riders’ questions as
they arise. A series of call center reports and metrics are also being produced.
A team of RTD Technical Support staff meets weekly to discuss reported issues with bus installations
and determine steps required to address issues that arise. An issue has been identified with the design
of the stanchions that hold the bus SMT validators and Xerox, the SMT vendor, has agreed to replace all
broken or deficient validator stanchions on each bus that has not been recently repaired.
Work on the installation of two additional platform validators at 16th/California and 18th/California has
been completed. Site surveys have been completed to determine the feasibility of installing three
additional platform validators at the Colfax and Auraria station and two validators at the 30th and
Downing station.
An update to the Fare Inspector software used to confirm that passengers have tapped their SmartCard
prior to boarding has been delivered and the upgrade to the handheld devices is under way. Xerox is
engaged in additional work to simplify the method by which software upgrades are applied to the
handheld devices. Nine training sessions designed to educate the Fare Inspectors on the full
functionality of the handheld took place the week of August 5th. Fare Inspectors continue to operate in
an “educate & inform” mode and the SMT Program Team is working closely with Marketing and RTD
Security to determine the appropriate strategy to educate our riders. We expect to see an increase in the
number of taps after the fare inspector handheld units are placed in service and fare enforcement goes
live.
As part of the Phase 2 SmartCard deployment, detailed testing plans have been developed to fully test
the Retail Point of Sales (RPOS) Terminals that were delivered to RTD in May. The scheduled testing in
July has not yet occurred due to delays with the vendor; however the allotted time and resources were
used for a successful demo of the point of sales units resulting in positive initial feedback. Members of
RTD Finance, Marketing, Retail Sales, Call Center and others learned how the devices work through a
hands-on demonstration. Phase 2 will see the implementation of these terminals at RTD sales locations
and will provide the general public with the ability to purchase SmartCard products. Planning for Phase
2 of the program is in full-swing and the schedule continues to be evaluated to ensure adequate timing
for a successful Phase 2 launch.
Work continues with colleges and schools to activate and deactivate College SmartCards based on the
status of the student (enrolled students, graduated students, students not attending.) The Program Team

Packet Pg. 43

2.C.3

continues to train the College Staff and provide improved tools to automate and improve the flow of
student pass information into the SMT database. Through this process, several needed improvements to
the web portal have been identified and the Program Team is working with Xerox to gather requirements
and develop a timeline for implementation. In order to ensure a smooth contract renewal process for the
EcoPass program, the Program Team will be focused on this area between now and the end of the year.
The information outlined below contains the current status of SMT Program activities:
1. BUS INSTALLATIONS

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow

1

674 = Number of buses requiring replacements
100 = Number of replacements completed
1 = Number of replacements since last report
15% Complete
 After
escalating
to
Xerox
Executive
Level
Management, Xerox has agreed to replace the
stanchions. RTD will conduct a complete inventory of
buses and will provide Xerox with a list of buses
requiring a stanchion replacement.

Stanchion Replacements

2. PLATFORM INSTALLATIONS & UPGRADES

Key

Elements



Status

Green

2a

Installation



2b

Changing Cellular
Connectivity to Network
on Platform Validators



2c

ADA Compliance on
Platform Validators



Conducted the site surveys with a representative from
RTD’s Network Team at 30th & Downing and Auraria
(Colfax). A Statement of Work is in development that
outlines the PV activities.
A list of sites that are currently configured with cellular
modems has been provided to the Network Team, as well
as those containing both cellular and network connectivity.
Evaluations are under way regarding the cost and timing of
networking all platform validators
We have received feedback from the ADA community that
they would like the platform validators to be upgraded in
the following areas:
 Spoken word
 Braille stickers
LTK has been engaged to research and document the
requirements for these ADA topics. Once we have the
information we can place an order for the Braille stickers,
as well as determine if there is anything that can be done
with the vocals on the platform validators.

Packet Pg. 44

2.C.3

3. FARE INSPECTOR HANDHELDS

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow

3a

Installations



3b

User Manual and
Training



3c

HSMR Training



The HSMR testing on July 15-16 showed that the speed
of the installation/upgrade of software was improved. We
are awaiting the results of additional testing in regards to
battery life. v.15 of the HSMR software is in the process
of being installed on all active HSMRs.
During the HSMR Testing event, both the User Manual and
the Training Documentation were updated and improved
by the “hands-on” use of the devices. A SmartCard FAQ
document as well as a copy of the training presentation
has also been provided to each Fare Inspector.
Fare Inspector Training was completed the week of
August 5th. 80+ Fare Inspectors attended.

4. WEB PORTAL

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow
Work continues to verify and validate that the items on
the punch list have been completed. There are no changes
to report since the last status update.
Total Records:

Design Review
4a

4b

Phase 1 Punch List and
Software Releases

Marketing Review





116

Open

52

45%

In Progress

15

13%

Verify

18

16%

Closed

29

25%

Software releases have been created that include most of
the remaining Punch List Items. Detailed requirements
have been identified for the User Roles and a meeting to
finalize the requirements was held. Resources will begin
to work on functional requirements for Phase 1 Punch List
items once the User Role requirements are complete.
The Marketing Web Portal review has been completed. A
matrix that outlines the specific requirements is under
development and will be used by the SMT Program Team
and Marketing to document the adequate level of detail for
Xerox programmers to modify the web site.

Packet Pg. 45

2.C.3

Key



Elements

Status

Yellow

4c

Bulk
Suspend
Deactivation

and



Work continues to assist colleges with their bulk
suspend/deactivate activities in preparation for the start of
the school year. Xerox completed the change of the
expiration date on the contracts on the cards prior to the
August 1st deadline.

5. CARD DISTRIBUTION
Key

Elements



Status

Green

5

Card Issuance



The RFP to purchase additional cards was posted on July
15th. Additionally, a Change Order with Xerox has been
created to order more cards to provide enough stock
through the end of the year. The cards shipped on July
31st, 2013.

6. REPORTS
Key

Elements



Status

Green

6

Reports



Additional APOS (Agency Point of Sale) reporting
requirements have been identified but have not been fully
documented. An additional resource has been engaged to
assist with APOS financial report requirement gathering
and documentation. In addition, reports are being made
available to assist the Eco/College Pass support team in
understanding the current status of cards and riders within
each of the schools/businesses utilizing the Eco/College
Passes. RPOS reports are also being considered.

7. MARKETING

Key

Elements



Status

Green

7a

Strategy



The Marketing Strategy in the near term will focus on the
re-education of the general public concerning “tapping”
practices when boarding RTD transportation. The
implementation of the strategy will coincide with the date

Packet Pg. 46

2.C.3

Key

Elements



Status

Green

7b

Mayor’s Office, City &
County of Denver and
Denver Public Schools



that Fare Inspectors will start inspecting fares in earnest.
Members of the SMT Program Team met with
representatives of the Denver Mayor’s Office and the City
& County of Denver to discuss the strategy and technical
requirements of creating a smart card system that would
provide students with the ability to use one card to gain
access to RTD transportation, Denver recreational centers,
libraries, and their schools.

8. COMMUNICATIONS

Key

Elements



Status

Green

8

Communications continues to assist with messages
delivered
to
Ride
Sponsors
as
issues
arise.
Communication strategy discussions for Phase 2 have
begun. A Program-Level communication plan is being
developed. In addition, The RTD Program Team is working
in tandem with the Xerox Project Manager to ensure
effective and accurate communications within and among
all project stakeholders. Current Team and Executive Level
meetings are being evaluated to ensure all project
stakeholders are getting the information they need, when
they need it. A Program site on The Hub has also been
created.

Strategy

9. RETAIL POINT OF SALE (RPOS)

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow
9a

9b

Safeway

King Soopers



Safeway has committed to continue selling RTD products.
Safeway has a moratorium on all changes during the
months of November and December.



Meeting with King Soopers held in early March. They
have indicated they would like to avoid their busy months
of November and December for implementation and
training of their staff. Installations of the units may be
done during this time as long as the work is done during
the overnight hours.

Packet Pg. 47

2.C.3

Key

Elements



Status

Yellow
9c

7-Eleven



9d

Design Review



9e

Installation Site Surveys



9f

Factory Acceptance
Testing



9g

APOS Devices



No response from 7-Eleven; may possibly pursue a
partnership with Walgreens.
Design document has been approved. RTD will provide a
cellular modem for communication to the RTD network.
All 300 RPOS Units were delivered to RTD on time.
Modems have arrived and have been configured for use
with the RPOS units.
Network installations at all RTD-owned Retail outlets have
been completed. These sites are ready for RPOS
installation at the appropriate time.
The RPOS testing that was scheduled for the week of July
15th did not take place due to the delay in the software
release. Instead, we conducted a demonstration of the
device to RTD staff that will be using the RPOS on a daily
basis. The SMT Program Team is working with Xerox to
reschedule the RPOS testing.
Extensive testing and trouble-shooting has been completed
on the APOS printer at the Blake office. It was determined
that the camera that takes the pictures printed on cards
may be defective. RTD Technical staff is looking at other
camera options.

NEAR-TERM ACTIVITIES / EVENTS
Activity / Event

Time Frame

Installation & Training of RPOS Units (RTD Locations)

Q2 2014

Installation of RPOS Units (other than RTD locations)

Q3 and Q4 2014

Period passes and Stored Value:
RTD Retail Locations and Web
King Soopers/Safeway/Other Retailers

Q3 2014
Q4 2014/Q1 2015
Phase 1
(Eco, College, Neighborhood):
Complete

Substantial System Completion (All Deliverables)

Phase 2
(MyRide - Passes/Stored Value):
Q3 2014
Phase 3
(Reduced Fare Program &
FlexPass)
2015

Packet Pg. 48

2.C.3

Prepared by:
Judy McMurphy, IT Program Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 49

3.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

July 31, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report

Information

Attached are the summary statements of the audits that were completed in the Second quarter
of 2013. They include:
 Lamar Advertising Revenue
 IT Access Controls
 Intermountain Coach.
If the Committee members have any questions regarding any of the above reports, we would be
pleased to answer them.
ATTACHMENTS:


FAC Comm Report

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Ann Isaac-Heslop, Manager, Internal Audit
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 50

3.C.1.a

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
LAMAR ADVERTISING REVIEW
AUDIT REPORT # 13-06-01

RTD has contracted with the Lamar Advertising Company to sell advertising space
on both the interior and exterior of RTD bus and light rail vehicles. The original
contract was effective for three years from January 1, 2010 through December
31, 2012. In late 2012, the contract was re-evaluated by RTD and resulted in a
reduction to the minimum annual payments required from Lamar, because of fewer
than expected bus and light rail vehicles operating in regular service. The revised
annual minimums are $2.32 million for buses and $1.2 million for light rail vehicles,
starting in 2012. The bus minimum annual is paid to RTD ‘up-front’ in January.
The light rail minimum fees are received quarterly by RTD. At the same time, the
contract was extended through December 31, 2014
AUDIT SCOPE
Our testing included a review of the contractual agreement with Lamar Advertising
and an evaluation of the controls and procedures in place for calculating and
remitting advertising revenue to the District, ensuring that all such funds are
received.
CONCLUSION
We have recommended an internal meeting be arranged between appropriate RTD
departments, including Procurement, Marketing, and Accounting to review current
procedures and evaluate potential enhancements to ensure that all earned
advertising revenue is received and accounted for.
CURRENT STATUS
Mutually agreed upon corrective action is underway as a meeting is being
scheduled for late July. This will be subject to normal Internal Audit follow-up
review.

Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: FAC Comm Report (1657 : Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report)

BACKGROUND SUMMARY

3.C.1.a

BACKGROUND SUMMARY
RTD utilizes significant Information Technology (IT) resources, including personnel,
hardware, and software, in the day to day operations of providing commuter
transit services. Ensuring adequate security and confidentiality over a company’s
information technology is critical in today’s public environment. Computer
technology must be adequately controlled to ensure that systems are protected
from both internal and external risks.
AUDIT SCOPE
Our testing primarily emphasized software access controls, particularly over
selected Oracle modules after the recent upgrade to Release R12. In an effort to
avoid duplication of effort, we limited our testing in selected areas that RTD’s
external auditors, Rubin Brown, had recently reviewed. In addition, RTD has a
representative on a new APTA ‘task force’ that is studying external ‘Cyber
Threats’ against transportation companies. As such, we did not include this area
in our current review as their report is due later this year.
CONCLUSION
We recommended that IT periodically provide department managers with a list of
their employee’s software access permissions for review, including the use of
Super User which allows permitted employees to enter or modify Oracle
transactions. We also suggested that management consider creating the position
of IT Security Administrator when internal head count allows for it.
CURRENT STATUS

Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: FAC Comm Report (1657 : Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report)

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
IT ACCESS CONTROLS REVIEW
AUDIT REPORT # 13-04-03

3.C.1.a

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
INTERMOUNTAIN COACH CONTRACT REVIEW
AUDIT REPORT # 13-05-01
BACKGROUND SUMMARY
In June 2010 RTD issued an “Invitation for Bid” (IFB) in search for a firm to
“Supply 32 Cutaway Buses, with an option to purchase 15 more over a five year
period”. Intermountain Coach Inc. was justified as the winning provider and a
contract was prepared to describe each party’s responsibilities.
The agreement is ongoing at this time. The purchased vehicles are primarily utilized
for RTD’s Access-a-Ride and Call-n-Ride services. An initial fixed price for these
buses was just over $54,000 per unit. Future years’ price increases are tied to an
agreed upon calculation utilizing a specified ‘Bureau of Labor Statistics Producer
Price Index for Truck and Bus Bodies’. Recent purchases in the first quarter of
2013 cost just over $57,000 per unit.
AUDIT SCOPE
Our review included the process to develop the IFB within RTD, solicit various
firms, obtain and evaluate proposals from those expressing an interest in bidding
on the specified vehicles, and selecting the winning firm. We also reviewed the
controls over vendor invoices to ensure new vehicles were received and properly
inspected, to validate they met RTD requirements before payment was approved.
CONCLUSION
We noted that the contract award process was appropriately followed and the
selection of Intermountain Coach as the winning bidder was justified. Invoices

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: FAC Comm Report (1657 : Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report)

Mutually agreed upon corrective action is underway and will be subject to normal
Internal Audit follow-up review.

3.C.1.a

were properly supported, buses were adequately inspected and road tested, and
management approved payment before checks were issued.
CURRENT STATUS

Attachment: FAC Comm Report (1657 : Second Quarter 2013 Internal Audit Report)

As there were no reportable findings, there is no further activity required by
Internal Audit.

Packet Pg. 54

3.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

July 31, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Second Quarter 2013 Investment Report

Information

Discussion
Please find RTD’s investment report for the second quarter of 2013 attached.
The U.S. economy expanded modestly (1.7 percent) during the second quarter of 2013. The
unemployment rate remained unchanged over the period but still remains elevated and general
inflationary pressures remain tame.
In order to promote economic recovery, the Federal Reserve chose to continue with its accommodative
monetary policy and leave the federal funds target rate range (0.0% - 0.25%) unchanged during the
second quarter noting that this level will continue to “be appropriate at least as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5% and inflation expectations continue to be well anchored”.
RTD’s Investment Policy (the “Policy”) is conservative in nature and seeks to satisfy the three primary
objectives of: safety, liquidity and yield, in that order of importance.
The Policy specifies that:
“Quarterly reports shall outline the District’s total investment return and compare the portfolio’s
performance to a publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics
to the portfolio or sub-portfolio being measured. For the liquidity tier of the portfolio (cash and cash
equivalents), the specified index shall be the 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index as published by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch for the period being measured. For the enhanced cash portion of the portfolio
(securities maturing between 90 days and 5 years and with a target duration of 1 year), the designated
performance benchmark will be the Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index.”
The total return on the liquidity and enhanced cash tiers of RTD’s unrestricted portfolio and investment
benchmarks were as follows:
Liquidity Tier:

2nd Quarter

Y-T-D

RTD cash and cash equivalents:
B of A/Merrill Lynch 3-month U.S. T-Bill Index

0.032%
0.023%

0.065%
0.039%

0.042%
0.039%

0.116%
0.114%

Enhanced Cash Tier:
RTD enhanced cash:
B of A/Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index:

Packet Pg. 55

3.C.2

The yield of RTD’s unrestricted portfolio through the second quarter of 2013 was 0.70% which would
produce annualized earnings of $2.067 million. The current return for the month of June was 0.47%.
ATTACHMENTS:


INV REPORT JUN 2013 (PDF)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 56

3.C.2.a

PAGE 1

Attachment: INV REPORT JUN 2013 (1658 : Second Quarter 2013 Investment Report)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2013 RETURN ON INVESTMENT REPORT
UNRESTRICTED ONLY (BASE & FASTRACKS)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2012 YIELD, AS OF JUNE 30, 2013

TOTAL
UNRESTRICTED INVESTMENTS
WEIGHTED AVG BOOK VALUE AND/OR FAIR VALUE:

2012

2013

JANUARY
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER

469,199,244
326,288,585
333,630,746
330,981,948
312,652,908
360,345,881
379,299,549
357,156,858
343,700,234
336,616,056
338,154,581
385,488,162

415,468,420
290,696,582
295,961,746
315,569,349
253,404,784
191,295,855

ANNUALIZED WABV AND/OR WAFV

356,429,501

294,089,923

YTD INVESTMENT EARNINGS BASE & FT

4,284,220

*

1,024,856

ANNUAL INVESTMENT EARNINGS

4,284,220

*

2,066,699

2012 YTD YIELD, 2013 YTD YIELD

1.2

*

0.7

Packet Pg. 57

3.C.2.a

PAGE 2
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
QUARTERLY INVESTMENT REPORT
FOR THE QUARTER ENDING JUNE 30, 2013

QUARTERLY
EARNINGS
PER G/L

JUNE 30, 2013
QUARTER YIELD ON
WEIGHTED AVERAGE

ADJUSTMENT TO
FAIR VALUE

JUNE 30, 2013
UNREALIZED TOTAL
RETURN ON
WEIGHTED AVERAGE

Attachment: INV REPORT JUN 2013 (1658 : Second Quarter 2013 Investment Report)

QUARTERLY
WEIGHTED AVERAGE
FAIR VALUE
BOOK VALUE
RTD Unrestricted Portfolio:
Cash Base Equivalents

124,674,677

39,870

0.032%

RTD BASE
FASTRACKS

15,118,460
113,629,988

39,382
344,413

0.260%
0.303%

(32,889)
(297,104)

0.043%
0.042%

TOTAL BASE AND FASTRACKS

128,748,448

383,795

0.298%

(329,993)

0.042%

June 30, 2013

March 31, 2013

December 31, 2012

0.128%

September 30, 2012

767,589

RTD Cash Base Equivalents
ML 3-Month U.S. Treasury Bill index

0.032%
0.023%

0.033%
0.016%

0.041%
0.040%

0.048%
0.034%

Total RTD Base and Fastracks
ML 1-YEAR U.S. Treasury Note Index

0.042%
0.039%

0.074%
0.075%

0.070%
0.064%

0.137%
0.137%

Packet Pg. 58

3.C.2.a

UNRESTRICTED
JUNE 30, 2013

Attachment: INV REPORT JUN 2013 (1658 : Second Quarter 2013 Investment Report)

PAGE 3

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
UNRESTRICTED INVESTMENT YIELD FOR THE MONTH REPORT: JUNE 30, 2013
WEIGHTED AVERAGE
BOOK VALUE
FAIR VALUE
FOR JUNE 30, 2013

JUNE
EARNINGS

JUNE
G/L ON SALES
G/L ON CALLS

ANNUALIZED
EARNINGS

JUNE
YIELD

RTD INTERNAL PORTFOLIO

CASH EQUIVALENTS

75,260,831

7,875

95,810

0.13 %

RTD BASE

15,059,582

13,127

0

159,715

1.06 %

FASTRACKS

100,975,442

115,778

(62,150)

652,475

0.65 %

TOTAL UNRESTRICTED
(CASH EQUIVALENTS\RTD BASE
& FASTRACKS)

191,295,855

136,780

(62,150)

907,999

0.47 %

Packet Pg. 59

3.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

August 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

Fiscal Sustainability Recommendations Update

Information

BACKGROUND
A Fiscal Sustainability Task Force (Task Force) was formed in November 2010 for the purpose of making
recommendations, through a written report to the RTD Board of Directors, detailing opportunities for
operating efficiencies and revenue enhancement for the Base System to ensure RTD’s long-term fiscal
sustainability. The Task Force consisted of 22 members with 12 of those members being external to
RTD. The Task Force presented its recommendations to the Board of Directors in June 2011. The
Board of Directors subsequently approved those recommendations and directed Staff to pursue
implementation of each recommendation. The Task Force reconvened for a final meeting in July 2012
to be briefed on the progress of their recommendations and provide an opportunity for feedback.

DISCUSSION
The Task Force made revenue enhancement, expense reduction and fiscal policy recommendations to
the Board of Directors which were approved for further consideration and/or implementation. The status
of those Task Force recommendations is as follows:
Recommendations - Completed
Removing the Volatility from Sales and Use Tax Projections
RTD contracted with the University of Colorado, Leeds School of Business – Business Research Division
(Leeds) to provide sales and use tax forecasts beginning in March 2011. Each quarter, Leeds provides a
forecast containing short-term (one year by quarter), medium-term (six year SBP period) and long-term
(30 year APE period) tax projections. This function was implemented to provide RTD with expert
economic analysis and sales and use tax forecasts using sophisticated financial modeling techniques not
available internally. These forecasts are intended to provide a better analysis of RTD’s expected sales
and use tax collections which comprise approximately 2/3 of RTD’s recurring revenues.
Service Optimization
In January 2012, RTD implemented modifications and reductions in service representing approximately
$10.7 million or an 8% net reduction in service. Service optimization was recommended by the Task
Force and implemented with Board approval in order to match services provided with available funding
sources.
Fund Balance Policy
Due to the volatility of RTD’s largest single revenue source, sales and use taxes, the Task Force
recommended implementation of a more robust fiscal policy regarding fund balances. Fund balances
represent financial assets that are available to RTD after allowing for obligations that have been incurred.
Fund balances increase when fund sources exceed fund uses and vice versa. Fund balances therefore
exist as a form of savings account to be used for specific purposes when needed and replenished when
economic circumstances allow. In response to this recommendation, RTD implemented a fund balance

Packet Pg. 60

3.C.3

policy with a target level of $90 million for the Base System, which is approximately three months of
operating expenses. This target was established based on levels recommended by the Government
Finance Officers Association (GFOA) best practices. The Fund Balance Policy further categorizes the
available fund balances into the categories of a Board Restricted Fund, a Capital Replacement Fund and
an Unrestricted Fund.
Sales and Use Tax Exemptions
In Colorado, legislation establishes products and services that are subject to sales and use taxation and
those that are exempt from taxation. The state, cities, municipalities and special districts in Colorado
each have different sales and use tax rates and often have differing items subject to taxation due to
legislation establishing exemptions. RTD introduced legislation which was passed in May 2013 to
establish parity with the state regarding items subject to sales and use taxation. Exemption parity was
identified by the Task Force as providing a benefit to RTD during difficult economic conditions when the
state implements exemption changes and vice versa. In addition, exemption parity removes the
complexity to vendors of RTD having different taxable items than the state. Exemption parity will take
effect January 1, 2014.
Technology and Energy Innovation
Regarding energy innovation, RTD conducted a comprehensive energy audit of the oldest and largest
operating division (the Platte facility) to determine the potential scope of savings that may be available
through equipment and lighting upgrades. The audit identified that facility lighting upgrades could result
in potentially significant energy savings. Areas for minor energy savings were identified for other
building systems, however, these have a very significant capital investment and long pay-back periods.
Based on this information, RTD has budgeted for energy upgrades throughout the District in the strategic
budget plan, and will address energy efficiency in building systems as on-going projects are completed.
RTD has evaluated a variety of solar applications which also require significant capital investment with a
relatively long-term pay-back period. RTD was successful in receiving a grant to install solar panels at
East Metro and this project is underway.

Recommendations – Ongoing
Sales and Use Tax Compliance Reviews
The Colorado Department of Revenue (DOR) collects and audits sales and use taxes for RTD. The Task
Force identified an opportunity for revenue enhancement by performing additional sales and use tax
compliance reviews based on the favorable collection experiences of Colorado cities and municipalities
that implemented these reviews. Compliance reviews consist of RTD providing additional resources
from a contracted provider to supplement the DOR’s audit function. Due to the complexity of sales and
use tax filing requirements and tax boundaries in Colorado, this recommendation is intended to provide
the DOR with the additional resources necessary to ensure complete and timely tax compliance by
vendors. An Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between RTD and the DOR is substantially complete
with the next step to finalize an RFP for compliance review services. RTD expects to initiate these
services in late 2013.
Naming Rights
The Board approved RTD securing the services of a corporate sponsorship and naming rights consultant,
and RTD entered into a contract with the internationally known firm IMG. Per their contract, IMG is
conducting an inventory and financial analysis of RTD facilities, services and assets that may lend
themselves to naming/sponsorship value-added contracts. The Board will be updated on this process the

Packet Pg. 61

3.C.3

third and fourth quarters of 2013, and contract opportunities will be presented to the Board for their
approval on a case-by-case basis.
Partnerships and Privatization
The Task Force described this recommendation as a broad area that could include items such as
privatizing routes and administrative and operational functions to reduce expenses. RTD has undertaken
some actions under this recommendation such as the lease of the DUS historic building, IGAs for
improvements to US36 and the East Line, as well as TOD activities. RTD continues to look for
partnership and privatization opportunities on an ongoing basis.

Recommendations – Low Near-Term Priority
Recommendations made by the Task Force and categorized at the 2012 Board Retreat as having lower
near-term priority and their status are as follows:
Charge for Parking
RTD currently charges out-of-District patrons parking fees to use parking facilities as well as fees
charged to in-District patrons parking for longer than 24 hours. The Task Force identified charging
parking fees to all patrons as a possible revenue enhancement source. This recommendation could be
perceived as a fare increase.
Tolling and Managed Lanes
The Task Force recommended investigating the possibility of RTD generating additional revenues through
charges for tolling and managed lanes. Enacting this recommendation would require coordination with
CDOT and other agencies.
Home Rule Initiative
The Task Force recommended that RTD consider becoming a “Home Rule” entity which would allow
RTD to collect and audit its sales and use taxes instead of the DOR. This initiative would require
legislation. RTD met several times with the DOR to discuss this initiative as well as sales and use tax
compliance reviews. Although the DOR did not object to RTD performing these services itself, the
Colorado Municipal League and other entities recommended against it.

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 62

3.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

August 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: August 13, 2013

Subject:

June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


063013 RTD MFS

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 63

3.C.4.a

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To: Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 13, 2013

From: Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer
Date: August 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date:
ACTION
DISCUSSION

Subject: June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report

INFO
X

DASHBOARD (in Thousands)

Year-to-Date vs. Prior Year-toDate

Ridership

Sales & Use
Tax

Fare Revenue

2.4%

6.5%

4.3%

188

$588

$1,729

Ridership
Ridership

Fare Revenue

Sales
&&
Use
Tax
Sales
Use
Tax

-0.4%

4.3%

2.7%

(176)

$2,442

$5,817

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

Current Month vs. Prior Year
Month

RIDERSHIP (in Thousands)
Actual vs. Prior Year
Month
Bus
West Line
Light Rail
Revenue Service Boardings
Mall Shuttle
Other

2013 Actual

2012 Actual

4,799
350
1,609
6,758
1,279
91

4,934
1,693
6,627
1,215
98

(135)
350
(84)
131
64
(7)

Month System-Wide Boardings

8,128

7,940

188

2.4%

Year-to-Date
Bus
West Line
Light Rail
Revenue Service Boardings
Mall Shuttle
Other
Year-to-Date System-Wide Boardings

31,436
723
10,119
42,278
6,939
573
49,790

31,863
10,633
42,496
6,886
584
49,966

(427)
723
(514)
(218)
53
(11)
(176)

-1.3%

2013 Actual
8,128
49,790

2013 Budget
8,113
50,132

Actual vs. Budget
Month
Year-to-Date

Variance

Variance
15
(342)

% Variance
-2.7%
-5.0%
2.0%
5.3%
-7.1%

-4.8%
-0.5%
0.8%
-1.9%
-0.4%
% Variance
0.2%
-0.7%

9.7

9.2

2013 Amended Budget
2013 Actual

(Millions)

8.7

8.2
2012 Actual
7.7

7.2

2013 Actual

2013 Amended Budget

2012 Actual

* 2012 had one more day due to Leap Year
** The West Line began it's first full month of revenue service in May 2013

Packet Pg. 64

3.C.4.a

FARE REVENUE (in Thousands)
Actual vs. Prior Year
Month
Year-to-Date

2013 Actual
$
9,572
58,783

2012 Actual
$
8,984
56,341

Variance
$
588
2,442

% Variance
6.5%
4.3%

Actual vs. Budget
Month
Year-to-Date

2013 Actual
$
9,572
58,783

2013 Budget
$
9,638
57,914

Variance
$
(66)
869

% Variance
-0.7%
1.5%

$11.5
$11.0
2013 Amended Budget

(Millions)

$10.5
$10.0

2013 Actual

$9.5
2012 Actual
$9.0
$8.5

2013 Actual

2013 Amended Budget

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

$8.0

2012 Actual

SALES & USE TAXES (in Thousands)
Actual vs. Prior Year
Month
Year-to-Date

2013 Actual
$
41,863
223,976

2012 Actual
$
40,134
218,159

Variance
$
1,729
5,817

% Variance
4.3%
2.7%

Actual vs. Budget
Month
Year-to-Date

2013 Actual
$
41,863
223,976

2013 Budget
$
41,858
224,973

Variance

% Variance
0.0%
-0.4%

$

5
(997)

$48.0
$46.0
$44.0

2013 Amended Budget

(Millions)

$42.0
$40.0

2013 Actual

$38.0
2012 Actual

$36.0
$34.0
$32.0

2013 Actual

2013 Amended Budget

2012 Actual

Expenditures
Total year-to-date operating expenditures were within the planned amounts included in the 2013 Amended Budget.

Reviewed and verified by: Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

Packet Pg. 65

3.C.4.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF POSITION
As of June 30, 2013 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
2013
Base System

2013
FasTracks Project

2013
Combined

December 31, 2012
Combined

Change

ASSETS
CURRENT ASSETS:
$

92,541
-

$

51,153
39,656

$

143,802
39,656

$

292,839
144,344

$

(149,037)
(104,688) (1)

49,199
16,448
9,953

32,800
74,536
71,708

81,999
90,984
81,661

80,237
114,224
14,551

1,762
(23,240) (2)
67,110

Total Net Receivables

75,600

179,044

254,644

209,012

45,632

Inventory
Prepaid Expenses
Restricted Debt Service/Project Funds
Other Assets

30,513
2,440
203,586
2,483

65,318
606,179
2,553

30,513
67,758
809,765
5,036

30,369
72,880
753,502
6,726

144
(5,122)
56,263 (3)
(1,690)

TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS

407,163

943,903

1,351,174

1,509,672

(158,498)

Capital Assets:
Land
Land Improvements
Buildings
Revenue Earning Equipment
Shop, Maintenance & Other Equipment
Construction in Progress

175,920
1,283,982
248,180
555,857
107,905
120,582

14,671
634,309
9,399
258,459
2,093
2,174,668

190,591
1,918,291
257,579
814,316
109,998
2,295,250

189,910
1,366,950
257,852
785,534
105,286
2,458,498

681
551,341
(273)
28,782
4,712
(163,248)

Total Capital Assets
Accumulated Depreciation

2,492,426
(1,107,810)

3,093,599
(53,351)

5,586,025
(1,161,161)

5,164,030
(1,108,184)

421,995
(52,977)

Net Capital Assets

1,384,616

3,040,248

4,424,864

4,055,846

369,018

TABOR Reserves
Restricted Debt Service/Debt Service Reserves
Deposits
Other

11,050
27,016
1,500
3,798

6,179
27,595
80,701

17,229
54,611
1,500
84,499

17,566
78,013
1,500
87,784

(337)
(23,402)
(3,285)

TOTAL NONCURRENT ASSETS

1,427,980

3,154,723

4,582,703

4,240,709

341,994

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

Cash & Cash Equivalents
Cash Reserved for Eagle P3 Payment
Receivables:
Sales Taxes
Grants
Other (less allowance for doubtful accts)

NONCURRENT ASSETS:

TOTAL ASSETS

$

1,835,143

$

4,098,626

$

5,933,877

$

5,750,381

$

183,496

(1) Payment to Eagle P3 concessionnaire made in January
(2) Collection of federal grant funds since year-end
(3) Increase due to the issuance of COPs in 2013

Packet Pg. 66

3.C.4.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF POSITION
As of June 30, 2013 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
2013
Base System

2013
FasTracks Project

2013
Combined

December 31, 2012
Combined

Change

LIABILITIES
CURRENT LIABILITIES:
$

TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:
Long Term Debt
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Net Pension Obligation
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
TOTAL LIABILITIES

58,559
40,900
18,414
3,391
24,724

$

78,040
8,042
16,549
7

$

136,707
48,942
18,414
19,940
24,731

$

278,317
46,575
17,537
17,042
23,511

$

(141,610) (4)
2,367
877
2,898
1,220

145,988

102,638

248,734

382,982

(134,248)

589,458
50,899

1,939,148
132,607
-

2,528,606
132,607
50,899

2,376,966
120,819
50,899

151,640
11,788
-

640,357

2,071,755

2,712,112

2,548,684

163,428

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

Accounts & Contracts Payable
Current Portion of Long Term Debt
Accrued Compensation
Accrued Interest Payable
Other

(5)

$

786,345

$

2,174,393

$

2,960,846

$

2,931,666

$

29,180

$

946,052
12,262
38,808
7,834
5,563
16,200
9,000
13,079

$

1,674,207
6,042
52,625
83,254
30,000
64,019
4,695
4,695
4,695

$

2,620,259
18,304
91,433
91,088
30,000
64,019
5,563
20,895
13,695
17,774

$

2,348,683
17,391
115,136
96,011
30,000
161,832
5,614
13,200
6,000
24,848

$

271,576
913
(23,703)
(4,923)
(97,813)
5,563 (6)
(5,614)
7,695
7,695
(7,074)

$

1,048,798

$

1,924,232

$

2,973,030

$

2,818,715

$

154,315

$

1,835,143
-

$

4,098,626
-

$

5,933,877
-

$

5,750,381
-

$

183,496

NET POSITION
Invested in Capital Assets, Net of Related Debt
TABOR Fund
Debt Service Reserves
Other Restricted Assets
FasTracks Contingency Fund
FasTracks Construction Fund
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA)
Operating Reserve
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Fund Balance
TOTAL NET POSITION
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET POSITION
(4) Reduction due to January scheduled construction payment to DTP on Eagle P3
(5) Increase due to the issuance of COPs in 2013
(6) Sale of Civic Center Air Rights less cost of Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS)

Packet Pg. 67

3.C.4.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - COMBINED
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
June 30, 2013 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
Combined
Actual
-----------------

Month
Combined
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
Combined
Actual
-----------------

YTD
Combined
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other
Total Operating Revenue

9,572
409

9,638
476

(66)
(67)

-0.7%
-14.1%
0.0%

58,783
2,618

57,914
2,568

869
50

1.5%
1.9%
0.0%

9,981

10,114

(133)

-1.3%

61,401

60,482

919

1.5%

21,270
3,555
405
1,034
3,425
677
2,340
941
328
68
108
9,846

22,497
4,526
534
1,932
4,384
763
3,086
1,201
328
80
(220)
9,420

1,227
971
129
898
959
86
746
260
12
(328)
(426)

5.5%
21.5%
24.2%
46.5%
21.9%
11.3%
24.2%
21.6%
0.0%
15.0%
149.1%
0.0%
-4.5%
0.0%

132,843
20,103
1,697
5,749
19,720
4,145
14,500
4,994
2,197
326
3,517
54,494

135,491
25,036
2,690
8,446
23,917
4,365
17,920
5,915
2,047
501
2,908
54,628

2,648
4,933
993
2,697
4,197
220
3,420
921
(150)
175
(609)
134

2.0% (1)
19.7% (2)
36.9% (3)
31.9% (4)
17.5% (5)
5.0% (6)
19.1% (7)
15.6% (8)
-7.3%
34.9%
-20.9%
0.0%
0.2%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

43,997

48,531

4,534

9.3%

264,285

283,864

19,579

6.9%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(34,016)

(38,417)

4,401

-11.5%

(202,884)

(223,382)

20,498

9.2%

41,863
4,403
(1,163)
510
(4,923)

41,858
9,643
226
145
(7,270)

5
(5,240)
(1,389)
365
2,347

0.0%
-54.3%
-614.6%
251.7%
0.0%
-32.3%
0.0%

223,976
28,528
591
11,547
50
(31,315)

224,973
52,487
1,507
11,783
(29,878)

(997)
(23,959)
(916)
(236)
50
(1,437)

-0.4%
-45.6%
-60.8%
-2.0%
0.0%
-4.8%
0.0%

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

40,690

44,602

(3,912)

-8.8%

233,377

260,872

(27,495)

-10.5%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

6,674

6,185

489

7.9%

30,493

37,490

(6,997)

-18.7%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

24,000

25,785

(1,785)

-6.9%

126,438

106,067

20,371

19.2%

(1,296)

-4.1%

13,374

9.3%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

30,674

$

31,970

$

$

156,931

$

143,557

$

(1) Positive variance on diesel fuel and purchased transportation due to invoice timing
(2) Variance is primarily due to lower than anticipated costs on maintenance campaigns with additional variances from traction power and wages
(3) Variance due to timing of invoices for East Colfax Transit Study and Northwest Area Mobilitiy Study (NAMS) costs
(4) West Line pre-revenue service costs less than anticipated
(5) Year end accrual reversals for grounds maintenance and security services
(6) Variance due to lower outside legal fees and lower licenses, permits and penalties
(7) Variance due to timing of low value computer and communication equipment purchases and data processing services
(8) Variance from budgeted costs for schedule printing, SmartCard and grand opening events

Packet Pg. 68

3.C.4.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - BASE SYSTEM
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
June 30, 2013 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
Base System
Actual
-----------------

Month
Base System
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
Base System
Actual
-----------------

YTD
Base System
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other

9,631

9,713

(82)

-0.2%
-14.1%
0.0%
-0.8%

21,270
2,657
356
281
3,067
677
2,288
814
328
68
108
(1,345)
6,560

22,497
3,609
497
993
4,021
763
3,027
1,110
328
80
(220)
(1,345)
6,421

1,227
952
141
712
954
86
739
296
12
(328)
(139)

Total Operating Expenses

37,129

41,781

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(27,498)

Total Operating Revenue

9,222
409

9,237
476

(15)
(67)

58,023
2,618

57,094
2,568

929
50

1.6%
1.9%
0.0%

60,641

59,662

979

1.6%

5.5%
26.4%
28.4%
71.7%
23.7%
11.3%
24.4%
26.7%
0.0%
15.0%
149.1%
0.0%
-2.2%
0.0%

132,843
16,280
1,443
1,795
18,363
4,145
14,188
4,109
2,197
326
3,517
(8,070)
40,922

135,491
21,211
2,477
3,584
22,552
4,365
17,564
4,947
2,047
501
2,908
(8,070)
41,857

2,648
4,931
1,034
1,789
4,189
220
3,376
838
(150)
175
(609)
935

2.0%
23.2%
41.7%
49.9%
18.6%
5.0%
19.2%
16.9%
-7.3%
34.9%
-20.9%
0.0%
2.2%
0.0%

4,652

11.1%

232,058

251,434

19,376

7.7%

(32,068)

4,570

-14.3%

(171,417)

(191,772)

20,355

10.6%

25,118
4,403
(310)
119
(639)

25,115
8,970
50
123
(1,779)

3
(4,567)
(360)
(4)
1,140

0.0%
-50.9%
-720.0%
-3.3%
0.0%
-64.1%
0.0%

134,386
28,310
(20)
9,296
50
(9,268)

134,984
49,602
301
8,867
(7,523)

(598)
(21,292)
(321)
429
50
(1,745)

-0.4%
-42.9%
-106.6%
4.8%
0.0%
-23.2%
0.0%

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

28,691

32,479

(3,788)

-11.7%

162,754

186,231

(23,477)

-12.6%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

1,193

411

782

190.3%

(8,663)

(5,541)

(3,122)

-56.3%

910

2,894

(1,984)

-68.6%

3,503

12,406

(8,903)

-71.8%

(1,202)

-36.4%

(12,025)

-175.2%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

Capital Grants and Local Contributions
INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

2,103

$

3,305

$

$

(5,160)

$

6,865

$

Packet Pg. 69

3.C.4.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - FASTRACKS PROJECT
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
June 30, 2013 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
FasTracks Project
Actual
-----------------

Month
FasTracks Project
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
FasTracks Project
Actual
-----------------

YTD
FasTracks Project
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other

$

Total Operating Revenue

-

$

-

$

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

$

-

$

-

$

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

49
678
52
40
1,345
3,286

37
866
59
38
1,345
2,999

(12)
188
7
(2)
(287)

0.0%
0.0%
-32.4%
21.7%
0.0%
0.0%
11.9%
-5.3%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
-9.6%
0.0%

254
3,789
312
229
8,070
13,572

213
4,716
356
230
8,070
12,771

(41)
927
44
1
(801)

0.0%
0.0%
-19.2%
19.7%
0.0%
0.0%
12.4%
0.4%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
-6.3%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

5,450

5,344

(106)

-2.0%

26,226

26,356

130

0.5%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(5,450)

(5,344)

(106)

2.0%

(26,226)

(26,356)

130

-0.5%

15,677
(853)
391
(4,284)

15,738
673
176
22
(5,491)

(61)
(673)
(1,029)
369
1,207

-0.4%
-100.0%
-584.7%
1677.3%
0.0%
-22.0%
0.0%

84,349
218
611
2,251
(22,047)

84,735
2,885
1,206
2,916
(22,355)

(386)
(2,667)
(595)
(665)
308

-0.5%
-92.4%
-49.3%
-22.8%
0.0%
-1.4%
0.0%

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

10,931

11,118

(187)

-1.7%

65,382

69,387

(4,005)

-5.8%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

5,481

5,774

(293)

-5.1%

39,156

43,031

(3,875)

-9.0%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

23,090

22,891

199

0.9%

122,935

93,661

29,274

31.3%

(94)

-0.3%

25,399

18.6%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

28,571

$

28,665

$

$

162,091

$

136,692

$

Packet Pg. 70

3.C.4.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
June 30, 2013 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
FasTracks Ops
Actual
-----------------

Month
FasTracks Ops
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
FasTracks Ops
Actual
-----------------

YTD
FasTracks Ops
Budget
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other
Total Operating Revenue

350
-

401
-

(51)
-

-12.7%
0.0%
0.0%

760
-

820
-

(60)
-

-7.3%
0.0%
0.0%

350

401

(51)

-12.7%

760

820

(60)

-7.3%

898
75
358
87
-

917
73
363
53
-

19
(2)
5
(34)
-

0.0%
2.1%
0.0%
-2.7%
1.4%
0.0%
0.0%
-64.2%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

3,823
165
1,357
656
-

3,825
146
1,365
738
-

2
(19)
8
82
-

0.0%
0.1%
0.0%
-13.0%
0.6%
0.0%
0.0%
11.1%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

1,418

1,406

(12)

-0.9%

6,001

6,074

73

1.2%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(1,068)

(1,005)

(63)

-11.9%

(5,241)

(5,254)

13

-8.5%

1,068
-

1,005
-

63
-

6.3%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

5,241
-

5,254
-

(13)
-

-0.2%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

1,068

1,005

63

6.3%

5,241

5,254

(13)

-0.2%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

-

0.0%

-

0.0%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
Depreciation

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense
Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

-

$

-

$

$

-

$

-

$

Packet Pg. 71

3.C.4.a

January
2012

February
2012

March
2012

April
2012

May
2012

June
2012

July
2012

August
2012

September
2012

October
2012

November
2012

December
2012

Total Year
To Date

Sales Tax Collections
Use Tax Collections
Vendor Allowance
Less Cost of Collections Fee
Plus Interest Earned

$ 29,967,067
3,166,944
364,430
(39,560)
21,999

$ 29,337,195
3,200,609
357,872
(39,560)
19,635

$ 33,109,532
3,612,354
403,889
(39,560)
22,164

$ 32,850,700
3,577,804
400,665
(39,560)
19,700

$ 33,941,600
3,414,995
415,493
(39,560)
17,671

$ 35,440,481
4,277,167
441,753
(41,009)
15,824

$ 33,626,601
2,914,549
406,423
(41,009)
19,695

$ 34,457,627
3,460,487
421,738
(41,009)
16,666

$ 35,055,538
3,359,396
427,264
(41,009)
17,902

$ 33,775,579
3,166,066
410,878
(41,009)
18,713

$ 32,468,514
3,154,698
396,214
(41,009)
16,454

$ 39,201,688
4,576,358
486,915
(41,009)
18,457

$ 403,232,122
41,881,427
4,933,534
(484,863)
224,881

Net Sales & Use Tax Received

$ 33,480,880

$ 32,875,751

$ 37,108,379

$ 36,809,309

$ 37,750,199

$ 40,134,216

$ 36,926,260

$ 38,315,509

$ 38,819,091

$ 37,330,227

$ 35,994,871

$ 44,242,409

$ 449,787,100

Favorable/(Unfavorable) to Prior Year

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$ 34,606,693

Actual

3,276,993

2,562,924

1,605,410

2,895,524

3,388,016

3,058,507

2,751,961

2,024,736

3,651,913

3,514,206

1,785,281

4,091,223

Percent of Increase/(Decrease)

10.8%

8.5%

4.5%

8.5%

9.9%

8.2%

8.1%

5.6%

10.4%

10.4%

5.2%

10.2%

Percent of Increase Year to Date

10.8%

9.7%

7.8%

8.0%

8.4%

8.3%

8.3%

7.9%

8.2%

8.4%

8.1%

8.3%

January
2013

February
2013

March
2013

April
2013

May
2013

June
2013

Sales Tax Collections
Use Tax Collections
Vendor Allowance
Less Cost of Collections Fee
Plus Interest Earned

$ 30,967,664
3,092,679
378,831
(41,009)
17,402

$ 30,054,786
3,036,477
334,280
(41,009)
12,199

$ 33,753,289
3,515,962
414,522
(41,009)
15,198

$ 33,017,575
3,116,175
401,892
(41,009)
13,168

$ 36,581,877
3,139,815
441,798
(41,817)
14,375

$ 37,725,868
3,701,092
460,764
(41,817)
16,943

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$ 202,101,060
19,602,199
2,432,087
(247,670)
89,285

Net Sales & Use Tax Received

$ 34,415,567

$ 33,396,732

$ 37,657,962

$ 36,507,802

$ 40,136,048

$ 41,862,850

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$ 223,976,961

Favorable/(Unfavorable) to Prior Year

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

-

$

Actual

934,687

520,981

549,583

(301,507)

2,385,849

July
2013

1,728,634

August
2013

September
2013

October
2013

November
2013

December
2013

Total Year
To Date

Percent of Increase/(Decrease)

2.8%

1.6%

1.5%

-0.8%

6.3%

4.3%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

Percent of Increase Year to Date

2.8%

2.2%

1.9%

1.2%

2.3%

2.7%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

0.0%

Actual

5,818,227

Forecast

January
2013

February
2013

March
2013

April
2013

May
2013

June
2013

July
2013

August
2013

September
2013

October
2013

November
2013

December
2013

Total Year
To Date

Sales Tax Collections
Use Tax Collections
Vendor Allowance
Less Cost of Collections Fee
Plus Interest Earned

$ 30,967,664
3,092,679
378,831
(41,009)
17,402

$ 30,054,786
3,036,477
334,280
(41,009)
12,199

$ 33,753,289
3,515,962
414,522
(41,009)
15,198

$ 33,017,575
3,116,175
401,892
(41,009)
13,168

$ 36,581,877
3,139,815
441,798
(41,817)
14,375

$ 37,725,868
3,701,092
460,764
(41,817)
16,943

$ 35,095,228
3,041,793
423,922
(41,817)
19,269

$ 35,963,425
3,609,529
439,623
(41,817)
19,983

$ 36,668,464
3,499,801
444,857
(41,817)
20,221

$ 35,392,656
3,327,113
431,520
(41,817)
19,615

$ 34,048,038
3,308,413
415,236
(41,817)
18,874

$ 41,149,117
4,797,889
510,225
(41,817)
23,192

$ 420,417,988
41,186,737
5,097,470
(498,572)
210,439

Net Sales & Use Tax Received

$ 34,415,567

$ 33,396,732

$ 37,657,962

$ 36,507,802

$ 40,136,048

$ 41,862,850

$ 38,538,395

$ 39,990,743

$ 40,591,526

$ 39,129,087

$ 37,748,744

$ 46,438,606

$ 466,414,062

Favorable/(Unfavorable) to Prior Year

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$ 16,626,962

Actual Plus CU-Leeds Forecast

934,687

520,981

549,583

(301,507)

2,385,849

1,728,634

1,612,135

1,675,234

1,772,435

1,798,860

1,753,873

2,196,197

Percent of Increase/(Decrease)

2.8%

1.6%

1.5%

-0.8%

6.3%

4.3%

4.4%

4.4%

4.6%

4.8%

4.9%

5.0%

Percent of Increase Year to Date

2.8%

2.2%

1.9%

1.2%

2.3%

2.7%

2.9%

3.1%

3.3%

3.4%

3.6%

3.7%

January 2013 includes $1,852,714 for taxes that were due in January and will be paid in February due to a vendor filing incorrect tax forms from August-December 2012

Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: 063013 RTD MFS (1660 : June 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SYSTEM 1% SALES & USE TAX INCLUDING VENDOR ALLOWANCE
FISCAL YEARS 2012 AND 2013

