1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, March 5, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Bruce Daly

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 6:03 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:59 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:01 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Committee Chair
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:00 PM
6:03 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:00 PM
5:59 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:06 PM
5:59 PM
5:59 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:01 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:03 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:01 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:03 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:59 PM
5:59 PM

Staff Present:

Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke, John Dawson, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Jeff Kay, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod,
Barbara McManus, Ana Mostaccero, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria
Serna, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Ashland
Vaughn, Gary Vidlock, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Zach Alexander, Lauren Balsley, M. Combs, ZJ Czupor, Aaron
Epstein, Charles Flax, Jake Gilmore, Stan Gronek, Mowa Haile,
Sherman Hamilton, Walter Jones, Barry LaSalle, David Lewis, Qing
Liu, Brian Middleton, Bill Mosher, Dan Pearsall, Mark Pilkington, Laura
Rinker, Julio Rivera, Adriane Sanford, Roger Sherman, Robert Smith,
Joshua Solis, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Christina
Zazueta

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Legislative Update - Local, State, Federal
Local – Roger Sherman
Roger Sherman said that in looking at the meetings CRL Associates has had
since the last update, the one theme that really runs consistent is discussion
about revenue options. He stated that this morning they had a Metro
Mayors Caucus FasTracks Task Force Meeting that Directors Bagley and
Sisk attended along with General Manager Washington and several other
RTD Staff. Roger Sherman believes it was a very good discussion similar to
the statewide discussion of how to fund transportation and make the
appropriate allocations. He said that at the meeting they were given a
spreadsheet that outlined the various options the Mayors are considering
which is very extensive.
Roger Sherman stated that there was a full Metro Mayors Caucus Meeting
on February 6th, an Impact 64 Meeting on February 12th, a Metro Area
County Commissioners meeting on February 22nd, and the Colorado
Transportation Commission meeting on February 26th. At all of these
meetings, a major component was transit funding. He explained that these
discussions are complicated because they are at a statewide level. Roger
Sherman said that the allocations would most likely be done based on
population. Roger Sherman explained that he has offered to go to a Club 20

meeting to provide an update to them on the polling that has been done
showing that transit is very popular.
Roger Sherman shared that he attended the City and County Manager’s
Association Conference on February 14th and 15th. While there was nothing
specific pertaining to RTD at the conference he believes building
relationships with the city managers is very important to RTD’s long term
success. He stated that he met with the new Commissioner, Casey Tighe,
from Jefferson County and also has meetings scheduled with several other
new commissioners in the upcoming weeks.
State – Brandeberry~McKenna
Jenifer Brandeberry stated that this Friday, March 8, 2013, will mark the
hallway point of the Colorado General Assembly. She stated that as the
Board may know, they have been spending a lot of time on some very
controversial issues ranging from civil unions to gun legislation. Jenifer
Brandeberry shared that in all her time lobbying she has never seen so many
big, emotional issues going in front of the legislators.
Jenifer Brandeberry outlined that for RTD’s agenda, her team is working on
the bill to change our parking statute. This is a Democratic sponsored bill
by Nancy Todd in the Senate. The bill’s House sponsor is Republican Kevin
Priola. This bill has moved from the Senate into the House and is scheduled
to be discussed in the House Transportation Committee on March 6, 2013.
She shared that they have spent a lot of time with the Transportation
Committee Members; this committee contains many legislators who come
from the northern part of the state. Jenifer Brandeberry stated that no one
to date has testified in opposition of the legislation; however, there are many
cities, city managers, etc. who have approached us about working on an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA). She shared that our sponsors
understand that if RTD needed to go out and negotiate 35-40 IGAs it would
defeat the purpose of the legislation. This is a permissive tool for RTD and
our partners in the local communities.
General Manager Washington reiterated that we have been hearing that
other cities are requesting to execute the “Boulder Model” not understanding
that Boulder is unique because it has only one facility that RTD owns. He
stated that we have not anticipated administering a large number of IGAs. It
is RTD’s position that we are not staffed nor was it ever intended that we
would administer 30+ IGAs. General Manager said that Director Lasater
had mentioned setting up a task force; he believes that is appropriate but we
are not set up to administer that many IGAs.
Jenifer Brandeberry stated that the other piece of legislation her team is
working on is a bill that will be introduced in the next week. The sponsors

of the bill will be the Majority House Leader, Dickey Hullinghorst, and Chair
of the Joint Budget Committee, Senator Pat Steadman. She explained that
this bill came from RTD’s work on the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM).
Colorado has a very complicated Sales and Use Tax System. Jenifer
Brandeberry stated that for various reasons, the State collects Sales Tax on
certain items and RTD collects on certain items but they do not match. The
purpose of the bill is to streamline the collections so that what RTD collects
matches with what the State collects. She said that this bill is projected to
increase RTD’s collections by about $3 to $3.5 million.
Jenifer Brandeberry shared that there were a few other bills that might have
interest for the Board. One is a bill to allow the local jurisdictions to use the
High Performance Transportation Enterprise money for transportation
purposes. This bill has cleared the Senate and is in the House
Transportation Committee. Jenifer Brandeberry noted Director Folska’s
question to Bill Mosher regarding Transit Oriented Development. She
believes SB 52 addresses some of the concerns he mentioned about our
current construction defect statute. This bill has been taken off the table
but the conversations have been that it will be re-scheduled once DRCOG
completes a study they are currently working on.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that at the beginning of the session Senate Bill 23
was introduced. It would do a very dramatic overhaul of the Colorado
Governmental Immunity Act. This bill proposed raising the overall cap that
had not been raised since the 1970s. She believes the timing was very ripe
for this bill. The bill bumped the cap from $150 thousand to $350 thousand
per claim with an ongoing index. Jenifer Brandeberry stated that the bill
was testified to in the Senate last week with zero opposition; the bill was
put on the Consent calendar. She stated that the bill will pass.
Jenifer Brandeberry stated that the Joint Transportation Committee is
meeting very regularly at the state level to keep up-to-date on what is going
on. She shared that Brandeberry~McKenna and RTD have been invited to
present on March 28, 2013 to the Committee. The goal of the presentation
is to share with the Committee how we have been so innovative and
creative with our funding.
Jenifer Brandeberry informed the Board that they are and will continue to
see a very active, innovative group of people who want to look at doing
government differently. She thanked the Board for their working relationship
and all their outreach to their legislators.
Director James asked if it would be possible to prevent the request for other
IGAs by removing Boulder from the language of the bill. Marla Lien

explained that Boulder was not in the language of the bill but it was a
separate IGA with RTD.
Director Menten shared that she listened to the hearing in the Senate and
she thought there was a great deal of confusion about the parking bill. She
stated that she is confused as to why there will be a House hearing on the
bill tomorrow as well as a scheduled briefing for March 28th. Director
Menten wonders why we are waiting so long to have a briefing when we are
putting the bill through these hearings. Jenifer Brandeberry explained that
the briefing on March 28th is a general briefing about RTD and public
financing while the hearing tomorrow is Committee Bill Hearing for the
House Transportation Committee.
Director Menten asked if Jenifer Brandeberry could provide her with further
information on the tax bill once it is available. Jenifer Brandeberry said she
would get that to Director Menten as soon as it is available.
Federal Update
Sherry Ellebracht explained to the Board that Mike Dino was in Washington,
D.C. so she would be providing them with an update. She stated that
sequestration did go into effect on March 1st, 2013. Sherry Ellebracht
shared that the final figures from the Office of Management and Budget
indicate that the New Starts Grants will be reduced by about 5%. She
explained that we do not know how those cuts will be allocated. Sherry
Ellebracht said that the formula funding would be exempt from the
sequestration budget cuts.

 Legislative Conference - Key Messaging
Sherry Ellebracht provided the Board members with a packet of information
for their upcoming trip to Washington, D.C. for the APTA Annual Legislative
Conference. She stated that it contained Patton Boggs’ Power Point
presentation that has excellent slides as well as some talking points and
background information that Board members can speak to when they go to
their meetings on the Hill.
Sherry Ellebracht explained that there are several things we will be asking
for when we meet with our delegates. She stated that RTD still does not
know what we will be receiving as an appropriation for Eagle P3. We will be
asking our delegation to write a letter to the FTA and Department of
Transportation asking for the most funding possible for that project. Sherry
Ellebracht stated that with the sequestration affecting New Starts Grants, it
will also be important for us to explain the consequences to the Eagle P3
project if we do not receive the full grant funding. She said that it will be
very important to go to the meetings prepared and to speak as one voice
with one message.

Sherry Ellebracht said that she believes the presentations will be fantastic.
Directors and Staff go to the conference to hear the latest on what is
happening and APTA always has presenters that can provide the most up-todate information.
General Manager Washington said that it will be important to continue to
repeat the messages that staff has been impressing upon the FTA
Administrator. The first message is to convey the uniqueness of the Eagle
P3 project; this is the only Public-Private Partnership in the country. It is
also important to convey RTD’s track record of success. Finally it is
important to highlight the WIN job creation that is tied to the project.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 2, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 6:38 p.m. to the FasTracks
Monitoring Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

