1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, April 7, 2020
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 855-962-1128

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Shontel Lewis

A. Call to Order
B. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee Update
C. Other Matters
D. Next Meeting Date - October 6, 2020
E. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Paul J. Ballard, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date:

From:

Zamy Silva, Senior Manager, Civil Rights

GM

Date:
Subject:

Board Meeting Date: April 7, 2020
Civil Rights Committee Update

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board

(PPTX)

Prepared by:
Vivian Morales, Civil Rights Outreach Specialist
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 2

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

Civil Rights Committee

Zamy Silva, Civil Rights Senior Manager
Kathryne Grove, EEO Manager

April 7, 2020

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

Equal Employment Opportunity Office Update
2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
Pursuant to USDOT regulations and FTA Circular 4704.1A any FTA applicant, recipient, and
contractor who meet both of the following threshold must have an approved EEO Program
Plan and must implement all of the EEO Program elements:
1.

Employs 100 or more transit-related employees, and

2.

Requests or receives capital or operating assistance in excess of $1million in the
previous Federal fiscal year, or requests or receives planning assistance in excess of
$250,000 in the previous Federal fiscal year.

The EEO Program Plan is submitted to the FTA for approval every four (4) years. RTD’s EEO
Program Plan was due to the FTA by March 1, 2020 and was submitted February 28, 2020

Packet Pg. 4

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
RTD 2020 EEO Program Plan Requirements

1. RTD Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Policy Statement
2. RTD’s Plan for dissemination of EEO Policy both internally and externally
3. RTD Designation of appropriate personnel responsible for carrying out the EEO Program,
including the designation of an EEO Officer
4. RTD’s Utilization Analysis
5. RTD’s Goals and timetables to correct identified areas of underutilization or concentration
6. Assessment of RTD’s employment practices
7. Plan for monitoring and reporting on the EEO Program

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
RTD EEO Policy Statement
Must be dated and signed by the agency’s CEO/GM
Required elements include, but are not limited to:
• RTD’s commitment to nondiscriminatory employment actions;
• Pledge to develop and implement a written nondiscrimination program that sets forth
the policies, practices, and procedures, with goals and timetables, to which the District
is committed;
• Explanation concerning roles and responsibilities;
• A statement regarding the right to file complaints alleging discrimination and how to
file said complaints and/or reach the EEO Officer;
• Information regarding the right to reasonable accommodations; and
• Anti-retaliation statement.

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
Internal Dissemination of RTD EEO Policy (Examples as required by FTA)
• Written communication from the CEO/GM to all his direct reports and requiring that they
disseminate the EEO policy and program to all managers and supervisors.
• Posting official EEO materials in Human Resources Department and in prominent
conspicuous and accessible locations throughout RTD’s facilities.
• Holding meetings with executive, management and supervisory personnel periodically
throughout the year to discuss RTD’s EEO Policy and their individual responsibilities for
effective implementation of the EEO Program.
• Training 99% workforce face to face within 18 months. Law requires we train all
managers and supervisors within 90 days of employment or promotion. We
implemented a way to achieve this training goal for supervisors and managers.

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
External Dissemination of RTD EEO Policy (Examples as required by FTA)
• Informing RTD’s recruiting sources (e.g. employment agencies, educational institutions and
other minority and women organizations) of the RTD’s Policy and Program, and stipulating
that these sources actively recruit and refer qualified candidates including minorities and
women, for posted positions.
• Posting its EEO Policy on the RTD’s website and in selected public media sources.
• Informing prospective employees and recruitment sources of RTD’s commitment to EEO.
• Including the statement that “RTD is an equal employment opportunity employer” in all
recruitment ads (e.g., newspapers, magazines, websites, and social media).

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
Designation of appropriate personnel at RTD responsible for carrying out the EEO
Program, including the designation of an EEO Officer
•

Interim GM and CEO, Paul Ballard – has ultimate responsibility for RTD’s EEO Program

•

EEO Officers, Kathryne Grove and Zamy Silva – are responsible for monitoring and enforcing EEO
compliance at RTD.

Responsibilities include, but are not limited to the following:
Senior Staff - Management employees
• Provide equal employment opportunity to all employees with regard to work assignments and
privileges of employment.
• Required to take action to prevent discrimination and harassment of employees on the basis of
protected categories.
• Holding meetings with direct reports to ensure adherence with EEO policies and procedures.
• Cooperating with the review and/or investigation of EEO complaints.
• Review the qualifications of employees to ensure that everyone, including protected classes, are
given a full and fair opportunities for promotions, transfers and other terms and conditions of
employment.

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
RTD’s Utilization Analysis
The purpose of the Workforce Utilization Analysis: to identify EEO job categories where there is
underrepresentation and or concentration of minorities and women in relation to availability in our relevant
labor market (most recent census for our area of operation was used). Additionally, it establishes the
framework for goals and timetables and other actions to correct employment practices that contribute to
underrepresentation or concentration. A statistical breakdown of the job categories is cross-referenced by race
and gender. Percentage and numerical goals with timetables must be set to correct any underrepresentation
identified in the analysis. If goals and timetables are not met, RTD must justify why, including explaining job
openings that didn’t materialize, adequacy of recruitment, job descriptions, etc.
The following are the 8 EEO job categories:
1. Officials and Administrators
2. Professionals
3. Technicians
4. Protective Services
5. Paraprofessionals
6. Administrative Support
7. Skilled Craft
8. Service-Maintenance

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
2015 Goals and Timetables

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

Goals Met:
• Professional Minorities
• Paraprofessional Women
• Skilled Craft Minorities
Goals Unmet:
• Professional Women
• Admin Support Women

The table above is a review of RTD’s workforce statistics in 2015 which identified underrepresentation of females in 3
EEO job categories: Professionals, Para-Professionals and Administrative Support and underrepresentation of
minorities in 2 EEO job categories: Professionals and Skilled Craft. The “addition rate” is the percentage of the
total increase needed to eliminate underutilization of that particular category. Percentage and numerical goals with
timetables were set for 4 years to correct any underrepresentation identified in the analysis.

Packet Pg. 11

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
2020 Goals and Timetables

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
Assessment of RTD’s Employment Practices
• FTA requires agencies to document their employment practices in both narrative and
statistical formats with sufficient detail to identify trends and any practices that may
operate as employment barriers to minorities and women.
• A proper assessment and identification of problem areas considers the impact of an
agency’s evaluation of external and internal factors such as:
Ø Applicants not knowing where to apply for jobs (external factor); and
Ø Recruitment, testing, hiring, promotions, transfers, seniority, training, compensation,
benefits, disciplinary procedures, and terminations.
• Based on RTD’s assessment of employment practices within the last 4 years, we did not
identify any trends or practices that may operate as employment barriers to minorities and
women.

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

2020 Equal Employment Opportunity Program Plan
Plan for Monitoring and Reporting on the EEO Program
•

Monitoring and reporting are key to ensure the agency’s implementation of the EEO Program Plan.
RTD’s staff evaluates key performance indicators of its EEO Program Plan and provide foundational and
identifiable solutions/corrective actions.
Ø We evaluate the results of action plans RTD has taken since our last submission of the EEO Plan to
the FTA in 2015.
Ø We evaluate goals and timetables throughout the year and look at trends and take proper
measures if corrective action is needed.
Ø We present and report relevant utilization analysis data, investigations, etc. to senior leadership
and management.
Ø We monitor records of personnel transactions at all levels to ensure that RTD’s EEO Policy is
carried out.
Ø We have a defined mechanism to review, approve and monitor our Transit
Management/Operations Contractor’s EEO Program Plans and Policy.

• RTD establishes these monitoring and reporting procedures for evaluation of the EEO Program for the
next 4 years and provide a proactive approach to facilitate the implementation of identifiable remedial
actions.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

Q&A
Attachment: 2020-04-07 Civil Rights Presentation to Board (4152 : Civil Rights Committee Update)

1.B.1.a

Packet Pg. 15

