April 7, 2020
RTD Civil Rights Committee
SHONTEL LEWIS: So the Civil Rights Committee will now come to order. We are convened as
of 8:08 Mountain Standard Time. And hopefully, everyone's phones are on silent. I would ask that
Zamy provide any pertinent information that you would like to at this time regarding your report.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Good evening, directors. This is Zamy, from the Civil
Rights Division. I've provided a copy of my overview presentation in your packet. The presentation
is centered around the EEO program plan that is required to be submitted to the FTA every four
years for their review and approval.
We just submitted RTD's EEO program plan to the FTA the end of February. It was due March 1,
2020. It is now pending approval. And I'm happy to answer any questions that you may have
regarding the plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Zamy. I really appreciate the work you put into this and
the spirit of honoring that some folks have had to speak at the end, I actually will start from the
other end of the alphabet and start with Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Do you have any questions or
comments?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Zamy, I would like to commend you
and the Civil Rights Division for another outstanding report. I think that one of the things that I
have learned, and I've known it all along, but specifically working over the last-- since January-feels like a year-- on the Senate Bill 151 is just how exemplary our Civil Rights Division is. And
the work that they do is so stellar and a national model.
So I would just like to say to you I'm very pleased with this report. I think that it really shows our
commitment to community, and particularly, our community members who need so much support.
So thank you. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Williams?
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Wow, it's nice to be up. Yes, Madam Chair. I have a number of questions.
Related to the PowerPoint that we got, can you tell me, Zamy, how many contractors we have that
meet the criteria under our EEO program plan?
ZAMY SILVA: We do have all of the contractors that run our fixed route bus operations as well
as Paratransit as well as commuter rail and the transit police, so all of those contractors. Kathryne,
the EEO manager, is on the line. Do you happen to have a list?
KATHRYNE GROVE: It's 10.

ZAMY SILVA: I believe it's about-- there are are 8. Is it 10?
KATHRYNE GROVE: It's 10 because we have the new ones.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Kathryne. Thank you for that one. And then do we have
complaints about our EEOC policy? And if we do, where do those complaints go?
ZAMY SILVA: My office, or the EEO office within the Civil Rights Division is responsible for
investigating all of the internal RTD EEO-related complaints. Employees can file through our
office, or they can go directly to the civil rights office or EEOC. And any employee who feels that
they've been discriminated against because of a protected class, they can file that complaint with
us. And we do the investigation.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super, and how many of those complaints have we had so far this year?
ZAMY SILVA: So we don't usually talk about complaints. We can pull how many complaints
we've had so far this year, and we can send that out. A lot of information within the complaints are
confidential, as we must keep confidentiality at all times. But we can certainly pull the number of
complaints that we've received so far this year. And we'll be happy to send that out.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super, that'd be great. And how often during the year does this committee
meet? The slideshow says that this committee should meet with executive management and
supervisor personnel. How many times a year does this committee meet?
ZAMY SILVA: So we don't necessarily have a committee in the EEO office. What we are
requested to do under law is to ensure that all managers and supervisors receive the EEO policy
and really EEO procedures. And we are required to conduct trainings. We do a number of things.
So any time we hire or promote an employee, we do an overview of the EEO policies and
procedures. And we disseminate the policy to all employees at the orientation. And then if there
are managers or supervisors under law, we are required to train them within 90 days of
employment. And in addition to that, RTD, within the last year and a half, have trained 99% of all
employees in EEO policies and procedures and compliance in person. So it was a huge undertake
that my staff, and we reinforced it with some consultants to get that done, because it was much
needed.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. That's very impressive. I just have two more quickies, Madam Chair,
if you don't mind.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, please proceed.
KATE WILLIAMS: So I just wonder how this committee and this group of people are interacting
with employees during this COVID crisis. Any special policies or actions that you are taking
during this time?

ZAMY SILVA: So we don't necessarily have a committee. What we have is we have an EEO
office. And when an employee has a concern or would like to file a complaint, we have posted
throughout the district the EEO policy statement that has information about how they can file that
complaint with our office. And that's pretty much how they contact us.
So we have-- and Katherine, you can chime in-- but we have contact information, emails, phone
numbers on how they can get in contact with us. But there is no committee within the Civil Rights
EEO Office. Kathryne, would you like to add to that?
KATHRYNE GROVE: We've also done some investigator training and some expectations with
managers and supervisors as well. And we definitely covered that with the extensive training that
we did in the last 18 months. But what I will say is the majority of managers and supervisors know
how to contact us, share concerns.
We're not always the first point of contact when a complaint comes up. An individual may share
that directly with their Manager or supervisor. But they're-- any single one of them could sort of
cheer out for you who needs to know EEO whenever it's an EEO matter, so sort of a little mantra
that we were using during the training.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to point out that there's a statement here that was provided in the
attachments that talks about RTD's commitment to non-discriminated-- I can't even say it-- nondiscriminatory employment actions and the right to reasonable accommodations and a variety of
things that might be relevant to the situation that's going on right now. So I just wanted to point
that out.
And then my last question would be how the goals detailed in the last couple of pages of this report
compare to comparable agencies. Have we looked at how we stand in relation to our peers?
KATHRYNE GROVE: Can I add just one point about-- oh, sorry.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead, Kathryne.
KATHRYNE GROVE: Sorry, just one point to add about your previous question, Director
Williams, is that we actually, in the COVID announcements, sent out a reminder to all employees
of their EEO rights and responsibilities in this time, because it has a number of different impacts,
whether it's ADA or any sort of prejudice that may exist based on race and ethnicity. And so we
did actually-- I've sort of lost track of time in working remotely, but I believe that went out either
this week or last Friday as one of the messages to all employees.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super, thanks. So we can take the last part of this offline. Zamy, if you and I
could talk later about how our goals look compared to goals of other agencies, that would be great.
And thank you so much, both of you, for your time and the work you put into this, and thank you,
Madam Chair, for your tolerance of my questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely.

Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I hope to have lots of discussion I really appreciate your comments, Director
Williams. And it'll take a point of privilege here. I see where your questions are coming from.
And I think one of the things that you and I and many folks at the top of mind is, what does our
workforce look like? And what are the identities that make up our workforce? And so you talk
about civil rights, and who are the folks who are essential? And how does that break down
demographically? And so I appreciate you bringing that up, because I do think it's important.
Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a shout-out to the exchange we just heard,
the input and questions, clarifications from Director Williams. Very helpful, great report. And
while not 100% germane to this report, I did want to echo Madam Chair's compliments to Ms.
Silva and her assistance on SB 151.
Her testimony was very good, very insightful, and full of information that's very important to the- especially the Senate committee during that testimony. So Zamy, good job on that. It was very
comforting that that was presented in the way it was. And I think it served the whole organization
very well. Again, thank you for the report, and good exchange. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Whitmore.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I don't have any questions, just a quick comment that I'm impressed by
the amount of internal dissemination. I think it's really important that the agency isn't being lax
about that. And it looks like there's a whole lot of communication internal to the department or to
the agency. That's it. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Again, I join in the kudos that all of the
Directors have offered relative to Ms. Silva and the rest of the staff in compiling an excellent EEO
program plan.
I have a question about page 102, packet page 102. It's the 2020 goals and timetables for the
program plan. And I was wondering, just to help put this in context, if we might in the future-- I
don't know. Maybe it's something that the federal government doesn't want to see.
But I think it would be informative if when we list, for example, the goals for admin support to
increase females by 12% over the course of the plan, and then broken out in the four years, if we
had the n, the number of positions in that category so we'd have some idea as to how many people

we're talking about and just to have some sense of, we impacted this many people. Because we're
talking about people here, not just percentages.
And so as I look at that, I say, we want to add 2% in year 1 in some category. But I don't know if
that means a half a person or one person or two or four or how many. So again, just to give some
further clarification and context to the report, that was my suggestion.
But I really appreciated the opportunity to explore this. And I am very happy to note that we have
solid, solid performance that we can report, not only to the federal government, but to every
interested party. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Mihalik?
ZAMY SILVA: Madam Chair, may I please chime in?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry, who? Sure.
ZAMY SILVA: This is Zamy.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Zamy.
ZAMY SILVA: Yes, I would like to just make a comment to Director Tisdale's comments. It
should be noted that we have over, gosh, 1,000 pages of analysis that we submitted to the FTA.
And in that EEO plan, which is available for anyone who would like to come into our office and
review, we have that full statistical analysis which details what is the current number that we have
under administrative and all of these various EEO job categories and how we arrived at the goal,
as well as, interestingly, the administrative support is something that the entire nation has a concern
with, because the FTA would like for us to be at 95.5%. And RTD is at 55%, I believe. So it's-- I
would say that we're doing extremely well.
So we have all of that data. It's all in the plan. And we also talk about-- because the goal is based
on projection-- in the plan, we talk about what we anticipate we would be hiring and how-- because
all of the goals, they're based on good faith efforts, what efforts do we anticipate we will be doing
in order to attract women and minority into the transportation industry? That's it, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Tisdale? Thank you. Director Tisdale, did you have any more
questions?
DOUG TISDALE: No, Madam Chair, I did not. And I thank Ms. Silva for her amplification.
ZAMY SILVA: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Mihalik?

KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Director Lewis. No, I don't have any additional questions or
comments tonight. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I guess it'll go under other matters. So for this section right here, I don't
have any questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No questions, just a thank you for a good report. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, ditto, no questions. Thanks for the report. It's good. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: No questions, thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yes, Zamy, thank you for this report. And I, for one,
when travel restrictions are gone, and we improve, I would really be interested in seeing the detail
that you just offered up for Board members to review. I think that would be very, very interesting
to see. So thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Buzek? Director Buzek? Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Good report, no questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. Does anyone else have any final questions? Or Zamy,
do you have any final things that you'd like to share with the Board?
ZAMY SILVA: This is Zamy. No, thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. So the next update will be October 6, 2020. We are also
in the process of planning additional meetings. And so those are to come. Zamy and her team have
been working on that as well.

Moving on to other matters, I will underscore that Zamy and her team are working on having our
disability committees come to the Board with reports to provide updates and recommendations.
And so I thank you and your team for working on that. Any other Directors have any other matters?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just that I'm glad to hear we're getting the reports from the disability
committees, that you're lining those up for our next meeting. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Any other Directors?
NATALIE MENTEN: This is Menten.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Go ahead, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: So just since I said it before you'd made the comment, my question had
been whether we would be looking at having updates. And so thank you for getting that out, getting
that in the works. And that's all. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Director Menten. So wanted-- and we can have this
conversation offline, but it was a matter of trying to figure out how to create the committees to be
similar to the way in which the CAC is situated. And so we'll continue to have that discussion and
dialogue. But I appreciate you continue to chat about that.
Any other Directors with any additional matters? Hearing none, I will adjourn this meeting at 8:29
PM. Thank you so much.

