Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, October 16, 2008
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

October 16, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Thursday, October 16, 2008, in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bruce Daly, Vice-Chair; Bill Christopher, Lee
Kemp, Chris Martinez, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman, John Tayer,
Barbara Yamrick

Noel Busck, Barbara Brohl, Juanita Chacon, Bill Elfenbein, Daryl
Kinton, O’Neill Quinlan

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Sherry Ellebracht, Marla Lien, Scott Reed, Caitlin
Magee

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Kevin Flynn (The Rocky Mountain News)
****
Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:17 p.m.

Call to Order:

I.

Federal Update

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer, gave this update.
FTA Administrator Jim Simpson is leaving on November 17, 2008 and the
presumed acting administrator will be Sherry Little.
Congress did not pass the Transportation Appropriations bill, so there is a
continuing resolution in place until March 2009.
Speaker Pelosi is talking about another economic stimulus package and that
may necessitate a lame duck session of at least a week, and there will most
likely be transportation funding in that package.
Cal Marsella shared that he has spoken with Jim Simpson and the full
funding grant agreement on the West Corridor is in process and should be
completed by the end of the year.
Director Pulliam asked if there was any feel on the East/Gold line funding and

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, October 16, 2008
Page 2 of 4
Mr. Marsella said it was too early in the process.
Recommended Action:
Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for
federal liaison services) with Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year
option (February 1, 2009 through January 31, 2010) to extend Contract
No. 14-DX-001, at a cost of $240,000. Funding for this contract is
included in the 2009 budget.
Motion: Director Yamrick made a
motion for full approval
before the Board at the
October 21, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Christopher
seconded the motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed
unanimously.
Director Daly requested under option three of the alternatives, that the
sentence “Staff and the Legislative Committee do not recommend this option
because an RFP was just issued four years ago, and this process is both
expensive and time consuming.” be removed from the action. Staff agreed
to make this change.

II.

State Update – Jenifer Brandeberry gave this update. She discussed some
possible legislation for the 2009 state legislative session. There is the “Briggs”
Colorado Railroad Authority bill that is not being supported by the administration
or house leadership so she doesn’t think it has a long future but it is important to
watch. Bob Briggs is attempting to create a funding mechanism for statewide
rail. Marla Lien said this is a very comprehensive bill, creating a new entity with
broad powers, but there is no implementation plan for any service. Ms.
Ellebracht shared that it preempts the results of the ongoing study being done by
the Rocky Mountain Rail Authority.
Director Daly asked if it would compete with the District’s ability to get money
and Jenifer Brandeberry responded that it would not.
The Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT) is working on a substantial
piece of legislation on creating a Division of Transit within CDOT. CDOT is
working closely with RTD on the language of the bill. If statewide rail is feasible,
there needs to be some entity that oversees it all. The bill is in very early
discussion stages. Ms. Brandeberry and Ms. McKenna are monitoring the
situation. Chair Pulliam said that he has had discussions with Russ George,

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, October 16, 2008
Page 3 of 4
Executive Director of CDOT, on this potential bill and CDOT is very concerned
about not crossing RTD and other transit agencies.
Senator Chris Romer is in the beginnings of drafting some legislation in regards
to vehicle mileage fees but Ms. Brandeberry believes at this time, it will not have
any impact to RTD.
Ms. Brandeberry mentioned that there may two to three bills dealing with
eminent domain. There is one that NAIOP and realtors are working on to deal
with residential housing in TOD developments. They will work closely with RTD
on the language. She feels there is a pretty good coalition of housing groups
and municipalities that understand the issue and could be helpful to RTD. The
other bills may be more restrictive.
Ms. Brandeberry stated that a proactive piece of legislation in regards to eminent
domain (as discussed last year) is not going to mollify the District’s opponents
and is ill advised at this time.
Ms. Brandeberry met with Representative Glenn Vaud and he suggested meeting
with the lobbyists from CDOT and CML to head off some of this eminent domain
legislation.
Ms. Ellebracht shared that the eminent domain issue is raising its head again on
the Eastern Plains. This has to do with the Front Range railroad relocation to the
eastern part of the state. Eminent Domain is likely to be a hot topic during the
upcoming legislative session.
The other item that is being discussed by some legislators is more monitoring of
RTD in regards to FasTracks.
Previously RTD had considered pursuing the removal of penal bond requirements
on all public construction projects. Jenifer recommended not pursuing this as
there is little to no support for this in the legislature.
RTD wants to pursue legislation regarding abandoned right of way for the
railroads that would ensure that when RTD buys it, it is the permanent property
of the District and it would not revert back to the municipalities.
There was a lengthy discussion about ways to reach out to new legislators
regarding RTD issues. Ms. Brandeberry suggested looking at the Caucus events
in early January and perhaps Brandeberry-McKenna would sponsor a caucus
lunch at which RTD could present information on the agency’s issues.



Potential 2009 Legislation to be introduced by other entities
o “Yield to Bus” signage (CASTA) – This is a bill that came out of the
TLRC and CASTA is promoting it. (RTD contemplated carrying this
several years ago.) This bill would allow for all the transit agencies in
the state to have a flashing sign on the back of the bus saying “yield
to bus” so buses can move into traffic easier.

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Thursday, October 16, 2008
Page 4 of 4
Ballot initiative discussion – There was a discussion regarding the various ballot
initiatives in the upcoming election. The Committee was very concerned about
several of these initiatives and the effect on the District. Ms. Lien said that the
amendments do not have any significant fiscal impact to RTD but that several of
them could impact the work place and how RTD conducts business with the
Union. Director Daly brought up the issue of whether the Board should take an
official position on any of the initiatives. The Committee did not reach a
consensus on this issue.
Cal brought up three issues that the Executive Committee had discussed as
being important to RTD in this next legislative session. 1. Legislative authority
to go to the ballot –would like to see this done generically, that RTD can go to
the voters without having the approval of the legislature first. 2. Create TIF
districts around rail investments – doesn’t have to be done for the entire
increment. 3. Mechanism to help fund transit when ridership goes up and
revenues are down (Director Tayer asked Cal to bring this up).
Marla Lien said that CML drafted a bill last year on TIF for purposes when it
wasn’t blight and that this is an ongoing issue and battle. It was thought that
last year was the chance to do it, but it never got out of the first committee.
Counties are going to fight it. Ms. Brandeberry said she could try it again with
Colorado Counties, Inc. (CCI) but she is doubtful that it is going to move.
Ms. Brandeberry said there is very little support in the legislature for another tax
increase for RTD to fund FasTracks. Ms. Brandeberry said this option has to
come from the major stakeholders in FasTracks.
Director McMullen asked if RTD can take advantage of the stadium tax
sunsetting. Ms. Brandeberry said this is something that they will keep their eyes
on. Transportation may be the most visible issue of the legislature in 2009.
III.

Other Matters – There were no other matters discussed as the meeting was
running into the start time for the Planning and Development Committee.

IV.

Date for Next Meeting – The Committee did not discuss a date for the next
meeting.

VI.

Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 5:32 p.m.

