2022-05-10
Finance and Planning Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Broom when he arrives. Good evening, everyone. The Finance and Planning Committee
will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:32 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask
that everyone attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank
you for joining us this evening.
Please note that under our current circumstances, as has been the case, the official meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the
immediate future, our official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and will be audio and
video recorded. Please visit rtd-denver.com to access meeting recordings and unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and please wait to be called on before proceeding to
speak. Directors and staff participating by phone, as always, you can raise your virtual hands to indicate
you'd like to speak by pressing star 9 and toggle your mute settings with star 6.
With that, I'll go ahead and call the roll of the committee starting with Director Broom. Don't yet have Director
Broom here. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. And I see that Director Broom has joined us as well.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Welcome. So we have all committee members here. For
the sake of the record, I would like to note that also joining us this evening are Director Sloan, Director

Williams, Director Rivera-Malpiede, Chair Buzek, and Director Lewis. For the sake of the record, Miss
McManus, have I missed any directors that are present?
BARBARA MCMANUS: None that I see. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. With that, we'll go ahead and proceed to our public comment
period this evening. As always, we'll open up the public comment to anyone who would like to address this
committee regarding any topic that was listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and for the
immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not done so, you can raise your virtual hand on the phone by pressing star
9. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialed in, you may press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings. Please bear in mind that if you do participate in this process, you are being recorded. If you
do not wish to be recorded, then please submit your comments in writing. If any speaker has any
documentation or reference materials to supply to the committee or any member of the public would like to
submit written comments, please do so by emailing those materials to the Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact
speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up. Speakers should
begin their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. With that,
I'm going to go ahead and ask Miss McManus. I don't see any speakers in the queue, but am I missing
anybody that might be in the queue or on the phone?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No, I don't see anybody with their hand up.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. With that, Barbara, are there any emailed
comments for tonight's evening?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We received one email, which will be responded to after the meeting and will
become part of the packet for the record. And that came from Bob Denninger, Interim President ATU Local
1772. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for summarizing that, Miss McManus, and for adding that into the record, and
thank you for the public comment. Were there any other comments, Miss McManus?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you. With no other comments that were submitted in writing or no other
participants in the queue, we'll go ahead and close the public comment period at this time. This evening we
have no information from external entities. So we are going to move forward.
You'll notice a little bit of a difference in the agenda tonight. We're actually going to move to a discussion
item. Our agenda was formatted slightly different this evening. We have two discussion items on our
agenda, but one will be presented before our recommended actions. The other will be presented after in its

usual place. For this discussion item, the committee will be updated on the account based ticketing
implementation plan, which will be important for us to consider and hear the update on prior to our
recommended action this evening concerning the My Ride stored value discount and the Title VI fare equity
analysis that we'll be discussing in a moment. So with that, I will ask Mr. Doug MacLeod, Chief Financial
Officer, and Ms. Tonya Anderson, Senior Product Manager, to present any pertinent information on this
discussion item.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and good evening. As you mentioned, Tonya Anderson's joining
me. We have a short presentation. I'll be calling up that file shortly and Tonya will be working through those
slides, walking us through those slides. The account based ticketing program, that is a new system that
we've discussed with the Board previously and we wanted to give an update on the progress of that project
tonight. So I'll go ahead and share my screen here. OK, Tonya, please go ahead when you're ready.
TONYA ANDERSON: All right, fantastic, Thank you. Good evening I'm Tonya Anderson. I'm the Manager
of Electronic Fair Operations. And tonight, as Doug mentioned, I'll be providing an update on the account
based ticketing project. Account based ticketing is a fare collection modernization project where we are
replacing our current conduit card based system with the Masabi account based system. Next slide.
Today's presentation will provide an overview of account based ticketing, describe the project's key
components, outline the communication plan and next steps. Next slide.
ABT is a fare collection system that enables our customers to pay for their transit fare by tapping or scanning
a smart card or a mobile barcode onto a validator. This new system is account based, meaning that instead
of the card itself holding the cash balance, as our system does today, the customer has an online account.
And customers will tap that transit card on new validators and the fare will be deducted from that customer's
account, not their card.
The ABT system will enhance customer experience by providing balance updates in near real time as
opposed to a day or two, as it takes with our current system. Customers will have the option to use a mobile
phone or a mobile device in addition to a smart card. And excitedly, we will be able to implement fare
capping, ensuring that customers always get the best fare. The system will also simplify operations and
maintenance by significantly reducing a lot of manual processes that we have today with our current system.
And the new ABT system will also reduce risk by improving security around payment processing. Next slide.
Our fare modernization journey began in 2016 with a fare collection visioning exercise. Then stakeholders
came together to develop the next generation fare collection systems strategy and roadmap. And one of
the vision exercise outcomes was to offer our customers a mobile app as a convenient way to purchase
passes while we work on implementing and planning the new account based fare collection system. We
are currently in the enablement phase where we are adding features to the RTD mobile tickets app and
replacing validators.
We will soon replace the existing retail network as well with a more elegant solution. Our current retail
network has a pretty onerous process for our customers and retail partners. In the new retail network,
customers will be able to purchase our transit cards from gift card racks and check out from any checkout

line, making it easier for everyone. Looking beyond to 2023, we're considering integrating account based
ticketing with our ticket vending machines as well. Next slide.
The ABT project aligns with our strategic plan around customer value and customer excellence by offering
a secure, flexible, and equitable fare purchasing options. It also aligns with employee ownership and
financial success by continuing with a cloud based, mobile first, but not mobile only approach to fare
collection, reducing capital and operating costs while maintaining pace with newer modern technologies.
Next slide.
The ABT project has four key program elements. First, an upgrade to the RTD mobile tickets app with a
mobile barcode or QR code. This QR code will enable tap and ride and fare capping. Next, replacing all of
our bus and rail platform validators with new validators that will accept these new tokens, the new QR code,
and other tokens such as student IDs.
Another critical program element is the new MyRide card. So this new card will keep the MyRide name, but
it has been redesigned. It's intended to replace all of our existing MyRide suite of cards with a single design
that allows for a more unified RTD branded card that doesn't differentiate our customer groups by programs
or discounts. And this unified design does a really good job of aligning with a key system feature which
allows our customers to seamlessly move between programs and discounts. So for instance, a college
student, for instance, that's using a college pass card can move to participating in an EcoPass program
while still using that same card.
Finally, we are purchasing new fare inspection devices, replacing our current iPhones, which are very
difficult to maintain and procure, and replacing them with a newer Android device along with upgrading the
inspection app that will be able to read our new cards and the mobile QR code. Next slide.
With many customer facing changes associated with the new ABT system, our communication plan will be
robust, early, and often. We will target and speak to all RTD customers through a variety of channels and
tactics to reach every audience. We will be employing a mix of both general and specialized messaging to
ensure that all customers are aware of the details of the ABT launch and understand how that ABT launch
affects them. And we'll be educating our customers and our staff on the benefits of ABT through the use of
in system assets and signage, digital and social media, community outreach, partnering with our TMOs and
TMAs, and utilizing internal RTD communication channels. Next slide.
In addition to the changes I just recently mentioned in this presentation, the ABT system will also change
the MyRide program by eliminating the MyRide discount, which Carl will be speaking to later tonight. We
target validator installations to begin in late July of this year and optimistically believe that the installations
will take anywhere from 9 to 12 weeks. As the project progresses and when it makes sense, we plan to
provide regular updates to the Board. That concludes my presentation and I'm happy to take your questions.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Anderson, that was great. I'll open up the floor to any questions from Directors. I see-thank you for participating this evening. I'll call on committee members as well as non-committee members.
Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Wow. That's all I have to say. Fantastic. This is great. I'm excited.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That was easy. Good comment. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. Just verifying one thing or actually two things. The fare capping means
that if somebody uses a card or I guess they'd load the card and then activate an amount that equals a
monthly pass, then they would no longer have to-- I mean, that would be the extent of it, right? Am I
understanding that correctly, Tonya?
TONYA ANDERSON: Not quite. So fare capping is a feature that allows our customers to ride and earn
their way towards a monthly pass. So we're moving away from the requirement for people to load the $200
or all of that money onto their cards to ride. So the system automatically keeps track of the customer's ride
and automatically upgrades them to a day pass. And then as that customer continues to ride, they to some
extent get credit for all of their past rides and then they'll eventually earn their way to a monthly pass. When
they've reached that cap, all of their rides are free beyond that.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, that's what I meant. You just said it so much better.
TONYA ANDERSON: OK, sorry.
SHELLEY COOK: I really think that's helpful for folks in a cash flow way in some circumstances. So it's
really great to see that. Second thing is so do we have all those validators? There must be hundreds and
hundreds that we're going to have to install. Are they already in stock? Have we got them in a warehouse
someplace? Or how sure are that we're going to start in July? And the corollary on that is are you going to
install them in place of the existing validator? And what happens in that 9 to 12 week period when-- are
they no longer going to be able to use any MyRide card until you get the new ones? I mean, how do you
handle the conversion is the question.
TONYA ANDERSON: Sure. Absolutely. So yes, we do have the bus validators in stock. We have received
them. We are still working on receiving and finalizing on the platform validators. But the installation period
for the platform validators is a little shorter. And so there is a little bit more time to finalize receiving those
platform validators.
To your second question about how sure are we about the end of July start date, that is an optimistic date.
So it has all the hope in mind. But we believe that we will be installing at least this summer.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And will you continue to accept the MyRide cards we have validated on the old
validators until all the new ones are-- how does that conversion period happen?
TONYA ANDERSON: Sure. So for the transition period, we are able to accept all the eco, college, and
Neco cards. The past program cards, we were able to do that with some development work with our partner
Masabi. Unfortunately for MyRide program, because of the way that the technology works and the balances
on the card, it was not feasible for us to in a timely manner and a fiscally responsible manner to be able to
accept the MyRide cards. And so there is a transition period, a transition plan that we're finalizing which will

provide our customers with the balance that's on their current MyRide card, transition that to the new
MyRide account. But that's kind of high level what we're working on.
We're still finalizing that plan and making sure that we can deliver the best experience that we can for our
customers. There will be some disruption. There really is no way around that, because we're going from a
very antiquated card based system to an account based system. But we're doing our best to make it as
pleasing of an experience as we can for our customers. And without hopefully not segueing too much, the
potential August free fare will most definitely spare the-- will definitely help our program.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thanks so much. Thanks for what you're doing on this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. Thank you, Miss Anderson. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Tonya, could you again tell me about distribution of the
cards? You said something like they'll be able to go and get gift cards. And in my mind, I'm thinking of when
you go to the grocery store, you can pick up any card. So it doesn't matter what it is. So there would be an
RTD card people could pick up at 7-Eleven or a grocery store. So it would be available to anyone in any
community, correct?
TONYA ANDERSON: Yes. That is the plan for a retail network, to take them out of the customer service
desks so our customers don't have to stand in those lines. The customer service agents don't have to keep
track of cards. It will be on gift card racks that you see at retail stores like 7-Eleven, as you mentioned, King
Super, Safeway, right along there with Starbucks and Subway will be our cards. And so customers will be
able to grab a card out of the gift card rack and then just check out and then ride.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That is absolutely fabulous, because that is such an inclusive process for any
community member to access. Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you very much. Seeing no other hands, I actually just had two questions I
wanted to touch on. And thank you for the presentation. I think the first is for you, Tonya, which is would
you mind just commenting on how this intersects-- how our current installation timeline intersects with
operator training on this and where we are in terms of training our operators on the new system?
TONYA ANDERSON: Correct. So we are still in the final stages of configuring and finalizing the system.
So our plan is to do a robust training program with our operators. We want to try to time it so that we're not
doing too much training too early, but we want to make sure that it's in time or just in time training. And
we're working very closely with our operator training department.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. That makes sense. Yeah. And as you said, maybe August will actually
give us some nice overlap and help here in that process with the disruption. The next question just I know
we touched on this a little bit offline and perhaps this is more for you, Mr. MacLeod, or Miss Anderson,
either of you could comment, but we have stored value on the MyRide cards. And given that I know some
of those we had talked about are somewhat stale and haven't been used, would you mind just talking

through the process of when we go to the new account based system how we will handle the remaining
balance of the MyRide cards that may go unused?
TONYA ANDERSON: Sure. So our hope is to transition all of the existing current users their balances from
the old system to the new system. But as one of the other processes that it's not directly related to the
project is the state of Colorado has an achievement program, the Colorado buyback payback program
where customers or anyone in the state that has a gift card or a gift certificate that they haven't used,
different companies they have to report those unused balances. You can't keep them. And so they're
reported to the state. And then the state has a website that allows people to search to see if they have
these unclaimed balances and then claim them.
So we'll be working both programs to some extent simultaneously. And so there will be some customers
that will fall either into that category of where they've contacted us and their balances will be transferred
over. But if those balances are to some extent abandoned, we'll be reporting those to the states that the
state can distribute those to those customers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Do we effectively then transfer that balance to the state for those unclaimed
fares?
TONYA ANDERSON: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. What's the timeline for that in terms of how long customers have to respond to
us and react versus when we transfer the balance?
TONYA ANDERSON: It's a five year period. So when an account has been dormant for five years, that is
when we report to the state.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. Very much appreciated. Any other questions from other
Directors? Wonderful. Well, thank you, Miss Anderson, Mr. MacLeod. Very much appreciated. And that will
set us up for one of our recommended actions this evening. We're actually to move to recommended actions
right now. But up first is going to be the 2022 Board travel expense reinstatement. This is for the Board of
Directors to adopt a resolution concerning the reinstatement in the fiscal year of 2022 funding to be used
for reimbursement for out of district travel related expenses in the amount of $3,000 for each Director other
than the Board Chair and $3,750 for the Board Chair. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do I have a second? I have Director Guissinger is the mover and Director Cook as the
second. I would now ask Chair Buzek to provide any pertinent information regarding this action item.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And we've talked about this in the past. And as you all are aware,
the district travel and training expense has been suspended for the last two years as a result of the
pandemic and the fact that there were no seminars or training to which we could travel. So that is now
changing and there are seminars and other things that are opening up.

I know there's an APTA seminar coming up or the Railvolution Seminar coming up down the road. So this
action item is designed to reinstate the out of district travel and training expense budget for the second half
of this year and hence the reduced sums, because it's only for a six month period. If anybody has any
questions, I'm happy to take those.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Chair Buzek. Any questions from Directors? All right, seeing no
questions, we will move into the vote. I will ask it this way. Are there any no votes on this action? Being
none and with seven committee members present, the motion passes with seven aye votes and 0 no votes
and 0 abstentions.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Chair Buzek. We're going to move to our second recommended
action this evening. This is the MyRide stored value discount Title VI fair equity analysis. This is for the
Board of Directors to adopt the Title VI fair equity analysis report for the MyRide smart card stored value
discount elimination. This ensures compliance with federal laws, regulations, and guidelines related to Title
VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Do I have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: 3
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Guissinger was the mover. I believe Director Whitmore was the second. With
that, I'm now going to ask Mr. Carl Green Jr. Transit Equity Manager to present any pertinent information
on this recommended action. The floor is yours.
CARL GREEN JR: Thank you, Chair Davidson. I'll go ahead and share my screen and pull up the slide
deck. That showing on the screen, Director?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes it is. Thank you. Perfect.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Green, it's not in presentation mode, though, just for your information.
CARL GREEN JR: I appreciate that. All right. Thank you so much for the introduction, Director or Chair
Davidson. And good evening, fellow RTD Board of Directors. Again, my name is Carl Green Jr. I am the
Transit Equity Manager under or within the Civil Rights Division. Tonight I'll be presenting on the MyRide
smart card stored value discount Title VI fare equity analysis.
As noted in the Board report, the FTA Title VI Circular or the Federal Transit Administration Title VI Circular
directs transit agencies of the requirement to perform a fare equity analysis in the event that there is any
fare change to ensure that the changes do not unfairly impact people of color and low income populations.
This analysis must be brought forward to the Board for their awareness, consideration, and ultimate
approval.

Specifically the elimination or the proposed fare changes are the elimination of the full cash fare and the
discount MyRide stored value over the applicable three hour pass fare, which are the proposed fare
changes. The discount specifically applies to seniors 65 and above, individuals with disabilities, as well as
Medicare recipients. Please note that the youth and Live program customers receive no discount when
utilizing the MyRide stored value.
As Chair Davidson mentioned, this is in relation to Title VI or comports with Title VI of the Civil Rights Act
of 1964. And specifically as it relates to the FTA and our Board adopted RTD Title VI program, we need to
ensure that we are not only meeting compliance, but we're meeting the spirit of equity.
All right. This slide provides an overview of RTD's equity analysis decision making process. The analysis
includes the determination of whether there is a fare change. So this could be an increase or decrease in
fare and an introduction to a new fare media type or even the discontinuation or the elimination of a fare
product. If the answer to that question is yes, if it constitutes a major or a fare change rather, then we need
to evaluate the possible impact specifically for people of color and low income populations. And during this
process if there are possible impacts that would result in an adverse effect on Title VI or equity populations,
then RTD would move forward with either avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating the proposed change to ensure
that we are lessening or removing that impact.
All right. Moving on. This slide, to measure the potential impacts on equity populations, RTD utilizes the
disparate impact and disproportionate burden policies defined here as the difference in the adverse effects
absorbed by minority and/or low income persons as a result of any fare change or the average of multiple
fare changes shall not be greater than or less than 5% or impacts absorbed by the overall ridership.
This slide here, just to make note and emphasize, this is for educational purposes. And this is an example
to set the tone of what to expect of how we carried out this equity analysis. And what this slide presents is
an evaluation of the possible impacts as it relates to Title VI population. So within this chart, if you look at
the left, there is an existence of a disparate impact resulting from the proposed fare change to remove 10
ride ticket book for customers for minorities, because they will absorb greater than 5% of the effects
compared to the overall population.
And as you make note that the 7% is called out to make note that it exceeds that 5% threshold. And if this
were the case, again, this is for educational purposes. But if this was the result of an analysis, then RTD
again would move forward with either avoiding, minimizing, or mitigating that said adverse effect. On the
other hand, if you look to the right of the chart, there is no disproportionate burden since the effects are less
than that 5% threshold here. So again, just to put that up there, here again the results here are not reflective
of the current equity analysis for the MyRide stored value but is just here for illustrative purposes.
All right. Now that we have a baseline understanding of how the Title VI policies are utilized in the analysis,
I will now speak to the methodology and data sources as explained on pages 28 through 30 of the Board
packet. So as the first bullet point reads, the average fare analysis was applied and what we're looking at
here is it evaluates the potential impacts by comparing the average fare for minority and non-minority
customers to all customers as well as the average fare independently for low income and higher income

customers to all customers. This comparison is completed by calculating the absolute change and the
percent change from the existing fare to the proposed change across the customer demographics,
specifically looking at minority compared to overall ridership and low income compared to overall ridership.
So now I'll move into the data sources. So we utilized calendar year 2019 ridership and revenue data, which
allowed us to form the basis of the analysis. And then we also utilized the 2019 RTD customer satisfaction
survey, which I'll refer to here as 2019 CSS for ease of explanation. But it was used directly-- this data was
utilized because it directly comports with the FTA data requirements for conducting a fare equity analysis,
essentially ensuring that we have-- there's specific questions that are asked that comport with the FTA
requirements such as customer fair payment options, travel patterns, as well as being able to compare that
across or utilizing cross tabs against Title VI populations and non Title VI populations.
And then in addition to that, I'd also like to mention that the 2019 CSS allows for weighting survey responses
with like data with the 2019 ridership and revenue data. So essentially keeping the data apple to apples as
we're doing this analysis to ensure that we are keeping it similar.
I would also like to emphasize or make note that the 2019 customer intercept surveys differs from the 2021
customer experience survey that was completed in the fall of last year. And specifically that survey was
designed as a net promoter score. So how likely a customer or, yes, a customer would recommend to their
colleagues, to their friends, and their family members on utilizing RTD services. Whereas the 2019, as
again, this differs from the 2019 customer satisfaction survey, because it allows for the analysis to take
place and to determine whether minority and/or low income population would receive a greater impact
compared to the overall ridership with respect to our thresholds of our disparate impact and disproportionate
burden policies.
All right. I will now briefly cover down on the average fare analysis results, which can be referred again here
to y'all on pages 31 through 33 on the Board report, where as the first bullet point the notes, the fare change
would not represent a negative impact for minority customers. Specifically the difference utilizing our
threshold is the difference between minority and overall ridership is less than 5%. Specifically it's negative
0.05%. And similarly too for low income customers, it would not represent a disproportionate burden given
that the overall difference is less than 5%. And specifically as it's called out in red text, for both minority and
low income it's 0.07%.
So the conclusions as stated are the proposed fare changes are expected to have a lesser impact on Title
VI customers and there's no Title VI equity concerns under our Board adopted and agency Title VI policies.
Therefore, no mitigations are required. However, I would like to make note that staff across the agency was
very proactive in their overall approach to smooth the transition and to ensure our customers are privy and
well abreast to the changes that are taking place. So we have already implemented change or mitigation
measures as well as we have planned measures in the bank, so to speak, to ensure that the overall
customer experience will be streamlined and communicated that we are moving forward with this transition
to eliminate these fare products once the Board approves the equity analysis.

So with that being said, the recommendation, as noted in the Board report, is by virtue of the fare equity
analysis and doing our due diligence and making certain that we have equity on top of mind is that the
recommendation is to eliminate the MyRide store value discount following the Title VI fare equity analysis
being presented to the Board, which you have all received today. I'll now open up the floor if there is any
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Green. And thank you for the extensive report that was
provided as well, especially some of the details on the data and those mitigation measures as well. I'll call
on Directors. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Mr. Green [INAUDIBLE] report. My only question, and I apologize if I have
asked you this before, but the five percentage points while not applicable here, is that five percentage point
difference between the overall population and minority or low income population or is it a difference of 5%?
CARL GREEN JR: Five percentage points. Great question, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. Other questions? All right. Seeing none, well, thank you, Mr
Green. It's very helpful. Again, I think as we consider this, it was helpful for me to understand that this is
1.5% of our total revenue that the usage of discount was declining. And also I think encouraging as we
move to the ABT is that I think it was the largest number of surveyed folks responded that they would move
towards a monthly pass, which as we learned with the fare capping I think we have a good plan for moving
folks in that direction. So thank you for the report.
With no further questions or discussion, I'll go ahead and call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this
recommended action? All right. Seeing none, the recommended action, the motion passes with seven aye
votes, 0 no votes, and 0 abstentions. Thank you very much.
And the final item this evening for recommended actions is the Colorado 119 Bus Rapid Transit or BRT
implementation. This is for the RTD Board of Directors to authorize General Manager CEO Debra Johnson
or her designee to enter into all required contracts, IGAs, or inter-governmental agreements, and associated
amendments to design, construct, operate, and maintain the RTD transit improvements along Colorado
119 Bus Rapid Transit project within the Board approved budgets. Do we have a motion?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ERIK DAVIDSON: I have Director Guissinger as the mover. And I'm sorry, the second was?
BOBBY DISHELL: Dishell.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell. Thank you very much. I would like to ask Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant
General Manager of Capital Programs, to please present any pertinent information on this recommended
action.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Chair Davidson and Board members. I am Henry Stopplecamp,
Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs. This topic should look familiar. We were before you last
month with a update to the Board. And so before you tonight, as Chair Davidson read out, is the
recommended action. Real quick, it's the BRT projects along the 119 corridor with BRT stops, stations, park
and rides, and then enhanced stops in Boulder and Longmont with queue bypass lanes throughout the
corridor.
Current budget that's been approved as of so far is $5 million. We've identified $28 million, which is currently
in the mid-term financial plan. The maximum value of the project at this point authorized by the Board or
identified by the Board is $33 million. We are asking that you grant the General Manager or her designee
to enter into the required contracts and IGAs to work with our partners along the corridor to help facilitate
this project moving forward. The funds are, like I said, have been identified in the mid-term financial plan,
but they do not become available for the project until they are approved by the Board in the appropriate
year of budget. So with that, turn it over for questions. And thank you very much for your time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp. Questions from Directors? Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: I just have a clarifying amendment from before, which I apologize for not circulating
earlier. But just upon reading the actual language of the recommended action. I'm happy to [INAUDIBLE]
questions.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Are there other-- sorry Director, Dishell. I kind of missed some of the audio there. Did
you say that you had an amendment?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes, just a short clarifying amendment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. But you're opening the floor to some other discussion items or other discussions.
So other questions from Directors? I just had one question just to clarify. So the immediate impact of this
given our current approved budget is the $5 million that's in this year's approved budget, then the 33 that's
allocated in the mid-term financial plan. Essentially we'll still be voting on these, the contracts, by way of
approving the budget each year. 2023 and beyond. That's correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That's correct. There's $5 million of the 33 that's already been approved by the
Board. There is $28 million left identified in the mid-term financial plan going forward. We do not have the
availability to pull that funds until the Board adopts next year's budget or the appropriate budgets that cover
the continuation of the fund there.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much. And I see that Director Guissinger, your hand is up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just a quick follow up. Is that money identified in 2023, the rest of the money? Or is
it spread out over other years at this point?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I would look to Doug MacLeod. As of right now, it is in the '23 going to '24. But
once again, when we do the budget this year and the mid-term financial plan going forward, moneys can
slide back and forth that time. So Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Henry. Yes, that's true. And we will be bringing the mid-term financial plan
for approval in the September Finance Committee meeting. So we'll work with Henry to get that in the right
period. But yes, as he mentioned, it's currently the $20 million is spread over '23 and '24.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, it is both years?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct, yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. Being no other hands are
questions, Director Dishell, I'll open up the floor for your amendment.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Am I coming through clearly? Yes?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. My amendment is just at the end of the sentence in the recommended action is
to add the words for the CO 119 BRT project. Because without that language from a technical standpoint,
the Board approved budget could be the entire budget. That is the logic.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. I think I understand. So this is to add for the Colorado 119
Bus Rapid Transit or BRT project to the end of the recommended action.
BOBBY DISHELL: Correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. Do I have a motion for the amendment? I'm sorry, a second. Director
Guissinger, you have a question on the amendment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, I'm looking for it right now. Could you read the whole recommended action with
the language please, Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Give me one moment, please. For some reason I'm not seeing the final language
in this packet. Director Dishell, do you have the language in front of you that you might be able to read it
with your amended addition?
BOBBY DISHELL: Absolutely. For the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager, comma,
or her designee to enter into all required contracts, comma, IGAs, and associated methods, comma, to
design, comma, construct, comma, operate, comma, and maintain the RTD transit improvements along the
CO 119 Bus Rapid Transit, paren, BRT, close paren, project within Board approved budgets for the CO
119 BRT project, period.

LYNN GUISSINGER: And the amendment is that last little language?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah. The amendment is for the CO 119 BRT project.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Do I have a second on the amendment? I believe I can second for the amendment. I
understand the addition of the clarity. So I'll go ahead and second. General Counsel Snyder, am I able to
do so?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. With that, I will call for the vote on the amendment. Or actually I
see some further discussion. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. I wanted to check with staff. I don't know if some ancillary improvements that are
ordinarily included in the project, something associated with multimodal transport. I mean, are we
inadvertently ruling something out by including the language in that very strict sense? So I wanted to get a
read from the staff on that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Who from staff can comment?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: This is Henry Stopplecamp. Henry Stopplecamp, AGM of Capital Programs.
That was the intent of this motion to start with. So it comes out of the approved budget. There may be
auxiliary stuff on different projects that tie into this area, but the goal for staff was to get the approval of the
General Manager or her designee to enter into contracts for this particular project. And currently we've got
a cap to $33 million. So I do not believe a modification with this language changes the intent of the contract
that the staff was putting forward.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Just wanted to double check. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the clarifying question. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. I might be a little confused here. But do we not have a cap on the GM CEO
authorization for contracts? And would not this-- isn't that on the order of $2 million? And would not this
expand it to $5 million to simplify the process and not to have to come back to the Board for each additional
piece of money up to the $5 million that has been budgeted? Am I misunderstanding that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think that's a question on the main motion. But Miss Johnson, it looked like did you
want to respond to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Davidson.
PEGGY CATLIN: [INAUDIBLE] sorry.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Do you have your answer? I'm sorry.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I timed my question appropriately. But we can park that-DEBRA JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE] so we can adhere to parliamentary procedures.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, let's go ahead. I'm going to call the vote on the amendment unless there's any other
discussion on that, and then let's come back around for that question. Are there any no votes on the
amendment? Great, seeing no no votes, we have seven ayes for the amendment, which passes. The
language will now read as previously read into the record by Director Dishell. Director Catlin, you had asked
a question on the main motion regarding whether or not this effectively extends the cap for the General
Manager from the $2 million to the $5 million. I think General Manager Johnson, you had a comment on
the matter. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair Davidson, and thank you, Director Catlin, for the question.
As a point of clarification, the delegation of authority for which the Board bestowed upon me, basically $2
million in which I would not have to come to the Board of Directors. So this action here basically is enabling
me with this policy body acting on this recommended action for me or my designee to go beyond the $2
million, which would be $5 million in this case.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that clarification. And I was aware of that. But what I'm comfortable with is
because I just think that it simplifies matters for going forward in this project. And I hope we would do
something similar in ensuing years. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. And thank you, Miss Johnson, for commenting on this. Any
further questions and/or discussion regarding the recommended action as amended? Great. So for
returning to the main motion, I have Director Guissinger as the mover, Director Dishell as the second. Do I
have any no votes on this recommended action? Seeing none, this recommended action will pass
unanimously with seven aye, 0 nos and 0 abstentions.
Thank you very much, everybody. That concludes our recommended actions this evening. We are going to
return to discussion items. We do have a second discussion item this evening concerning the Reimagine
RTD project. We'll be receiving an update. And I would like to ask Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning, to please present the item.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you, Chair Davidson. Good evening. As you just noted, this is Bill Van Meter,
Assistant General Manager for Planning. Pleased to have the opportunity to have folks here in a virtual
setting present this discussion item on Reimagine RTD. Specifically I have invited and we have invited Holly
Buck, RTD's Consultant Project Manager to Reimagine RTD to provide this update on the SLP status and
the plans for Board consideration, our long range financial picture, what to anticipate in the MP4F mobility
plan for the future, some insights from the public and stakeholder outreach and the schedule from this point
moving forward.

So Holly is going to lead us through this presentation, and then we'll all be available for questions and
answers including a key member of the RTD team. That's Doug Munro, RTD's Manager of Quarter Planning
and Operation. So that was my attempt at an introduction. Now the tag to RTD's Consultant Project
Manager and lead for the project, Holly Buck. Holly?
HOLLY BUCK: Wonderful. Thanks, Bill. Is my screen showing up properly?
WILLIAM VAN METER: It is.
HOLLY BUCK: OK, great. Thank you so much. So we've identified-- we have not been with you and the
Board for several months. So we have put this agenda together to start with a real high level overview
reminding everyone what Reimagine RTD is. I think we've all been having conversations about it but not at
that holistic level. So just a quick background and recollection of what the project is. Then we'll give you an
update on the System Optimization Plan status and then a quick update on the fiscal and financial analysis.
It's very brief today but more to come on that for sure. And then we'll spend a fair bit of time talking about
the mobility plan for the future overview and then some next steps.
So just at the real high level, the purpose of Reimagine RTD was to answer the question of what's next for
RTD. And the two big top items that you see and the two first bullet points talk about looking again at RTD's
fixed route bus service and making sure that those lines are optimized and the best they can be for your
constituents. And providing an update also to RTD's existing rail system if there were some opportunities
for that. We have done a lot of work on this. So we'll talk a little bit about that today.
And then the remaining bullets really reflect what happens in the mobility plan for the future where we're
talking about staffing related challenges and opportunities for improving that. Long term parking needs,
determining the location and nature of the bus and maintenance facilities as you grow, looking at fleet
electrification, a review of your boundaries, and how that is impacting the services that you're able to
provide. And then looking at your financial planning process.
So there are within all of those what's next for RTD, there's really three primary deliverables. And there's a
whole bunch of subsets of deliverables within that as well. But there's three main categories. The first one
is a System Optimization Plan. And that's what we've been talking about for the last couple of months.
We've had a pretty big focus on that. And this is just really looking at your current services, trying to best
meet your existing, your near term mobility needs within your workforce and financial constraints.
The next big deliverable is the financial analysis. So this looks all the way. It looks at your long term costs
and revenues and is trying to help inform what capacity you have to respond to growth in the region. So we
know from DRCOG that you could see something like a 30% growth in the Denver metropolitan area
population. Their estimates also indicate that we could have twice that much in growth by way of demand
for RTD services. So we need to understand your financial capacity to understand how you might respond
to that.
And then the third deliverable that we have identified here is the mobility plan for the future. And this really
identifies programs and policies that help set the stage for what RTD's role is in future mobility. So we're

looking at it 2050. What does RTD look like in 2050 and what steps do you need to take to get yourself
there?
So starting with the System Optimization Plan, I think you've seen some of these before. So we'll go through
them in a relatively quick fashion. But do ask questions if you have them. So why was the System
Optimization Plan considered? Really here we're trying to increase ridership, make sure that you're
performing efficiently, living within your budget, looking at those changing travel needs. And actually this
we started this pre-pandemic, but we had an opportunity to look at our changing travel needs as well going
into the pandemic. And so we've taken both pre and in pandemic travel needs and demands into account.
Remaining competitive as a mobility service provider. And then improve your overall service quality.
So we put together a draft System Optimization Plan. And I think you all have hopefully had an opportunity
to review that and provide comments. These are some of the key metrics that are a result of implementing
that Draft System Optimization Plan. Now, I don't have the final numbers for you here, but there are some
edits that are being made to the System Optimization Plan as a result of feedback that we received from
stakeholders and from the public.
But this gives you an overview of what the System Optimization Plan does accomplish. And I think it has
some really good categories here. We're increasing ridership. We're improving transit access. Over on the
top right, we're improving service quality. And one that stands out to me is a 50% increase in access to 15
minute or better service for social equity populations, which is something that I think really packs a punch
when we're talking about delivering good service to your constituents. Optimizing your available resources
and then improving reliability and competitiveness.
So as part of the System Optimization Plan, we did a lot of outreach and tried to get as many people to look
at it and comment and provide us feedback on the recommendations. We were able to receive or we
received over 1,600 comments for consideration. Many of those, as you might imagine, comments were
requesting additional service. They'd like more frequent service. They'd like service where potentially
service isn't provided. But in some fashion, asking for more service or service that was beyond the current
SOP resources.
And then there were a fair number of comments that were not directly applicable to the System Optimization
Plan, but we assembled those and provided them to RTD for their information moving forward. There are
things that you would expect like safety at Union Station, for instance, comes up within the comments. And
we know that that is something that RTD is actively working on. So we've provided a summary of those
comments as well.
So some of the changes that were made as a result of comments received are listed there on the right. We
are still working on finalizing the System Optimization Plan, so we're not quite there. This list that was
provided in your packet is already a little bit out of date as we continue to work through the process. There
are three more routes that have been identified for some modifications based on input received. That was
the 15L, the 24S, and 43. So we're still in action and we're hoping to have that back to you, present you the
final SOP in June, and then ask for your approval in July.

So at a very high level, the second deliverable is really around the fiscal and financial analysis. And a couple
of things to just set the baseline for this. What we know when we started the project was that RTD was
running more service than they were financially able to continue to do in 2019. So even pre-pandemic,
there was service in excess of RTD's existing financial resources. So that was being addressed by deferring
some of the state of good repair.
So one of the things that's coming out of the Reimagine process is some recommendations around making
sure that you have policies in place that you don't defer of state of good repair, because it ends up costing
more later. And then operating services within your financial and workforce constraints.
So long term, the projections right now, and I don't think that this is new news to people, but the initial
projections if we don't have any additional funding over the sources that you have today that there's really
limited or no capacity to grow bus or rail services to accommodate that extra demand that we're talking
about when the population grows. There's also not a lot of financial capacity to make substantial capital
investments in the region. And it will be challenging to complete any portion of fast tracks in the next years.
We've had several conversations around that as we look to the Northwest Rail study that RTD is
undertaking right now. So more to come as that information becomes available.
So on the bottom here, what we flagged is I think this is not the best news. We would like to have more
capacity, financial capacity, for the agency. But right now there's a pretty significant gap between what the
public and stakeholders would like to see RTD accomplish and what RTD can actually afford to do.
So what we're looking at, the next step for this, is we're going to provide you information about what kind
of capacity and what RTD services might look like if you are not able to obtain more financial capacity. So
that is scenario one and that's sort of the baseline. Scenario two we'll give you an indication of what RTD
might be able to accomplish if you are able to acquire some new moderate levels of funding. So this might
be things like debrucing, for instance. You get some additional funding through that.
And then scenario three, what could RTD accomplish if you have some pretty substantial new influx of
funding for the agency? So it's not an exercise of if we get to pick one through three, it's more of an
informational exercise so that you all as the Board of Directors have enough information to make decisions
to help guide the agency as you move forward.
OK, so let's move into-- uh oh. Now I got overzealous, I think. The mobility plan for the future. So the mobility
plan for the future is based on and built on that financial analysis that we just talked about. So we look at
the current state of RTD. We look at future scenarios. And then we try and figure out how RTD will respond
to those future scenarios and what makes the most sense to continue to be a real positive mobility provider
in the region.
So the goals of the mobility plan for the future, which is the third primary deliverable that we talked about,
are to build on the System Optimization Plan. So from what we just talked about at the System Optimization
Plan. Support equity populations and that financial sustainability. So we want to continue with those being
very important sort of baseline policies for RTD, both in the System Optimization Plan and moving forward
into that mobility plan for the future.

Also looking to take some action to restore community trust, prepare for those evolving travel patterns. We
know we have a lot of potential growth in ridership. And there's population growth anticipated in the Denver
metropolitan area. The mobility plan for the future also looks to emerging technologies and making sure
that you're prepared to integrate those into your services and then develop implementation strategies and
look to identify performance measures so you know if you've achieved what you set out to do.
So we've been working on the System Optimization Plan and the mobility plan for the future in tandem
throughout this process. And the mobility plan for the future started right out of the gate when we went to
our Technical Working Group and our Advisory Committee and we said, tell us what success looks like for
RTD. So a lot of the recommendations that are coming together for the mobility plan for the future are based
in what that success looks like and what steps you need to take to put in place to achieve that success.
So back to the public engagement that is broader for all of Reimagine RTD as opposed to that first piece
that we talked about that was very focused on System Optimization Plan. We've had over 181 meetings
with 4,000 attendees. We've been meeting regularly other than a pause in the project sort of in the height
of the pandemic with our Technical Working Group and our Advisory Committees. We've had several public
meetings and focus groups. And we've had an opportunity to have some really productive outreach and
input that has come in from the stakeholders in the public.
So some of the key takeaways through that process. There is very strong support among all groups for
serving social equity populations as a priority. Very important. We've heard that from the Board. We heard
that from the committees. We heard that from the public input as well. The groups and the input we receive
also favored RTD acting as a mobility integrator. So there was discussion about whether they were an
integrator or not and then how far you went on the spectrum of integration. Are you the operator of scooter
programs and bike share programs and car share programs or are you integrating all of those services?
And people really landed on you, RTD, would be the ideal integrator but not the operator of all those
services.
The Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee supported high frequency service with transport
of land uses over a coverage based system. But when we came to you all as the Board of Directors, I'm
not sure what the date was for that, but there was a little bit more leaning towards more of a coverage
based system. There's general support for more service. Everybody wants more service. Strong support
for reliable service. And then there was a lot of support for creating that regional transit backbone and
working collaboratively with the local communities and partnerships to help operate and pay for those more
localized services.
So from all of that input and the analysis we did, we developed these statements. And I would say on this
particular slide, it doesn't say draft, but these are draft. And I would love to hear your feedback on these
and continue feedback. It doesn't have to just be tonight. Where we have identified these seven or so
statements that we describe as if you were describing RTD to your spouse or your best friend what RTD
looks like in 2050, what would you say about RTD? So these statements, and these come from the public
input and the stakeholder input that we received. So these are an attempt to describe what RTD looks like

in 2050. And then the intent of the mobility plan for the future is to identify those steps you need to take,
policies, procedures, actions you need to take to get this to achieve this vision.
So I'd love to hear from you all tonight about that. But I also wanted to flag that we do have a study session
identified in June for more feedback on both that and strategies and policies you have put in place for the
mobility plan for the future. We'll assemble a set of draft recommendations for you to provide us feedback
on. And we'll be ready to have hopefully a real robust conversation about it in June.
And then this just provides you some next steps on the schedule. So June 15th is that Board study session
that I just referred to. July 26th we are hoping to bring this System Optimization Plan to the Board for its
approval and adoption and then also receive the mobility plan for the future at that time as well.
All right. So that's what we have for today. And I think Bill, are you going to help us through some questions?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Indeed. Chair Davidson, this is again, this is-- thank you Holly. I should say thank
you. And this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning again. We are certainly available
for any questions the Board might have.
I also have to add note and make a slight apology. The format of the presentation that Holly just made
varied, and I recognize that from the information and the format that was contained in your packet. The
content, the differences are substantially editorial. There are no real content differences between the two
presentations. But I fear that may have caused a bit of confusion with some of the viewers and with the
Board of Directors. So I wanted to note that right up front.
HOLLY BUCK: Oh, I'm so sorry about that. Apologies.
WILLIAM VAN METER: No problem. Thank you, Holly. No problem. We will provide this version to the
Board of Directors so you have that as a reference following this meeting tomorrow. But again, the
information in the two presentations from a substance standpoint is consistent. Chair Davidson, back to
you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Yes. Thank you, Mr. Van Meter. Thank you, Miss Buck, for a great
presentation there. It's very helpful. And Mr. Van Meter, thanks for pointing out that the difference in just as
we referenced the packet pages and slide numbers tonight. I'll go ahead and just call on some folks for
questions and discussion. If you wouldn't mind just taking off the screen share and then we can see
everybody on our Hollywood Squares here, that would be great. Thank you. I will call on Director Williams
first.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I'm sorry as not a formal member of the committee, I'm probably out
of line. But I would just like everybody to think about what you would have said if somebody said 10 years
ago to you that there would be scooters all over the sidewalks. So I have a really hard time doing planning
for 2050, because I personally think we'll all be wearing solar powered jetpacks, and that is not included in
any of this planning. So I just want us to be aware that there are things that are going to be available in
mobility that we haven't even dreamed of yet. And as we are planning for who we think RTD is going to be,

we need to really, really be wide open. And thank you, Holly, for all your work. You've heard this from me
before. Goodbye.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And thank you, Holly, for the great presentation and to all the team, our
staff and your team for the good work. I'm wondering in the discussion of the SOP, one of the main goals
was to increase ridership. Do we have a way to measure that given the pandemic and the fact that ridership
is coming back anyhow? Is there a way to measure the effect of what we're doing?
WILLIAM VAN METER: So this is Bill Van Meter. Holly or Brian Welch might be the folks best equipped to
answer that question.
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah, sure. Holly Buck, FHU. I love that question, and I think it's a great one for us to think
about. I would suggest that there might be looking at what's happening in the rest of the country, which is
pretty variable, and seeing what you're achieving. And let's set our goals to you outpacing what people in
the rest of the country are doing would be one way for you to consider how well your SOP is actually
achieving what you set out to achieve. Certainly you will see ridership come back as you point out because
we're getting back to sort of normal. So that might be one way to do it. I don't know if Brian has any thoughts.
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, hi, this is Brian Welch, Senior Manager Planning Technical Services. That's a great
question. And what we're going to do is look at some of the indicators that we have that we know are
predictors and have been traditionally of our ridership. So we'll track office vacancies, for example, in the
downtown and in the tech center. And if those are outpacing the rate at which our ridership increases, we'll
know that the effect of the SOP has not overcome what has otherwise changed in travel behavior.
We're watching vehicle miles traveled, which seem to be outpacing the rate at which our ridership is
increasing. And that would tell us that as we add more service, if we don't keep up, then that's probably
another indicator that the effect of the pandemic is still overshadowing our efforts to increase our service.
And like Holly said, one of the things we do is we're watching some other 10 or so other agencies around
the United States.
And we're seeing the delta in their ridership comparing where they were before the pandemic if they've
made changes, because there are some other agencies that we know about that have also done a system
redesign. And so we'll see how well have they done after they did their system redesign and how well have
we done. And I think that'll be, Director, another way that we can perhaps track that and make some
assessments of that question. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good. Thank you for those answers. Those are helpful. I'm really looking forward to
seeing those financial scenarios. The first one I think is a sigh. But I appreciate you doing them. I think it's
important for us to set out a vision and tell the region what it will take for us to get to their vision in terms of
additional transit ridership. At one point it says the goal is ridership growth of 70%. I was trying to figure out
how that fit with our three financial scenarios. Is that if we get all the money in the world or where does that
come from?

WILLIAM VAN METER: Holly?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. Holly Buck, FHU. So that 70% is an interesting one. It is actually, just so we all have
the same information here, it is an estimate that DRCOG made as part of their 2050 plan that was completed
pre-pandemic. So it is associated with putting in some of your BRT lines that are in that DRCOG fiscally
constrained plan as well as I think peak period Northwest Rail is in that plan.
It's not as detailed as all what the buses each are. But it has a lot of ridership anticipated in it. So I think we
need to be a little cautious about that. But I would say from the input we've received, there's a strong desire
to get back to that and grow that. So that big item on the right, the scenario three of those financial ones,
would be probably where you need to get to to actually achieve that kind of growth.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And you'll be bringing us the financial, the details in June?
HOLLY BUCK: Yes. Yes, we will.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks. It didn't mention greenhouse gas and air quality, but I think I saw it in the
renewed scope of work. How does that play in?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Holly, do you want to handle that one as well?
HOLLY BUCK: Yes, happy to. So the greenhouse part of what that big-- I didn't call it out in the presentation,
but part of that scenario three is around really hitting on how can RTD participate in some of those state
initiatives and the goals for green and our regional initiatives for greenhouse gas reduction goals. And you
can really start to pack a punch with how many boardings you're able to attract to your system when you
get into that level. And that was part of what that scenario was trying to address is the bigger investment to
help achieve some of those goals.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Mr. Chair, I've got two or three more questions, but I think what I'll do is,
if you don't mind, let other people go and then see if my questions get answered. Thank you very much for
the answers.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Sure. Sure thing. Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Dishell, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Just to put a finer point on your question, [INAUDIBLE]
beautifully, it would be really great to see when it comes back to the Board the greenhouse gas
[INAUDIBLE]. The difference between plan one, plan two, and plan three. anecdotal conversation, that
seems to be really critical to securing other funding.
So not just how does RTD play a part in the [INAUDIBLE] but want to make sure we call it out explicitly,
which is how much extra greenhouse gas are we getting? Or the difference between-- of course, there's a
difference between removing a car from the road versus someone's just taking a trip they otherwise wouldn't
have take taken or an additional trip they might not have taken.

But seeing those numbers would be great. I think something that would also be great would be what I hope
would be a decreased cost per ride. If we are optimizing and realizing efficiencies between current state
plan one, plan two, and plan three, unless I'm missing something, our cost per ride should also be coming
down. So it'd be great as we're talking with regional partners and things of that nature to be armed with that
type of information so that we make that ask say look, yes, we need [INAUDIBLE]. But it's going to really
bring down everyone's costs both in actual dollars but also from a greenhouse gas standpoint.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Appreciate those thoughts and comments. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager of Planning again. Director Dishell and those requests for information regarding greenhouse gas
cost per ride. We'll take that under advisement. Do you have any initial information or additional information
that you can share at this point regarding Director Dishell's queries, Holly?
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah, I should come back to you on that. I want to make sure that we are well coordinated
with the Denver Regional Council of Governments and they are the official modeler of greenhouse gases.
So we can provide some high level looks. But before I make any promises, I want to make sure that we
understand what they are able to provide in that broader detail that you have asked for.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Appreciate it. Again, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM of Planning. Appreciate that note,
Holly. Denver Regional Council of Governments in cooperation with the Regional Air Quality Council
responsibilities for those sorts of projections. So we'll research it and we understand the interest and how
important that is in terms of communicating the plan. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And thank you for the additional work that you're doing and also to our staff
for accommodating those requests that we brought forward previously. I really wanted to start out with
saying that. OK, so you characterized two approaches, coverage based versus looking at, say, social equity
concerns and/or supportive land uses. But it's not a dichotomy, is it? I mean, it's really more a case of how
much emphasis.
When we had a chance to listen to Gerald Walker in 2019 I think it was, he talked about setting a percentage
as a way to kind of figure where you want to be as an agency for your region. So first of all, I'm just saying
I think you've simplified things in your PowerPoint maybe just for the purposes of being pithy. But where do
you think we stand and how much have we shifted in one way or another direction? That's my first question.
WILLIAM VAN METER: So Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning. And so
exactly to Director Cook's point, it's not a dichotomy. It really is a continuum where you could go to one
extreme or another. We've always recognized that we were not going to go to a coverage extreme at the
cost of ridership and serving equity populations and that there were also pressures and other interests that
precluded us from only allocating resources to a few select high performing routes, that we would end up
somewhere in the middle in this continuum.
And I think we've received good guidance and input in terms of ridership response through the pandemic
in terms of information and guidance and input from you, the collective Board of Directors, from our key

stakeholders, from our customers and customer base kind of informing that. And so just wanted to kind of
set that context and understanding, that's how we came in and that's how we're thinking about it today.
Before asking Holly if she has any additional insider information or response to Director Cook's question
and my response.
HOLLY BUCK: Yeah. That's great. So I would say that I could not agree with you more. It is absolutely not
that simple, as you have a coverage based system or a high quality, high frequency based system. So I
absolutely appreciate your comments.
One thing that I would just put out as consideration when we think about the mobility plan for the future and
how you might-- how your financial scenarios might impact you is that if funding, and this is no decisions
made here. This is what we'll have to dialogue about in June. If no funding is identified, additional funding,
as you move forward and have additional growth in the region, how do you decide to allocate some pretty
limited resources?
And one of the ways that you may do that is really focus on that regional backbone network that serves
equity populations but maybe doesn't serve everybody as well as we would like it to. Or there may be other
ways to do that. And you might need more partnerships certainly in place. So I throw that out to you. I think
we need to have more conversation about it and talk about sort of the trade offs and how you invest in the
system in a fiscally constrained time.
WILLIAM VAN METER: And Chair and Director Cook, may I just ask Brian Welch if he has anything
additional to add to that question before you continue?
BRIAN WELCH: Yeah, thanks. Director Cook, part of the challenge that we have to present as a consultant
team and staff to the Board of Directors in June is a vision for the district where you provide alternative
solutions that achieve both coverage and ridership activities and goals and outcomes. So the district
definitely needs to look differently than the way we do now and how we can provide mobility. Obviously
we've got a district that includes the CBD of Denver and almost all the way to Rocky Mountain National
Park. There isn't a single mobility solution that is optimal now, and it certainly won't be in 2050 or 2040.
So what we're going to present to you is a future where you can envision maybe a 40 foot bus is not the
right way to reach all of our customers. And maybe we really need to emphasize if we want to achieve
service to everybody who needs it and wants it, there's got to be some different ways we can do it given
worker, ridership, financial challenges, all of the things we face in a district that's so disparate in terms of
the environments that we serve. So look forward to more articulation of how we can achieve all of the
objectives from the Board of Directors, not just from what you see right now, but what we could envision
more in the future. That's part of this whole notion of what's next.
SHELLEY COOK: Two more if I may, Mr. Chair. The second thing. I may be repeating something that
Director Dishell said. I couldn't hear everything he was talking about. But the greenhouse gas emissions. I
believe that we got a memo from the General Manager that indicated that you would be modeling the
impacts of these different scenarios. Is that in fact what you will be bringing forward in June? That's the first
question about this.

WILLIAM VAN METER: So Director Cook, was that regarding the scenarios for the System Optimization
Plan in the near term or?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh. Do we have a way of getting our arms around? If we're going to curtail our service
to outlying areas, don't they by definition drive farther? And what does that do to greenhouse gas emissions
relative to concentrating service more in the central business districts? So are we going to be able to know
that?
WILLIAM VAN METER: So again, this is AGM of Planning, Bill Van Meter. And so definitely our hearing
and gathering and understanding the interest in greenhouse gas emissions, some of the limitations that we
have, as Holly mentioned, are that the formal modeling is done by agencies other than RTD. And so we
have some challenges around that. But definitely understand the interest in it. And so we're going to have
to sharpen our pencils and come back with some good understanding and information for you, understand
that. And thanks for the clarification regarding the level of interest for both the System Optimization Plan
that is the nearer term analysis and also regarding the longer term. Holly, do you have anything to add to
my answer, which anything more?
HOLLY BUCK: This is Holly Buck, FHU. I think that's good. We really need to coordinate with DRCOG. We
do have currently some high level modeling. But I think for what you're talking about, we really need to
coordinate with DRCOG and make sure that we understand what can actually be provided.
SHELLEY COOK: And then one last, Mr. Chair, if I may. So the scenario number two that you're going to
be coming back to us for is the one that seems like we ought to aim for, because that represents meeting
the commitment or meeting the standard that the region is counting on for us. Will you in that scenario help
us identify likely or good prospects for additional revenue or areas that we might bolster our resources to
address those needs? Or just checking with you on that.
WILLIAM VAN METER: In short, the answer is yes. But I believe Holly can provide perhaps a little preview
of some of the ideas and considerations that may come forward.
HOLLY BUCK: Yes, absolutely. So we are working on that. We have the financial scenarios allow us to
look at if you were to use a property tax, if you were to increase the sales tax, there are metrics in there for
how you address parking and charging for parking as well. And it does allow you to vary the levels as well
within there. So yes, we will be able to help you understand if you are trying to get to the sort of middle
scenario what are some opportunities for you to acquire more funding.
SHELLEY COOK: Super. And then just a comment. So I don't say this to be divisive. But back in 2018 or,
yeah, it was for 2018, Heather McKillop had prepared a county by county operating gap analysis. And what
that showed, and this is pre-pandemic and before we had kind of made this shift, however much it is, toward
serving areas that are transit supportive and that meet social equity goals and things like that. Even then,
the difference in the amount per capita, the amount of dollars per person in Denver above and beyond what
they contributed was hundreds of dollars more than any other county. And that's a function of a lot of things,
as you would know. It would be we've got a hub and spoke system. It's one of the major business districts
for employment, et cetera, et cetera.

But to the extent we are doing that more now, we're increasing the frequency of service in the central
business district along Broadway and along Colfax, I would expect those numbers to shift so that you're
seeing not just four times as much money per capita but more potentially. And at a certain point, that
becomes untenable given our revenue base as a regional system. So I just am raising that because if we're
looking at alternative revenues, we ought to be talking about getting some money from Denver or some
assistance to help us address the needs that we have regionally, because they're getting so much more
than what other areas are.
And again, I'm not saying that to be provocative or anything. I just think at a certain point it'll become a
critical issue for us. So just raising that piece right there. Thank you very much for allowing me all that extra
time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook. Thank you, Miss Buck and Mr. Van Meter for the
answers. Director Catlin, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: [INAUDIBLE] tired argument.
ERIK DAVIDSON: If we could just start with Director-- I'll come to you, Director Dishell. Please, Director
Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. You know what, I just would caution everybody on managing
expectations. What I remember about DRCOG air quality modeling is that it's very regional and it doesn't
get down to the granular level. So you would not be able to analyze specific rail corridors or bus routes and
impact on the overall air quality of the region. That's just a comment. [INAUDIBLE] in the 12 years since
I've been involved with that.
My question is the three scenarios that you're looking at, I mean, the first one, obviously, is pretty sobering.
It's kind of a dose of reality for us. But do those scenarios assume a static district boundary? Have you
looked at whether the district would decrease geographically in size or conversely increase in geographic
size or do all of those? Does the mobility plan for the future assume the boundaries as they are today?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. I'd like to toss that one directly to Holly.
HOLLY BUCK: Yes. So thanks Bill. The scenarios as they are, as they stand right now, I've lost you Peggy.
Oh, there. The scenarios as they stand right now do assume a static boundary. Though we have done an
analysis of both increasing the boundary and decreasing the boundary and the impact you have on
revenues and costs loosely, because there depends on what kind of service you provide, obviously in the
district. So I think it's a good point to bring those things together. And so we can help do that, at least for
conversation purposes so that we understand the impact as we're talking about those financial scenarios.
PEGGY CATLIN: And one more if I might, just in response to that. As Director Williams pointed out, we just
don't know what things will look like in 2050. And so I just didn't know what impacts that could possibly
have. So thank you. I'm glad that you did look at it.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. And Director Dishell, I know you had a response to a prior
comment. Thank you for the patience. Hopefully when we get back in person, we can open up dynamic
talking. But thanks for waiting while we manage the Zoom format here. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: No problem. Director [INAUDIBLE]. Or excuse me, Director [INAUDIBLE]. I hear what
you're saying, but I don't know that it really moves the ball forward. Because this is a sales tax, as we all
know, not a property tax. So when I go up to Boulder and I'm on South Pearl Street and I spend a bunch of
money, I spent that money, did I not? But I'm a resident of Denver. And so it looks like Denver got all this
money, but really Boulder's able to do that. And the same with Olde Town Arvada. And so it just really
discourages, I think, that whole regional notion. It's a number that's really hard to track.
Who actually spent those dollars? What about tourists? Should we be discouraging tourism because we
want to nickel and dime? Our objective is to make lives better through connections. And if that's better done
through now really focusing on equity populations for public transportation, then I think that's what we should
do. But I think the idea that we keep trying to say, well, this area gets more because of on a per capita basis
ignores the fact that people leave their county and that this is a sales tax collected on everyone. Tourists,
unhoused, housed, single residents, second home.
I mean, I don't know that it serves to improve making lives better through connections to drill down like that,
because there are so many-- when I make a transaction in cash that's outside of my district, which I do,
there's no way for anyone to know where that money came from, that source income. What are we really
trying to gain other than perhaps better geographic coverage? And so for me if we're really trying to move
forward, we're really trying to work regionally, we're really trying to look at alternative partnerships, what is
drilling down in that way do [INAUDIBLE] about perceived inequality?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Dishell. I'm going to continue to move down the list here of hands
raised. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'm more worried about how is RTD going to survive over the next 20
years or so. Unless we solve our personnel problem, we're going to lose all of our customers. Over the past
number of months, each time I asked staff how are we coming with filling all of our vacancies, well, we're
treading water. Well, maybe the 20% of our workforce is age 64 or older. We're going to have this treading
water problem for an awful long period of time.
And the one most important thing that people rely on is that the service is going to be reliable. That when
they're out there at 4:30 in the morning going to work that there's going to be a 4:30 train to pick them up.
And if it only picks them up three days a week because they don't have anybody to run it the other days,
we're simply never going to get our ridership back. And we've got to solve this first before we worry about
stuff 20 and 30 years out. That's just my two cents worth. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Broom, are you looking for any comment or update
on the matter here?
BOB BROOM: Well, if it's different than we're treading water.

ERIK DAVIDSON: I'm going to go ahead and move down. Yeah, go ahead, please.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. I was just going to note that that is one
of the guiding principles the Board set for us as part of this study and that is addressing our workforce
challenges and issues, which are not just existent today but will evolve and change over time as we get to
a 2050 future that either looks like we're projecting here or has solar powered jet packs per Director
Williams's previous comment additional challenges.
So I appreciate Director Broom's comments, and he's direct, he's spot on, and we are working to address
that under these auspices. And of course, as the Board knows, in the here and now in many different
measures, which others have briefed the Board regularly on. So I just wanted to add that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Mr. Van Meter. Actually, if I may just comment. I'm holding my
questions and comments to the end here. But that item of workforce and its impact on the SOP I know has
started to come up in some of the more recent stakeholder meetings that have come up. I understand that
there's some modeling of how we'll return to service.
Maybe just a follow up question to Director Broom's comment there. Is that something when we're looking
at the SOP in the study session in June, in addition to looking at some of these financial scenarios in a little
bit more detail, will we also look at some of those scenarios of how quickly or where we return, how SOP
is impacted by workforce? Do those models exist and do we plan to go look at those in the June study
session?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair Davidson, that's a question beyond my capacity to respond to at this point.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you and apologies for drifting a little bit off topic there.
WILLIAM VAN METER: But I understand-- yeah, I understand the import and interest.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And then I see Mr. Sirois has raised his hand here. So Mr. Sirois, if you have a comment
on this, please go ahead.
BILL SIROIS: I was just going to relate in terms of my conversations with Jessie Carter as we've been
talking about the subregional service councils and relation to the implementation of the SOP. I mean, it is
completely resource driven. The one things that I would say related to that is we want to use those service
councils as a model to have discussions and dialogue about service. And the idea that we can say where
do people see the needs or the priorities for the different subdistricts and then use that to inform future run
Boards. But what I think the challenge that we always had is typically when we have conversations with
stakeholders that they want that immediate impact and it's the next run Board.
One of the things that I think that we can do with them is talk about where the trends are in workforce, how
the classes are going, where we're going in terms of retaining employees, and other things as we have that
dialogue so we can give a better sense. Because I know there's a lot of concern about how is the SOP
going to be phased? When are we going to see our routes? And really it is completely resource driven.

And if you would talk to Jessie if he were here today, I'm sure he'd say, well, I don't know where January is
going to be because I'm not sure where we're going to be in a couple of months with some of the workforce
issue. So it really is going to be something that we hope to have continuous dialogue on with folks so that
they can see where the trends are going so they can look further down the road than just that next run
Board, which I think we always get caught up in in a conversation about what's the immediate impact that
I can see in two months from now. It may be six, it may be eight, it may maybe a year from now depending
on how we look at this.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for commenting on that, Mr. Sirois. I appreciate it. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks very much. I guess I have a couple of comments. One is in terms of the
conversation that Director Cook and Director Dishell have. Another way to think about this, and I'm with
Director Broom that we got to be looking at how we keep the agency moving forward for the next 20 years
or whatever. And that means we have to look at money from everywhere and anywhere. And that means
that it doesn't just come from partnerships we haven't created or routes that we aren't serving but looking
at partnerships that we are serving and what that means to those locations. So it's just a different way of
looking at it rather than where the money was spent and all of that. It's a benefit that's being provided and
the support we'll need.
And I guess another comment. You've heard the interest in the greenhouse gas emissions and the air
quality. And I really like the idea of the regional backbone network and partnerships. I think that's a
promising look. And when you say regional backbone networks, I hear what we often calling BRT, whether
people say it's BRT or BRT light or whatever. That's what I hear. And I'm not seeing-- we did the PRT study.
There's an AM study, there's the different pieces out there that as I recall aren't fully incorporated, at least
in the SOP.
So when we say that if we don't have new money we're going to have the SOP till 2050, I'd like to think of
the SOP as five years and then we look at do we need to be more in the regional backbone and more
providing those regional options. I would not want to be adopting that through 2050 if we don't get more
money. So two comments.
One question, just procedural. I think you said that we'll be adopting the SOP in July and receiving the
mobility plan for the future. Are we not adopting those together?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. No, the intent is for formal action on
the System Optimization Plan and for a presentation to the Board of the mobility plan for the future as the
final product for the Board's information and for the information of the citizens. Holly, any clarifying
perspective that you can provide?
HOLLY BUCK: That's my understanding as well.
BRIAN WELCH: If I could just add to that. This is Brian Welch, Senior Manager Planning Technical
Services. The primary focus of the Reimagine RTD will be follow up items for the Board to consider. For
example, we will present to you a harmonization of the strategic plan that you adopted with some of the key

actions of Reimagine RTD and how those would move forward. We'll have a series of follow up policy
tactics, decisions, and strategies that the Board is going to have to pursue that really don't lend themselves
to be adopted in the mobility plan for the future but will point you in the direction of where you need to go
next.
Because there will be a whole list of those. That will be the primary action related aspects of Reimagine
RTD and the mobility plan for the future. It's not anticipated to be selecting a list of projects and corridors
or anything like that. It's more a key policy document that will take you from where you are now to point you
to where we need to get and how you could get there and the choices that you'll need to make. That's the
real intent of it. You won't be picking, for example, a scenario. You'll be faced with subsequent decisions.
For example, you're going to have to make decisions in the mid-term financial plan on how you want to
move forward. You'll be making decisions in how you want to approach projects as they're presented to
you in the RTP. These are all action oriented implementation steps that are going to be the heart of
Reimagine RTD. And we'll give you a much better preview of that when we present to you at the study
session so you get a better feel of that.
And while I have the floor, I just wanted to really quickly, we've heard multiple comments about ozone and
GHG. We concur with you. We understand the importance of that in our region. It's a key aspect of our
lives. What I just want to frame for you, though, how we'll bring this back and not over promise and under
deliver, but what we'll be able to do, I think you'll remember from the 2019 quality of life report if you were
here for that, we documented that our RTD's impact on Denver metro area GHG is probably less than 4%.
So when we were providing 350,000 boardings a day, we were less than 4% of all of the GHG emissions.
So what we can do for you is tell you that the impact that our ability to provide additional diversion of people
away from polluting cars to our services how that moves the needle. We're doing the best we can to make
sure that our system is as clean and reliable and lead in all the good things that minimize our impact on the
environment without question. But our primary focus when we come back in June is we have done some
modeling and we do have a sense of how we can move the needle on ozone and GHG.
But please understand that in the context of I think right now that, Holly, in the region there's about 84
million miles of trips right now. On a daily basis, 15 million trips are made. We're providing-- you know how
many trips we provide a day now. It's relatively small. It's very, very, very important, though. Don't get me
wrong. And the extent to which we can ratchet that up. But please understand that particularly for something
like the System Optimization Plan, it might be difficult to be too quantitative for you, but we will be qualitative.
Does that make sense, Holly?
HOLLY BUCK: Yes. I think that's a good description of what we'll be able to provide at this level.
BRIAN WELCH: But we understand the importance, and we'll bring you back everything we possibly can.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thanks very much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, everybody, for the questions. Yeah, Director Guissinger, please continue.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry about that. And I think some of you have heard me say before it would be really
helpful to me to understand the effect, have a written statement of what the SOP is. That it's a plan. What
happens if Jessie and his team start seeing different outcomes? And we have a certain percentage of this
bus that's going to come back. And what's the direction to them? I would appreciate that. Thanks very
much.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. Director Williams, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thanks. I see Director Broom still has his hand up. Director Guissinger too. I just wanted
to be sure. Director Broom, you're ahead of me. You got something more or it's a lazy hand?
BOB BROOM: Hand's up by mistake.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Thank you, Chair Davidson. I just want to get on my soapbox again. I know that
2050 is a long way out and we're doing the best we can do. But we need in this group to discuss more
about the fact that people have to get out of their cars. That is the future. Not in six months maybe because
we're Colorado and we're one gun and one car. But people have to get out of their cars. That's where CDOT
is driving us. That's where DRCOG is driving us. That's where the governor is driving us. And when they
get out of their cars, they still have to get around. And how are they going to get around? They're going to
get around sooner or later on RTD even if they don't like us, because that is the future of the world.
And if in fact the RTD Board of Directors is the governing body and we are looking at Reimagine RTD, we
need to have that conversation every time we meet. And we need to put out to the public. I was chastised
recently at a public meeting for saying, every time you get in your car, you're killing your grandchildren.
Everybody went, oh, Director Williams.
But I recently had a woman who is an elected public official tell me that every time she puts the key in her
car now, she hears my voice saying that. And we need to be that voice. We need to say here we are. We
are safe, clean, and mostly on time. Get out of your car and save the planet. And I don't hear us saying that
enough. So I'm sorry. There's my soapbox. Again, it's not 2050 I'm looking at. It's 2025. And there you have
it. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thanks for a second bite at the apple. I really appreciate it. And just briefly in response
to Director Dishell, I offer that in the spirit that Director Guissinger spoke of, which is trying to find a way to
make the pie bigger rather than just pointing a finger. To the extent we need to identify new revenue sources
or in kind support or whatever can help us do more, I think it would bear having a conversation with our
partners.
And the second a couple of pieces of that too that I didn't talk about before is when we provide really
frequent service, whether it's via train or bus rapid transit or otherwise, we add value. That's realizable

money that the city and county of Denver or whatever entity has available to it. And so we don't currently
benefit from any of that. That's another idea of a conversation.
And then finally, just recognizing that all counties except for Denver became more diverse in the last census.
And that reflects some of the migration that people are moving outward because they can't afford to live in
city and county of Denver. And so to the extent we're focusing on social equity, that needs to be part of our
conversation too. So thank you all so much for allowing me to speak again.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Cook. Thank you, everybody, for answering these questions and
fielding these and Directors for the comments. I think it's safe to say we're going to have a robust discussion
at the study session in June, which I think is good. I've saved my comments at the end, and I think I'm going
to save some of my questions for that study session, because I've heard a lot tonight about the things that
we'll get into in a little bit of detail.
It really does strike me, though, I do want to point out, and I think we're all touching on this, that there does
seem to be a pretty important contradiction in terms of where we are that the SOP is very much focused on
and sets its vision on the ridership model. And then at the back end, we're talking about the mobility plan
for the future. And there's a statement in the slides here that the preliminary Board results suggested
whenever those took place that it was a coverage based model system.
And then also there's this discussion about the regional transit backbone, which I know is something that's
come up a lot and I know that some cities, for example the city and county of Broomfield, conducted its own
survey on whether there would be an appetite to add additional funding to the local service where RTD
would be a regional service, which came out generally favorable. Those are some major, major things that
we have to decide.
And when we look at these financial models, if we were to decide that we're going to be a regional backbone
and we're going to look towards others to provide local service, that has a real impact on the finances.
Because I have a hard time imagining that cities and counties would pass local taxes to augment the service
and want that to be going to RTD to the extent that we're stepping back some of the local service.
So all that to say I think we have a lot that we have to discuss because it does sound like we've got some
misalignment in terms of the short term goal being on ridership, a long term goal the Technical Working
Group had a coverage based focus, and or I'm sorry, also a ridership focus. But the Board is suggested as
having a coverage based preference here. So recognizing it's a continuum. I think we have a lot to discuss
there. So thanks for letting me comment on that. Certainly a lot to reflect on before we get together in June.
And I think implied in this, there's some pretty strategic decisions that we're making with what we decide to
move forward with on here.
So any further questions or points to be made on this discussion item? Thank you very much and thank
you for the robust discussion. I'll do my best to summarize some of that in the report later this month. Are
there other matters to come before this committee? Yes, Director Sloan, please.

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. First I appreciate the committee allowing me to speak and listen to this really
thorough conversation. I think this committee has been making a significant contribution to RTD governance
and I'm looking forward to the June study session.
What I would like to raise is a resolution that came up at your last committee meeting about free fares on
Election Day. And these free fares were to encourage voter turnout by making voting more accessible to
our customers and others in the metro area. For the same policy reasons and with the same intent for that
proposal, which as I understand it needs to come through this committee fairly quickly and soon to be
scheduled meeting, I will be proposing an addition to the free fares.
And that would be an inclusion in the resolution directing the installation of vote drop boxes on RTD,
property deemed appropriate by both RTD and the county clerks under the county clerk laws. Now, I believe
this is in line with the free fares and it may have a significant practical effect as well by making our customers
have an accessible way to vote during their everyday interactions with RTD.
So I believe that there is a connection between the RTD property and the financial aspect of this committee
but also the planning aspect of this committee. Because as Director Dishell mentioned before, our entire
purpose is to make connections through transit. And this would enable our customers to participate in the
Democratic process more easily. So thank you, committee. You're doing a great job.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. And thank you for attending and making that comment. I
understand that, and Miss Johnson if you wouldn't mind, I'm just going to ask you to comment briefly on
this. I understand that we have done some work on considering drop boxes. And then also I know that as
per the last committee meeting that you and your team took some next steps in terms of considering what
proposals might be made regarding election free fare. So I'm wondering, Miss Johnson, if you wouldn't
mind just commenting on the comments from Director Sloan and the potential impact to whatever proposals
you may be considering and also just a brief update as to what staff has been discussing since the prior
committee meeting.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Chair Davidson, and thank you to Director Sloan for
broaching this issue as it relates to 0 fares. And I choose the word 0 because of course there's an underlying
cost to somebody. There's no such thing as a free lunch or a free transit ride. With that as a backdrop, I did
want to share in relationship to the comments that Director Sloan brought forward about drop boxes, we
have engaged in a discussion. And I did share with Director Sloan that some activities have taken place in
relationship to that. Want to acknowledge the immediate past year, Angie Rivera-Malpiede who brought
this issue to me when I first joined the organization and we engaged. And we do have some drop boxes.
I agree as we talk about equity and as we talk about the access to transit and our mission of making lives
better through connections, it's paramount as we move forward. So to the point raised, we are in the process
of coordinating with the County Parks Association and setting up meetings collectively recognizing that we
already have some drop boxes at facilities. We had worked previously on this. So to the extent that this
could be effectuated, I will bring that to the Board for its consideration from a policy vantage point.

More so as relates to the status of [INAUDIBLE], I just received some communique about the status of our
scheduling of that. Because there had been initial discussions relative to County Clerks Association of
bringing people together collectively as we bring this forward. I recognize time is of the essence when we
discussed this last month. That was put forward. But we are working in tandem with external entities. So
recognizing trying to shore that up. But as soon as practicable, we will bring something back to this
committee and we'll apprise you accordingly. So I wasn't prepared to discuss in great detail more intimate
details of that, but I would be happy to provide that at the appropriate time. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you for the general update on that, Miss Johnson, for commenting on the
drop box proposal. And Director Sloan, thank you for broaching this as an approach. I know when we had
the discussion at the last committee meeting, we talked about what could have a material impact. And I
think there's multiple ways to do that. So thank you very much.
Other matters to come before the committee this evening? OK. Seeing no additional matters, we're going
to just wrap up here. So the next meeting date is going to be Tuesday, June 14, 2022. That will be the next
Finance and Planning Committee meeting. And seeing no other discussion, the meeting will be adjourned
at 7:39 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you very much, everybody. Have a wonderful night.

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:
Attachments:

ATU Local 1772
Monday, May 09, 2022 7:16 PM
Barbara McManus; RTD Board Office
OSHA Ruling Against Transdev
OSHA Decision Against Transdev_March_15_2022.pdf

Good Evening,
My name is Bob Dinegar, Interim President, ATU Local 1772.
Im writing at the suggestion of one of RTDs Directors, to share with the Board some pressing information that
concerns everyone's physical safety, within the region.
The matter at hand is the treatment of Operators who report experiencing fatigue or illness, such that they deem it
detrimental to their safe operation of RTD buses. As the attached OSHA Ruling from March 15th details, TransDev
Services Inc. has been ordered to institute certain policy changes, expunge related disciplinary points from employees
records and institute related trainings at ALL of its properties in the U.S.
At the recent April 7th Labor Management Conference between TransDev Englewoods Management and Local 1772,
we presented this March 15th OSHA Ruling to the General Manager of the Englewood Division, Saidel Sobrevilla. When
asked if hed been made aware of it previously, he replied that he had not.
Subsequently, I directly asked Mr Sobrevilla when these policy changes will be implemented. He replied that no changes
were currently planned, and that TransDev has filed an appeal. When asked for any verbiage from OSHA that permitted
such delay, none was forthcoming.
As one who's personally experienced fatigue while operating an RTD bus, I had no hesitation to contact RTD Dispatch for
relief, immediately.
This isnt a chronic condition for me; sometimes at night, sleep is elusive and ones mind just wont shut down.
Its a terribly frightening feeling, though, knowing the potential consequences of falling asleep at any speed, behind the
wheel of a 40 vehicle weighing 14 tons.
I was surprised to learn that I'd been assessed a disciplinary point on my record for this, although I was aware that
this also happens when one is sick and "calls out".
The current policy states that 12 points in a *rolling* year merits termination.
Ive since heard from other Operators in similar situations. One, who's been with TransDev for 14 years recently
experienced sharp pain in his leg when applying the buss brake and called for relief, and later was assessed a point. I
understand that, at first glance, these may seem like petty issues. But if the net effect is that Operators feel their jobs
are at risk due to following the law, this is a serious concern.
Perhaps RTDs potential financial liability is capped by the legislature, but the ensuing moral and reputational liability
should be motive enough to consider appropriate actions, both internally and externally.
The shortage of front line Bus Operators will not ease, given the rate of pay, the current economy and skyrocketing cost
of living within RTDs footprint.

1

TransDev Englewood is offering $5000 signing bonuses, more than RTD. They have fewer Operators now than in January,
shortly after those bonuses were first offered.
Local 1772 has had a standing offer since January to Mr. Sobrevilla and his boss to jointly request necessary funding for
livable wages from RTD.
They declined. Reportedly they were frightened of angering the client.
The strain on existing Operators will only increase over time, the pressure to work overtime to cover routes while trying
to make ends meet will also increase.
God forbid something tragic occurs. I felt the need to share this information, I couldnt bear the thought of something
happening.
I sincerely hope the underlying issue doesnt get *reasoned* away.
Please see that this email and the attached OSHA Ruling is shared with GM Debra Johnson and the RTD Board of
Directors.
Thank you.
Bob Dinegar
Interim President
ATU Local 1772

2

U.S. Department of Labor

Occupational Safety and Health Administration
San Francisco Federal Building
90 7th Street, Suite 2650
San Francisco, CA 94103

Via Electronic Mail
March 15, 2022
Transdev Services Inc.
c/o Johner T. Wilson III
Dinsmore & Shohl LLP
222 West Adams Street, Suite 3400
Chicago, IL 60606
jt.wilson@dinsmore.com
Re: Transdev Inc/Ruiz/9-3290-21-600
Dear Mr. Wilson:
This is to advise you that we have completed our investigation of the above-referenced complaint
filed on June 22, 2021, under the Surface Transportation Assistance Act (STAA), 49 U.S.C.
31105. In brief, the complaint alleged in the early morning of June 21, 2021, that Complainant,
Ernesto Barriento-Ruiz, a bus driver, called Transdev Services, Inc., dispatch and stated he was too
fatigued to drive. On June 22, 2021, Complainant was issued a verbal [written] warning and issued
a point due to his calling off too fatigued to drive. In the recent past, Complainant has also called
in too sick to drive and was issued points. This occurred May 20, 2021.
Following an investigation by a duly authorized investigator, the Secretary of Labor, acting through
his agent, the Regional Administrator for the Occupational Safety and Health Administration
(OSHA), Region IX, finds there is reasonable cause to believe that Respondent violated the STAA
and issues the following findings:
Secretarys Findings
The complaint alleges that on or about June 22, 2021, Respondent issued Complainant a verbal
[written] warning and issued Complainant a point due to Complainant calling off too fatigued to
drive. On June 22, 2021, Complainant filed a complaint with the Secretary of Labor alleging
retaliation in violation of STAA. As this complaint was filed within 180 days of the alleged adverse
action, it is deemed timely.
Respondent is covered under the STAA because Respondent is a person within the meaning of 1
U.S.C. 1 and 49 U.S.C. 31105. Respondent is also an employer within the meaning of 49 U.S.C.
31101. Respondent is engaged in transporting passengers on the highways via commercial motor
vehicle, that is, a vehicle designed to transport more than 10 passengers including the driver.
Complainant is covered under the STAA because Complainant is an employee within the meaning
of 49 U.S.C. 31101. In the course of her employment, Complainant directly affected commercial

motor vehicle safety by driving Respondents commercial motor vehicles (buses) over highways in
commerce to transport passengers.
As a result of the investigation, OSHA has determined that reasonable cause exists to believe that a
violation of STAA occurred. Specifically, after evaluating all the evidence provided by Respondent
and Complainant, OSHA finds reasonable cause to believe that Complainants protected activity
was a contributing factor in the adverse action. Complainant established that he engaged in a
protected activity when he called Transdev Services, Inc.s dispatch in the early morning of June
21, 2021 and stated he was too fatigued to drive and refused to drive because driving would have
violated 49 C.FR. 392.3, which prohibits driving while so fatigued that alertness could be impaired;
that he contacted Operations Manager Tim Grensavitch the following day and inquired why he was
issued a point and warning in violation of the Union rules and the law; that Respondent took an
adverse action against Complainant when they issued a verbal [written] warning and issued a
point on June 22, 2021; that the employer was aware of the Complainants protected activity; and
that a causal link existed between Complainants protected activity and the adverse employment
action because of the timing of the adverse actions relative to Complainants protected activity and
because Respondents progressive disciplinary policy is to issue points for attendance, including at
times when a driver calls off work when too fatigued and/or sick. Respondent issues the point prior
to engaging in the interactive process, which demonstrates animus towards calling in sick and/or
fatigued.
Respondent has not clearly and convincingly established that it would have taken the same adverse
actions in the absence of the Complainants protected activity. Respondent argues that the points are
issued to all drivers in accordance with the Collective Bargaining Agreement. Respondent supplied
two comparators. In both cases, Respondent issued points against both drivers for calling out
ill/fatigued. This further demonstrated animus toward STAA protected activity.
Based on these findings OSHA has reasonable cause to believe that Respondent violated 49 U.S.C.
31105(a)(1)(B)(i), which prohibits retaliation, including discipline, against an employee for refusing
to operate a commercial motor vehicle because operation would violate a federal commercial motor
vehicle safety or security regulation.
In light of the above, OSHA issues the following order:
ORDER
Respondent shall pay Complainant punitive damages in the amount of $50,000.
Punitive damages are justified because Respondent as a common carrier, and Operations
Manager Grensavitch, (who possesses a Commercial Drivers License), knew or should
have known that the company policy to issue points for ill and fatigued drivers is in direct
violation of STAA. Transdev has received other STAA complaints. Additionally,
Respondents attorney was provided information by OSHA and the Regional Solicitors
Office regarding the STAA protections regarding ill and fatigued drivers, which could have
mitigated the damages suffered by Complainant and removed the assessed point through
early resolution. Respondent maintained that it had properly assessed the point to
Complainant and its indifference to STAA justifies punitive damages. The chilling effect
created by the policy also justifies punitive damages.

Respondent shall expunge Complainants employment records of any reference to the exercise of
his rights under STAA. This includes, but is not limited to, removal of any points issued to
Complainant for calling out in accordance with 49 CFR 392.3 and in compliance with the STAA
and removal of Complainants filing an OSHA complaint.
Respondent shall not retaliate or discriminate against Complainant in any manner for instituting or
causing to be instituted any proceeding under or related to STAA.
Respondent shall post immediately in a conspicuous place in or about Respondents facility,
including in all places where notices for employees are customarily posted, including Respondents
internal web site for employees or e-mails, if Respondent customarily uses one or more of these
electronic methods for communicating with employees, and maintain for a period of at least 60
consecutive days from the date of posting, the attached notice to employees to be signed by a
responsible official of Respondent, which will note the date of actual posting.
Respondent shall notify all employees nationwide and in the union about their protections under 49
CFR 392.3 (Ill/fatigued operator) and 49 U.S.C. 31105 (STAA).
Respondent shall conduct a nationwide audit, in coordination with the union, of all current
employee attendance/personnel records to correct for compliance with the STAA.
Respondent shall revise company policy to comply with the Act (from a general non-retaliation
policy to specific attendance policy that protects drivers and other employees under STAA.
Respondent shall comply with STAA and train managers and supervisors about compliance with the
STAA.
Respondent and Complainant have 30 days from the receipt of these Findings to file objections and
to request a hearing before an Administrative Law Judge (ALJ). If no objections are filed, these
Findings will become final and not subject to review. Objections must be filed in writing with:
Primary method - via email to: OALJ-Filings@dol.gov
Secondary method - (if unable to file via email) via hard copy submission to:
Chief Administrative Law Judge
Office of Administrative Law Judges
U.S. Department of Labor
800 K Street NW, Suite 400 North
Washington, D.C. 20001-8002
Phone: (202) 693-7300
Fax: (202) 693-7365
With copies to:

Ernesto Barrientos-Ruiz
117 West Badillo St. Apt 06
Covina, CA 91723
Ernieruiz85@gmail.com

Jim Wulff
Acting Regional Administrator
U.S. Department of Labor  OSHA
90 7th Street, Suite 2650
San Francisco, CA 94103
Email: OSHA-REG09-WB@DOL.gov

The hearing is an adversarial proceeding before an ALJ in which the parties are allowed an
opportunity to present their evidence for the record Ordinarily OSHA, represented by the Regional
Solicitors Office, is the prosecuting party when OSHA issues merit findings in STAA cases. The
ALJ who conducts the hearing will issue a decision based on the evidence and arguments presented
by the parties. Review of the ALJs decision may be sought from the Administrative Review Board
(ARB), to which the Secretary of Labor has delegated responsibility for issuing final agency
decisions under the Act; the Secretary may review ARB decisions. A copy of this letter has been
sent to the Chief Administrative Law Judge along with a copy of the complaint.
The rules and procedures for handling cases under the STAA can be found in Title 29 of the Code
of Federal Regulations, Part 1978, and may be obtained at www.whistleblowers.gov.
Sincerely,

Ryan Himes
Assistant Regional Administrator
cc: Ernesto Barrientos-Ruiz
Chief Administrative Law Judge, USDOL
Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration, USDOT

