Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on November 10, 2009
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 10, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held
November 10, 2009 in Rooms R, T & D

Board
Members Present:
Directors
Absent:

Chair Tayer, Vice-Chair James, Directors Bagley, Brohl, Busck,
Christopher, Daly, James, Kemp, McMullen, O’Boyle, Tobiassen
Directors Cohen, Martinez and Pulliam

Staff Present:

Phil Washington, Brian Iacono, Teresa Sedmak, Robert Merriman,
Todd Nikkel, Susan Cohen, Bruce Abel, Cal Shankster, Mike Gil, Rick
Clarke, Cheryl Holmes, John Tarbert, Dave Genova, Susan Altes,
Daria Serna, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Marcia Fraley, John
Shonsey

Others Present:

Jeff Leib

*******************************************************************
Call to Order: Chair Tayer called the Financial Administration Committee to order at 7:09
p.m.
I.

Recommended Actions - Committee Chair Tayer asked Teresa Sedmak, Manager of
Debts and Investments to give an overview of these actions. At the October 13, 2009
Financial Administration Committee, Ms. Sedmak had received approval from the
Committee to pursue some economic savings through refunding. Since then, staff has
been working to get documents ready in order to market some refunding and Certificates
of Participation bonds. The market has been very volatile and currently has moved away
from the district’s favor. We will be ready to go if the market moves back in our favor
and these resolutions allow the District to capture savings when they become available.
a. Resolution No._____, Series of 2009 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Resolution Number ____ (the “Bond Resolution”),
authorizing the issuance of Regional Transportation District Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding bonds (the “Refunding Bonds”).

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on November 10, 2009
Page 2 of 6

b. Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 Related to the Issuance of RTD Refunding
Certificates of Participation
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that the Board
of Directors approve Resolution No. ____, (the “COP Resolution”), authorizing
the execution and delivery of a sixth amendment to a previously executed and
amended master Lease Purchase Agreement II and matters relating thereto and
allowing for the District to issue Regional Transportation District Refunding
Certificates of participation (The “Refunding COPs”).
Motion:

Director McMullen made a motion to
forward items a-b to the November
17, 2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Second:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

c. 2010 Recommended Budget – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and
Financial Analysis introduced this item to the committee. He reviewed the
updates to the budget from its requested form including updates on sales tax
figures.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No.____, Series of 2009 for the adoption of the 2010
Budget, and Resolution No.____ Series of 2009 for the 2010 Budget
Appropriation. The 2010 Appropriation includes the following amounts:

Base System (0.6%)
2010 Operations Expenditures
2010 Interest Expenditures
2010 New Capital and Principal Payments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
Base System (0.6%) 2010 Appropriation
Base System (0.6%) Previously Approved Capital

FasTracks (0.4%)
2010 Operations Expenditures
2010 Interest Expenditures
2010 New Capital and Principal Payments

2010
Recommended
$371,862,632
26,027,488
80,008,231
0
1,713,141
$479,611,492
$149,059,603

2010
Recommended
$19,919,730
47,029,536
408,014,839

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on November 10, 2009
Page 3 of 6

FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
FasTracks (0.4%) 2010 Appropriation

30,000,000
$504,964,105

FasTracks (0.4%) Previously Approved Capital

$528,079,773

DISTRICT-WIDE
2010 Operations Expenditures
2010 Interest Expenditures
2010 New Capital and Principal Payments
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
District - wide 2010 Appropriation

2010
Recommended
$391,782,362
73,057,024
488,023,070
30,000,000
1,713,141
$984,575,597

District-wide Previously Approved Capital

$677,139,377

It is further recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt Resolution No.___, Series of 2009 for the appropriation
of Previously Approved Capital Funds in the amount of $677,139,377.
Director O’Boyle asked about the increase in access-a-Ride service. Mr. Abel
gave an explanation that each year budgets are prepared on projections and
access-a-Ride had been growing between 8-9% per year. The reality of 2009 is
that it is growing at 5% and access-a-Cab growing more rapidly. So this is why
there was the adjustment in the Operations and Customer Services Committee.
Director Bagley asked about cutaway buses and would the district buy the same
kind of buses again. Mr. Abel responded that the District is looking at ways to
make the fleet more efficient and that we may purchase some vehicles that are
not wheel chair lift equipped that may be more efficient to operate. In terms of
passengers, it looks like half of the vehicles could be wheelchair equipped and
half not (smaller vans, etc). Staff is trying to make sure the scheduling software
can handle those issues.
Director Tobiassen had a question about the additional positions added to the
Planning and Development department and wanted to know the number. Susan
Cohen, Manager, FasTracks Program Control shared that two additional
positions were moved from FasTracks to the base budget in Planning and
Development and that seven new positions were added to FasTracks primarily
for the Eagle P3 and one for FasTracks legal services that was not filled in
2009.
Director Kemp wanted to know more about different access-a-Ride vehicles and
the non lift equipped vehicles. Mr. Abel said staff is reviewing available vehicles
with an eye towards the fact that some do not need to be lift equipped, some
do not need to be as large and how can we reconfigure the fleet to take

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on November 10, 2009
Page 4 of 6

advantage of fuel economy, the ability to spend less capital on a vehicle and
also keep in mind the logistics between smaller vehicles and meeting the needs
of access-a-Ride customers. Director Kemp was wondering if this might be
creating our own cab company. Mr. Abel responded that he didn’t think so.
Access-a-Cab is a “niche” to transport customers on short trips where cabs are
cost effective (about four miles). Average trips on access-a-Ride are in excess
of eleven miles. Mr. Abel shared that this is a replacement strategy and staff is
looking at ways to replace vehicles with vehicles that cost less from a capital
perspective and cost less to operate. So as we rotate out the existing vehicles
due to age and condition we’re looking at being more cost effective on the
capital side.
Director Daly wanted to know if the arbitration ruling came too late for the
2010 budget and Mr. Merriman responded yes it was too late but the
adjustment can be handled in the amended budget process in 2010.
Director Christopher wanted to know what level of engineering will be
accomplished in 2010 on the “shovel-ready” packages for the I-225, North
metro, Southeast and Southwest Extensions. Rick Clarke responded that we’re
looking at having all of our corridors at 30% and some elements at 50%,
enough so we can put out a design build package. Mr. Washington also
mentioned that the District has a shovel ready task force looking at all these
projects.
Director Christopher then asked what if we don’t go to vote in 2010 where are
going to be with all the staff that has been allocated to FasTracks. Mr.
Washington said that is in discussion and there are some tough decisions to
make. Staff is operating under the assumption of a Board approved financial
plan (approved in April 2009). Mr. Clarke added that the RTD positions are
primarily for the P3 project which is a committed project. The shovel-ready
positions are mostly consultant positions which have more flexibility.
Motion:

Director Kemp made a motion to
forward the item to the November 17,
2009 Board Meeting Agenda

Second:

Director
motion.

McMullen

seconded

the

Additional Discussion: Committee Chair Tayer commended staff for giving the
Board a lot of input at the beginning of the budget process and that this is an
excellent budget given the tight financial situation the District is in. Director
Christopher added that he was very pleased with this budget without a fare
increase and that we can still provide the level of service that we have.
Mr. Merriman said that conditions have improved and we are not dipping into
the operating reserve.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on November 10, 2009
Page 5 of 6

Director Kemp commended staff and said that compared to other transit
agencies, other agencies are facing huge challenges compared to RTD and this
is because of the good management of this organization.
Vote on
Motion: The motion passed unanimously.

II.

Third Quarter 2009 Investment Report – Ms. Sedmak referenced the report included in
the board packet. The District sold the AIG position and some subordinate Citigroup so
the credit value of the investment portfolio has increased.

III. Investment Policy Review - 2009 – Ms. Sedmak stated that the District has an
investment policy that has to be reviewed annually by the board.
She is not
recommending any changes to the policy at this time. It is a very conservative policy in
keeping with state statues.
Committee Chair Tayer wanted to know about the benchmarks. Ms. Sedmak responded
that we have three investment benchmarks. The portfolio is divided into three sub
portfolios: a very liquid portion, a portion that goes between one and two years and a
longer term portion. Different performance benchmarks are used for each part. She
considered asking for a change for the very liquid portion of the portfolio as it is apparent
that the index that is published is not realistic and she has not been able to find a money
fund that meets the District’s investment goals but was unable to find anything any
better.
Director Tobiassen wanted to know how RTD managed to avoid investing in mortgage
backed securities. Ms. Sedmak responded that the District is allowed to invest in
mortgage backed securities and we do have some in our portfolio. The requirement is
that any of these securities have to be backed by one of the government agencies so
they are guaranteed. The reason she hasn’t added more as they are a lot less liquid than
other securities and they are very complicated and difficult to manage.
IV. Procurement Presentation – Mr. Washington introduced this by saying in his one on one
meetings with the Board members, he heard some requests for a procurement
presentation. Brian Iacono, Senior Manager of Materials Management gave an overview
of procurement process at RTD. He also distributed the Board Members guide to
procurement by APTA which is a really good resource for the Board.
V. Revenue Enhancement Opportunities - Leasing – Susan Altes, Manager of Real Property
gave this presentation. She gave an overview of leased property, licenses, and the
revenue that it generates for the District.
Director James shared that Ms. Altes, Mr. Sirois, Mr. Genova, Director Bagley and
himself were meeting on Friday, November 13, 2009 to discuss real estate issues and
enhancement strategies for these assets and invited other board members to attend.

Minutes of the Financial Administration Committee Meeting held on November 10, 2009
Page 6 of 6

VI. Third Quarter Internal Audit Report – Director O’Boyle had a question about the overhead
cost controls for the contractors and wanted to know if we provided the results of that
audit? Yes, procurement maintains print copies of all these audits and asks for updates
as necessary.
Director Brohl had a question about the status report and was concerned about the
exceptions that are still open. Mr. Holmes explained that it does take time to create
processes to take time to close the exceptions.
The Senior Internal Audit position has been opened and Mr. Holmes hopes to have the
audit department fully staffed by 2010.
VII. September 2009 Financial Status Report – Robert Merriman covered the latest sales tax
figures. They are down 10.4% from the prior year actuals. Sales tax is still down in
September but not as much. It was at -13% and we are now at -10%.
VIII. 2009 Performance Report – Third Quarter – This item was not discussed.
IX. Other Matters – Mr. Washington thanked the Board for honoring the timeline that staff
has laid out in regards to the decisions for the Eagle P3. He shared that said the District
received two records of decision from the FTA. These are significant in the road map as
we go towards the next key Board decision which is the approval of the 2010 Financial
Plan.
Director Kemp commended the processes that staff is following and stressed the Board
needs to stay with this and stay on track. The Board has not come to a decision about
going to the ballot in 2010 and until staff gives the Board the tools to make that
decision, people need to realize that they do not speak for this Board.
Director Chacon asked for some better planning in committees and that maybe some
items could come to Study Session to make committee meetings shorter in length.
X. Next Meeting – The next meeting of the Financial Administration Committee will be
December 8, 2009.
XI. Adjourn – Hearing no objection, Chair Tayer adjourned the Financial/Administration
Committee at 9:01 p.m.

