Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

May 19, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
May 19, 2009 at 5:32 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:32 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Thirteen (13) Board members were present at roll call. Director Pulliam arrived after roll call
and Director Busck was absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
Patricia Siefert, Functional Support Manager in Administration, was present to receive her
award. Phil Washington described her as an unsung hero who has been with RTD for 32 years
and was the person behind the successful implementation of the ERP project. Chair Kemp
added he has known Pat since when worked for RTD previously and she was the champion for
success behind the ERP project. She will surely be missed.
Cal Marsella added Pat has worked in an extremely stressful environment—she has worked
with a number of complicated payroll efforts and audits. She was able to deliver on-time,
within budget for the Oracle (ERP) project and RTD owes a huge debt of gratitude to her.
Pat commented that her experience at RTD has been positive and RTD has been good to her.
She had fun coming to work and over the years has seen a lot of great things that RTD has
done. Thanks for making RTD a good place to work.
Special Presentation
Director Bagley introduced Peggy White, transition coach at the Plum Creek Academy in
Douglas County, who approached him in March 2009 for passes for a disabled student learning
experience. He invited her to explain the value of the experience for the students. Peggy
shared this was a wonderful and fun experience for about 15 students who rode the bus and
light rail to ACC where they won third place in the sculpture event. What makes her students
different is that their disabilities are not easily recognizable. This learning experience makes
them employable. It gives them access and gets them into the community. Some of these
students suffer from emotional disabilities that by looking at them would be hard to detect.
Their disabilities range from severe anxiety to schizophrenic tendencies that render it
impossible for them to ever drive and understanding how to use public transportation is
enormous and life changing for them. She went on to share some of the benefits and
comments made by the various students:
“One young lady had never been to downtown Denver. This is really cool.”
“One young lady stated she was scared but thinks she can do this by herself. Until she
had this learning experience, this was not a reality for her.”
“Last year travel experience taught two students how to ride so they can attend

college. Services tend to die out if you do not have access between the 18-21 age
groups.”
“Her work is to teach 18-21 year olds how to transition into adult life so they can be
productive citizens. This is an opportunity to train them on how to use the public
transportation effectively and safely. This program helps them to build reliance and
self-independence so they can overcome some of life challenges.” This statement came
from a student who was on the light rail during the derailment last year and had to
figure it out.
Peggy also shared how one of her students now uses public transportation to get back
and forth to the Rockies games.
Director Bagley stated this was a great example of how RTD can help organizations that work
with the disabled as these will be our riders. Peggy added this helps to stimulate the economy
as now they are paying customers for the various events and can have access to get around.
Chair Kemp added this is another example of why RTD is the number 1 agency. It is not just
what we do down here but what also we do in working with community leaders who help
make RTD stand out.
Participants in 2009 International Bus Roadeo
Director Daly introduced this year RTD participants in the 2009 International Roadeo and
presented them with a certificate and pen from the RTD Board of Directors. The participants
present included Dave Sesack, Kurt Akin (a 12 time participant), and Dave Sutton (1 st time
participant). Mark Deay-Reusch was not in attendance. Chair Kemp shared that this
maintenance crew came in first on the Detroit diesel engine even though it is not our
mainstream engine that we operate here which is Cummins. This just shows the broad
knowledge and that the participants are always up to speed on the equipment.
IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
B.B. Gilmore, Denver, spoke about the stops for Route 0 and Route 1 and requested if the stops
can be put back. She indicated that the current stop at Champa and Curtis does not provide
adequate sidewalk and is a little too dangerous.
Natalie Orell, Northwest Denver, spoke about paratransit/access-a-ride. She expressed concern
over why access-r-ride cost more than regular service and also issues with screening and being
scrutinized over the type of trip (i.e. medical. work, etc).
Matt Lutkus, City of Westminster, expressed support for FasTracks and stated that on April 24,
they had passed a resolution in support of taking FasTracks back to the voters. Additionally, he
spoke on some definition issues he has with the Rapid Transit Policy Change and requested this
item is tabled until city staff has a chance to further analyze.
Former Director Jack McCrowskey expressed how the public has a right to expect that
government employees will be compensated in a transparent manner. He then expressed that
the General Manager’s pension fund and the transfer of excess dollars into this fund was a
convoluted process which should be audited by the state legislators since it was the general
assembly that created RTD. He referenced Lois Trochtrop request for an audit. He stated there
are two ways to do this, one defensively or cooperatively and the preferred way is
cooperatively with the legislative auditors.

Bill Shockley, Owens Corning, read a letter dated 5/19 from the vice-president to clear up a
misconception of their plans for this facility. A copy of the letter can be found in the Board
minute’s notebook located in the Board office.
Martin Wirth, Bailey, expressed his disappointment in the elimination of the route and the park-

n-ride management but stated he has started a proposition to annex Park County into the RTD
district. He asked assistance from RTD in providing information to the residents of what value
they can expect to receive. For more information, visit the website at www.riders285.org.
Chair Kemp requested the General Manager staff to work with Mr. Wirth.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
Director Christopher provided the report on behalf of Director Busck, Committee Chair, who
was absent from the meeting. Highlights from his report include:
 May 15, 2009 the first meeting of this committee was held and included 12 of the 15
Board members. The committee actually consists of 7 Board members.
 The main agenda focused on the key next steps for recruitment and selection of an
interim general manager.
 Committee approved an RFP to pursue an Executive Search firm for the General
Manager and the Project Executive position for FasTracks.
 Committee approved a motion to send letter to senior staff inquiring of their interest in
the interim General Manager position. Would like interim General Manager to overlap
with Cal’s remaining time.
 Targeting June 2 for draft RFP for review by committee.
 Next steps to include develop criteria for interim General Manager and develop schedule
for the RFP
MOTION: Director Bagley made the motion for the full Board to
approve requesting staff to prepare a RFP for an
Executive Search firm to identify candidates for the
General Manager and FasTracks Project Executive.
SECOND: Director James seconded the motion.
VOTE:
The Board voted unanimously in favor, 14 yes and 0
no’s.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp reported there has not been a Metro Mayors’ Task Force meeting. However, there
is a meeting scheduled for May 20, 2009 at 7:30 a.m. where the discussion will be on the
General Manager replacement process. They are looking for the May 26 meeting to provide
further direction and how to include input from stakeholders and the community.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF April 21, 2009 AND SPECIAL
BOARD MEETING ON APRIL 28, 2009.

MOTION:

Director Martinez moved for the adoption of the April 21, 2009
regular board meeting minutes and the April 28, 2009 special
Board meeting minutes.
Director Chacon seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION:

Director Bagley indicated he would abstain from voting since he
was not present at the April 21 meeting.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Bagley abstained.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Boulder Economic Summit, May 11, 2009
Cal Marsella attended this meeting with Director Tayer who served as moderator and
Cal as a panelist. This was a wonderful outreach program. Director Tayer thanked Cal
for being so articulate about the regional vision and solution.
 Meeting with Greg Griffin and Jeff Lieb of the Denver Post, May 12, 2009
Cal shared that the Post is working on an in-depth story about FasTracks and will be
interviewing various sources from the time of FasTracks inception. He does not know
what to expect but believe it will look at all aspects of the development of FasTracks.
He and Scott Reed participated in an interview with them.
 Presentation to Denver City Club , May 12, 2009
Cal Marsella and Director James participated in this event. There were a number of
distinguished members of the community who were interested in an update of
FasTracks and provide their support to RTD. Director James added this was extremely
informative for him to hear background on this project.


Public Places Symposium, May 13, 2009 at the Oxford Hotel
This was a very informative symposium on public places and provided information and
ideas on how to make these public places more interesting, inviting and safe. The focus
was on creating a more viable urban environment where people will be attracted to
travel, live and work.



Meeting with Douglas County Commissioners, May 19, 2009
Cal Marsella and staff members, Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter and Directors Bagley and
O’Boyle meet with the Douglas County Commissioners. This was an incredibly positive
meeting. RTD explained how decisions are made to provide service based on ridership
and density and that we would provide the right kind of service in the right order



Other Issues
 Cal Marsella is scheduled for jury duty tomorrow, 5/20.
 Director Christopher inquired about the Colorail law suit. Marla Lien, General
Counsel, explained that the current lawsuit names the FTA and that RTD has no
direct involvement in this suit/
 Director Chacon wanted more information around the subsidy of the P-route.
Cal Marsella shared that while challenges are high in some rural areas which
may result in unproductive mileage, patronage was high on this route so that
they are getting a payback for this investment. This is a service that people are
utilizing
 Director Christopher inquired about the Owens Corning site procurement
process and what are our next steps. Cal Marsella stated that we are still
investigating and waiting for a decision of record. Right now a CMRF site is
critical and there is no site that is available that will meet without resistance.
Marla Lien added there is no offer or record of decision. We will follow the
property acquisition process that is allowable per state and federal law.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agreement items A through G minus
items H, Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy Update and
item I, Revised Eagle Stipend Agreement which will be
moved to recommended action.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Busck was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

August 2009 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed August 23, 2009 Service Changes (Attachment
A) on to public review and comment.

B.

Architectural/Engineering Contract with the Merrick & Company, 16 DO-025 Contract
Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract 16 DO-025 with Merrick &
Company for architectural and engineering design services in the amount of $500,000
for a new contract amount of $1,100,000. Work is administered on an as-needed,
work order basis. The amended amount is to be funded by annual capital projects for
the duration of the contract.

C.

2008 Audited Financial Statements
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors accept and enter into the record the District’s audited financial reports
relating to the year ended December 31, 2008 as prepared by Staff and audited by the
District’s independent auditor, Bondi & Co. LLC.

D.

Sales and Use Tax Compliance Review Agent Designation and Permission to Further
Pursue Legal Appointment
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manger and Staff to designate MuniServices as the
District’s representative to review RTD’s sales tax and use tax records, contingent
upon RTD’s obtaining permission from the Department of Revenue for such an
appointment under Colorado State Statutes and all pertinent regulations.

E.

Database Administration – Operational Systems Support
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to initiate
the third-year contract option with Dataman USA for time and materials Oracle DBA
support contract, RTD Contract No. 17DJ001. This contract was originally awarded
on July 1, 2007 through the competitive bid process. Within the contract, Article 6.0,
allows for an initial year plus three one-year options to renew based on positive
performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $170,000. The second
year option is to begin on July 1, 2009 and remain in effect for 365 calendar days until

June 31, 2010. The Board is being asked to approve this contract because Legal has
determined it to be a personal services contract.

XI.

F.

State Legislative Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for state legislative liaison services)
with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BMPA) to exercise a one-year option (July
1, 2009 through June 30, 2010) to extend Contract No. 17-DX-001, at a cost of
$98,000.

G.

Recommendation for Authorization of an RTD Funding Commitment to the Denver
Union Station Project Authority for the Design and Construction of the Denver Union
Station Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize a payment of $12 million a year for 30 years to the Denver Union Station
Project Authority (DUSPA) subject to acceptable agreements for the financing, design,
and construction of the Denver Union Station (DUS) project described in the Record of
Decision entered on October 17, 2008 and supplemented by the Letter of Intent signed
by RTD and its partner agencies on January 31, 2008. RTD’s obligation will be
reduced if Tax Increment revenues and other City tax revenues for the project are
sufficient to pay off project debt early.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
H.
Rapid Transit Station Addition Policy Update
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt this policy, which updates the District’s current established procedures
and guidelines for evaluating proposed new stations on RTD’s existing and planned light
rail and commuter rail lines. Since each potential station and station area is unique, no
one set of guidelines should determine whether a station is appropriate for a specific
site. The criteria described below are meant to serve as a policy framework for issues
that should be considered when planning for and approving new stations. RTD staff will
evaluate each of the criteria, and provide the results for the RTD Board’s information
when considering the approval of a new station. Final determination regarding whether
new stations will be added to light rail and commuter rail lines, and who will provide
associated funding of new stations, will be a Board decision on a case by case basis.

DISCUSSION:

Director Brohl wanted to know the specific dates that a decision
needs to be made on these items H& I. Cal Marsella responded
he cannot give a date. They have received interest expressed
from several sources but this is not eminent.
Relative to item I, Revised Eagle Stipend, the RFP for PPP will go
out next week and include language for the $1.75M payable to
the losing bidders. the supplement language for the winning
bidder will not be there but an addendum can be added later next
month. The deadline for a selection of a PPP is several months
away so there is time to add this language.

MOTION:

Director Martinez made the motion to pull this item from this
agenda and table it until the June, 2009 meeting.

SECOND:
VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Tayer seconded the motion.
An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in favor and
0 against. Director Busck was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

I.

Revised Eagle Stipend Agreement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to negotiate and enter into a compensation agreement
with the three pre-qualified teams invited to respond to the Eagle Project RFP (the
Proposers) in an amount not to exceed $20,000,000 to be payable in the event that
RTD elects not, or is unable, to execute and implement a concession agreement with
the selected proposer through no fault of the selected proposer. Payment will only be
to the team that is selected and not the unsuccessful teams. As a condition of this
compensation RTD would receive all of the design work, including calculations,
analyses and other supporting work that the selected team completed as part of the
proposal process. Funding for the compensation agreement would be provided in 2010
through the FasTracks financial plan for the East Corridor and Gold Line projects.

MOTION:

Director O’Boyle made the motion to approve the
tabling of this item until the June, 2009 meeting.

SECOND:

Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against. Director Busck was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

J.

RESOLUTION NO.____, SERIES OF 2009 -Colorado Principles for SAFETEA-LU
Reauthorization
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
resolution, series of 2009-Colorado Principles for
SAFETEA-LU reauthorization.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
Director Pulliam asked for clarification on who
were the authoring agencies for this resolution.
Cal Marsella explained there were several
including CDOT and RTD.
Director O’Boyle sought clarification on some of
the differences in language on the long form from
the short form. Specifically he referenced page 3,
long term finding solution, where it made
reference to a national sales tax that he presumed
referred only to fuel tax. Cal Marsella stated he
did not think this referred only to fuel tax but was
stated this way to be more general on all sales
tax. Director O’Boyle stated he could not support
such a general statement.
Director Pulliam
indicated he has difficulties with this as well and

that he would advise the writers that there needs
to be wordsmithing of these 2 documents
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in
favor (Bagley, Brohl, Chacon, Christopher, Cohen,
Daly, James, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, Pulliam,
Tayer and Tobiassen) and 1 against (O’Boyle).
Director Busck was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

XII.

ADJOURN
The meeting adjourned at 6:45 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, May 19, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Barbara Brohl
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Kurt Akin
Rick Clarke
Susan Cohen
Phil Eberl
Sherry Ellebracht
Lisa Fliam
David Genova
Terry Howerter
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee

Cal Marsella
Brian Matthews
Paula Perdue
Bill Porter
Scott Reed
Dave Sesack
Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois

District I
District B
District N
District O
District H
District D
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

Dave Sutton
Jim Sutton
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Phil Washington

OTHERS PRESENT:
Steve Gee – Spectrum
Jeff Leib – Denver Post
Roger Sherman - CRL
Jack McCroskey
Debbie Gibbs – Classique LLC
Martin Wirth – Riders 285 Coalition
Gary M. Ulberg – First Transit
Bibi Gilmore
Natalie Orrell
Matt Lutkus – City of Westminster
Peggy White – Douglas County Schools
Katelyn Sesack
Pat Seifert
Walt Seifert
Paul Courtois – Owens Corning
Bill Shockley – Owens Corning
Steve Vickermon – Fluor
Greg Henk – MHT
Paul Ryan – The Kenny Group
Judy Dennis – ISE Group
A. Ellwood Ervin, Jr. – NRHS Intermountain Chamber

Rick McNeal

