RTD Finance, Admin & Audit Committee Meeting
Recording 12-08-20
SHELLEY COOK: Good evening, everybody. I'm Shelley Cook, Chair of the Finance,
Administration, and Audit Committee. And I'll call to order the Finance, Administration, and
Audit Committee. We're convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight-- Mountain Standard Time,
sorry. And I would respectfully ask everyone connected to the call to mute your phones and set
your ringers to silent.
Please note that under the current circumstances, the official meetings of the RTD Board of
Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. During this
time, meetings will be primarily audio recorded. And the audio recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors
page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask that you please announce your name and wait for me to
call you before you proceed to speak. And please note that at the appropriate time during our
discussion and voting processes later on in the evening, I'll call on each Director in turn. So
please know your time to speak will come. And if possible, hold your comments until then.
So at RTD, safety is our core value. And being more brief than usual, I would like to start with
this briefing. With an uptick in COVID-19 cases nationwide, it's more important than ever that
we follow all these practices since doing so is for your safety, as well as the safety of others.
And I thought sometimes even briefer is more memorable and something that we can hew to
more readily. And so what I'll do is recite a sort of homily, or ditty, that the city of Arvada is
using to remind people about safe practices. They talk about adhering to the three W's. The three
W's, of course, right now being wear a mask and watch your distance and wash your hands. So
that, I conclude our brief safety moment tonight.
And then first thing I'd like to do is take note of the Directors who have joined the meeting, since
we are now sort of recording, for the record, the attendance at each meeting. So I'll go in order.
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Cook, that's me. I'm here. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Lewis will not be attending tonight. Director Lewis will not be
attending tonight.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you, Director Williams. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I am present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I'm here.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.

SHELLEY COOK: All righty. So let the record show that all are present except for Director
Lewis.
OK. Before we proceed, I wanted to just note that this is the last Finance, Administration, and
Audit meeting of the year. And the Chair and I were reflecting earlier today on all the issues and
decisions that the agency and we have faced this year, not just in finance. And in my experience,
with so much at stake, so many people impacted in serious ways, it can be easy to slip into a
habit of being harsh or being a little bit too passionate when there are differences of opinion. And
I've got to say that by and large, we haven't done that. And given the different values we bring,
the deeply held convictions that we bring, I think that's really notable and gratifying. I wanted to
acknowledge that.
We know it's our collective duty to our constituents, stakeholders, and staff to conduct our
business in an atmosphere of mutual respect, cooperation, civility, trust, and collegiality. And
these are values I know we all agree on. And I just want to say again, thank you, and knowing
that we'll adhere to that and continue to adhere to that going forward.
So moving on to the agenda tonight. We have three action items for tonight. And let me get to
the first one. The first one is the salaried employees trustee appointments. Let me go ahead and
read that item and then see if we've got a motion. It's recommended by the Financial
Administration and the Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the attached
resolution reappointing Sylvia Francis and William Weidenaar to a term expiring December 31,
2022, and appoint Bob Broom and Peggy Catlin from the Board of Directors to a term expiring
December 31, 2022 as Trustees for the Salaried Employees Defined Benefit Plan and the
Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Plan.
Do I have a motion to approve?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede, second.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All righty. All righty. Doug McLeod, if you're on the line, could you
please provide a quick recap for us?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, good evening. Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod,
Acting Chief Financial Officer. So I believe the recommended action is self-explanatory, but this
trust itself oversees the retirement plans for both the Defined Benefit Pension Plan for salaried
employees that were hired before January 1, 2008 and the Defined Contribution Plan that's for
employees that were hired thereafter.
So we are seeking to extend the terms of three of the current trustees. There are seven trustees.
And also replace one Board member who's rolling off with a new Board member. So on this trust
itself, we do try to keep the employee representation-- there are four employees, as well as the
CFO is a permanent member. We try to keep the employee representation So. We have at least

one employee who's in the DB plan, the Defined Benefit Pension Plan, and one from the Defined
Contribution Plan. This will maintain that.
And then for Director Mihalik rolling off, we've included Director Catlin to replace him. That's
all I have, if there's any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you very much. I'll go around quickly. Director Broom, do you
have any questions?
BOB BROOM: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. But I would like to thank Director Mihalik for his serving on
this trustee and for the good work that he did. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: --questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: No questions. I do want to thank Director Mihalik. And I'll say that I've been on
this committee and it really is fun getting a lot of information about investments.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik, I would echo the thanks to you for your work on this
committee. And do you have any questions about the action tonight?
KEN MIHALIK: No questions, but thank you and Director Catlin, Director Lubow. I think
Director Catlin, you're going to enjoy it. There's some really neat information that you'll be
involved with.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thank you. Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Ditto on the thanks to Director Mihalik, and no questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you to Director Mihalik. No questions, no comments other than that.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions. Thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Not me either. Thank you, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No questions. But Director Mihalik, I cannot begin to thank you
enough for your commitment to this committee and all the hard work you've done over the years.
So thank you so very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK. I'm going to hazard a guess that we can perhaps do a quick
request for any opposed to the motion. We had the motion by Director Tisdale, seconded by
Chair Rivera-Malpiede. Are there any who are opposed? Please state your name.
OK, I'll take that as assent. We've got 14 aye votes, no no votes, and one absence. So that item
passes.
The next recommended item is-- it's budget transfer for commuter rail third-party services. And
it's recommended by the Financial, Administration, and Audit Committee-- this is how it would
be worded-- that the RTD Board of Directors approved budget transfers totaling $3.122 million
from the North Metro operations budget to the Eagle operations budget for the third-party
reimbursable-- excuse me, reimbursable projects to allow RTD to compensate DTP, Denver
Transit Partners, for costs it will incur for work associated with third-party agreements. The
action addresses two of the General Manager's goals for 2020, the mission-oriented goal number
one, successful delivery of transit services, and mission-oriented goal number three for strong
financial management. Is there a motion to approve?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved, Williams.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Williams moved. Who seconded, please?
JUDY LUBOW: Lubow.
PEGGY CATLIN: Catlin.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, I heard Director Lubow first. So the motion by Director Williams and
the second by Director Lubow. All right, go ahead, Doug MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod. So with this budget transfer, what
we're seeking to do is transfer existing budget money that was budgeted under the North Metro
operations to move it over to the Eagle project. We often have these third-party agreements come
to us. And what happens is there are developers or other governmental agencies that want to do
work around our alignments, and we get into, and we enter an agreement with those third parties
and perform all the necessary costs and engage with the contractors to perform all the necessary
tasks that incur cost to us. And then the third party reimburses us. So there's no net cost to RTD.
In this case, it would involve the Eagle alignment. So it involves DTP. Since DTP operates that
alignment, they're the ones that coordinate with these third parties. They coordinate with the
contractors, such as flaggers, on the costs involved for putting in temporary power, et cetera.
And then they pay them. We in turn reimburse DTP through our monthly payments, and then the
third party contractor reimburses RTD.
So I think the main takeaway from this is there's no net cost to RTD. It's simply a pass [AUDIO
OUT]. And I've got Michael Ford and Mike Millage here with me to answer specific questions.
Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. I'll go around again. Director Broom, do you have any
questions?
BOB BROOM: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. What did we get or what did somebody get for
the $3 million?
MICHAEL FORD: So this is Michael Ford, COO. There are different elements to this. There
was work that was to enhance the right of way. There are a variety of different projects that were
a part of this. So we're just trying to get reimbursed. There were some flagger costs. There were
some utility costs, working underneath the bridge, wiring costs, beautification of a right-of-way.
So it was a combination of a variety of different things. I can have Mike Millage speak to more
of the specifics, though, if you're needing more detail.
BOB BROOM: No, that's enough flavor. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Nothing, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So I'm going to speak to the local-- latest local match sheet that I've
got, which includes the West line, the Eagle, North, 225, so forth. And in this document that I did
get from Heather-- and I think it may be the most current sheet-- it was a September 29, 2020
date on this work up sheet that shows the local match that we've received, future RTD receipts.
Then there's a third column, received by third parties.
To me, there are-- well, it's obviously stated on this sheet, which, let's say, there's some holes in
there that we have not collected money, we have not closed out money. And as an example,
when I look on the Eagle project or the North Metro project, which is both what are typed here,
but let's say Eagle, received by third party. All of the amounts in that column show zero.
So what I'm concerned about here is that while the statement is, this is no money out of RTD's
pocket, we are making a commitment to reimburse DTP, which I have no problem with that part.
Problem is, I don't have proof that we've collected the money from the third parties and that it's
actual cash, instead of what's been a typical local match, in many cases, of, oh, we'll give you
staff time, we'll waive the permit fee. I'm more concerned about staff time from that local
government.
So there's my problem. And I'm wondering when are we going to see these figures? I'm very
worried it's not going to happen during my time. And that's my question. When are we going to
have this more solid sheet here?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair-SHELLEY COOK: Doug MacLeod, or-- OK. Yeah, go, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Yes, this is Doug MacLeod.
So yes, I think there are two separate issues. So Director Menten, the sheet that you're referring
has to do with the local contribution on projects. So when we initially build projects, we
negotiate with local entities to contribute 2.5% of the cost of that infrastructure that's being built.
So oftentimes that comes through in the form of fees or waived permits, those types of things,
not necessarily cash.

This third party item before us tonight actually has what we call a memorandum of relief, an
MOR. So there's actual contractual agreements between us and DTP. DTP is obligated under the
concessionary agreement to negotiate those MORs with these third parties. And there is a
contractual agreement requiring them to pay in cash what we are reimbursing DTP for.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you for that explanation. Have we collected all the
money
DOUG MACLEOD: On these third party agreements, yes. Now this one in particular, this is
ongoing. Because the alignment is there's still a lot of work going on by third parties around,
through development, roadwork, et cetera. So this funding has to do with current work that's
already been completed, as well as work that's ongoing. So as we reimburse DTP after this
budget transfer is made, we will then turn around and invoice the third party.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So that's the core of what I'm going after, whether it's the local match
or a betterment or, is whether we've collected the money. So would this be the MOR? With this
dollar amount-- and I'm looking at a $3.122 million budget transfer-- how much of that have we
collected from the third parties?
DOUG MACLEOD: I would have to get that for you, Director Menten. This is Doug MacLeod.
Right now, a lot of these are prospective or currently ongoing. So I would doubt that we've
collected much. They have to do with three MORs in particular. And under the concession
agreement, we have only a certain amount of time to reimburse DTP for their expenses. So that's
why this is coming forth now and we wanted to take care of all those MORs based on the
estimation of the costs at this point in time.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I'm still a little bit queasy about this, just because I've-- you
know, since I got on the Board, trying to figure out the local match issues, the betterment issues,
and these projects seem to just close out, drag on years. And again, I have no problem with the
DTP end. It's where I am not clear if we have gotten our money from those FasTrack projects,
from those local betterments, things like this. When are we going to collect them in the annual
agreements where somebody's supposed to be paying for maintenance on something, meaning a
local government. So that's how I sit right now. But thank you for the explanation.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. And Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: No questions or comments. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: No questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No questions or comments. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions or comments. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Not me either. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. No questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And for my part, I do have just one comment to add in terms of the
breakdown. And I know this is not related, strictly speaking, to the question, or the matter at
hand, but to the questions that Director Menten brought up.
Those numbers may not reflect a full picture. For example, in my own district, Arvada chose to
build a parking garage at Old Town that was actually an RTD responsibility in, I think it was
2030 or 2035. And that cost to Arvada, even net of the amount that RTD contributed toward the
parking-- they contributed an amount in lieu of building a parking lot-- was upwards of $30
million. So that alone probably takes care of the local government match. It probably isn't
counted toward it, though.
So I just think that there is, that maybe the amounts of right-of-way dedicated to fees, those
things need to be more explicitly incorporated into whatever report so that we can take that into
account as well.
OK. With that, I'll go into the vote and I'll go around. Director Broom, could I have your vote?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.

SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis? Oh, she's not here. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm a yes vote.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And I'm a yes vote. So that motion by Director Williams, second by
Director Lubow, passes with 14 aye votes and zero no votes, one absence, that being Director
Lewis. Thank you.
OK, the next recommended action, the wording is, it's recommended by the Financial,
Administration, and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors redirects certain future funding
sources, detailed below, from being deposited in the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, FISA,
and instead be deposited in the FasTracks unreserved-- unrestricted reserve for future shortfalls
in operations and maintenance costs. This action supports the following General Manager's
goals: mission-oriented goal number one, for successful delivery of services, and missionoriented goal number three for strong financial management.
Do I have a motion to approve on this?

JEFF WALKER: Walker.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker and-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: Great. Thank you.
Well, right now, before I turn it over to the staff, what I'd like to is just give you some
background here that might be helpful as we consider this. If you all recall, we spent a fair
amount of time talking about this issue of the FISA contributions. And we adopted, in our
November 10 meeting, as a Committee and then subsequently as a Board, fiscal policies that
relate directly to these items. They are broken into two parts.
The guidance for reductions really spoke to the response that we made, or are making, during the
period when our finances in particular are most impacted by the effects of the COVID pandemic
and associated economic activity. And we also have guidance for restoration. The guidance for
reductions includes this provision, it's how it reads,"allowable to utilize future contributions from
credit risk premium and savings to offset FasTrack shortfalls."
That is then modified slightly in the guidance for restoration. It says, in that period, the pertinent
piece is that we limit the use of, or do not use the future rubber tire service contributions to
FISA. So there's our policy, our guidance. And what the staff is bringing forward now is an
effort to sort of bring the actual items to bear, in other words, to make sure we are moving
forward in accordance with the policy that we had adopted previously. And to me, it's significant
that we had the policy broken into two pieces. We have the reduction period and then we have
the recovery period.
Director-- or excuse me, Doug McLeod, I'll turn it over you with that preface to go ahead and-LYNN GUISSINGER: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Guissinger.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, Director Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'd like to make an amendment to this motion. Several things that are
project savings and CRP, as you mentioned. And then there are two items, interest savings from
refinancing Eagle P3 private activity bonds, $33.2 million over the period 2021 to 2041, and
refinancing the Series 2012 A bonds and TIFIA loan, $88 million over 2021 to 2045. And the

motion I'd like to make is to insert 2021, on the first one, interest savings from refinancing Eagle
P3 private activity bonds, insert 2021 at the beginning and then remove the $33.2 million over
2021 to 2041. So it says, 2021 interest savings from refinancing Eagle P3 private activity bonds.
In the second instance, I'd like to add the language at the beginning, 2021 interest savings from,
and add that to refinancing the Series 2012 A bonds and TIFIA loan, and then delete the
language $88 million over 2021 to 2045. So that one would read, that bullet point would read,
2021 interest savings from refinancing the Series 2012 A bond and TIFIA loan.
That's the motion. I think that you stated actually my reason for it is that we limited-- in our
fiscal policies, we had these COVID response policies that talked about that we would take the
contributions from FISA for the CRP and project savings. Then within the guidance for
restoration is that we not continue to do that. And you know, 2045 is a long time away, and
2041. We're talking 25 years. We have really kind of no idea what our situation will be at that
point.
And in fact, we decided, with the MTFP, the mid-term financial plan, just to pass one that is over
the next two years-- is that we passed, I think-- rather than the normal six year. It may have just
been the one year. And it's because we're in such unusual times. And I guess I would say,
because I know that many people are thinking this is not about just Northwest rail, it's about the
fact that we had unfinished corridors, other unfinished corridors as well under FasTracks. And
we haven't made a decision that we're not going to move forward with those. In fact, I think that
the intention is that we would. So why cripple ourselves over the next 25 years?
So that's my motion. I'm happy to take questions, if anyone has them.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you so-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
TROY WHITMORE: Whitmore will second.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Buzek and Director Whitmore as seconder. But I'll just say
Director Buzek, if that's OK. So we had a motion by Director Guissinger with Director Buzek
seconding that motion.
And just to summarize, now we're talking about a motion to amend.
JUDY LUBOW: Point of order. Don't we need the original motion?
SHELLEY COOK: No, we would deal with the amendment to the motion first, Director Lubow.
But I need to make sure I capture what that is. Director Guissinger, you're suggesting that we
insert the number 20-- or the year 2021 before interest savings from refinancing Eagle P3 private
activity bonds, and then eliminating the total 20-year amount, since we're only talking about, at
this point, the 2021 amount.

DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair. Can we have someone please give a precise
and articulate description of what the amendment is? There's been a lot of, pardon the
expression, loose talk, which is admirable and it's wonderful. And I may well be in agreement
with this. I just don't know exactly what the language is that would be changed. And I would
appreciate that. That's my point of order and I thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I was trying to recount that. But go ahead, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So the sixth bullet point would now read 2021 interest savings from
refinancing Eagle P3 private activity bonds, paren, PAB, end paren. And then the eighth bullet
point, the second one under timeline TBD is, return of the railroad rehabilitation and
improvement financing, paren, IIRF, end paren, loan credit-- oh, I'm sorry-- it's not the one. It's
down below, refinancing. So at the bottom, the last bullet point should read 2021 interest savings
from refinancing the series 2012 A bonds and TIFIA loans. And it will delete the $88 million
over 2021 to 2025-- 2035.
DOUG TISDALE: A point of order, Madam Chair, if I may.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
DOUG TISDALE: So as I understand it, the sixth bullet point would simply insert 2021 before
the words, interest savings. And then it would delete the colon and the language that follows,
$33.2 million over 2021-2041. And in the last bullet point, under timeline TBD, it would simply
insert 2021 before the words refinancing the Series 2012 A bonds, and it would delete the colon
and the following language. Is that correct?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Not quite. It said-- in the second one, it doesn't limit it interest savings,
but I think that's what it's intended. So in the last bullet point, it would insert 2021 interest
savings from, at the beginning, and then it would delete the language after the colon, $88 million
over 2021 through 2025-- 2045.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I understand and I appreciate that. Thank you for your
indulgence, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're welcome. And me too.
SHELLEY COOK: You're welcome. OK. I'm going to start at the back end here. And then I
wanted to make sure too that Doug McLeod has a chance to respond to any questions about this.
But Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you have any questions or comments about this motion to
amend?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All righty. Director Williams, do you have any comments or questions
about the motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to thank Director Tisdale for getting it all clarified. Having had that
done, I do not have any questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. In these unprecedented times-- and I'm sorry I
use that term, because we've heard it so, so often-- I think flexibility is important. And I support
the amendment, in that it gets us a little more flexibility to make adjustments as hopefully
recovery from COVID and other matters come forth. So I appreciate the spirit of the amendment,
support it, and appreciate Director Tisdale's clarifying questions. That's all. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker, questions or comments?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, I have a question. I'm wondering if we know what those amounts are for
those two amendments. Is it just those 20 years divided by-- or 33 divided by 20 and 88 divided
by 20? Or does that interest fluctuate over time as the-- so what are those amounts that will be
going in?
DOUG MACLEOD: Madam Chair, this is Doug MacLeod.
SHELLEY COOK: Please.
DOUG MACLEOD: So with the PABS refinancing, initially we had wanted, RTD had wanted to
take the interest savings all up front. After further discussions with Denver Transit Partners, there
were more savings to be realized if we recognized them over time. That was primarily due to the
fact that we would have to issue taxable bonds to get the upfront payment. So we elected to take
the payment over time. So what that works out to each year for the PABS is $1.4 million per year
for RTD in savings. And that'll be reflected in lower monthly payments to Denver Transit
Partners.
For the 2012 As, we will be bringing an action item in January to the Board, asking to refinance
those. The current estimate is $88 million over 20 years. Under current pricing and the way
we've structured it, we've tried to structure it with most of the savings upfront. And so I don't
remember the exact yearly breakdown, but for the first three years, $55 million of that $88
million would be realized. And I want to say the first year was going to be about $30 million, so
2021.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Is that enough to cover-- may I ask Mr. MacLeod a question, Madam
Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Of course. Please go.

JEFF WALKER: Is that enough to meet expected or potential shortfalls?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. And it will help, certainly in the near term. The
issue we have that we laid out last month in the mid-term financial plan, the six-year cash flow
for FasTracks, is that we are using all of the FasTracks reserves over those six years and we still
don't get to a balanced budget. We have years 2025 and 2024 in which we are actually at a deficit
after going through all the reserves. So essentially, any money that we bring in would go to
replace those reserves or towards operations. But we still have a longer term problem with
FasTracks.
JEFF WALKER: OK. All right. I don't know. My gut feeling is that, because there are so many
things that are obviously uncertain, I thought this long-term plan provided some level of
certainty. And it's being shortened, which provides less certainty than as presented. So I don't
think I'll be supporting it now, but maybe I can be persuaded. That's it. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am supportive of the concept in the
amendment and I am supportive of the approach. I do understand the concern that Director
Walker expresses, and I appreciate Mr. MacLeod's opportunity to expand upon this a little and to
explain that we will have some challenges in, as I heard him, in 2024 and 2025 if we do not
adopt the motion as originally stated on the recommended action.
I do feel, however, that just as we take this action now and as we continue with a shorter term
financial plan approach, we would have the opportunity next year, in 2021, and the benefit of
five new Directors, to reassess this to see if we wish to take any additional action at that time. So
therefore I am in support of proceeding with this amendment as expressed at this time. Thank
you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I am lockstep with Director Walker, and I look
forward to trying to be convinced to support this, should the amendment pass.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm looking at the financial impact paragraph and looking at how these
proposed changes affect that paragraph. And what it is essentially to me saying is that instead of
using the money here proposed in this resolution, that funds for the FasTracks operations and
maintenance, which was expressed has problems, will now be coming from somewhere else.
And that would be two likely places that I see. And that would be one, as reserves, or two,
increased hits on the bus system.
And with that in mind, I am not comfortable with this proposal. So there's my comment, that I
would prefer to see it unamended as originally proposed. Thank you.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. I am in favor of the amendment. Basically, it kind of, in my mind, right
sizes this thing by not making it indefinite when we just do not know the state of our finances
indefinitely, but we do know them now. And right now we're in trouble and we need help. But
we don't know what will happen in the next few years. So I support the amendment. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Guissinger, do you have any other comments to add
at this point or shall we move on to Director-LYNN GUISSINGER: I just have one comment, one question for Mr. MacLeod, that I guess I
was not realizing that the amount in 2021 was still in question on the refinancing of the Series A.
Is that up in the air as to how you'll take that money, whether you'll take it all at once or-wondering if we need to insert an amount that goes in there. What's your advice there?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. Sure, and that's a great question. And the way we
have to sell the bonds is we sell them in tranches. So each series of bonds has a maturity date.
Those are spread over 30 years. So when we refinance the original issuance, we would replace
those bonds with [AUDIO OUT] bonds at a lower interest rate, but we can establish what
tranches are made up in those, to a certain extent, but they have to be sold. So we probably
wouldn't be very successful in putting all the bonds, because there's approximately $860 million
par value sale. That size of a sale, the investors are going to want different maturity dates. So the
best we can do is try to arrange those tranches in the years that are most beneficial to us in which
we think that we can sell them.
I think that number is pretty solid, the $55 million savings and the $88 million total savings. The
only thing that would change that would be if interest rates between now and the pricing date
when we sell the bonds in February, it's not likely those will change but it could. The other item
that could possibly change that pricing is if there were any change in our credit ratings, which I
don't anticipate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess I'm wondering, since we don't know that number, does it make
sense just to delete this and deal with it at a separate time?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. And we certainly could. That's up to the Board.
With the language that is put in there, we could leave the amounts out and just talk about the
years in savings, and then we could come back to the Board and tell you what those exact
savings will be once all the pricing is done and the sale is complete.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I'll pass for now. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Guissinger. I really
appreciate the effort that you put forth here tonight. I do want to say, though, however, it is I
think more helpful to folks on the Board to be able to really understand the implications of such a

motion in a more detailed manner before the meeting. And I think it would be helpful for, I know
at least myself, to be able to have this information well in advance of this meeting. And I think
it's also more considerate for the members of the Board and our staff to not go on without really
having vetted the motion and waste a lot of time and extend our Board meetings.
So no other questions or comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Thank you, Director Folska. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I share some of the concerns about impact to
rubber tire service. But as I looked through these areas where we could capture the savings, those
were all initially funded through the FasTracks program. So I think it's the right thing to do to put
them back into the FasTracks program. And I'm supportive of using them for operations and
maintenance rather than adding them to the size of reserve.
The amendment as stated, even though it provides a little bit more flexibility in the out years and
really only deals with this upcoming fiscal year, I just want to say that even though it does
provide flexibility, it in no way makes the commitment that those out years those monies will go
into the FISA account. That's all I wanted to say. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Yeah, I'm supportive of the amendment. And as you,
Madam Chair, Director Cook, indicated, the amendment conforms with our recently adopted
fiscal policies. It's reasonable and appropriate. And as Director Tisdale pointed out, we can
revisit these things next year, if necessary, at absolutely any time. So we do have that flexibility
moving forward. So I'll be supporting this. Thanks so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Do you want to vote, or are you asking for questions?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, we're doing the question round right now.
BOB BROOM: I don't have any questions. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And for my part, I did just want to double check with Doug MacLeod
that you can bring, when you bring the refi of the 2012 bonds and TIFIA, at that point you'll be
able to gauge more about near term or first year savings, likely. Is that correct? Did I just
understand that correctly?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. Yes, we won't have a solid number until we
actually price. But we'll have a better idea kind of the range, to give you a better idea of the
impact that would have in 2021.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. And from my part, I would say we aren't committing to not
having these amounts going forward. What we are saying is, let's realize the current year
amounts during the period when we're most affected and when we have the least certainty about
what's happening going forward. And then, as we adopt, Director Tisdale and others, Director
Catlin brought this up, we'll be revisiting this in our work to adopt the 2021-- or excuse me, the
2022 and beyond mid-term financial plan and the budget for that year.
So I agree with those comments and will support that motion to amend. I would like to go around
and get the vote now at this point, if I may. And I'll start in reverse order. Chair RiveraMalpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I am a yes vote also.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I am going to vote no. And I'm going-- if you don't mind, I will say why, which
is basically-SHELLEY COOK: We're voting on the amendment, and you had-JUDY LUBOW: Oh, I'm sorry. No, that's correct. Thank you for correcting me. I'm voting yes
on the amendment. Sorry.

SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Sorry, I should have reinforced that. Director
Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And I'm a yes. So this is the amendment-- one, two, three. By a vote of
10 votes in favor, 4 votes opposed, and one absence, the motion to amend passes. Let me read
the people in opposition. Director Walker, Director Mihalik, Director Menten, and Director
Folska. OK. Thank you very much.
OK, returning now to the main motion, before we go around for questions, Doug MacLeod, I
didn't turn it over to you yet to offer an introduction and comments on the main motion. If you'd
like to add anything to what you've already said?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. The only thing I would
add, and I probably should have brought this up during Director Walker's previous question, is
on FasTracks, I just wanted to point out that the use of reserves over the next five, six years
during that mid-term financial plan from 2021 through 2026, is $238 million. So that kind of
gives you some context of the impact these savings will have. They will help, but they won't
solve all the problem.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. OK, let me go around. I'll go around quickly for
questions. This is on the main motion. So going from the rear, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, do you
have any questions?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do not.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Williams, any questions about the main motion?

KATE WILLIAMS: No, I do not. I think we've had some good discussion on it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is a tough call. But as Director Williams
has said, we've discussed this ad nauseam. I don't want to have to vote yet, but I will because it's
the right thing to do under current circumstances. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Walker, any questions about the main motion or in
response to MR. MacLeod?
JEFF WALKER: No, I think the amended recommended action is the right thing to do. I think
any partners we have that might be looking to get with us and build some kind of partnership will
be looking at our long-term position. And even though it's not where I think it should be, it's a
step in that direction. So I'm good. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I respect tremendously the comments
of Director Whitmore. And I know from other Directors in the northern part of our district,
relative to the concerns they have overall, but I appreciate their realistic approach. And with this
now modified realistic approach that it does achieve the right end for the RTD. So I am in
support and I appreciate the opportunity. Thank you, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. No questions or comments on the main motion.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No questions or comments.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I do have some questions. What Doug MacLeod just said before, I didn't
get it all. Was he saying that we will have a shortfall of $256 million and that all of these actions
would-- all of these items would help but not dispel all of that? Is that accurate?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug McLeod. So that shortfall is actually lower than that. But we
will be using $238 million of reserves to offset that shortfall. So in order to get to a balanced
budget, we would need to-- and keep the same level of reserves-- we would need to find a total
of $238 million so we don't use those reserves up.
JUDY LUBOW: OK.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: OK. Yeah. And another question that I had-- thank you. Thank you, Doug. I am
just concerned, as a representative of the northern area that needs the FISA to move forward, in
potential, anyway, I am concerned about the large amount of items that could be taken out of the
FISA in times that are not determined now. For instance, but to be determined, the North Metro
project savings of $20 million and the credit risk premium of $14 million, it is possible that that
could happen in a few years from now and we could be in better shape. And I'm just concerned
that we might be binding ourselves for something that we shouldn't be at this point. I'm not
saying that we would necessarily want to not use that money for O&M, but I don't know at this
point what we're going to be like in a few years.
So is that accurate to say that there's no time limit on these amounts and that they could be taken
out really at any time?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So the way we've structured these is we put them,
we categorize them as near term and then timeline to be determined. So those six bullet items
under near term are items that we are fairly confident in that we will start to realize within the
next year. And of course, those numbers are still estimates because we don't know until projects
are closed out how much will be left over. However, our intent was to use those funds generally
when they come in over the next year, hopefully.
The other longer term items, rather than bringing several Board actions to the Board over time
each individually, we thought we'd put these all on one Board item. However, as we go through
the budget process in 2021 for the year 2022, we'll have a better picture of how our actual results
are materializing, if things have stabilized, if customers have come back. And at that point, we
can make that determination. So my thought is that we can always change this with the Board's
permission. But at least for now our intent was just to identify items that could be put into
operations costs.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Can I-- Madam Chair, I have another question.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead.
JUDY LUBOW: So is what you're saying that for these major items you would come to the
Board anyway? Or-- I just want to make sure that if we're in better shape, it doesn't mean that
these items will be spent.
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug McLeod. So yes, that's correct. And the reason, the other
reason that we're bringing this forward is when the FISA was first established, the directive from
the Board was that any additional FasTracks monies that were realized would go into the FISA
for future building of FasTracks projects. So in order to, I guess, have something from the Board
that allows us to get those additional funding mechanisms back into operations, where they're
needed most in the near term, that's our intent with this. But we would certainly address it during
the budget process, or earlier if necessary, if things change.

JUDY LUBOW: OK. That's very helpful. Thank you. Because I am concerned that this is money
out of the potential to use for the unfunded projects. But at the same time, it's very clear to me
that we have to be sustainable in these very hard times. So thank you. That's it for me.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Guissinger, any questions?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I share Director Lubow's concerns. But I think for this year that I
agree with Troy Whitmore more in terms of that I would probably be a yes vote for now. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: No comments. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No comments. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. And likewise, no comments really on my part. We've
already had ample chance to talk about this. And it is an important discussion. So I don't want to- I think it's time well spent. So thank you all.
Let's go around and get the vote. Director-- or Chair Rivera-Malpiede, your vote?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry. Director Cook, or that's me. I'm a yes. Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK, with all votes cast, that vote, with the motion by Director
Walker, second by Chair Rivera-Malpiede, that passes 14 votes in favor, no votes opposed, and
one person absent, Director Lewis. So thank you. All that concludes our recommended actions.
And now we move on to updates on our agenda.
And the first item is an update on our sales and use tax, forecasting RFP. So Doug MacLeod,
please go ahead. And Monica, sorry about that.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod. So a few months back, we had a few
Directors ask us to give updates on the process for what's going on with the request for proposals
for the sales and use tax forecasting. We've had University of Colorado Leeds School of

Business do our forecasting for the last 10 years. Their most recent contract is expiring at the end
of this year. It would be the fifth year it's their last option year of their five-year contract.
So we issued a request for proposals in October with a response date as of December 1. I think
the Directors who requested this were mainly interested in knowing the number of responses. We
have only received, by the deadline, we had only received one response, one proposal to that
RFP.
So this is really an information item. This contract falls within the General Manager's authority
and we're currently reviewing the proposal and we'll make a recommendation to the General
Manager.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Let me try just asking if there are questions. Does anybody have any
questions for Doug about the RFP and the responses to the RFP?
OK. I'm not hearing any. One request I would have is I'd like to have a discussion at some point,
maybe offline or maybe with the Board, about our use of the forecast. We'd had an earlier
recommendation from the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force, back in 2011, I think it was, that
recommended a particular way of handling the forecast results and had other suggestions come
in.
So Doug McLeod, I just wanted to put that request out there that at some point, in addition to
talking about the forecast, I think it would be useful to talk about the way that we handle the
forecast, maybe look at the Sustainability Committee's recommendation or consider some other
alternatives. Would that be OK?
DOUG MACLEOD: Doug MacLeod. Yes. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much.
OK. Moving on, the October 2020 monthly financial status report. Please, Doug.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. This is Doug MacLeod. So these are the October numbers in
your package. We're looking at packet page 16. We did not have the sales and use tax numbers
until today. So we just received those about mid day today. We had another good month,
fortunately. So we will collect $55,151 million versus last year, $56,651 million. So that's just an
8/10 of a percent decrease from last year. So another really good month.
This is the first time that we've seen, I believe, internet sales taxes be our number one producer.
So those have grown. In October 2020, we collected $4.2 million. Last October, in 2019, only
$1.4 million. So we've seen a big shift in shopping habits.
I'd also point out that full-service restaurants produced very well for us. They had been sliding.
They're now the number three producer, at $2.7 million. And new car sales have been really
good too. They were the number two, at $3.5 million. So we're seeing a lot of strength in
purchasing things with taxable items. We hope that continues. We're cautiously optimistic.

We're still waiting to see if there's going to be an impact from people not collecting
unemployment. Hopefully another stimulus bill will come through with additional funding for
unemployment, also PPP loans, those types of things. But we'll just keep an eye on it going
forward. So a good month on sales and use taxes.
Both ridership and fare revenue are continuing the same trends that we've seen over the last
several months. They've really stabilized. Ridership is still down 60% or so year-over-year. And
fare revenue is right at about 50%. And we see some small swings from month to month, but
overall 60% reduction in ridership and a 50% reduction in fare revenue.
Oh, and I'd just like to give a quick update on the CARES grant too. So we do a draw on the
CARES grant at the end of every month. We have to wait for all of our payroll and benefits to be
finalized for the month end close. But probably next week, we'll make the final draw. There's
about $7 million left to draw on that $232 million CARES grant. So it will all be drawn before
the end of December.
And that's all I have, Madam Chair. I'd be happy to take any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Right quick, did you recount where we are year-to-date on sales and use tax?
Where does that place us relative to, say, 2019 and the amended budget for 2020?
DOUG MACLEOD: Sure, great. Thank you for that. This is Doug MacLeod. I skipped over the
year-to-date. Sorry about that. Where we are year-to-date is we've collected $517.7 million. Last
year we collected $540.1 million through October. So that's a shortfall of just over $22 million
year-over-year, which is 4.1%. But it's encouraging to know that the most recent month was only
down 0.8%.
Usually, December, with the shopping season, is our biggest collection month. So I think that
will be a really good telltale sign if people have the spending potential to keep this going.
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, Director Broom. Please go.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I have a question on the sales tax. A lot of jurisdictions collect sales tax on
food and grocery stores and a lot don't. Is that included in our tax base? And if it is, what kind of
revenues do we receive from that?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So yes, we do collect some taxes. So on particular
items, we have a really complicated sales tax structure and we follow the same structure that the
state does. So we follow the same exemptions and tax the same things that the state does.
So with grocery stores, there are many items that we can tax, such as prepared foods, certain
drinks that have certain contents of sugar, et cetera, are not considered, I guess, groceries and so
they're considered more of a soft drink. So there are many items that we collect from grocery

stores. The category of supermarkets and other grocery that we get from the Department of
Revenue, in October of 2020, we collected $1.5 million in sales taxes.
BOB BROOM: And is that up or down from the previous year?
DOUG MACLEOD: It is actually down. So the previous year was $2.1 million, so it's down
about 30%. However, there are some other categories, like warehouse clubs and super centers,
where you can probably buy some of those same items you'd buy in the grocery store, warehouse
clubs and super centers, like Costco, Sam's Club. That is up 9.6%, at $2.5 million. So I think
there's some shifting going on. Also-BOB BROOM: So all the stuff you buy from Amazon is in a different category than grocery
stores.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. That's electronic shopping and mail orders. Yes.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, sure. Go ahead, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry. So Doug, what are we getting in terms of the sales of
marijuana?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. So marijuana and the liquor stores have produced
very well for us. For retail marijuana, in October we collected just over $1 million, $1.034
million. Prior October was $697,000. There's also medical marijuana. And I'm sorry, I don't have
that with me. It's usually around $600,000 or so. $400,000 to $600,000. I just have the top 25
here. But yeah, we've seen a big increase in marijuana sales.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I'm just going to go around quickly. But does anybody-announce your name if you do-- have questions to follow up, please?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Director Folska.
SHELLEY COOK: Please go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. My question is for you, Doug. And I'm glad
that Chair Rivera-Malpiede brought this up with the marijuana. So I think there has been some
loosening of our laws regarding distribution of marijuana starting today in Denver, and then
maybe even tomorrow in Aurora. And it might continue to go through different communities in

our District, where now you can have same day delivery, kind of like this DoorDash or
Instagram, or Instacart kind of thing. Do you think that's going to increase our sales tax revenue?
DOUG MACLEOD: This is Doug MacLeod. That's a good question. I suppose so, since it
creates more access, more availability. For instance, one of the things that we've seen our
restaurants is we had seen a decrease in restaurants, but there was a pick-up in other areas. So I
would think with those types of services, because you're stuck at home, people are choosing to
have food delivered as opposed to going to restaurants, because our overall sales taxes have not
decreased. I would imagine that probably extends to other sales of items, such as marijuana, for
instance.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Right. OK, that's great. Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Good question. Other questions? Please say your name.
OK. Next item on the agenda is the LiVE update. Doug MacLeod, Monica Treipl-Harnke. Thank
you, sorry.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Doug MacLeod. Yes, Monica TreiplHarnke is going to walk us through some of the updates. Monica, please.
MONICA TREIPL-HARNKE: This is Monica Treipl-Harnke, Senior Manager of Revenue. And
yes, just briefly-- can you hear me? Hello?
SHELLEY COOK: I sure can. Thank you. Yes, and sorry I missed your name.
MONICA TREIPL-HARNKE: Oh, thank you. OK. OK, all right.
So we haven't talked about LiVE in a while. I just want to address COVID in relation to LiVE
really quickly in. The enrollment and usage is lower than pre COVID, as we would expect, based
on what we see overall. But it's been kind of stable, both of it, since we started collecting fares
again in July. The use is going a little bit up as far as the application experience.
Of course, the main application is online. So that's available to people regardless of office
closures or different measures. But there's also a phone application option that we started,
introduced at the beginning of the COVID restrictions. And that is to call Denver Human
Services and they can walk through on the phone with an applicant and enter an application on
their behalf. So that's just good to know. There is those options available, even if not every
organization or the Human Services offices are open.
The news, just the last things we're working on, is we did a survey of participants. We got about
900 responses, which is really great. So we will be able to tell you more about that next month. I
hope that some of the results will be available. And then Denver Human Services is scheduling
interviews right now for an outreach coordinator. We've been talking about this position for a
while. This would be someone who can work with community partners, actually go to their

locations to help people sign up and in general spearhead outreach and work with interested
parties.
And then the last thing we are working on right now is a temporary ID card. As you may know,
it takes about two weeks from approval of a LiVE application to when people get their LiVE ID
card in the mail. And homeless services providers, especially also correctional institutions, have
remarked that this is not really working for their situation. So we're working to get a temporary
ID card option for these kinds of organizations what a person is standing right here in an
emergency situation and they need something in their hands. So that's in the works.
And with that, I'll be happy to answer any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much for that update. And especially, as you say, in
COVID, in updating the particulars as they relate to what people are experiencing now. I'll just
ask if there are questions, and please announce your name.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair? Rivera-Malpiede.
Yeah. So my one question is-- thank you-- is now that we're in this COVID component and
people can call in on the phone to do their applications, what is the process for uploading their
photos? What's happening with that component of it? And when they call is their access in
different languages for them to be able to talk to someone?
MONICA TREIPL-HARNKE: I'll start with the first one, or the second. Yes, there's access in
different languages. If it's Spanish, then there's one of the Lift team members over at the Denver
Human Services is bilingual. But if there's other languages then the department uses interpreting
services. And I'm not sure exactly how that works, but where they get an interpreter on the
phone. So yes, the application can be done in different. So that was the first, or one part.
And then, I'm sorry, can you remind me of the first part of your question?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. How are you guys doing the photo? They have to upload a
photo of themselves. How are you doing that now with COVID, if people are taking applications
over the phone?
MONICA TREIPL-HARNKE: They would have to email that photo. And that's-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I guess my next question is-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --if they don't have-SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Chair.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I was going to say, so that just-- thank you-- is what happens if
they don't have access to an email to upload a photo?
MONICA TREIPL-HARNKE: We would hope that they would get help somewhere, by an
organization or a friend, neighbor, family. But you're right. I think the Denver Rescue Mission is
actually allowing, helping people upload photos, if that's-- they're helping people apply, but also
to upload a photo.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. And
recognizing the obstacles were preventing people from having access, we will explore this as
staff and develop a more feasible approach so we're not inadvertently discriminating against the
vast majority of our population.
So allow us to examine this more fully and get back to the Board on a corrective course of
action. Thank you very kindly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. That concludes my questions.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And thank you, CEO and GM Debra Johnson, for that response.
Really appreciate it.
Any other questions or comments?
OK. Let's move on to the next item. We have the internal audit update. And actually this is-they're shown as three bullets. It's meant to be internal audit update and then kind of sub-bullets,
the first part being the 2019 audit recommendation follow-up, and the second sub area being the
2020 status report. The idea here was twofold. We haven't had a chance to connect on this pretty
much all year. We had had delivered to our actual physical inboxes the audit reports from 2019.
That was literally as the shutdown occurred. We subsequently mailed them out, but we haven't
had a chance to sort of take those up. And in particular, the interest tonight is to start to follow
the recommendations and whether they're being implemented, and then to get a quick snapshot,
just to bring us all up to speed here on the 2020 audit plan and where we stand on that.
But as you comment-- I'll go around-- I'm interested in both questions about the content. But also
if you have suggestions about the format, we are starting to bring this forward in a more overt
way than we had previously. So I'd be-- any constructive comments you have about how this
information is presented so it's most usable for you, I would appreciate hearing that.
So Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, are you in the call here?
BARBARA MCMANUS: I don't see her on, Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Well, let's call them information items. And I would like to follow up
with you all, because she did include both a matrix to identify some of the recommended actions
and the follow-up on that, and then a status report for the 2020 plan. So let me just ask you all to

take a look at that. And then I'd like to get with you to just double check on those two things, if
that's OK.
I'm not hearing anybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sounds good to me.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: OK. OK. We don't have any information items. Anything under Other
Matters?
JUDY LUBOW: Madam Chair, this is Judy Lubow. I wasn't sure what you were asking about
with the audit, given that Ann Marie is not here. What were you suggesting?
SHELLEY COOK: Two things. One, certainly we need to get with Ann Marie with questions.
But I, in particular, would like, with her, suggestions for or criticism or anything that would help
in terms of how we bring this information forward. Is the format it came forward in, are the
individual pieces of information that were brought forward helpful? If not, or could they be made
better?
So I know you in particular had some thoughts about this. And I'd like to kind of get those in
writing, since Ann Marie isn't here to hear or respond. Would that be OK, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: So what you're saying is not talk about it now but put it forth in writing and
send it to you and Ann Marie?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And then let's discuss it at the next meeting. We'll make sure she's here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Ann
Marie Heslop is in the process of getting on the call. She inadvertently had the wrong number.
So if you can indulge us just for a matter of a minute or so, she'll be on the line momentarily.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, that'd be great. Thank you. Thank you for that.
[COMPUTER TONE]
That sounds like somebody coming in. Hello.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: This is Ann Marie. This is Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop. Hello?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, we can hear you. And thank you for joining us. I introduced the item by
saying we had two topics for tonight, the idea being to get us up to speed on both follow-up for
the 2019 audit recommendations, and then to get a snapshot of where we stand on the 2020 audit
plan. And I asked the Board to provide, if they have it now, not only questions for you from your
presentation, but also any input they may have about the format and the manner of presentation.

So at that, I'm going to turn it over to you, Ann Marie, if I may, to go ahead and speak to those
two items. You prepared some good backup for us. Thank you. Go ahead.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: OK. So I was on the call, I just wasn't able to speak on that
number that I had. It was the only number that I was provided. So anyway.
First of all, I want to reiterate that audit is a process that involves several players, including audit
staff, the Board management, and other RTD staff. Secondly, I want to say that within 2019 and
2020, we had lots of challenges. And that included limited resources and staff turnover and
difficulty recruiting. Putting all that aside, though, we managed to get quite a lot of work done.
And so I am looking at, I think it's page 32, which is the 2019 audit plan. I have to go back and
find it. And on that-- yes, it's page 32, packet page 32-- and so this was the audit plan that was
approved in 2018 by the Board of Directors. So I'm going to go through some of these audits in a
sort of a really high level kind of manner. And I want to talk about the follow-up. So it's not
going to be that easy to just separate the follow-up and the update. So I'm going to go through
them, and I will take any questions once I'm finished.
So in the 2019 audit plan, we had the 2020 audit plan, which was approved in December last
year. We had several audits on there that were non-IT audits, and then we had some IT audit
work included. I just want to touch on some of the information.
We had an audit on subscriptions, for example, and we had several findings on that one. We
thought we followed up on it. And although a lot of the work had not been actually done, the
COVID came in. And with the budget cuts and things like that, it sort of changed the idea that
the recommendations would be implemented at a later date, and it brought it up at a much earlier
time in that some of the subscriptions and memberships that we did have actually went away. So
whereas we were saying, well, we need to look at this in future year and we need to change
things, we need the right policies and procedures, et cetera, for it, policy and procedure aspect
still remains, but some of the elements of the recommendations were sort of taken out because of
COVID.
So we had some staffing audits as well. In 2019, we had some staffing audits. And part of our
recommendations on those were that the departments should really consider whether the job
descriptions, the titles of the positions, and whether they needed all those positions. Again,
COVID came in and really, they actually had to do that sort of review, not just bus and rail,
though, in lots of different departments. And so some of the recommendations on those were
actually sort of handled sooner than we expected.
The small and attractive assets. This was an audit that was done across the entire organization,
and therefore, there were several different departments. Now some of the departments were able
to handle the recommendations immediately and others will still handle it in future. And we will
actually go back and ensure that whatever they agreed to, they will handle the recommendations
for us.

Number 10 on that one, bus operator and rail operator training. We did a complete review of the
training process that RTD uses, because the objective was to look at whether the training had any
consequences for the operator turnover. We did that audit. And basically, we found that the
system that we had for training operators, that we still have today, is extremely robust. And we
didn't find any connection between the training and the turnover.
So there were a lot of follow-up audits in 2019, and these are some of these audits we have been
doing. For example, overtime and extra shift, we have been looking at that over several years,
since 2016. When we first started looking at it, we had overtime in the region of anywhere
between $250,000 and $300,000, and we have extra shifts up to $3 million. We have done quite
a lot of work. And we have people in, for example, bus and rail have done a lot of work and
reduced the levels of both overtime and extra shifts, Rail having done a bit more work at being
able to control the numbers compared to Bus, who still has bus bridges, et cetera.
But the numbers there have gone down. And this morning I did a calculation, and we are looking
at extra shift of $442,000, whereas overtime is a lot lower than the $300,000 that we would
normally have.
For purchasing cards, we did some follow up work in 2019. We continue to do follow-up work
on it. What we did in 2019, we did three months of review for every purchase card that we had.
We found that all of the issues that we had in the past, including people buying IT assets, et
cetera-- IT items, sorry not assets-- that's no longer happening. So we were very pleased to prove
that the purchasing cards are being absolutely-- people are following the rules for them.
We've looked at HR policies and procedures again in 2019, and we did it in 2020. And in 2019,
we knew that there was still a lot of them that were still outstanding.
As far as the work we do with IT, we have been reviewing the rules of cybersecurity since 2015.
We know that they are doing an assessment. And I have a meeting set with the Senior Manager
of Cybersecurity for the 16th, I think it is. We have also looked at insider threat and physical
security. And we provided-- in the past, we've provided interim reports, because we felt that
certain documentation needed to be put together. We are aware that there's a team that are
meeting on a regular basis. And basically, we are looking forward to seeing what the results will
become.
With physical security, I actually started going out to RTD properties with Facilities, and we
would basically go through every single area, testing the doors, the locks, looking at areas,
hiding places, et cetera. And of course COVID came in and we had to stop doing those visits.
So that basically is a snapshot at 2019 and where we are with the follow-up of the work that was
completed in 2019.
So as far as 2020 goes-- and let me find [COMPUTER CHIME] what number page that one is. It
could be just about five pages down. What pages of-- OK, so that is page 37 now. So I have 2020
Annual Audit Plan. And that is on page 37.

So right now, we have not done the 2021 audit plan. We have been working diligently on two
audits, police secondary employment and RTD security contracts. While working on these
audits, we realize the Board has approved some changes. And so we requested information so
that we can work from our first draft, now into the second draft, to include that information in the
work that we have done.
We have completed the salary training audit and travel and entertainment expenses. We've
completed those. The risk assessment, I have drafted a first draft of the risk assessment. Like
audit process, risk assessment is not a project that I can do on my own. It is a collaborative
process and it will need, in order to complete it, I will definitely need the General Manager and
the Board and management to be involved in the process.
Now, we have some follow-up audits in 2020. And we keep looking at some of these things over
and over, just to make sure. Sometimes it goes up. Sometimes it comes down. So we're looking
again and again. Certain ones of these follow-up audits we can now sort take a break from. And
those ones are overtime and extra shift, temporary and contract employees, the purchasing card,
and FasTracks staffing. Again, all the staffing audits, sort of the COVID and the budget issues all
sort of brought them to a point where they have handled the recommendations.
Now the SCADA, or the SCADA one, we're still monitoring the completion of the
recommendations by the federal auditors. HR policies and procedures, that one has been ongoing
for quite a while where we made recommendations for policies and procedures. I'm really, really
pleased now that Racel McMurray and Melanie Snyder are both working on policies and
procedures. And I expect that we will get those completed and be able to write that one off at
some point in 2021.
We continue to do the work of cybersecurity, insider threat, looking at it, and physical security.
We've completed an audit on backup and recovery. However, we do need to go back and do
some follow-up work on it. Within this year, 2020, we've also done a lot of work and spent some
time on the Colorado state audit and with the financial implementation.
So that's basically all I have. I am looking forward to being able to work with the Board in 2021.
And basically, I'm happy to answer any questions that I can.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Before I open it up, is there a place-- folks may not be able to go right
back to the seven audit plans that were delivered to us via email some time ago. Is there a place
on the internet or in the hub where Board members who wanted to go back? Or shall we just mail
those back through? Is there a place they're posted, the prior completed audits?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: We usually have never been able to post any audits online. Not
on the intranet or on the internet. We do have a place that, on the hub, that we can probably post
them, which would be a great idea.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Appreciate that.

And then just to recap, on the 2020, we have basically one of the items completed, plus the
follow-up audits are mainly, looks like, underway or continuously monitored. Is that a fair
summary, understanding that-- oh no, two items, travel and entertainment and the salary training.
The annual audit plan, as you noted, you can't complete yet. Is that a fair representation?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: We have the backup and recovery one on the 2020 as well. So
we have three of them totally completed. I have several on my desk that are in draft form. And
then we have two really huge ones, which is RTD, which is really secondary employment and
the security contract.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. I'm going to go around and ask questions-- or ask for
questions. Director Buzek. Or excuse me, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ann Marie, historically you've had a small staff. And
you've also had problems keeping your staff. Where are you at now? Are you totally staffed or
are you still short people?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: So when RTD introduced Audit in 1979, they were two people.
In 2020, December, there are two of us. There's myself and an auditor. And my auditor is
someone that I have been training.
BOB BROOM: OK. So you just have one person to help you, and that person's in training.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
BOB BROOM: My mention is since we've got 5 new Board members coming on, it probably
makes sense just to re-send those previous audits back out there to everybody to take a look at.
The other thing is, as a Board, we need to discuss where you report and who you're going to-- or
the function, who the function is going to report to. Because I think right now you report to the
General Manager. And that's not very good internal control. But that's all I have. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Good comments. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: No questions, no comments. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: No further questions. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. I agree with Director Broom. And I think it is
important for the new Board members coming in to have that information. Ann Marie, I just
want to tell you what a wonderful pleasure it has been to work with you. You have demonstrated
just an incredible amount of knowledge and work ethic that is incredibly impressive.

Could you please tell me, Ann Marie, what you actually need to do your job well for this
agency?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I want to thank you, first of all, your are so kind, for your kind
words. For Audit, as audit is a process that involves several different parties, it would be really
wonderful to have collaboration between those parties so we can get the audit from beginning to
end, whereas we can do the process, starting with planning the audit, doing the field work,
writing the report. What I can't do is I can't make people do the recommendations. And it's all
part of the process. So what I really need will be a lot of cooperation between all the parties
around audit process.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So if I may, for example, you make a recommendation and then it doesn't
get implemented. And is that what I'm hearing, we need people to implement your
recommendations?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: So I say I'm kind of a watchdog, but I'm not a police officer. So
I can watch and I can speak and check if the recommendation is implemented. But what I can't
do is demand that they do it. I can't [AUDIO OUT].
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So I mean, I think that is an interesting point, if I may again. You make a
recommendation. A Manager agrees that that recommendation will be implemented and they do
not implement it. And that's where the problem lies?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: It's a similar problem to what I said to the state. If you make a
recommendation and someone doesn't implement it, we cannot implement consequences for it.
You see?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yep. OK. Again, thank you so much, Ann Marie. You're amazing. That's
all for me, Madam Chair.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I appreciate Director Brooms' comments and tend to agree.
Ann Marie, I guess I was under the impression that you had hired others. Were you bigger at
some point in the last year or so, your team?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes. So 2018, my senior auditor left. And so at the last part of
2018, the last three months, I was on my own. In addition to that, I was on my own for the first
five months of 2019. I hired my auditor in May of 2019. And I hired a senior in July of 2019.
And the production that was on this team [AUDIO OUT] was not as good as from the auditor.
And that person was terminated in September this year, but production from that person was
really not much, basically. And so there was a lot of time invested in that individual and moving
forward with that individual.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Good evening. Madam Chair, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager. I
just wanted to speak up and say that when we're talking about personnel issues, that is something
that we should be more cautious with in reference to the discussion at hand. So just wanted to put
that forward as a gentle reminder.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for that. Appreciate it very much. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you. I personally feel that the audit function is incredibly important
to the well functioning of an organization. I've worked for the federal government. And we, at
the EPA, we always had an IG department. And I was really surprised that there wasn't such a
thing here, because it's such a good safety valve. If there are problems, they can be reported and
addressed.
But we have, instead of an IG, we have an Audit department. But I have found that it has not
been as effective and robust as I would have liked, and I think Ann Marie would have liked and
would have helped the agency. In my opinion-- this is a long comment, so forgive me-- but in my
opinion, if the Audit department could have been more effective and more robust, then it would
have held us accountable in ways that we wouldn't have needed an Accountability Committee,
because we would have self handled our problems. We would have figured them out ahead of
time and dealt with them.
So I think it's just incredibly important for the good functioning of the agency that we have a
really well functioning Audit department. And that being said, I wanted to thank Ann Marie for
her work and make some personal suggestions. I think it would be great to have an annual report,
like we're having today, where we are being told about each of the audits and where they stand.
But I would like to see, even more than that, I would like to see it stressed what value the agency
is getting from the Audit department. What positive changes have been made because of these
audits? If there are no positive changes made because of the audits, what's the point of doing
them? We need to know that actual change is resulting. And I would think if there is a problem
with the process, well, let's think about changing the process. If we learn that there are
outstanding recommendations and they're just sitting there, well, that should change. Maybe
there should be some kind of process where that is brought to the General Manager and that's
rectified, or something. But it doesn't have to remain this way. It's something that could be very
useful for us.
And one of the things that I wanted to say about what we saw today was that we see a lot of
continuous monitoring. And for me, that leaves more questions than it answers. I would like to
know more why is something being continuously monitored, what is being continuously

monitored, and what is the end game, so that we know we can finally put this thing to bed,
instead of just audit and items as a continuous monitoring.
Anyway. So that's basically it. And-- well, actually, I have another idea, which is that I know that
we have done a lot of audits in the past. I mean, every year we've done audits. But I would think
that if we went and reviewed several years worth of audits, we would find that there are plenty of
them that have recommendations that have not been implemented. And I would think it would be
well worth our time, in my opinion, to do less new audit and to use some of that time to look
back over our old audits and figure out what has not been implemented, and then bring that to the
Board and to management and figure out how to get those matters implemented. That would kind
of clean us up so that we could then go forward in a fresh way.
That's it for me. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm going to do it once again. Could I go at the end? I'm looking for
something in a document. It's the last of one of my questions, then I'd prefer to find that so I can
ask them all at once. So can I have the some input.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Then Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, thank you. Hi, Ann Marie. I'm going to miss working with you. You are
too polite. Every time you come and present to us, you hint that, or at least, at a minimum, hint
that you are understaffed and you're not able to perform the audits as they should be performed.
So I think we do a disservice to the agency and the taxpayers by having an inadequate Audit
department. And I hope that's something that can be fixed or addressed in next year. Thank you
for all you do. Thanks.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Ann Marie, it was a delight to see you
in the office the other day when I was in. And I do want to join in the comments of a number of
the Directors that there's much good work that you have done, much good work that yet needs to
be done. And it would be a worthwhile excursion into the past to pull out some of the old audit
reports that you might think are important and say what is our current status of compliance with
those recommendations.
And with that, I will end. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Good feedback. Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah. Ms. Heslop, it was also nice hearing your reports. I did auditing
way back in the day, 20-some odd years ago. And it's a continuing process. And one of the

frustrations I always had was that it was always seen as a gotcha position, when it wasn't a
gotcha, it was more supposed to have been collaborative and cooperative and ways to find
efficiencies in what was doing to make sure that different departments or agencies-- I worked
with other agencies-- but to make sure that they were in compliance with any changes that came
down from the Feds, HUD, in the case I'm working at.
So it was always nice to-- I did read the audits. And sometimes they were followed more closely
than others. And sometimes it's difficult to monitor those with short staffing. So anyway, what
I'm trying to say is I feel for you. But I appreciate the effort and I will miss these reports, kind of.
Thanks.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you so much.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director Walker. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No questions, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Hi, Ann Marie. I'm just wondering if there's any
way that you could do a summary, like at the end of every month or at the end of every quarter,
of the status of the various audits that I know you're involved in multiple ones at the time, and
have been as long as I've been sitting in my RTD chair. So it's just a thought I had while I was
listening to everybody else's comments.
I also appreciate the work that you do. Seems like it's long and often not rewarding. That's all.
Thanks, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I appreciate that. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Ann Marie, thank you so much for
your presentation and the materials that you sent forward. I just want to say thank you. And I
don't have any other comments at this time. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And just wrapping up-ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Everybody, thank you for your input. And I agree with many of the
comments brought forward. Kind of like to summarize what I've heard. But I want to be
thoughtful in the way that I do that. So I'm going to do that in writing with Ann Marie and get
back to you.
But Director Broom said one of the key questions we have facing us is who you report to and
how that relationship, if so, is fleshed out. We know that that's beyond us right now. But the one
piece I wanted to pick up on and talk about a little bit is, Director Tisdale talked about going

back and finding a few that were key, or that had key findings, and making sure the follow-up
was done. I kind of like that as a way to focus attention on the more important pieces. And
quarterly, or maybe even monthly, but certainly quarterly sounds like a good time to bring things
forward.
When we do monitor follow-up, it's a lot more helpful to me to know when you say that you're
not seeing the collaboration you'd like to see, you speak generally. The concern I have about that
is we don't know what that pertains to and the staff don't have a chance to respond to it. So I like
the idea of being more focused on particular audit follow-up, and especially those audits where
the findings were more impactful, say.
And so that's going to be one thing I'm going to try and focus on, so that when we have
presentations on particular audits and do it on more ongoing or periodic basis, then we know
which pieces of follow-up you're on, and the staff have a chance to respond to that, to indicate
whether there are impediments or something like that.
So that's my feedback. But again, I want to work with you, Ann Marie, be more deliberate about
how we start to bring this stuff forward, and recognizing we're kind of a work in progress in
fleshing some of this out. So thank you very much for your help.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK. With that, completing it, we're done. We don't have any
information items.
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yeah. Director Menten, I forgot to go back to you. Please go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks. All right. So the first thing that I'll bring up is that just for the
Board reminder, because I've gone back through multiple times, even though I did get all of the
hard copies, is the audits that were sent to us, because that question came up, where can
somebody go to find these? Well for the Board, the audits that we've discussed here, for the most
part, were sent out in April 9. There were seven attachments to that email, titled Audit Update.
And then June 17, there were two reports with title Audit Reports. So those are in there.
But I would like to see these posted on the website. And I think this has come up in the past. And
I just want to get this cleared up in my mind. From what I recall, Ann Marie, you had suggested
or asked at the audit report, at some stage or another be posted on the public website. Am I
remembering that correctly?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And I don't think I was the only Board Director who supported doing
that. And I am not going to pretend to claim to speak for other Board Directors, but I would
almost be willing to bet a quarter that there would be some other Board Directors who would

want to see that published on the website. And to me, there is a ideal location already set up. And
that's our Reports and Policies page. And if you've ever structured a web page, you're looking for
where's the spot you can fit it in. Well, there's a healthy blank space at the bottom of the left
column on our Reports and Policies page to insert a link to Audit Reports.
So I would love to be able to support you, Ann Marie, in posting those. I think it would also be a
great location to post some of the past state audit reports for RTD. I'll go into that in a moment. I
don't want to get off track here, do that first. But just for reference right now for the Board, if
somebody doesn't recall getting those, we got them in those two emails. And then we also got-- I
know we got hard copies, because-- or at least I did, but I think others did too. So I'm going to
start with that.
And the next is I want to go jump to three of these audits that you performed, where I've got a
little bit of a concern. And my concern came up back when I got the hard copies of these. And it
was right after the shutdown. So I've communicated a couple times on these, just because I was
really interested in these.
So first is on the non-IT audits, there were three here that drew my attention. Number one is a
salaried staffing for Bus Operations. The seventh is salaried staffing for Rail Operations. And the
11th is Information Governance and Management. And bear with me as I pause slightly, because
I've got to rotate the page to get to these. But with the Bus Operations, the finding number two
states, salaries higher than the top of the range and the job description. And then over under the
column which is Management Response, it says, issue should be addressed through senior
leadership team. It seems to indicate that this audit is completed, but I did not catch what is going
to be, what's the resolution there. And just for everybody who's really in the weeds with RTD,
this is salaried staffing-- we're not talking the represented-- and where the salaries were higher
than the top of the range in the job description. So if that is completed, what has management
told you they're doing to resolve that?
SHELLEY COOK: Ann Marie.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: This is Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop. In 2019, Michael Ford did
some work with HR, and they handled the issues both in Rail and in Bus where we had found
that there were salary differences. And so they went, Michael Ford and his team went back to
HR and they were able to make some changes in necessary salaries, et cetera. And we did that
follow-up with them on those salaries [AUDIO OUT].
NATALIE MENTEN: So does that mean that the salaries-- and maybe Michael Ford has to
answer to this, and I assume he's on the line-- does that mean the salaries were reduced to be
within the range?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: I cannot remember exactly what was done. But I know that at
the time, we did check with Sylvia and et cetera in HR, and we know that there were changes in
salaries and there were changes in job descriptions, et cetera, to address the issues that we had
identified in the audit. I can't tell you exactly what [AUDIO OUT] you saw increased or anything
like that.

MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, Michael Ford, go ahead.
MICHAEL FORD: While I appreciate the conversation, I am not remembering all the details. I
think this might be better handled offline, where we can have some more discussion. But the
issue may have been a compression issue. But I still need to research that. It's been a while. And
I think I could better address that offline instead of this conversation right now.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. That sounds like a plan. Director Menten, is there another one of the
audits that you had a question about, or-- go ahead.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, there is. So in a very similar line is the audit that's titled Rail
Staffing. And there, the finding number two is salaries higher than the top of the range in the job
description. The management response in this one is slightly different in that it states,
management response says, informed by HR this was a Board decision not to cap salaries. In all
my years, I don't remember ever making a decision to not cap salaries.
So if I could get follow-up on that one. Was that simply because of approving the budget? Some
more details on that, as this has been on my mind since June.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes. And would just endorse that idea that you get the additional information
from Michael Ford or whoever is the appropriate party. That OK, Michael?
MICHAEL FORD: Madam Chair, this is Michael Ford. Yes, I'd like to be able to help out and
assist. I'll need to do some research, but again taking this offline and maybe having a more robust
conversation and be able to obtain the information to help address the issue. I'm happy to help
out with that.
SHELLEY COOK: Sounds good.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. OK. The next one-- nope, I'm still going. Next one is under the
audit title, Information Governance and Management. And I may not have caught your summary
of this, Ann Marie. But what I'm reading here is in the finding, says no findings and conclusions
could be reached. And under recommendation, it says, IGM senior management did not respond
to multiple request for systems access and a specific list of items and follow-up questions that
did allow for field work to be completed.
So it sounds like you got no response at all. Would that be correct?
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Yes. We made several attempts to get several items from the
Department, and we were not able to get those items.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So in the management, and then whether it's General Manager or
somebody else, I would like a little bit of follow-up as to why our auditor had no access and no
response. I know we've had some turnover in that department. But I would find it pretty bad that

if we had a auditor try to get access to a system, did not get any, that it just gets closed, even
though I know Ann Marie's got her hands very full. So I bring that to your attention.
SHELLEY COOK: I like the idea, but not forgoing the idea that there may be two sides to this
story. So let's just-- I don't want to say that they have deliberately-- I don't like rushing to that
conclusion, even though we are, that's important information, we need to follow up on it. I just
want to encourage that we need the staff's response on it before forming that conclusion. OK?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, this is Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO. Thank
you very much for your comments recognizing a lot of this information that's being put forth
occurred some time ago, and we would have to do our due diligence in reference to following up,
recognizing the most recent comments just set forth that relates to the intergovernment actions
that's now under the auspices of the General Counsel who just joined the organization in June.
Recognizing that I had just been here as well, we would need to go back thoroughly to ascertain
what has transpired.
One thing I would like to share is that you may be aware that the agency has leveraged a
consulting contract whereby we're going to undertake a compensation study and analysis dealing
with how we do job descriptions, looking at market values and rates as relate to the various
positions we have. That will be kicking off, for all intents and purposes, in January. So this will
better enable us to have a uniform and consistent manner in which we set salaries as it relates to
compensation and things of the like.
So with that as a backdrop, I want to reiterate what members of the team have said in
relationship to getting more specific information so we could be more thorough and diligent in
our responses to the questions set forth by Director Menten. Thank you very kindly.
SHELLEY COOK: OK?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes, there are some of us who will be very, very glad to see
the compensation study, or job classification study, whichever is titled, done. Because that is one
of the ones that Ann Marie had recommended that we do in the 2015-2016 years. So there are
some of us who've been waiting for that for a long time, and we'll be very glad to see that.
And with that then, going back to love to see these audit reports, because it allows, first, it's
transparency. The public is able to find it easier. It also puts perhaps a little bit of an, uumm, just
on notice that these are the audits, without having to go through all the Board minutes and find
all that. Here they are.
And also posting the state audit-- and I'm talking about specifically the one from 2010, because
that talked about our internal audit function. And it starts on page 58 in the 71-page document,
talking about at that time, the internal auditor did come before the Board four times a year. And
it does speak to some of these concerns that have been brought up tonight. And that is on page
56, functionally, the District's internal audit unit should report to the Board through an
established Audit Committee. I'd almost love to see a citizen Budget and Audit Committee added
to RTD. Cities have them. Counties have them. That might be a subcommittee of Citizens

Advisory Committee. But I don't really know that we have an established Audit Committee. And
that was recommended in the 2010 state report.
It also speaks to the internal audit director should have, I'm quoting, open and direct access to the
Audit Committee and, when necessary, Board Chair and full Board. Next sentence, this should
include the ability to meet without management present. So I bring this up, as we have a new
Board, said Board members coming in. And just when we've gotten these recommendations in
the past, maybe this is finally time to move forward on some of these things.
And I will just end it, without going further, that Ann Marie, I have especially appreciated
working with you over the years. Thank you for your dedication, your thoroughness. You've
taken on a ton of work, when I know it was far more than you could get into the 40 hours, yet
you put in at the hours after. So I just wanted to share, like some others, that it's been great to
work with you on this. And I hope to see the little link on the Reports and Policies page where I
can keep up with all the good work you're doing. Thank you.
ANN MARIE ISAAC-HESLOP: Thank you so much for your kind words.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And thank you, and I really do appreciate the specifics, the
recommendations that you're making. And again, I've kept notes and will get back with folks just
to make sure I captured it. We'll compare that to the recommendations that we've had made.
I do want to note that Peggy Catlin had sent through a quick message reminding me that we are
looking at and focusing on the need for an outside peer review too. And that's a healthy thing to
do periodically, once every few years at least. So just to bring in that point as well. And I will
capture that, Peggy, and put that in what we are looking at as the outcome from this meeting.
So thank you all very, very much. And thank you, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop and Debra Johnson
and Michael Ford, for your feedback on this. I really appreciate it. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair? Madam Chair, point of order, if I may.
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: And I apologize. I don't want to extend this any longer than it needs to be.
But I just wanted to comment on one thing very specifically. The Board will be receiving a
memo in the next few days that will actually respond to some of the comments that Director
Menten made. This committee, as a Finance, Administration, and Audit Committee, was, in fact,
created in response to the state audit that Director Menten referred to. And that's outlined in the
white paper that the Ad Hoc Committee on Committee Structure will be sending to the Board. I
just didn't want to leave the record as it stood, with the implication that there was never any
response to that state audit or that there was never any Audit Committee created, because that is
not an accurate assessment. Thank you, Madam Chair.

SHELLEY COOK: Oh, not at all. Thank you for adding that. It's important information. And
OK, sorry. So moving on. Anything under Other Matters. Does anybody have anything under
Other Matters?
OK. Our next meeting is January 12, into the new year. And what I'd like to do is adjourn this
meeting. And Director Williams, shall we say five minutes, 7:48, or does that sound good?
KATE WILLIAMS: That sounds fine to me. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, everybody.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, 7:49 it looks like now Thank you very much.

