2022-11-16
Performance Committee Meeting
BOBBY DISHELL: Good afternoon. The Performance Committee will now come to order. We are
convened as of 1:33 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless
you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note that until further notice, the official meetings of the
RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be available, and will be audio and video
recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as
soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com to access meeting recordings and
unofficial meeting minutes. The live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
this afternoon's meetings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you
before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to
indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press
star 6.
I would now like to call the roll for committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Lewis. I am here. Director Lewis. For the record, I see that we have four
Directors present, one absent.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish
to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your
phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your
mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee or any member of the public would like to submit written comments,
please email those to the Board Office at the following email address, rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.

During public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow up.
Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak.
Ms. McManus, do we have any speakers in the queue?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We have no speakers in the queue and I have not been notified that there are
any emails on this topic.
BOBBY DISHELL: Wonderful. Thank you.
For the sake of the record, I'd like to acknowledge that we've been joined by Director Guissinger as well
as Director Cook and Director Rivera-Malpiede. I think that's everyone from the Board side. Great.
With no participants in the queue, we'll close public comment period at this time.
This brings us to our recommended action, which is the 2023 GM/CEO performance appraisal criteria and
rating, for the Board of Directors to approve the performance appraisal criteria for the performance period
commencing January 1, 2023 and ending December 31, 2023 and for each performance period
thereafter. Do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
BOBBY DISHELL: I have Director Sloan as the mover. Any second?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
BOBBY DISHELL: Chair Buzek is the second. I'd like to ask Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and
CEO, to present this item.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Chair and committee members, and to all those who are
virtually assembled. As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, the General Manager and CEO.
Today I am presenting a recommended action for your consideration, which is to approve the General
Manager and CEO performance appraisal criteria for the performance period commencing January 1st of
2023 and ending December 31st of 2023, and for each performance period thereafter. Pursuant to the
terms of the Chief Executive Officer and General Manager employment agreement, it states, beginning
on November 1, 2022 and each November 1st thereafter, for the remainder of the agreement, Ms.
Johnson shall propose any suggested amendments to the weighted success outcomes, organizational
values or goals.
On Tuesday, November 1, I informed Committee Chair Lewis, you, Vice Chair Dishell, in your capacity as
the Vice Chair of the committee, as well as the Board Chair, via email for the 2023 performance period
and subsequent periods I suggested a minor modification to my evaluation criteria, which is as follows.
For the performance period commencing January 1, 2023 and for each subsequent performance period
thereafter, the annual performance appraisal score will be comprised of 50% objective success outcomes
associated with their respective strategic priorities, with equal weight being given to each, and 50%
subjective organizational values as adopted by the Board pursuant to the strategic plan, including any
amendments thereto.

Essentially, the only change for the 2023 performance period and beyond is the evaluation of my
performance with respect to the success outcome for employee ownership, given that the second
employee survey will be conducted in the second quarter of 2023. By establishing a second data point to
be used in my year-end evaluation, the performance committee and eventually the Board will be able to
objectively assess my progress towards that success outcome. Hence, this action before you is
memorializing my recommended minor revision. If approved by the committee, the item will then be
considered by the full Board during the special Board meeting currently scheduled for Tuesday,
December 6, 2022.
Mr. Chair, that concludes my presentation. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. At this time, I'd like to ask those Directors who have
questions or who wish to speak to raise your virtual hands and I'll call on you in turn. For Directors or staff
calling in to the meeting, if you wish to speak, please press star 9. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam CEO/GM, or GM/CEO. I think this is an extremely reasonable
request. The only question it raises in my mind is I know the survey for 2022 employee ownership
establishes the baseline. Has that been completed? And if not, when will it be completed and we can see
the results of that survey?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair?
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. So Director Sloan, thank you very much for that question. That information
was presented to this body back in September. That was completed in-- sorry, I stand corrected-- it was
completed in May. We presented that, yes, when we came forward in September. And more specifically,
the employee survey was done intentionally to coincide with the service change, due to the fact that 2/3 of
our workforce are representative employees. And past experience has basically yielded that there is a
broader level of participation as we have our frontline staff that physically come into the divisions to
conduct their bids.
So to your question, there is a baseline that's been established. That has been shared. And subsequently
when we do the second round of employee survey, we then can denote whether or not improvements to
that baseline have been made.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Well, there is a hole in my brain where that in play survey belongs. Could you send
me those, or have someone send me those results?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, I will ask the Board staff to re-send that information to you that was
presented, not just to you but we will recirculate that to this entire committee.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you very much.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: You're quite welcome.
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Sloan, you all set? Great. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Yesterday I listened in on the APTA Board, the committee that
Doug Tisdale chairs. And we had a presentation on the Eugene, Oregon land transit division, or

department-- granted, a smaller transit. But there, the presentation showed something very similar to that
which we are doing here. They embarked upon a strategic plan, had five pillars of success outcomes, a
very similar process to what we had here.
One thing that I took notice of was that they said that they had-- the staff had not completed their
employee survey and so they weren't able to assess that. And as a result, the evaluation that was given,
the agency and the CEO, was a 0 for that particular piece.
And I know that we're kind of lagging and we were establishing a baseline, so I'm not suggesting that we
do that. But I want to make sure that we do get that employee survey in a timely fashion so that we can
adequately evaluate our GM/CEO's performance next year.
Just, I don't know what we would have. I'm sure we would have some assurances that that would get
done. But I just want to make sure that we don't let it slip. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Director Catlin, for your questions. Just for everybody's
clarity, you were referencing the APTA, American Public Transportation Association, Transit Board
Member subcommittee. And to that end, also lane transit.
So recognizing the question in which you posed, I'd be remiss in stating that as we look at our
organization, people are the most important aspect of what comprises us as an agency. And recognizing
that we're people moving people, and in light of our employee ownership strategic priority, trust and
believe that that will not fall to the wayside. We've already established a baseline. We have engaged with
our employee ownership task force and our employee ownership solutions group who are working on a
myriad of initiatives outlined from the basis of that employee survey.
So as I indicated in my previous comments, as we go forward, we have a baseline established. We are
basically having that in alignment with our service change that occurs in the May frame. So when you
receive my self-evaluation, if I'm still sitting in the seat next year, that that information will be incorporated
with the information that you received previously, so we would have every single strategic priority
incorporated into the information which you would use to assess my skills, knowledge, and abilities as it
relates to my performance. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I just wanted some assurances that we would get there. And I
knew that we would. I just wanted to make that statement publicly because other agencies have dealt
with it a little differently.
And you are right, on the tip of my tongue I couldn't remember Tisdale's committee. But that is the correct
name for the committee.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Catlin. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you for letting me ask a question or two here. So I'm still trying to discern what
the change is. Are we going from 25% based on the subjective criteria for organizational values up to
50%? Is that a change? I'm just not clear about where the changes are from and to the prior amendment.
BOBBY DISHELL: No. Ms. Johnson, go ahead.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much. So Director Cook, a point of clarification, recognizing
we did not have a second wave of data to use to assess whether or not I moved the needle as it related
to employee ownership, this body and subsequently the Board acted on an amendment. Therefore, it
stated that there are only three strategic priorities. All I did was put forward a recommendation saying that
we will have four strategic priorities upon which I would be assessed, i.e. community value, customer
excellence, employee ownership, and financial success.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So it's kind of going back to the system we had previous to the amendment this
year. Is that it?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: That is correct.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, got it. And then just a quick question for Melanie Snyder, if I may. When the last,
when, maybe it was the fourth amendment where we asked the staff to conduct a benchmark survey, we
substituted the 6% for some wording that said like compensation increase. And my thought or
understanding at the time was that we would do the benchmark study as a way to inform what that
percentage and this breakdown would be. But we're adopting this tonight before we get the benchmark
results. Am I missing something there?
MELANIE SNYDER: Mr. Chair, if I may.
BOBBY DISHELL: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Director Cook, for that question. And we'll go over this a little bit in the
discussion item when I review the GM and CEO's contract. But you are correct, we, or the Board with the
third amendment, that's actually on packet page 27, there is a reference to a compensation analysis
being conducted. So our vendors from Gallagher are here with us today. They're going to present that
analysis.
We, the Board then also, with that amendment in exhibit B-- that's on packet page 31-- established the
percentage criteria distribution. So for the 2020 performance period, you're right, there was a 6% base
increase that was put into that amendment going forward. So starting for performance period January 1,
2023 going forward, the Board will be utilizing information from the compensation survey to establish what
percentage increase will be on the table. And then the percentage distributions that you see in exhibit B to
the third amendment, those will then guide you on how to distribute whatever percentage the Board lands
on.
SHELLEY COOK: For this year, for the coming 2023-MELANIE SNYDER: For the coming year, yes.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Thanks so much.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
SHELLEY COOK: [INAUDIBLE]
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Cook. And I will just take one moment before calling for the vote of
the Chair, [INAUDIBLE] to comment here, which is in conducting this year's review, we looked at the

financial success outcome. And Director Guissinger also sort of drew my attention to this. And there's an
element of subjectivity based on how it's [INAUDIBLE].
So for financial success, 50% of the outcome is that RTD spends less money than it receives. That's
objective. The latter half, 50% of outcome is that the community believes that it sees value in RTD's
spending, introduces an element of subjectivity, because it asks the question, it forces Directors to
evaluate and ask the question, well, what is the community?
We also did not directly survey this question. We surveyed whether we thought RTD was a good user of
public funds. We surveyed whether the community thought that its investment in RTD was valuable. But
we did not survey whether the community believes that RTD's spending is valuable. And so I don't think
this has to be addressed today, necessarily, but I do think before we get to this evaluation period next
year that we should establish those thresholds to remove that element of subjectivity from the objective
analysis, or from what should be an objective analysis.
If anyone has any thoughts on if we should address that sooner. And Ms. Johnson, what are your
thoughts on sort of addressing that as we look to the next year? Yeah.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I support that. And there have been
conversations amongst us as staff as we look at our strategic planning, and basically recognizing that this
is going to be an evolutionary process, literally and figuratively. The name of the document is Challenge,
Change, and Connections, and you cannot spell the word challenge without the word change.
So I say that to say I'm amenable to the approach as we have conversations and then bringing something
back for you all's consideration. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Dishell, I completely support that, putting more objectivity into that criteria.
Because I think we hear from different stakeholders different perceptions of the value that we're adding
from a financial perspective to the community.
So I completely support that discussion. How we get there might be tricky, but I think it's a good idea to
have that discussion.
BOBBY DISHELL: Can we add this as a discussion item for the first Performance Committee meeting of
next year? Are we able to procedurally do that?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: I will say yes, from my vantage point. But we'll work with the Board Office to
ensure that that comes to fruition. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. OK. Any other comments, questions, discussion? The script keeps
disappearing.
Seeing none, we will now call for the vote. Are there any no votes on this action? Hearing and seeing no
no's with four ayes, zero no's and zero abstentions, that motion passes. As a reminder, this item will move
forward to the special Board meetings scheduled for Tuesday, December 6 at 5:30 PM.

There is one discussion item on the agenda this afternoon. I would kindly-- the GM/CEO Employment
Agreement and Compensation Analysis. I would kindly ask Melanie Snyder, General Counsel, to present
this item.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. If you give me just a moment, let me share my screen.
OK, are you all seeing my screen now?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, General Counsel, we can now see it in presentation format.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, great. Let me just [INAUDIBLE] this one thing.
OK, terrific. Good afternoon. I'm Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. Today I'm going to take just a few
moments to go over and give a high level refresher on the GM and CEO's employment agreement, and
then we'll hear from the Gallagher team of consultants who conducted a compensation analysis.
OK. RTD and GM/CEO Johnson entered into a five-year employment agreement in November, 2020.
Among other things, this agreement includes provisions for base salary and benefits and an annual
performance appraisal framework based on Board approved strategic plan performance metrics. It also
provides for adjusting base salary, taking into account market considerations, as well as incentive pay
when she meets or exceeds performance goals.
Under the agreement, compensation includes base salary and an automatic annual cost of living
adjustment based on the Denver-Aurora-Lakewood consumer price index effective on each employment
anniversary date. The GM/CEO is eligible for the same benefits package as non-represented employees
and she accrues paid time off at the 20-plus years service level.
Here's a snapshot of the salary adjustments that have occurred since the beginning of the GM/CEO's
employment with RTD in November, 2020. As you can see, last year there was a 4.5% COLA increase on
her first anniversary date. Following the 2021 performance review, the Board then approved a 6%
increase to the original base salary. This was not on top of the COLA. It was on the original base. Then
on her second anniversary date last week, a 7.7% COLA was applied, bringing her to the current salary
you see here.
The performance appraisal framework is grounded in the Board adopted strategic plan goals and metrics,
with 50% of the evaluation based on the objective success outcomes and 50% based on the subjective
values. Each year the GM and CEO has the opportunity to submit a self-appraisal to highlight and selfassess her performance over the performance period. As you know, this year she provided this to the
Board on November 8.
Each Director individually has the opportunity to provide input toward the Board's collective adoption of a
final appraisal. 5 PM this Friday is the deadline for individual Director feedback this year.
As we've previously discussed, the committee will hold an executive session next week on November 22
with GM/CEO Johnson. This will be an opportunity for the Board to provide her with performance
feedback and to discuss potential compensation adjustments. On November 30, there will be a
recommended action in this committee to adopt the final written appraisal. This would also be the date
that the committee would recommend action on any compensation adjustment resulting from the
appraisal or the compensation analysis we're about to hear from Gallagher. On December-- pardon me?

BOBBY DISHELL: Quickly, I see Ms. Johnson and Chair Buzek have [INAUDIBLE].
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, if I may. If I may, Mr. Chair, I just want to call everybody's attention to slide,
the slide before you. The last bullet should say 11/18/2022, not 11/21. Just as a point of clarification. So
Ms. Snyder, sorry for jumping in. But-MELANIE SNYDER: No, thank you for that correction.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. All right. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Chair Buzek, are you good?
VINCE BUZEK: I was going to say the exact same thing.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Thank you. Apologies, Ms. Snyder, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: No, that's OK. Sorry about that. And then on December 6, the full Board will take
final action on these items.
OK. Finally, here's the framework for how incentive pay is determined. Utilizing the compensation
analysis from the Gallagher team, the Board will determine what percentage increase is appropriate to
align the compensation for this position with the market. Once that percentage is determined, the
performance appraisal will then guide the distribution of that percentage. 50% will go toward the adjusted
base salary and 50% to a one-time incentive payment, with that detail broken out on this slide.
And with that, Mr. Chair, I'm happy to take any questions, unless you'd prefer to hold all questions on this
discussion item until after we hear from the Gallagher team.
BOBBY DISHELL: Any questions thus far? No? OK, I'll give it back to you or to the Gallagher team.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. I will turn it over now to Derek Smith, he is leading the Gallagher team, and ask
him to please introduce himself and the members of the Gallagher team.
DEREK SMITH: Thank you, Melanie. Yes, my name is Derek Smith. I am the project manager for this
particular project for RTD Denver. I also have with me in the audience Erik Smetana, who's a project
director for Gallagher Consulting. I have Jamie Parker, who's also a consultant who worked on this
project for Gallagher Consulting. And I also have Genesis Roberts, who's associate consultant who
worked on this project for Gallagher Consulting.
We're going to show you a presentation. It's about 20 slides long in there. We'll have summaries and
explanations of what we did. And I'm just getting ready to put that up. So I'm having one of my colleagues
present that. Let me know when you're ready and you can see the screen.
OK, excellent. I can see the screen so I assume everyone else can as well.
So this is for the position of General Manager/Chief Executive Officer Comp and Benchmarking Analysis.
It's for RTD Denver, November 2022. I will be using acronyms for the title, such as GM and CEO, and I
will be using acronyms for your organization, such as RTD. OK?

All right, so we're going to go to the table of contents. And it lists all the things that on slide 2, if we can
move to that, all the things that we will be discussing in these 20 or so slides. So we'll have the
Introduction, Comp Philosophies, Thoughts, Methodology, Published Data, Custom Survey, Comparator
Groups, Accepted Variance, Published Data Outcome, Custom Survey, and then those various things for
the market review, and then finally, the Internal Pay Equity Analysis as well as the Conclusion and
Recommendation.
So let's go to the third slide and talk about the introduction. The purpose of this for this study was to really
see how competitive the GEO salary is. This particular job, it's only one job, so it's one benchmark job.
And this should help us inform you as a group about how to decide on executive compensation as well as
total compensation for the GEO salary in comparison to market analysis. Next slide. Thank you.
So one of the things that we have to keep in mind here is that there's about three different ways to view
market data and to apply or implement it for your organization. And the first being market aware. So you
see there, there's a graphic there. And that means that we know that the average or the 50th percent, the
median, of the market is what we call market, market aware.
Anything below that, closer to 25%, is lagging the market, meaning the salaries aren't as high. They don't
meet what would be in the middle of the market. And anything above that 50%, closer to 75%, would be
leading the market, meaning you have a higher salary for positions like this and that you want to be not
just competitive meeting the market but you want to be the leader in market as far as pay goes.
But keeping that in mind, you may already have made decisions about that. And so please reference this
type of thinking about comp philosophy as we go forward and examine and review the data together.
So we're going to talk about the published data we used. We didn't just use public data, but we will talk
about that first. We'll talk about also the custom survey as well. But listed below are the different types of
public data we use. I think you already referenced APTA, which is the American Public Transportation
Association. We use their information. We used ERI, which is the Economic Research Institute. And then
we used another suite of surveys called CompData. And that was what we used for all our published
surveys. So let's talk about what those public surveys did more specifically.
So CompData has different cuts that we have there. It's definitely from 2022. As I said, it's a suite, so that
means it's multiple surveys. We use data that is published regarding national data, Western region, also
Colorado and not for profit data. Now notice that that does not hone in just on the industry. That's not
what this data does. It is for General Managers and CEOs that are in these different data cuts. So they
may be outside of transportation. Keep that in mind when we review the data because that could impact
the numbers, and you'll see why we say that.
ERI data, on the other hand, actually does have a category for transportation, but it also has a national
data cut as well. And APTA, as you very well know, is very specific towards the transportation industry.
But when we use data from CompData and things that aren't from the industry, we realize that some of
these positions have equivalent type of functions and/or responsibilities, but they may not be in this
particular industry. So that's why we utilize them and that's why they are a part of this actual research.
So now we're going to talk about the custom survey. And just to keep in mind what a custom survey is, a
custom survey means that we create what information we're looking for and who we ask to fill out that

information. So we actually asked about 20 organizations, but we did receive information back from 13.
We'll show that graphic in a bit.
Our basic four areas are up there of what we ask for. And so that includes base salary, which is obviously
one of the more important ones, incentive comp, other types of benefits, and executive perks. And so
executive perks may be things like vehicle allowances, retiree health insurance, stipends, executive life
insurance, just to give you some examples of what some of the executive perks we would have or did ask
about.
OK. So let's go to the next slide. This shows you the names of the organizations for our custom survey
that are in the transportation industry. So this is a industry survey that we just utilized in the last few
weeks. The ones that are in green, highlighted in green, responded. Out of the 20, that was 13 that
responded. The ones that were in white did not respond. And so that's about a 65% response rate, which
is actually pretty good for a custom survey in that amount of time. So more than enough data points for us
to have a good study to reference from.
OK. So now we're going to go and talk about variances. So before we actually look at the data that we
received, there are about four different categories here of how we would categorize how the data is in
comparison to the GM/CEO RTD salary. So if it is plus or minus that number, we consider that highly
competitive. If it is a little bit more out than minus 5 all the way up to minus 5 or plus 10, that's somewhat,
that's competitive as well. But if it's higher or lower than minus 5-- or excuse me, minus 10 or plus 10,
then we consider that potentially misaligned.
And in most cases when it is minus 15 or plus 15 higher, depending on the category, we consider that
misaligned as well, not just potentially misaligned. So those are kind of the categories. Don't worry, you
don't have to memorize that. We will put them on the applicable tables when we show them in this
PowerPoint slide.
So the first thing we're going to look at is the published data. Now remember I said that this is collected
from all different industries, but they have similar functions and they're national. So that may skew the
data. In this case, it made the 50th percentile pretty high. So if you look at the second row there, that's the
benchmarked summary. The second column that says market 25th, that's that lagging or that lower
number for salaries according to the published survey.
The middle, where it says market 50th average, is basically the average amount that everyone paid. The
next, the percentages before and after indicate whether or not it was aligned or misaligned according to
that table. And of course, the market 75th is that maximum salary that we saw with published surveys.
The last row of that first table is the incumbent's salary. So in comparison, we are above the market 25th
with that salary, according to published data only. We will look at both publish and custom survey, and
we'll also look at a third factor of combining those two to make sure that we have a good understanding of
all the numbers.
So you can see that it's a little below, though, so misalignment with market possibly if we only went by the
published data, by 17%, even after the increase. So you can see there that we've had that color coded.
And so I'm now going to move on to what we have as far as collection of the custom survey. Now
remember, this custom survey on this next slide is for those that are in the transportation industry and
similarly situated cities that have similar budgets and/or employees, number of employees.

Now as you can see, when you look at the same columns, the same references for salary you can see it's
a different story. You can see that, yes, well above the 25th threshold in the transportation industry for a
custom survey, our incumbent salary, and a little above or above the 50th percentile for the custom
survey but yet within range of the 75th percentile. So once again, remember 25th is kind of lagging the
industry average, the 50th is being aware of the industry average, and the 75th is leading the industry,
meaning you're paying top dollar compared to everyone else.
So there's two different stories here. When we look at the public surveys that include much more than just
industry but it does also include industry, the salaries are much higher. When we look at custom surveys,
the salary are more in line with what we're paying here.
So let's look at the combination of all three, and that's where you see that now a third row that says
benchmark summary full market and has a asterisk next to it. So when we combine those numbers
together, we can see, yes, it's well above the 25th as a combined summary of benchmarks for both
custom and published surveys. It's much more closer to the 50th. In fact, it's only about 3% off. And so we
would call that highly competitive with market, according to our chart below.
It's still a bit off from the 75th, which is not bad, because typically the 75th is not only just to lead the
market but it is also for extraordinary circumstances. Let's say you have somebody with a lot of tenure
and they've been there for quite a bit of time, well, they've had an ability to go through this pay range and
they should be much more higher than the 50th, because they're not just coming in towards the market.
They've been there in that position so they typically are compensated higher.
So this is a good review of how all three of these look. I think if we look at the next slide, you can get a
better visual here. And yes, here we go. So let me explain this as well, because it shows both with vertical
columns what the incumbent's RTD's GM/CEO's salary is, as a yellow column, a yellow mark there. But it
also has a dotted red horizontal line that compares it across both the benchmark summary for published
and custom data, as well as that third chart right on there, the third lines of that data for those combined,
the full market.
And so if you look at either the yellow bar in each cluster of bars or the red dotted line, you can see how
the salary compares to other items. So pretty close when we talk about the 50th for the summary of all
the data, pretty close for the published data, and well above the custom survey data.
So we have other items that we did review, as we talked about before in the table of contents. In fact,
there's other ways that GMs and CEOs receive pay in the industry. In this particular chart, we're just
looking at COLA and merit. There was information that we collected about bonus. Not very many people
did it, only two. So we really didn't put that up there.
But as you can see, looking at the comparators data for both COLA and merit, we averaged that out so
you could have a comparison there. And if you look at the information for COLA, for comp, for CompData
comparators, as well as the medium, it's about 3%, and the same thing for merit. If you look at the
national survey data, which is something that we got from the World of Work, the data is a little bit lower.
And then if you look at the last row of data for your employee, GM/CEO for RTD, it's a little bit higher than
both of those. So you're very competitive with that. In fact, you're leading in these areas as far as these
type of pay practices when you talk about COLA and merit.

Do keep in mind that not many people actually contributed bonus pay. But then when we looked that
information up at World at Work, if you did decide to do bonus pay, which is outside of COLA and merit,
that would be another additional 3.5%, which it looks like you kind of made up for with these two pay
differences between the national survey and the average of our other data that we collected.
So when we talk about pay and pay practices, that's great. That's good information to know as well.
However, total rewards takes in other things. And so we're going to, as we explained before, talk about
benefits. And so we have an overall summary here. We can go into more detail about what this actually
means in the next few slides. But I just wanted to put it into two different buckets here.
There are the buckets of these 13 different types of benefits that we did a custom survey on or that we
researched about 5 of them pretty much match market. The others you either did not offer, such as
vehicle allowance, club membership, and items like that, or what was offered wasn't as competitive as
some of the rates. And we will look at those rates
So let's go down and go to the first big bucket of benefits, which is the defined contribution. So this is
more dealing with how we deal with retirement. We don't necessarily have the employee's contribution,
nor do we need to know that. But we do know what the employer's contribution is. And just in comparison,
we're close to that 11% that employers reported back to us that they pay. At RTD, we have about a 9%.
I would start saying it's uncompetitive if it was much lower than this, let's say anywhere from a 6% to a
4%, then I would say it's not competitive. 9% is within striking range. It doesn't necessarily match the 11%
but we would consider that contribution to be competitive.
The next bigger bucket-- and this, I think, is the biggest bucket of benefit-- are things that most come to
mind when people talk about benefits, not necessarily the defined contribution for retirement, per se, all
the time, even though that is a big one. But when we talk about things like medical, dental, and vision.
So as you could see, the first category of medical in that kind of second column there, the comparators
reported back to us, of those 13 people that we looked at, those 13 organizations, that they have about
88% employer contribution for medical insurance, which is pretty good. But RTD Denver has arranged,
depending on which plan is selected, that not only encompasses that but it goes a little bit below it and a
little bit higher. So I think that's an excellent example of how you're competitive with market. That's a great
example of a good benefit for this position.
When we look at dental, we're a little bit off with that one as far as RTD is concerned. It's about 10%
lower. So there's room to increase that. I wouldn't say that that's misaligned. I would say that's somewhat
competitive.
However, when we look at vision, I would call that misaligned. It's a much larger percentage difference.
And so you may want to consider that when you do review things, items like this in the upcoming future.
The premiums that are paid and what we found here, that may be something to consider as a change or
something that you just need to review and see if it's something you do want to change.
We're going to move on now to the next bit of information here. Before we do that, actually, let me talk
about PTO, because we did look at that as well. We did look at time off. And just give you the numbers
verbally. So PTO for the market was about 36 days. RTD Denver offers about 32 days. However, a very
good note here on your behalf is that there are 3 to 4 floating holidays. Not many people reported doing

that. And so that's excellent that you have that. But I think that gives you a good understanding of your
PTO and floating holidays and time off. So very, I would say, very competitive with that information.
I will answer your questions a little bit at the end, so I know I have one pending and I will definitely get to
that question. So if you can save that until I get to the end of this report, we're almost done.
OK. Going on to the next slide, one other aspect of this report was looking at pay compression. Just
looking at the competitiveness of the pay, I'm going to tell you what were looking at first is just your
incumbent's of non-represented RTD employees, those people who could be subordinates. We want to
make sure that with our methodology that it follows at least a 20% difference in pay between the GM/CEO
position and the supported's pay.
In our findings we found that there was really no one that was closer than 20%. In fact, the closest
distance was 37%. What that will tell you, though, is that there may be, depending on what information
that you have from your other studies-- because I do realize you're doing another comp study, I believe
with [? Simpson ?] [? Segal ?] about employee pay-- is that there may be some wiggle room to increase
their pay if seen reasonable.
So now we're going to get down to the last couple of pages here, which is basically the conclusion and
recommendations for salary. So we smoothed out these ranges as far as what we would recommend.
Just so you know, we do think overall that the salary right now is reasonable. It has room to grow,
obviously, to get up to leading the market and in some cases a little bit closer to the mid. It's just fine if we
use the full market data. We recommend that you give the employee a chance to move through the range
before making any adjustments, and the continued movement is really helpful.
We also really emphasize that you should review the compensation system, whatever you have set up or
take in for our recommendations going forward, and make sure it's relevant with market data and that it's
competitive so that you can maintain the position of the GM/CEO with your incumbent. The position that
we have on here is that we have two different recommendations and two different thoughts for these
recommendations.
So the first recommendation is that range that you see there below, kind of a $300,000 to about $465,000
max, with a mid of about $385,000. That gives that incumbent salary of $374,000 some room to grow. It's
very consistent with what we saw from other pay from your other positions that are there. But really, I
think if we use the combination of what we got from the market data, we would really emphasize using
recommendation number two, more than one. But those would be the two recommendations that we
would have.
The reason for recommendation number two is the combination of both the custom data, custom survey
data and the published data. And so it gives it a little bit more width as far as the range spread. You can
see the difference there. So there's more longevity within that range before you max out at that $490,000
spot. And if there happens to be some change in the future and for whatever reason you might need to
bring in somebody new in some years to come, you still have the ability to flexibly be lower with that
range at $280,000 as well.
But overall, we thought that the salary, the total compensation for the GM/CEO is equitable and is
reasonable and that it's competitive with executive jobs in the market at this level of compensation. And it
allows for potential opportunities to grow and increase overall compensation as it aligns with market
trends now and in the future.

So now that was the entire presentation. I know that I had at least one question pending. And so I'm more
than happy, as well as my team, to answer any questions that you may have.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you so much, Mr. Smith. Directors, any questions? OK. I have two. The
first is-- oh, Director Cook, go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: Go right ahead, please.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. The first is on health insurance and whether that's really a meaningful
measurement, given the variety of benefits that come and the negotiating power of the company and how
much the company covers and doesn't cover. How do you guys really justify percent of employer covering
health insurance as the metric to use, when really the benefits that you receive under each individualized
plan vary so widely?
DEREK SMITH: Good question. That's why we had a range. So at the lowest amount, you're at about
82%. But they also have an option going even higher than what the market is. So the best way we can do
it is the percentage, because a lot of people-- it's an expense out of pocket. And so it is seen, in many
circumstances, as a takeaway from their total pay. And so when we talk about total rewards, benefits are
always a part of that. Even though it may not be cash money that you receive in a form of a paycheck, it
is savings in your pay account.
So to your point, it's tricky. They could select a lower contributing plan but they have the option to select
the higher contributing one. And so it's one thing that you can take and assume that that could be
somewhat of a variable there. And it may not be as a higher factor to consider as some of these other
things that are very much fixed, such as deferred comp and/or base pay.
So that's really up for you as a board to really decide. I would recommend that you give it a little bit of
consideration because people do see that cost as something that impacts their total comp.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I hear you. I have a different opinion because I'd rather have a health plan
where my employer might cover less of it but when I go to the doctor I don't have to pay anything out of
pocket, versus an employer who covers 100% of my health plan but doesn't cover anything and
everything's out-of-network. Obviously, the reality is somewhere in the middle.
My second question, or more of a comment, is your recommendations really only focused on the base
comp aspect. So at $374,000 with a 7-- we have a, call it, a 7% adjustment, we will be $400,180-ish. If we
were to increase to $385,000 and drop it down to 4%, consistent with the rest of the raises, the GM and
CEO's comp would actually go down year over year. We would outpace that. Given the amount of
increase we give year over year, we would outpace the market by year 2 and in year 3 would be a market
leader.
Is that a fair assessment of your recommendation? Or is your recommendation just only looking at that
one bottom line, which is the base salary?
DEREK SMITH: Yes. And hopefully I'm understanding you correctly. The actual base salary that we're
looking at is essentially something that you would have to review year over year. Right now it's within
striking distance of market. So I'm not telling you that you automatically need to raise it to that market by
next year. And in fact, I'm actually doing the opposite.

I'm telling you to consider, if you are going to raise it, to do it incrementally and keep aware of how far you
may be from market each time you do raise it. And that may change each year when you look at what the
actual average is. But ranges move up and down year over year, mainly up, considering what is going on
in society, whether it be inflation, cost of living, things like that. And of course, you've added in, it looks
like, merit and COLA, I think you do that annually. I know you did it recently.
So there may not be a need to actually change the entire base salary every year. It's just something that
you should keep aware of, that market number. And as a person becomes more tenured in a position,
then maybe it might be call for time to change it that year because we're falling either below or too close
to market when they maybe need to be leading and above market.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair, I don't need to cut in front of your committee members. If you'd like, I can wait
until others are done.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, you can proceed.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Mr. Smith, I had the 2010 audit and I can see echoes of the
recommendations of that audit in your presentation. So based on that and Melanie's suggestion that she
had provided that and you all had used that as part of your input, I appreciate that.
One piece of that 2010 audit recommended being really clear about the selection of your peer group,
identifying the criteria. So for your comparators, the largely transit agencies and where you were able to
get 65% response, what was your criteria for selecting that group?
DEREK SMITH: So we talked with the project manager, Melanie Snyder, about which ones were utilized
in the other study that you were doing, I believe with [? Segal. ?] And we knew that they had already
supplied information so we thought that would be a good baseline. But mostly our recommendation was
you want to have information that is very much comparable as far as the cities, the number of employees,
the amount of revenue that they're dealing with, things like that. We don't want to compare apples and
oranges.
So for instance, you may have a very large metropolitan city. It may be too big. Or there may be a very
small organization. We wouldn't recommend doing that. And these seem to be somewhat similar and
typical range of this type of information.
SHELLEY COOK: Sounds a little squishy, which maybe it has to be, just a matter of judgment. But they
acted like you needed to define criteria and then screen based on that, whether it's number of employees
or service area or-- But you're suggesting you took all those kinds of things into account and then kind of
made a judgment in each case, is what you're saying?
DEREK SMITH: Yeah. You have to. There's not going to be-- if you live there, there's not going to be a
city exactly like your city. It's just, there's not a million cities like that or even enough. And we wanted to
have five data points to be statistically relevant.
And in doing this, especially when you look at APTA data and other information like this, this is pretty
much what leads the market is people collecting information about what would be somebody that's
similarly situated, not exactly situated but similarly situated. And so when you look at industries, there

may be two cities that are exactly alike. But getting five cities that are exactly alike, to your point, there is
some subjectivity there in the selection.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. And the second thing has to do with the lack of Colorado data. We were also
called out a little bit in that audit for not having compared as much as we could have or should have with
other governmental agencies within Colorado. If I understood your slide, none of the Colorado agencies
responded to a survey. Is that what you had-DEREK SMITH: Well, no, there was Colorado information, it was in the published surveys.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
DEREK SMITH: Yeah. So don't just go by that list. That list is the custom survey that we created
especially just for RTD, and it was recently put in there. So we have way more information. There was
actually a cut for Colorado in the published survey. I believe it was-- let me go back and look and see
what it is. I have it written down here.
It was in the comp data, that suite, that 2022 suite. Remember when I showed you that table of different
surveys? There was actually a Western region and a Colorado data cut in there as well, and a nonprofit
data cut. So we did get Colorado data from the published surveys but not from the custom survey.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. Thank you. Mr. Chair, I'm done.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a couple points. And one is to Director Cook's question.
So that Colorado data that you showed, can that be aggregated or can you break that out so that we can
see what the representative sample was in that? [INAUDIBLE] I just was curious.
DEREK SMITH: I don't think that we can. I believe that that has to be aggregated, just for legal purposes.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. And then my second point, to Director Dishell's earlier comments about health,
dental, and vision insurance, was that just comparing CEOs across the board or did that really factor in
the overall health insurance package for the agency as a whole?
DEREK SMITH: So for me, the-- I believe what you're asking, what I'm understanding from you is you're
asking about when we looked at the health insurance data. Is that correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
DEREK SMITH: That was, OK, that was a comparison for industry. That was the custom data. So yeah,
that was the industry. So that would be transportation organizations.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to make sure that we weren't comparing General Manager CEO
compensation for that particular area that was not consistent with the agency as a whole.
DEREK SMITH: You're correct. We didn't do that for the benefits part. We did that for more of the salary
part.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.

BOBBY DISHELL: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Just a quick follow up on those previous questions.
The published survey data, which is where you had the Colorado data, can you describe for us more how
much of that is private industry and what kind of jobs? Those weren't just transportation. They were a
broad range of industries, right?
DEREK SMITH: Yep, that's correct. So you can have CEOs, and there were CEOs for transportation.
There may be some there from IT or other industries that made that amount larger. But they do have
similar kind of responsibilities as a GM/CEO. The base pay is generally competitive to the market overall,
but it was slightly leading in the comparator group and slightly lagging broader industry. So that could
mean that an executive challenge is in the region across industries and those skill sets, but those skill
sets are highly transferable. So that's why we use that comparison.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And in Colorado, you're not comparing to other like state agencies or anything like
that, right?
DEREK SMITH: No. The Colorado information, I don't believe it was nonprofit. It was not the category of
government state agencies.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DEREK SMITH: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: --Director Guissinger.
Just for clarity sake, though, in Colorado you are required to post a salary then for every single job
posting. So it wasn't done here for Colorado and now New York City, you should be able to know exactly
how much everyone gets paid in [INAUDIBLE], in addition to the fact that it's public information at the
executive level. And is there something I'm missing in that?
DEREK SMITH: The survey itself has other information that's not just Colorado. That's probably the part
that makes it difficult to disaggregate that aggregated data. And so only through a special process of
getting a waiver, assuring that we're not going against the Sherman Antitrust Act do we do something like
that.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Got it. Are there any other questions or comments from the committee? All right.
Mr. Smith, thank you so much.
DEREK SMITH: Thank you for having us. Let us know if you have any questions. And it was a pleasure
working with the Board as well as Melanie Snyder. Thank you very much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. As a reminder-- are there any other matters to discuss?
As a reminder, the 2022 GM/CEO Audio performance appraisal survey must be completed by Friday at
5:00 PM Mountain time. Late submissions will not be accepted or included so it's very important that
everyone complete the survey sooner rather than later.
Our next meeting date is Tuesday, November 22.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Dishell, I see hands raised.
BOBBY DISHELL: There are hands. Wonderful. Director Sloan. Thank you.
MARJORIE SLOAN: [INAUDIBLE].
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Sloan, you are on mute.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I considered raising it before when you were talking about next year's
committee. I think next year's committee could have a much more active role in setting policy for this. Just
one small example is the survey form. And again, I hope this has not gone into the same hole in my brain.
But I don't remember reviewing this survey form before it went out to the Board members. And I would
have had at least one suggestion on it. And I'm sure other committee meetings, or committee members
would also have some input. So I believe there's a more active role that the Performance Committee can
play in the future.
So that is my other matter and it's linked to your idea about the future of the committee. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Sloan. Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Chair. So I just wanted to note for the committee and the other
Board members present that Gallagher is preparing a full written report that has a number of appendices.
So they are in the process of finalizing that. And the aim is to get that out by this Friday at the latest. So
you will get that via email.
BOBBY DISHELL: Wonderful. Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, just to follow on. Since I'd been reading through the 2010 audit, I'd just add this
support for Marjorie's, Director Sloan's remarks just now. They talk about the Board retaining a consultant
to do the benchmarking or to do other work. So I do feel like it's better placed in that realm rather than
away from the Board. I don't think there was much visibility into how the study was structured or
overseen. And I believe it would have been better for the Board to have overseen that.
And that assumption that the Board would do it was evident throughout that 2010 report, where it talked
about the Board and the Board overseeing, the Board retaining the consultant, et cetera. So thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to ask the question, if a time
had been selected for the November 22 committee meeting. Because if so, I have not been apprised. And
then if I could, secondly, just say, as related to Director Cook's comment, I want to state for the record
that I had no involvement. This is the first time I have seen the presentation. So as relates to any
involvement, I just wanted to clarify that I nor members of my office directly were involved. And General
Counsel coordinated that, I believe, with the Chair as well as with the committee chair. So just wanted to
state that for the record. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. I similarly do not know what time our meeting is on the 22nd. Board office,
have we been able to finish off polling?

TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Director Dishell. So I have not heard back from Committee Chair Lewis, but it
looks like the rest of the committee was available at 12.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Ms. Snyder. Go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: I had another matter related to this but not on the time.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
BOBBY DISHELL: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Mine was on the time. And I would just say, recognizing today is the 16th, I would
encourage the committee to collectively decide if in fact the meeting will be held at noon. Several of us
have holds on our calendars. And I don't want to come across as being off put-ish, but it would be helpful
if we could discern what a time is. And considering the vast majority of committed committee members,
and I'm not trying to leave out the Committee Chair, but I would encourage you all to collectively decide
when the time is, recognizing all the other commitments that we have going forward. So thank you very
much for your consideration.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. We'll go back to Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK. I just wanted to know for the record that as GM and CEO Johnson noted that
the scope of work for the retention of the Gallagher consultant that was reviewed by Chair Buzek and
then the Chair and Vice Chair of this committee. I'm happy to share that as well.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. [INAUDIBLE].
PEGGY CATLIN: I responded to the request from Tai-Shrae for meeting time preference. And I believe I
stated that I would prefer to keep it at the noon time frame.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. She noted everyone would prefer-- she noted everyone except Chair Lewis,
[INAUDIBLE] we haven't heard back from.
PEGGY CATLIN: So can we just decide that we will have it then?
BOBBY DISHELL: Is Chair Lewis, or Director Lewis, scheduled to be at the dinner tonight?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: She is, yes.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Why don't we talk to her? I will speak with her tonight at the dinner. Let's plan on
12:00 unless you hear otherwise.
PEGGY CATLIN: That sounds good for some of us who are trying to plan around that. Appreciate it.
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm in that same boat. Chair Buzek, you had a hand and now it's gone.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm good. Thanks.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Any other matters?

OK. Our next meeting date is Tuesday, November 22, tentatively scheduled for 12:00 PM, to be finalized
by tomorrow morning. The Board office-- you will get a final update from the Board office.
Seeing no other discussion, this meeting is adjourned at 2:42 PM. Thank you all so much.

