2023-11-14
Finance and Planning Committee Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening. The Tuesday, November 14 Finance and Planning Committee will now
come to order. We are convened virtually here as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. My name is Doug
Tisdale and I am the Chair of the Finance and Planning Committee. I would respectfully ask everyone
attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. And we want to thank you all
for joining us this evening.
Please note that the committee meetings of the RD Board of Directors will, for a while, continue to be held
remotely via Zoom and they will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of these meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Please
visit rtd-denver.com for more information. In addition, a live stream of this meeting is also available via
RTD's YouTube page.
Now Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you please to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to
recognize you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by telephone can also raise
their virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9 on their phone. And to
toggle your mute setting on the phone, you simply have to press star 6.
So now I will call the roll for the committee members. Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Bobby Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
DOUG TISDALE: Board Chair Lynn Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm here.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Michael Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am present.
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Ian Harwick is excused from the meeting this evening. Vice Chair Erik
Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here. And I am the Chair, Doug Tisdale, and I am present.
Now for the sake of the record, let us also note other Directors that we have present. I see Director Bob
Broom. I see Director Kate Williams. And I see Director Troy Whitmore. And I do not see any other Board
Directors. Am I missing any Board Director? Hearing no response, I'll take it I have acknowledged all of
you.

So I would now like to open the public comment portion of our meeting. And this is open to anyone who
would like to address the committee regarding any topic that is listed in the published meeting agenda for
this current meeting and also for the immediately preceding month. Now if you wish to speak and you
have not already done this, please either raise your virtual hand here in the Zoom meeting or press star 9
on your phone.
Understand that during this public comment period, the committee will not offer any direct comments or
responses to anything that you might say. If you would like to be contacted regarding your public
comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
So let me ask first, are there any hands raised? I do not see any on my screen. And I'll ask staff if there
are any hands raised that you see or people who are on the phone who have indicated they would like to
comment.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. We have Richard Bamber, who has a hand raised from the
public.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Fine. Then we will recognize Mr. Richard Bamber. And for the sake of the
record, I will note for Richard Bamber that we did receive the email communication at 5:00 this evening
regarding the 2024 proposed budget. If you would like to read that or amplify on that, please feel free.
And so you are now recognized.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi there. Good evening, everybody. Yeah, I would like to amplify the point we make
in the letter regarding the inclusion of $150 million in next year's budget for what is light rail track
replacements.
Our first comments, we had to do some digging on this to find out what this was. We note that the area
was subject to a corrective action plan submitted to the PUC. It was major issues with the track, including
negative superelevation and gauge spread. Those are two sort of mechanisms that light rail track can fail.
The result of, if that is not properly maintained, renewed, that a train could come off the tracks at speed
and potentially cause a major accident.
We have found out that the project appears to be, the scope is for the downtown light rail loop and also
the L Line. While any sort of renewal and investment in these lines is welcome, we'd like this information
to be put in the budget so the general public can find out what they're looking. We shouldn't have to go
searching to the PUC website to find out what this is all about.
We notice, when reading the notice of corrective actions completed, which was filed by the agency two
weeks ago, that it noted that the rail replacement program is not adequate to main the state of good
repair within the downtown loop. And also, cross department coordination in rail infrastructure
replacement to ensure alignment with [INAUDIBLE] with for the asset management plan and PTAS is not
optimized.
To sort of put that into more layman's terms, what that indicates, and also in section 12, same document,
base test of the asset management system hasn't-- the cataloging of assets is not up to where it needs to
be with the agency. So what this is starting to sort of thing is-- and we also know, from just recent history,
that the downtown light rail, this loop has been closed multiple occasions in the last couple of years for
track renewal, major civil infrastructure work. And it's starting to indicate that the history of this area has
not been appropriately maintained, renewed, or budgeted for.

So we hope that's going to change. And of course, I should remind you that all of this and failure to do
any of this, there are major safety implications for RTD staff and the public. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much for your comments. We appreciate that. Are there any other
hands raised at this time, Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: I do not see any.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. And as I have indicated, the email that we received from Greater
Denver Transit, with Richard Bamber and James Flattum as signatories-- there are two-- has already
been acknowledged and will be included as part of the record.
And if there are no other comments at this time-- and I appreciate that Richard Bamber is aware of the
fact that he was recorded during the course of this and has previously consented to being recorded. At
this time then, we will close the public comment period.
And the next item on our agenda relates to information from external entities. There is no information from
external entities to report out this month so we will move on from that.
Now our next agenda item will be a standing agenda item for meetings of the Finance Committee going
forward into the foreseeable future, and that relates to the Revenue Diversification Working Group. And I
now call upon Committee Vice Chair Davidson to provide us with an update on the Revenue
Diversification Working Group.
Now following Director Davidson's update, I will ask for any further comments from other members of that
working group who may be in the meeting who would like to add something. And then I will ask if there is
any discussion or any comment from any Director on this topic. But for now, Mr. Vice Chair, the floor is
yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. Much appreciated. Just as a reminder, the
Revenue Diversification Group was convened to make informed recommendations to the Board regarding
opportunities for revenue diversification, fiscal policy enhancements, and other measures to support the
long-term fiscal sustainability of RTD, in accordance with the strategic priority of financial success.
The group is comprised of primarily staff. The standing working group consists of Debra Johnson, our
General Manager and CEO, Melanie Snyder, our General Counsel, Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial
Officer, Michael Davies, our Government Relations Officer, Brenden Morgan, our Senior Management of
Debt and Investments, and myself, Director Davidson of District I, as the liaison.
We are joined on occasion by other members of staff or other members of the Board. In this case, for
example, at our most recent meeting, which was November 6, 2023, we were joined by our Chair
Guissinger as well as Mr. Stuart Summers. The group convened to discuss our action items from the prior
meeting.
Largely, this group is in a research mode. First and foremost, we discussed recommendations that have
been made to us regarding TABOR impact, specifically from the state of Colorado. We discussed tolling
revenues, severance taxes, and a few other items there. Again, largely in research mode with
suggestions that have been made to the agency and deciding what might be possible as we chart a path
forward.

Significantly, we went through a variety of our action items on research. In particular, our General
Counsel Snyder has done a significant amount of research on all previous efforts to look at revenue
diversification and similar financial research. We went through some of the findings from 2007, 2008,
2009, 2010, 2011, and have some actions to continue on from there.
Additionally, Mr. Morgan recapped some of the findings in his review of the 2010 to 2011 Financial
Sustainability Committee that was convened by this Board. And Mr. Davies also weighed in on some
research. This is helping to just establish a common set of facts of where we are, what we've looked at
before, and what we know.
We also discussed activities with the Citizens Advisory Committee. The group had identified a potential
opportunity to deploy the capabilities of our CAC to do some additional research with us. Mr. Davies, as
well as Mr. MacLeod, commented on some of those activities and commented on an upcoming meeting
they would have with the CAC regarding these topics.
We also discussed another community group, which is the Alliance to Transform Transportation, which is
doing some public opinion polling and some consideration of possibilities around transit funding. Mr.
Davies has remained close to that and briefed the group on his understanding of what is going on there.
We had a discussion around the challenge around getting a common set of comparable metrics. One of
the primary things that this working group will do, we'll make recommendations to this committee and also
equip this committee and the Board with talking points that we can use to communicate with our partners
around funding.
Mr. Davies, Mr. Morgan, Mr. MacLeod all touched on the difficulty of getting to some of these common
metrics, for example, being funded on a sales tax. If that's statewide, that's reported to the National
Transit Database as being general state fund. If that's directly collected by the transit authority, such as
the case with RTD, that's reported in a different bucket.
So we had some good discussion around some work that will be happening there. There are some followups with Mr. Davies and Mr. MacLeod. And I have also offered to offer up some of my research as well
regarding the National Transit Database.
Additionally, Mr. Davies briefed the group extensively on all those agencies, the largest agencies that are
facing the largest fiscal cliffs in the United States right now, and discussed some of the funding options
they are looking into. This includes agencies such as MTA, WMATA, New Jersey Transit, SEPTA, CTA,
BART. And we had a robust discussion, thanks to Mr. Davies, our research about things going on over
there.
Ms. Johnson then moved into a section talking about the importance of our messaging and talking points,
gaining some consistency when we do have those metrics and that understanding. That is why we were
joined by Mr. Summers, who has graciously offered to help the Board.
DOUG TISDALE: We've just lost you, Mr. Vice Chair. Looks like you are reconnecting to audio at this
time. We'll pause for a moment to hear the rest of an excellent report on the Revenue Diversification
Working Group.
While we are waiting, I will note, for the sake of the record, that Director Ruscha has also joined the
meeting with us this evening. I will--

JACK KROLL: Director Davidson has texted me and informed me that he lost connection completely, so it
may be a moment before he comes back in.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Let me then, at this point, because I believe that our first recommended action
is one that will be relatively expeditiously handled. So without objection from the committee, we will
proceed at this time to the first recommended action on the agenda this evening. Is there objection?
Hearing none, the first action for this evening is the salaried trustee appointment. And the recommended
action is for the Board of Directors to approve resolution number blank, series-Oh, wait. Director Davidson, are you back and connected?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Believe so. My apologies to the committee. I did lose all of my connectivity there.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. That's fine. Then we will forestall proceeding with the first recommended action
and go back to the continuation of your report. Thank you. Please proceed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. I will wrap up here. We also did talk about proceeding forward with some
surveying for our agency to understand what might be possible as we go forward. We did release a
solicitation on October 26.
And then we discussed our new action items, which are around continued research. Ms. Snyder has
offered to continue her historical research from 2012 onward Mr. MacLeod, Mr. Davies, and myself will
meet to discuss metrics with regards to agency funding from the NTD. Mr. MacLeod and Ms. Snyder will
continue discussions around understanding TABOR. Ms. Johnson and Mr. Stuart will meet to discuss
shaping of messages around our path forward. And additionally, we will be consolidating all of our
information and research into one place.
The next meeting will be December 4 on 2023 at 4:00 PM. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Vice Chair. We appreciate your report on that. Let me ask,
are there other members of the working group who are present here in the meeting this evening who
would like to add anything to what Vice Chair Davidson has addressed? I see no any indication of
interest. Is there any discussion or are there any comments from committee members or other Directors
relative to the Revenue Diversification Working Group report?
Seeing none, we'll conclude that matter for now. And we look forward to the next report, which will be at
the Finance and Planning Committee meeting in January of 2024.
As I said earlier, there are two recommended action items this evening. The first is relative to the salaried
trustee appointment. And that is for the Board of Directors to approve resolution number blank, series of
2023 reappointing Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, and Bill Sirois, Senior Manager for TransitOriented Communities, as trustees with terms expiring December 31, 2025, and appointing Jennie Waski,
Senior Specialist for Benefits, with a term expiring December 31, 2024 to the Salaried Employee Defined
Benefit Pension Plan, known as the DB plan, and the Salaried Employee Defined Contribution Retirement
Plan, known as the DC plan, trusts. So the trust for those two plans. Do we have a motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I hear Director Catlin as the movant. Is there a second?

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I heard Director Guzman on the second first, so I will acknowledge that. And we
will proceed with discussion on this first recommended action. And that means that we will recognize
Doug MacLeod, our Chief Financial Officer, to present on this item. Mr. MacLeod the floor is yours, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair Tisdale, and good evening. Just real briefly, just to add a little bit
more color to this recommended action, the Board of Trustees for each of these trusts-- and there are two
trusts. As Chair Tisdale mentioned, there's one for the pension plan for non-represented or salaried
employees and there's also a defined contribution plan for employees that joined RTD, non-represented
employees that joined RTD January 1, 2008 and thereafter.
The trustees oversee the management of these funds in consultation with contracted counsel, investment
advisors, as well as the trust administrator. There are seven trustees on each of these trusts and all
seven trustees are the same trustees on both trusts. Within the resolution attached to this recommended
action, you can see the individual trustees' names as well as their term expirations. And I would point out
that each trustee serves a two-year term, with the exception of the Chief Financial Officer position, which
is a permanent position.
With that, Chair Tisdale, I'd be happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the probative and brief report. Are there any questions from
any committee members regarding this recommended action? Seeing none, are there any questions from
any Directors relative to this recommended action?
Seeing none, we will then proceed with a vote on the first recommended action regarding the
appointment of these trustees. This is a motion by Director Catlin, as seconded by Director Guzman. Are
there any no votes on this action? Having paused and waited for any indication of a negative vote and
hearing none, the matter passes unanimously and it will proceed to the consent agenda for the full Board
meeting.
The second action that we have this evening, second recommended action that we have this evening, is
the 2024 proposed budget. And the recommended action is for the Board of Directors to adopt resolution
number blank, series of 2023, for the adoption of the 2024 budget, and to adopt resolution number blank,
series of 2023, for the 2024 budget appropriation, and to adopt resolution number blank, series of 2023,
for the appropriation of 2024 previously appropriated capital. So those three resolutions will be part of this
one motion. May I have a motion?
ERIK DAVIDSON: --moved, Director Davidson.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second, Dishell.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Davidson is the movant and Director Dishell is the second on that. And we are
going to recognize in a moment Doug MacLeod, the Chief Financial Officer, to present on this item.
I do want to point out, for the benefit of the committee and for the other Directors that are on this Zoom
conference meeting, that we expect this will be an extended discussion. So get comfortable, settle in. And
if you have any questions, we would be happy to hear them.

I will note, for the sake of the record, that there were a series of questions, about over 30 in all, that were
presented by the Board Executive Manager to the General Manager/CEO and the Chief Financial Officer
for their consideration, which questions were responded to earlier today in a memorandum. And we will
undoubtedly bring up some of those questions and responses during the course of this discussion. That's
absolutely appropriate. But I do want to note that they will be made a part of the record relative to this
discussion on the budget.
So with that as background, I now turn to our Chief Financial Officer, Doug McLeod, to present on these
three resolutions for the 2024 budget. Mr. MacLeod, once again the floor is yours, sir.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you again, Mr. Chair. Just a couple of information items before I bring up the
slide presentation. So as you mentioned, there have been responses. I have had an occasion to have a
meeting with one Board member. And the offer still stands that myself and other Finance staff are
available to meet in person or go through additional detail, if that's necessary, as well as with the general
public. So we're happy to do that. We've had that offer up since the initial budget presentation on October
3 and it stands through the, hopefully the Board consideration of the budget on November 28. However,
please just contact me if you'd like to have further more detailed discussions.
So I will go ahead and share my screen. OK. So I have several slides here. And joining me tonight also is
Todd Nikkel, Senior Manager of Budget. I'd like to thank Todd, as well as many others throughout the
agency who worked very hard putting this budget together. I'd just like to point out, it's a very big effort
with a $1.6 billion budget, gathering all budget requests, getting input, coordinating, reviewing with the
General Manager and CEO. A lot of back and forth, a lot of time involved. And I just want to publicly thank
everybody who helped pull this entire budget together.
So just as a reminder, the development of the 2024 proposed budget before you tonight began with a
Mid-term Financial Plan, which covers the period 2024 through 2029. We do that six-year plan to
establish a baseline and targets that we can view as being fiscally sustainable for the agency in which to
set targets for our budget development.
On October 3, 2023, during the Finance and Planning Committee, a discussion item was held with a
proposed budget. It was the draft budget at that point in time. That budget was also provided to the
public, as required by state statute, to be presented to the public by October 15 each year. It was also
noticed in two daily newspapers, the Boulder Daily Camera as well as the Denver Post, and was
presented on the front of the RTD website for viewing. It was also presented or provided in the Board
Office in hard copy form for anybody who wanted to come in and review the hard copy form.
So again, the offer still stands. Please, we want everybody to be informed, have their questions
answered. Please contact myself and we can get the answers that you're looking for.
Tonight is what we're providing to you, the final 2024 proposed budget for consideration. By approving
this budget at this committee, it would go to the full Board for consideration for approval. Once approved
by the full Board, it would then establish the appropriation of expenditures for the fiscal year 2024, which
is January 1 through December 31 for RTD.
In developing the 2024 proposed budget, the key constraints that we were looking at and key prioritization
of items that were going to be put into the proposed budget surrounded the strategic plan priorities and
the strategic initiatives. Regarding community value, it's important that we are good stewards, represent
the agency as good stewards of taxpayer money, so we need to be fiscally responsible. Regarding

customer excellence, a big portion of the development of the budget involves the System Optimization
Plan and development of the staffing and the materials, supplies, and equipment needed to perform the
operations in that SOP.
Employee ownership, I mentioned there's a lot of involvement throughout the organization. Every
department has their own budget. Each Chief or Assistant General Manager has their budget for their
department which rolls up into an entire budget. A lot of collaboration and coordination across
departmentally occurs in coordination with the General Manager to establish a final budget.
And then finally, financial success. So our goal is always to have a balanced budget. Now we'll have
fluctuations year to year, and you'll see that in our cash flows this evening. But some years, we'll have
negative cash flows. Other years, we'll have positive cash flows. The way we manage those cash flows
over time is to keep a reserve balance, kind of like a savings account or a rainy day fund. We have larger
expenditures in some years for things like large bus purchases or infrastructure projects that will occur in
specific years that we need to do an appropriation for. And then we'll have other years where we don't
have those large projects, which leaves extra money that flows into our reserves.
Regarding strategic initiatives, the three strategic initiatives are shown here. Back to Basics. So Back to
Basics regarding the budget is really an alignment of what we're asking to appropriate with the strategic
plan. And we're going back to the basics of really trying to, or what we are doing is we're really trying to
narrow down the list of capital expenditure projects to those that align with the strategic priorities. We're
also ensuring that they meet safety, statutory, or regulatory compliance. And so the focus has really been
around that, as well as maintaining our assets. So Back to Basics, maintaining what we have in terms of
the asset management plan, also referred to as the Transit Asset Management Plan with the FTA.
Regarding People Power within this budget, we do budget by position. So within the salaries and benefits
line, we have budgeted by each individual position. And some of those positions will be budgeted at
different times. If they happen to be vacant, we don't budget to have all of them filled by January 1, so we
stagger some of those, hiring in alignment with how we think we can manage that.
We also mainly focus those recruitments on the most needed positions, so that the highly, the very highly
vacant positions, such as operators, mechanics, the police department, we've made provisions for each
of those. So those are very much considered in this budget, as well as other vacant positions, we do have
the appropriation request included for them.
Regarding a Welcoming Transit Environment. Large focus there from a budget appropriation standpoint is
really focused around the police department, the need for additional police officers, equipment, radio
systems, as well as additional welcoming transit environment enhancements, such as an environmental
design.
Some of the assumptions used in the 2024 budget-- and we'll go through the numbers here in a few
minutes and you'll see what those impacts are-- but the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis that
the Board approved in July, those recommendations are being put into place. The majority of those
changes to the fare structure will go into place in the beginning of the year, on January 1. We have taken
that into account in budgeting fare revenue.
Forecasted sales and use taxes. When we discussed the Mid-term Financial Plan, there was a lot of
discussion about the impacts of TABOR to our sales and use taxes. The impact from TABOR will not be
in effect until 2025, so you won't see an impact in this 2024 budget in our assumptions. We stuck strictly

with what the University of Colorado Leeds School of Business provided RTD with for a forecast for taxes
in 2024.
System Optimization Plan. When we look at the operating expenses in a few minutes here, you'll see that,
you won't see the details, but behind all of this information that's presented in a summary format, so it's
easily digestible for all of our stakeholders, is a lot of detail. I mentioned these budgets are built by
department, by position. We have all that detail in our financial system.
So when we build the operating expenses, it's all built around our System Optimization Plan, from staffing
all the way down to supplies, as well as support functions, including my own department in finance so all
of that is designed to be in alignment with the strategic plan.
The overall inflation rate within the budget, if you were to look at the detail, we actually go by line item.
Not every line item, but category. So we have inflationary factors for labor, which may differ from
inflationary factors from materials and supplies, which may differ from other types of items, including
equipment. So overall, that inflation factor, if you were to take the overall average, we're including a 5.1%
inflation factor in the 2024 budgeted expenses.
That's well in alignment with the most recent report from the Bureau of Labor statistics, which showed a
12-month CPI increase, which was for all goods and services, of 5.4% for the 12 months ending
September, 2023. So we feel comfortable with the assumptions that we're using in terms of inflated costs,
as well as contractual costs that we know about. Those are included within the budget too.
Transit Asset Management Plan. We'll speak a little bit about the capital expenditures. The Transit Asset
Management Plan is really the TAM plan, it really is a listing mainly of our assets, so capital expenditures
for assets. We do have some assets that are considered expense. The difference between expense and
expenditure, capital expenditures, an expense item has something less than a long life attached to it and
it may be of low value. So we have low value computer hardware. So for instance, monitors. Those are
expensed when we buy them. We do track inventory but we do not actually account for them as a capital
item because they have to exceed $5,000 or they're large items that have multi-year lifespans.
So when we look at the TAM plan, that TAM plan is really looking at the age of our assets, the condition
of our assets, and determining when those replacements should occur. We then incorporate that
information into this budget appropriation request so that the funding is available to make those changes
of repairs and replacements or refurbishments or flat out total new assets as well.
So that's our guiding principle. We use data-driven decisions. We are still working on that as part of our
Back to Basics and clearing up backlogs and understanding all of the data and really focusing that TAM
plan and prioritization based on the items that I mentioned.
Reserves maintenance. You'll see, when we get to reserves, our reserves are in very good shape. I've
been here 13 years. This is the best condition that RTD has been in financially. We have significant
reserves. Most of those reserves are earmarked for TAM items and maintaining our assets going forward.
But we're in a position where we have solid financial strength and a very good balance sheet.
Within the budget package is an appropriation-- or sorry, excuse me, there's an appropriation request
within the Board resolution. And I should mention, within the entire Board package, there's a Board report,
there's a resolution with these numbers asking for this appropriation. There's also this slide presentation.
There is a budget document which includes a lot of narrative and a lot of additional information that you

may find useful, and the public probably finds useful, as well as three attachments, attachments A, B, and
C. And I'll speak to those in a few minutes. But all of those roll up into what we're asking to appropriate
here.
And I'll just go down briefly. So operating expenses is our largest single expense, obviously. That
excludes depreciation. But that's a cost of us providing our core service, our core business, essentially.
So $1,040,000. So these numbers are in thousands.
Debt interest payments and principal, debt principal payments, those combined are $223 million. That's
actually down just a little bit from prior years due to refinancings. That's mainly bonds and some
certificates of participation. And as a reminder, in 2024 we will pay off the remaining bonds, that RTD
base system where the 6/10 is issued. So they will no longer have any sales tax bond payments past that
point. They will have some certificates of participation payments that are still due for equipment that was
bought in prior years.
Previously approved capital carry, capital. Oh, sorry, I skipped a line. New capital expenditures. So this is
Schedule B that is included in the attachment. There are 20 new capital projects requested for
appropriation within Schedule B, or Attachment B. Those total $185,460,000. I'll speak a little bit more to
how that breaks down. But the majority of the new items have to do with asset management, replacing
and repairing the assets that we do have. And then there's a very large number in there for-- excuse me,
for a pass through grant.
Previously approved capital. So what this is what we refer to as capital carry-forward from 2023. Many of
our capital projects span fiscal years. Some of them are multi-year projects. You can imagine an
infrastructure project can take more than one year in a lot of cases. Being such, we request for the Board
to appropriate the money up front for the entire project. That is necessary because by state law we have
to have the funds identified and budgeted and appropriated in order to issue a purchase requisition and
begin the procurement process.
So we can't do it piecemeal. We identify the funds up front, have it appropriated, have that money set
aside. That money is then used to complete the project. If it spans fiscal years and the project is not
complete and we still have more work to do, we take the remaining funding available and ask for it to be
carried forward and appropriated in the following year.
The fiscal policy of RTD is to carry forward unspent funds for capital expenditures up to three years or
until the project is complete, if that's the lesser time period. So there is a time limit. So we're very focused
in our Back to Basics of really looking at these projects and analyzing them. And as a reminder, we're still
transitioning-- well, we have transitioned from a large capital build out project with FasTracks, where a lot
of the focus, a lot of the appropriations, a lot of the effort was dedicated to expanding our system.
Where we are now is really trying to focus on the operational issues and maintaining what we have. So as
a part of that, we're really trying to close out some of these projects that still have funding, still have
encumbrances on them. And that will be a part of the ongoing discussions that we have Back to Basics
as staff during 2024.
I would point out that this previously approved capital carry-forward number that was brought to the Board
for appropriation in 2022 for this fiscal year was $567 million. So I'd like to point out that we've made a lot
of progress closing down projects that were completed, really aligning that with our strategic plan. We do

have some more work to do as we continue to evaluate and prioritize efforts. Because it's not just a
funding issue for RTD, it's also a non-financial resource issue.
As you know, on the Operations side, we've had lots of discussions about the lack of availability of
enough staffing. That goes for everything that we do, for the most part. Maybe not to that degree. But for
everything we do, there's a necessary resource allocation internally, whether it's project oversight,
whether it's coordination. Everything has to go through procurement, goes through legal review. So you
can imagine, there's a lot of involvement and a lot of resource allocation. So really trying to refine that
down to something that's not only important to our strategic plan but that we can actually execute and
deliver on in the time frame that we're asking for the funding.
Moving down into the fund appropriation section. So while this is included in the appropriation, this is not
an appropriation to expend these funds. It's more an appropriation of what we project to be the available
fund balances in each one of these fund balance categories that have been established by the fiscal
policy that was approved by the Board in October of 2023.
So the main categories here, FasTracks Internal Savings Account. Currently that fund balance in 2023 is
$169 million. That FasTracks Internal Savings Account, or FISA, was established by the Board in about
2013. And the purpose of that was to identify and segregate funding that would be available for
completing unfinished FasTracks projects. The reason why that number is growing from $169 million in
2023 to $190 million in 2024 is due to the way that the FISA is funded. The majority-- well, actually, all of
that funding in 2024, the additional $23 million or so, $21 million, is coming from a reduction in the
amount that FasTracks is paying the base system to provide bus feeder service.
In the original FasTracks plan, the FasTracks plan said that the FasTracks system will pay the base
system 1% of service each year for providing bus service from the base system to the FasTracks new
line, so bus feeder service. That number was determined to not be growing at the rate that it should have,
or was growing faster than what the actual rate of surface provision was over years.
So at that point in time, in 2013, the Board decided, let's just limit that growth year-over-year in service
provision to CPI. So the increase of $21 million in 2024 represents the consumer price index change on
that initial calculation. That's why that fund continues to grow.
I would point out, there have been some uses-- and we do include a FISA reconciliation in the monthly
Board briefings, in the financial statements, that shows what money's coming in to fund it. And it shows
the outflows. The most recent uses approved by the Board of the FISA was the $8 million appropriated for
the Northwest Rail Peak Service Study.
Capital Replacement Fund. I mentioned earlier, we have fluctuations in our net cash flow. What we do is
we set aside additional funds in the good years, where we have additional cash flow. Then when we have
the years where we spend additional funding for large capital purchases, we'll draw that capital
replacement fund down. So we've set those funds aside. And if you may recall in the Mid-term Financial
Plan, you would see that Capital Replacement Fund going up and down as we add to it and use it yearover-year, depending on the needs for capital expenditures.
Operating Reserve. This is a fiscal policy of RTD to maintain three months of operating reserves, three
months of operating expenses in reserve as a rainy day fund. We've had a lot of discussions. We
discussed the Revenue Diversification Group earlier this evening. The big concern that we have as an

agency is so much of our revenue is concentrated in one funding source. 75% of our revenues in 2024
are projected to come from sales and use taxes.
Sales and use taxes are very susceptible to economic swings. When people within the District spend less
money, we collect less sales taxes. You go through a recession, and what we saw in 2008-2009 was a
10% drop in sales and use taxes. So we maintain this operating reserve so that we don't have to make
rash decisions and cut service and make other very extreme changes to our expenditures. And this gives
us an opportunity to do that and have time to make different plans.
The Unrestricted Fund is simply like a general fund. It's everything that's left over. So that's funding that's
available for appropriation by the Board when necessary.
So as I mentioned, we're in very good financial shape as an agency. Total funds that we have, funds
available, are $898.5 million. So I think that's important to point out for this committee. And it is included in
the appropriation this evening.
There is an Attachment A, as well as an attachment A. The Attachment B, you'll recall, is the new capital
expenditures. Attachment A shows the changes that have been made to the budget since October 3,
when the draft budget was presented to this committee. There's an intervening period that we do where
we put out the initial budget for presentation that has the vast majority of all the budgeted items included.
As we have additional discussions, there are additional changes that happen with this final budget
appropriation request.
So in Attachment A, what you will see is $198.9 million of changes. That sounds like a big number. It is a
big number. And the big reason for this-- and I'll just skip to the third bullet here. There is a pass-through
grant for the City and County of Denver of $137.9 million. That is for the Colfax BRT, the improvements
they're making along Colfax. We are the recipient of those federal dollars, the direct recipient. Denver
asked us to be the pass-through, where they would expend the money, RTD would act as a direct
recipient, draw the grant funds down and pass them through.
It's a net zero impact to RTD because we'll recognize $137.9 million of expenses and $137.9 million of
grant fare revenue. However, it looks like, when you look at just the expenses, they've increased by
$137.9 million.
Just backing up a little bit to the $10 million. So this is where most of the changes came from. There's
several changes, you'll see them on attachment A. To give some examples of what those include, it was
identified that there was a need for some additional DVR, digital recorders for our vehicles to be replaced.
There's funding included for the Office of the State Auditor audit, as RTD's required to pay for that audit.
The partnership program was included, as well as bridge repairs and several other miscellaneous items,
all totaling up to approximately $10 million.
The second bullet there, $34.6 million in expense carry-forward. So I'd like to point out, this is an
operating expense as opposed to capital expenditure carry-forward. Capital expenditure carry-forward is
shown in Attachment C. We do have operating expenses that have a similar treatment that we do. So we
have to wait till the end of the year, because many activities are going on throughout the year that require
operating expenses. Several of those activities overlap years, just like the capital expenditures do. So in
that instance, we asked to carry forward certain operating expenses.

If we don't get that appropriation to carry forward those operating expenses, they do not carry forward and
that funding is not available. Projects would have to be stopped. And some examples of some expense
projects would be things like light rail vehicle seat replacements, boiler replacements, HVAC
replacements, those types of things that are really considered expense as opposed to buying a new
capital asset.
Finally, the final bullet point there, $16 million transfer from capital to expense. Again, this is a net zero
impact to RTD. It was recognized that we included in our capital expenditure list on the Schedule B
initially, we included a $16 million expense to do enhancements to the Longmont Park-n-Ride Station.
After reviewing that further, it was determined that that really belongs in expense, because we will not
own the assets that those enhancements are attached to. So that's just a shift from one category to
another.
So now moving into-- this is the cash flow statement. So this is essentially our income statement. It shows
the funds coming in and the revenues, and it shows the funds going out through the expenses and the
expenditures.
So just starting there at the top in row 1-- and you'll notice, the line items are numbered over on the left
with a blue number-- so blue number 1, row 1, Fares. You can see the decrease there of $10 million from
our projected 2023 collections. So we're expecting to collect about $64 million in fare revenue in 2024.
That's resulting basically from the implementation of the fare study recommendations that the Board
approved where we're reducing fares, simplifying fares, and offering additional discounts.
As you can see, out of our total revenue on line 4, $1.3 billion, $63 million is a relatively insignificant
portion of that. Still important. However, it's not a large portion of our revenue. So with the $10 million
decrease, we don't anticipate that having a substantial impact to RTD's finances.
Sales and use taxes, as I mentioned, that is the number that was provided based on our experts at
University of Colorado Leeds School of Business, what they project sales and use tax collections to be in
2024.
Grant revenue and other income, that number there, $349,066,000 in row 3, that number primarily
includes the preventive maintenance grants. When we budget for grants, we only budget for grants that
we've already been apportioned or notified that we will receive. We don't budget for grants that we may
be applying for, have not received notice that we will get, that type of thing. We're very conservative.
The majority of that, approximately $220 million, comes from preventive maintenance grants, which are
formula grants apportioned based on our National Transit Database filings. It's a grant that we get every
year to maintain our vehicles. In addition to that, the $127 million increase, that number may look a little
familiar because it's essentially the grant that's getting passed through. So the $137.9 million passthrough grant is being recognized in that line item. And then the flip side of that is that it's being
recognized on the expense side, down in row 7, with the $326,907,000.
So those two offset on the bottom line. It's just in and out. But in order for us to actually provide that grant
funding to City and County of Denver, we need the Board to appropriate that transaction.
I won't hit every line, but I'll hit on the big ones here. Row 5, Salaries and benefits. So as you can see,
those are relatively flat. Now I did say we have a lot of vacant positions. One of the reasons why that is

relatively flat is because we're actually coming in below our salaries and benefits in 2023 so it's actually
going to end up being lower than the $351 million shown there.
In addition to that, because we have vacancies, we're also paying a lot of additional overtime and other
premiums, et cetera, that will be offset with a new position. Even though that filled new position would
have benefits, the combination of those two are pretty flat. So we don't have a large increase in salaries
and benefits.
I would mention, and we have included this and we got some questions about how much is being
contributed to the pension plans in 2024. On the ATU, the represented employee pension, that is dictated
by the collective bargaining agreement. And that is a 15% contribution, 15% of wages by RTD, with a 5%
contribution by employees. And keep in mind, that plan was closed to new employees in 2023. So all the
new employees are going into a new plan, defined contribution as opposed to a pension plan. Those are
represented employees. RTD contributes 9% and will match up to 5% of the employees' contributions if
they elect voluntarily to put those contributions in.
Over on the salary side, another big number is $15 million contribution to the salaried employee, or
nonrepresented employee pension plan. That $15 million-- and I should mention that a lot of what I'm
saying this evening is also included in the narrative of the budget document, but I just wanted to give a
good rundown of what we're including here. $15 million contribution to the closed nonrepresented pension
plan.
That pension plan closed December 31, 2007. Employees hired past that point go into a defined
contribution plan. That defined contribution plan also has a contribution from RTD of 9%. And there is no
ability for employees to contribute to that. However, there is a 457(b) plan, which is a deferred
compensation plan pre-tax, that employees can elect to participate in with-- all employees, represented,
nonrepresented can elect to participate in and contribute their own funds.
The $15 million contribution is the same contribution that was provided to the salaried employee pension
in 2023 upon recommendations from the actuary on that trust. The recommended contribution was $11
million. And for the same reason that we presented to the Board last year, that additional $4 million is to
provide for the average cashouts that occur on that salaried plan in a year so that we're not pulling money
out of the plan, out of investments, and recognizing losses with the markets being down. So same
concept.
I would say that if you look at the resolution, the members on that Board recommended it unanimously to
come to the Board with a $15 million contribution, $15 million contribution on the nonrepresented
employee plan.
Moving down a few lines, I would mention on materials and supplies, row 6, we did lock in our diesel fuel
purchases and price for 2024. That shows just a slight increase. And there are some other changes in
there in terms of the gallon. So what we do is we contract with a firm to provide a certain number of
gallons at a fixed price. And it's all based on futures markets and what those prices are intended to be.
RTD cannot by itself purchase any swap-type contracts or financial futures contracts. So we contract with
an outside firm to take that risk. We agreed to a fixed price, which includes delivery and other expense
fees. And that's how we get to our fuel price. That's that slight increase there.
Outside services, I mentioned, on row 7, large increase there is due to the addition of the pass-through
expenses for the Colfax BRT project. What's included in outside services is a lot of the services that we

don't necessarily do internally. So it could be engineering services. A big one, of course, is the security
contract that we have for security officers.
I would note that that contract is budgeted to have less usage in 2024. Because what we're doing is we're
replacing some of those contracted security officers with actual employee police officers. So what we're
doing on the budget is trying to offset those two numbers as we go forward while also maintaining a
welcoming transit environment.
Let's see, a couple other items here. Other expenses, I should point out, in row 10, you'll see a negative
number there of -$4.6 million. Other expenses, kind of catchall. It's usually things that come through that
are unusual. In this case, what we've done is we've recognized about $9 million in vacancy savings,
because we know that there's going to be positions, as I mentioned earlier, there's going to be positions
that aren't hired right on January 1. So we've tried to recognize that right in this number.
The reason why it's not in salaries and expenses is because we have to separate it out from the
departments. We don't know which department it will happen in. We just have a pretty good idea, based
on experience, that that's about our vacancy savings each year. So we put it in our other expense line
item.
Purchased transportation. That one, on row 12, purchased transportation, that's the expense that we
incur for paying our contractors to provide our fixed route services, RTD's paratransit services, FlexRide,
and then also the Denver Transit Partners concessionaire agreement to provide commuter rail service on
the A, B, and G Lines.
The reason for that increase is mainly due to the DTP, or Denver Transit Partner, concessionaire
agreement that we have. If you were to look at that schedule of contracted expenses, there are certain
years where the expenditures go up. The reason for that being is RTD owns all of those assets. The
concessionaire simply maintains and provides operations of those assets. As part of them maintaining
those assets, because at the end of the concessionaire agreement, all assets have to be returned to RTD
in the state of repair that we would expect at that point in their useful life, they have to do certain
refurbishments at points in times and certain maintenance activities that are periodic, replacing certain
items that have worn out after many years.
That $30 million number is one of those spikes. We're paying additional $30 million to Denver Transit
Partners in 2024, then it'll go back down in future years.
Capital expenditures. That's row 15. You'll see that's $185 million. And I would mention that I noticed just
this evening, I apologize, but the version that got loaded in the Board package-- and we've had some
problems with saving versions within Minute Track, so I'm not sure what happened there. We will replace
this. But that's the one line item that changes and it'll match up to everything else, including the
appropriation. It's only wrong in this presentation.
Capital expenditures of $185,460. The big number in there-- and you can see these numbers if you look
at Schedules B and C-- the big number in there is $150 million. And it was referred to earlier in this
committee meeting. $150 million has been included as a budgeted appropriation for downtown rail track
replacements. It's a large project.
This appropriation of $150 million is a rough order of magnitude. This is based on linear square feet and
what we believe the replacement cost to be. However, there's a lot of work to be done in terms of design,

contracting, et cetera. So we don't have more than preliminary information regarding this project and
aren't able to share those details at this time. We just know that we believe it will cost approximately $150
million.
We don't think this is going to be a single year project. It'll probably span many years. But as I mentioned
earlier, this funding needs to be appropriated upfront in order to go out to a procurement to try to procure
all the contractors that would be necessary for this. So it's a large number and there's still a lot of work to
do. And there will be a lot more information coming to the Board in the future regarding this. This is simply
asking for the appropriation of the funding to begin that process.
I'll finish on this slide by just focusing on the net cash flow down there in row 18. You can see we're
projecting to have positive cash flow in 2023 and then negative cash flow in 2024. A large piece of that is
the $150 million that we anticipate spending or appropriating. Not all that cash will go out the door. But
again, this is representative of what I was describing, where we have some years where we add to our
reserves where we have positive cash flow, other years where we'll take from our reserves or have
negative cash flow.
Regardless, these numbers match up very closely with what we have in our Mid-term Financial Plan sixyear projection to where we think, based on those projections, we'll be balanced over the entire six-year
term. There will just be a sawtooth pattern that occurs in between.
Just a few more slides here. Just wanted to point out, this is a look at the trends in revenue. You can see
the bars with the orange portions. That's where we got the COVID funding for RTD that was used to
maintain services. So you could see, we showed pretty good growth. That really helped sustain us
financially and not have to make additional cuts.
You can see in 2024, we're still growing. A big portion of that is not only the sales and use tax forecast but
we also, through the bipartisan infrastructure law, the appropriations for the 5307 preventive maintenance
funds increase. For RTD, that meant our appropriated annual 5307 grant funds jumped from about $100
million to $125 million in year one, and then they'll continue to increase based on inflation. So that was a
big contributor as well to our ongoing fiscal sustainability.
This slide basically just shows how our expenses break down by category, so those categories that I
listed on the cash flow. You can see wages and benefits is the biggest piece of the pie. I know it's often
referred to that for transit agencies about 75% of their operating budget goes towards compensation. That
slice would be bigger.
What's not shown is purchased transportation. That's contracted out. We simply get an invoice and pay
those third-party contractors. But most of their business is personnel as well. So if you were to look at the
total personnel costs, it would really add up. Same with services. We contract out a lot of our services.
Overall, we're very people power intensive organization, whether it's internal or external. So you can see
those are the biggest slices of the pie. And I think it's interesting to see how small the other pieces are.
We tend to talk about fuel prices, et cetera, but it's a really small portion. That would show up in materials
and supplies, really small portion of our overall expenditures.
So just a few more slides with some bullet points here. Just wanted to point out a few of the budget
highlights. I mentioned that the fare revenue is based on the Systemwide Fare Study and Equity Analysis
modeling that was put together by a contractor that we reviewed with them. That's how we came up with

the $64 million. It's a very detailed spreadsheet that projects what the impact of those service changes
will be. So we used very good detail. Didn't do a back of the napkin estimate for that.
Sales and use tax, again, that's the CU Leeds forecast. There was a presentation made by CU Leeds to
this Board, or to the committee actually, for the sales and use tax forecast over the next many years. That
is included.
Operating grants. I mentioned the bipartisan infrastructure law. That's an increase. Those are funds that
we've come to rely on. It's a big portion of us maintaining our fleet.
And then capital grants. I mentioned the Bus Rapid Transit pass-through. I mention these items again
because these are really the only items that really stand out, in addition, on the revenue side, and I'll have
an expense side, that really stand out from our normal budget, things that are kind out of the ordinary.
Operating expenses, again, a 5.1% inflation increase. We have provision for vacant positions. Police
department and pass-through grants are affecting the services. And then we also, within our expenses, I
wanted to point out that we've included funding for additional employee development engagement under
the strategic initiative of people power.
So there's a lot of work being done by RTD in terms of changing a lot of the things that we do in terms of
attracting and retaining employees and making sure that we have the best trained employees and the
happiest employees that we can. Mention the fuel lock. So those are just some of the unusual items in
those two slides that are included in this budget that might be interesting for consideration.
Finally, capital expenditures. Transit Asset Management Plan is going to drive a lot of what we ask the
Board to appropriate going forward. In the past, we've budgeted as we were going through the capital
expansion based on budget funding availability and there wasn't a whole lot of, I would say, there wasn't
a whole lot of focus on what were we trying to accomplish. We're really trying to align these capital
expenditures proposed, as well as future capital expenditures, with the strategic initiatives of this agency,
and with absolute needs. If it's safety, if it's compliance, if it's a regulatory requirement, those come to the
top. And that's where we'll dedicate our efforts.
The $150 million Downtown Denver light rail loop track replacement, there will be additional information
shared with the Board as that becomes more to light in terms of all the details and how that's going to
play out. We're really just asking for the $150 million appropriation with this request in order to get that
process started.
And then, again, the strategic alignment of capital carry-forward, going from $567 million down to $232
million. We know we have additional work to do in closing out some of those projects that have budgeted
funding available to them. It's just going to take more discussion. And we intend to continue that
discussion in 2024 with regular budget reviews and scrutiny of those projects. So a lot of this is continual
improvement process that we're doing in terms of the way that we budget.
With that, Mr. Chair, I will turn it back to you and be happy to answer-- Tom and I'd be happy to answer
any questions anybody has. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod. And I appreciate especially your further
explication of some of these items based upon the questions that were posed by the Directors in their
advance review of these materials. And I think that helps.

That having been said, any questions that the Directors have at this time are welcome and appropriate.
So in the first instance, I will ask for the committee members who have questions, please to raise your
hand, and then based upon how you line up in the queue here, we will recognize you for those questions.
And the first I see is committee member Director Guzman. You are recognized, sir.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you so much. Doug-- Mr. MacLeod, I have a question on our budget. It
doesn't show the reserve line. You did mention the MTFP alignment. And so I'm looking at this and I just
wanted to make sure, even though we're showing a negative net cash flow for 2024 on this budget of $92
million that we're just drawing down the reserves, as you spoke to, but we don't know-- I guess if I go
based off of the previous MTFP total that's coming out of that $731,895 number. Is that correct? OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct. Sorry. Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Respond verbally.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Awesome. And then I just have a question about-- sorry-- one of the specified-- and
this is my lack of knowledge, so I do apologize. But what is the diamond switch replacement at Central
Platte Valley? Because there's two different items listed for Central Platte Valley that deal with switch
replacements and diamonds. And I just want to make sure that we're not getting two different line items
for the same thing. It's listed two different ways. So I just want to double check on that, if anybody can
speak to that. I don't know who the appropriate person is.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. And thank you for the question. And agree, there is some additional
information about reserves in the budget document. And yes, that is something that we can certainly add.
It is in the resolution and pointed out on this slide what those reserve balances are. Essentially what we
do is we take the projected year-end 2023 balances and roll them forward to say what we think the
balances will be at the end of the year, to answer that portion of the question.
Regarding the diamond and switch replacements, I will have to get additional information. Those are
separated out. We budget projects and track projects by a project number within our financial system. So
those are definitely distinctly two different projects. And I can provide additional information-- I'm just not
familiar with all the details of the 100-plus projects that we have in here-- if that's OK, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's perfectly fine. The other question that I had was what is a hanging shine-- I
don't want to mispronounce it, Hegenscheidt replacement at Elati. I just don't know what this is, what that
means. And so since there's no definition behind any of these items, I'm just curious. And so that can be
taken offline too. I just, for clarity, want to point out that those are not very descriptive things.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: So Mr. Chair, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: I was going to say, it looks like there is a lifeline for Mr. MacLeod relative to part of the
question that Director Guzman raised. So General Manager/CEO, please proceed.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes. And I have Dave Jensen here as well. And so recognizing that these are
elements that are necessary for light rail operations, I'm going to ask Dave Jensen to explain in very
simplistic terms for the benefit of the audience, recognizing that you all don't know the type of

nomenclature that we use in transit operations specifically for light rail, and recognizing Elati as our
operating divisions and Central Platte Valley has to do with the other aspects of switches relative to our
light rail operations. Mr. Jensen, can you describe briefly, please? Thank you.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, I can. Mr. Chair, if I may.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you may.
DAVE JENSEN: Good evening. I'm Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. A Hegenscheidt machine is
simply a wheel tuning machine. So all of the wheels on the train have to be exactly the same. And when
they get off one way or another, we have to trim the wheels of the train. So it is necessary for operations
DOUG TISDALE: And Director Guzman, does that respond to your question then?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: It does. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir. We appreciate it. Director Dishell, let me turn to you now, sir.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I think offering more commentary than question, I think.
The pendulum, I think, has just swung a bit too far in the other direction. The Board used to get a lot of
information that staff spent a lot of time compiling that didn't always necessarily get the attention it should
have. And I think we've gone a bit too far the other way.
And I recognize the RTD fiscal policy that this Board approved last month states that it's presented as a
summary. And I think in some aspects, that's on us. We should have been clearer on what summary
means to us. And I think these comments are more so for hopefully moving, looking forward, right, on
how do, as we look towards the end of the month as a Board, really get comfortable.
And I think, Mr. MacLeod, I think you and your team either canceled all your meetings yesterday and
today or worked over the weekend to get a comprehensive set of answers out to, I think, it was 20-some
odd questions. And it's greatly appreciated and look forward to taking you up on the in-person meeting.
I think the challenge I have and the challenge I've heard from other Directors is when the response is, feel
free to follow up with staff, when it's asking for a line item or a budget, it creates the image that there's
something else there, that there's a reason you're not disclosing what that is. And I don't think that's
anyone's intent here. And I just want to share that that can create-- or I'll speak for myself-- it's created
frustration for me.
And specifically on items like reserves, where we saw operating expenses change. And our fiscal policy
says we carry three months. And our fiscal policy also says that after three years on a capital carryforward, it goes to unrestricted funds. But we also sometimes say that we're keeping money in reserves
for larger projects. And I recognize there's been a sizable leadership shift in capital programs, and that
that, as with any shift in leadership, comes with, what did they have, what didn't they have, where is
everything, where isn't everything, and where do we need to fill in the gaps.
But I think for us doing our job as an oversight body and passing a budget of this size, it would be really
helpful just to see, hey, this was appropriated in 2021, project went underway in 2022. In 2023, we
learned there was an 80-week lead time for some part, which isn't out of the realm of possibility.
Therefore you're seeing it, going to see it in '23. In '24, it'll come back to unrestricted. And then you would
see that somewhere else.

But without our ability to see that how we're meeting our fiscal policy, it makes it hard to sit here and say,
yes, this budget sounds great. And so I think it's not a, I think you don't have that information. I think you
guys do have that information. But I think it's more so the reason I ask the questions is, we also owe a
duty to the taxpayers to the District to say, hey, we did our homework, they presented the budget, it
matches up with the fiscal policy.
And right now we just don't have the information to really look myself in the mirror and say, yes, I
confirmed that OpEx, it looks like we have three months carry-forward, three months of reserves in OpEx,
plus all these other projects, and then it looks like this is going to go into unrestricted funds. But really, we
should be planning to appropriate it elsewhere, because the project was abandoned or there was a timing
issue.
And so that's, I guess, feedback more than a question. No response needed here but just wanted to
share that and share some of the thought that I've had going into this meeting.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'm going to call upon General Manager/CEO to respond further in just a second to
that observation. But to some extent, I think that what we are experiencing is what I might call the
Goldilocks phenomenon. That at one point, we had the Papa Bear version of the budget and it was
concluded that this was too much. And to some extent, we've gone to a Mama Bear version of the budget
and some people think that it's too little. And what we're looking for is the just right phenomenon, the
Goldilocks phenomenon, to get that measure.
But after that little detour, let me turn to General Manager /CEO, whose hand is raised in response to
your observation.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And for the record, publicly I would like to share,
I appreciate the comments that have been imparted this evening. And having spoken with Mr. MacLeod,
please know that we're all committed in being very transparent in reference to what we are doing
collectively with taxpayer dollars.
I have shared in different forums that we are looking at a transformational budget process that we're
going to start early on in the year in order to be more aligned. There's a lot of work to be done relative to
ensuring that we're aligning with our Transit Asset Management Plan, as we look at capital expenditures,
how we might do that by having recurring meetings amongst staff and responsible parties within the
organization of which we're coining as cap walks, so we have an understanding of where we're going
forward.
So I just wanted to say that for the record. It hasn't fallen on deaf ears. And I'm not speaking for Mr.
MacLeod. But of course, with his expertise and his certifications as a CPA, we are all committed to this.
So I'd be remiss not to acknowledge that as being the leader of the organization, knowing that our staff
worked diligently, and we are not trying to play and loose. And I know you guys are aware of that. So I
just want to acknowledge, for the record, that we will lean in and we will try to get the optimal approach
and channel Goldilocks and make sure we are addressing the right bear. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Appreciate that. And again, for the sake of the record too, please
note that the budget report that is attached to the Board report on these three resolutions contains a great
deal of information that was not addressed by Mr. MacLeod in his presentation. And I know that the
Directors have reviewed that, but there are some responses to some of these questions and observations
in there. And additionally, you have this opportunity now to ask. But it's a work in progress and there will

be continued improvement on how we find just exactly the right balance for that information. Thank you
very much, Madam General Manager/CEO.
Mr. Vice Chair, you are recognized, sir.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a few questions. And first of all, thank you very much, Mr.
MacLeod, for succinctly going through a significant budget, but thoroughly. I appreciate that.
And I just would first of all, start by saying I echo Director Dishell's comments. And thank you, Ms.
Johnson, for the lean in on that. I do think there's an opportunity to find that sweet spot in the middle.
Mr. MacLeod, my first question is a very general question. So far our year-to-date on audited financials
have generally been showing unfavorable variance on the revenue side but significantly favorable on the
operational side. I think my question is, has that continued? And at this point, are you expecting our
actual net position, net cash flow, to generally be a favorable variance over the adopted budget?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes. Thank you for the question. And yes, I do. Through August, the most recent
posted financial statements, our operating expenses are under budget by $70 million, which is significant.
The reason, we have somewhat of a shortfall, not a huge amount, on our fare revenue. Part of the thing
that's not demonstrated or shown in that-- we have a footnote-- but the fare revenue that was not
collected during Zero Fare for Better Air during July and August of 2023, those months were essentially
zero but we budgeted fare revenue in there because we did not know about the Zero Fare for Better Air
initiative at the point in time that the budget was approved. Those dollars are actually showing up down in
the grant line. So if you look at individual lines, they're kind of maybe a little bit misleading.
Additionally, we're a little behind in collecting on the grant funds that have been apportioned to us. And
that's not because of lack of effort. It's because we're waiting for it. We draw grant funds after the
expenditures are made with eligible expenditures. We've drawn on all the eligible expenditures that we
have. So we need to do some catch up. We're waiting for those expenditures to occur. So I anticipate
revenue to actually exceed our budget and our expenses to be under budget.
And even though the cash flow that I showed earlier on the slide, that showed the 2023 budget column,
showed a positive $45 million, I believe it was, in 2023, I think we're actually going to come out better than
that on a net cash flow basis, based on trends.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Mr. Vice Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod.
Just, I'll make one additional question that I have at a higher level and then come back around after other
Directors. On the capital carry-forward, so first of all, thank you very much, Mr. MacLeod and Ms.
Johnson. And Ms. Johnson, thank you for commenting on improved budgeting practices. And I look
forward to, I think even some of these, even the favorable variances, we can more tightly budget by more
purposely budgeting. So thank you for that.
The capital carry-forward. For many years, there have been numerous years that we've been over $0.5
billion. So thank you for the work there in cutting that down. And thank you for sharing out the

amendments and answering a number of questions. And as alluded to before, some of them in that
memorandum that was shared.
I just was wondering if-- and I think this question may be for, Ms. Johnson, more for you-- given that there
is a significant decline on the capital carry-forward, which I do think is progress, and also, I view it as it's
getting easier as a Director to see the things that we intend to do and mission critical projects, there are
several on this list that are absolutely critical that we've been moving forward for a number of years.
I'm wondering if you would not mind just touching on the highlights of some of the significant changes,
things that have dropped, and just talk us through that move from over $0.5 billion to now just about half
on that capital project, and also where you see things continue to go and then asking for what you think
the number will be next year. But just walk us through that process, because it is a substantial change
over a number of years at RTD here.
DOUG TISDALE: And Madame General Manager, do you want to begin that, or do you want Mr. McLeod
to assay first attempt?
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: No, I would like to address that question, if it's permissible, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, ma'am.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: All right. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to do so. Recognizing where we
are with the capital carry-forward, I think it spans a multitude of elements relative to how we went about
doing things here at the organization.
First and foremost, when there was a notice of funding opportunity, there wasn't a succinct process
relative to how we were going about defining what kind of grant dollars we were going to pursue. We
would go after money and then decide we're going to do a project. The point Mr. MacLeod raised during
the course of his presentation is the whole business resourcing. We were doing that on the back end.
So here we had money being held in abeyance because we were able to secure grant funding but did not
have the necessary pieces in place to carry forward the project. Hence, there are several projects that
had been continually carried over due to the fact that we were trying to get all of our ducks in a row, for a
simplistic phrase.
And so recognizing that now we're starting at the place whereby we want to ensure that we have shovel
ready projects, the term that's used in this industry, as we go forward, we need to have the project in
place so we have a scope and we have an understanding, then we identify the funding and the
interdependencies relative to what are the resources that are needed to carry this project to fruition.
Secondly, in doing so, we also have had some expenditures that basically went back to the FasTracks
days, where we may have had punch list items that had not been closed out. And so we are still carrying
that money forward in the event that, hey, we may need to replace something that has a relationship to
said project.
So as we go forward now, it is going through a process relative to identifying grant funding, seeing if that's
in alignment with the project that we currently have forward, recognizing that there is parameters. Is this
of a statutory nature for regulatory compliance? Is it safety? Is it of a safety nature? And then more so, is
this something that is core to do my job? And going through those mechanics as we go forward, that's
how a project's going to come to fruition.

There's going to be standing meetings as well. And we collectively, as a team, and other project
managers, people in contract and procurement, will be part of the process in which we will do the cap
walk, as we walk through where we are, so if, in fact, there are problems, we will identify those early on so
we can mitigate and be good stewards of those dollars that we're receiving.
And so I can't sit here and give you a number where we'd like to shore that up. As we start this process, I
believe we're having a kickoff meeting in December to ensure that everybody that has a role in this
understands the rules of engagement. And then we will start with the meetings in January and go forward
and then basically provide parameters relative to how we do, on the operating side, our budget
preparation process.
And there will have to be interdependency. So we're not going to just say, I need this resource in a certain
department without talking to the interdependent department that may have an impact. And so that will be
something that's different as we go forward.
So thank you very much for the opportunity to share that in this forum.
DOUG TISDALE: And Mr. Vice Chair, do you have anything further on that?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, not on that. Thank you, Ms. Johnson, and thank you, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: And to confirm, we'll go back around again after we give everyone a chance to ask
questions. So this is not your only bite at the apple. But recognized for her first bite at the apple, Director
Catlin, please proceed.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. At the risk of getting into the weeds, first of all, I really appreciate
the effort that went into answering all those questions that were posed by a number of my colleagues.
And excuse me, I know that there was a lot of work in that. But it very much helped explain those to me.
With regard to the capital carry-forward, I agree with Director Dishell that it would be really nice to see
what has transpired over time and where we got to where we are.
Now to dig into the weeds, I noticed that in the LRT state of good repair on the capital carry-forward
program, that there's $1.6 million budgeted for the central line and central corridor. And yet we have a
placeholder in the suggested budget for $150 million. The carry-forward, is that for cost estimating and
studies, or what is that for?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you for the question. That is actually a separate issue. So that is work that had
already begun. Even within the Downtown loop, there's been a lot of replacements and repair work that
has been done on different sections. So when we're looking at the $150 million, that's to do the remaining
sections. That particular line item for $1.6 million in track replacement in the central line, that is a project
that is already underway and that repair money is what's left, remaining on that particular individual
project. So that's why we didn't roll it into all the new projects that need to be done with the $150 million.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. If I might. So I know GM/CEO Johnson said that this $150 million is really to look at
a much more comprehensive, holistic approach to track replacement and it could serve as a model going
forward for other aging light rail infrastructure. Because I guess the $1.6 million was part of the previous
piecemealing effort.

It would really, I think it would be nice for this Board to see, based on this $150 million suggested budget
item going forward, it would really be nice to see what is in store for the rest of the aging light rail structure
infrastructure. I foresee the Southwest corridor coming up, and others. And I think that those are big items
that this Board probably needs to consider in maybe a workshop fashion or something in order to give the
go ahead for these expenditures in future budgets. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Catlin. And without presuming, and I'll give her the opportunity to
respond, but I think that's part of what the cap walk is intended to do is to be able to provide that further
information. And after the group has had a chance to gather in December and then have their meetings
commencing in January, we can expect more information.
But let me turn to the GM/CEO for ratification or clarification on that comment.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Appreciate the opportunity. Director Catlin is
spot on. What we were doing previously were just doing repairs, as opposed to looking at it in a
comprehensive fashion, utilizing our Transit Asset Management Plan, looking at our asset information
maturity, and making a informed decision relative to the useful life benchmarks. That is the whole intent of
us developing a more comprehensive approach, utilizing documents to make informed decisions fiscally
and for the betterment of our operating environment. So thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I appreciate-DOUG TISDALE: Anything further, Director Catlin, on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: No. I really appreciate that this Board will be engaged in those further discussions
about these major investments in our infrastructure and our asset management. So I really appreciate it.
And I do think that a much more comprehensive approach is in order, just wanting to be made aware as
we go along of what that plan is. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, absolutely. And I think that is what this record will now confirm is that that is the
approach that General Manager/CEO is taking with the Board relative to these items.
Board Chair Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Mr. MacLeod and Ms. Johnson and your
whole budgeting team. I know Doug has been working really hard on this and appreciate especially the
turnaround on the answers to the questions. I know there are more of those questions. And I think
hopefully this committee can be involved in looking at it.
I agree with Director Dishell's points that we have swung too far the other way. And I know the details
there. It seems like three years or so ago we looked at various ways of providing the budget. Maybe this
committee could work with you on looking at our fiscal policies and looking at some of those toward
helping define what we want to get to.
But I appreciate all the good work. And I also appreciate the work that you all are going through to change
the budgeting process. Am I right in understanding we're not going to be going forward with an amended
budget?

DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. And that's a question to Mr. MacLeod, is it, at this point?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I see Ms. Johnson raised her hand.
DOUG TISDALE: And I'm sorry. Your eyes are faster than mine. Yes. Madam General Manager.
DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. That is the intent. Because if we're doing the various
things that I've outlined, we should not have the need for an amended budget. We only have a single year
budget. We don't have a two-year budget. And so as the leadership team and I have discussed, we have
to be intentional with how we're budgeting. And that's having all the facts up front, utilizing our Transit
Asset Management Plan, having an understanding about preventative maintenance and what we should
be doing to ensure that we're adhering to a state of good repair. So that is the intent, ma'am. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's great. I think that's a good change. I think there's a lot of good
information. I said this before in another situation in the Board briefing documents, in terms of variance, I
think in those, its variance from amended. And this is something we can talk about as a Board. It's
certainly not just my voice, and as a committee.
But I would like to-- and I've heard this from others-- I would like to see bringing it forward, bringing that
variance forward as a discussion item on a semi-regular basis, whether that's quarterly or semiannually or
something where we can look at it together and see all the variances, where we are overall. That would
be a request. And I guess it's a request for us as a Board to consider.
In terms of the budgeting of staff, of people, my understanding is we budget for full, no vacancies, and all
our positions are full, but we budget that staggered in some positions. And I'm just wondering, I certainly
get the idea of staggered, we don't have those positions filled. But that concept would seem to suggest
that maybe we wouldn't be budgeting for full staff. What's the thought process there?
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. MacLeod, if you would care to respond to that, please.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Great question. Really, so once the Board appropriates the funding, we
have very strict controls on our budget. So the budget then gets loaded into-- well, it's already in our
system-- but it gets finalized and pushed out into our financial records.
The reason why we budget for individual positions is because if it's not budgeted, we won't recruit it,
generally speaking. So same with any individual projects. So when we get that appropriation, we have
very, I guess, laid out processes, approval processes, to ensure that-- and one of those is to ensure
there's budget funding. So if I go to Charlene Polege in HR and ask her, hey, I really need another
accountant, one of the first questions is, well, is that position budgeted? So that's how we manage the
funding of those items.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Gotcha. OK. I do have some more, but I think-MICHAEL GUZMAN: GM/CEO raised her hand to speak.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I caught that one. And we'll come back to you later, Madam Board Chair,
when we go through for a second round. But let me ask our General Manager/CEO to weigh in on this,
since her hand is raised.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much. I just wanted to add on some additional information to what
Mr. MacLeod shared. So recognizing we are budgeting for positions, considering that we are loading, we
are making decisions relative to the prioritization of said position. So in some instances, we may have
equivalent to 3/4 of a full-time equivalent, i.e. that means that recognizing this budget, if it's the Board's
desire to approve said budget, we have to wait until that's done.
But then the recruitment efforts, we have limited staff, as we have shared with all of you. And tomorrow,
Ms. Polege will provide an update on our people power. And so there could be some instances where we
have some positions that have been allocated 3/4. There could be another that's 1/2 equivalent. And then
there could be 1/4 equivalent.
So that's another factor to take into consideration to Mr. McLeod's response. So I just wanted to ensure
that I shared that with you all. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Anything further at this time? All right. And now, if I may, yeah-- oh, well. All
right. Thank you. Director Guzman, you are recognized.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I just have a question about procedure. Not that I don't appreciate all of the
work. And Mr. MacLeod was wonderful, giving some of his time to my basic questions going through the
annual budget for the first time. I came with a lot of curiosity about what we were doing and what I was
reading.
But if this committee doesn't pass this unanimously, that does prevent this item from going to the
unanimous consent agenda at the Board meeting. Is that correct? Am I understanding the procedure
correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Let me respond in two ways. First of all, if the committee passes the item but it is not
unanimous, then it comes forward as a recommended action and is presented for full consideration by the
Board. In addition, however, be aware, even if the committee passes this unanimously, any Director at
the Board meeting may request that an item be removed from the consent agenda and moved to the
recommended action agenda.
So there is no requirement that simply because it's on the consent agenda, it will not have any further
discussion and it will proceed directly to a vote. So either way, either if it passes with a dissenting vote or
if it passes unanimously, it can still be, and undoubtedly will be, presented to the full Board for full
discussion at the Board meeting. Does that respond to your question?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes. And I ask this question not to exasperate any of my colleagues or anybody in
staff. I ask because not all the Board members are here and this is a huge decision, one of the most
important decisions we make as a team all year long. And so I don't want to vote no simply for the
purpose of not moving it out of committee, but I do want to make sure that we have the option to not have
this on unanimous consent agenda at our Board meeting.
And so I may immediately request that this be removed from it after this committee, just to make sure-- I
see Jack waving his hand. Hold on a minute, Jack. But there are Board members who are not here. And
one of our team on this committee is not present for the meeting because he's got another commitment.
And so, I'd like to have the opportunity for those others to weigh in on taxpayer money. We do have that
fiduciary responsibility.

A second question that I do have, and a concern, we have our fiduciary role in this and that is also a
matter of holding the agency accountable. And I am just curious, we have all of these wonderful capital
expenditures and projects and everything else going on. I think one of the things that I don't see happen a
lot, and I'm curious as to how we get that information on a more regular basis, would be is there an
opportunity for the Board to receive a report, either through this committee or Operations, I don't really
know where it falls, about the status of projects as they move forward? In particular, the light rail goals
that have been set forward in this budget.
To be on time and under budget is an amazing thing in 2023. I think it would be even more amazing if we
got that done correctly going forward. But to know that if we appropriate these funds, the work goes out,
where are we at in terms of a status, something similar to what the Audit Committee was presented with
in terms of these three audits were completed, these three are next, and these ones will come later at a
different time.
So I'm not sure. Maybe that's for Debra, perhaps. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me just respond first that, yes, this committee can and should receive all such
updates. And it's up to this committee, if it wants anything special beyond that which is planned, to
request it. I'm going to recognize the General Manager/CEO in a second. But our Board Executive
Manager has been patient with his hand. And I don't know if it's simply to ratify the procedure that I
outlined or to add some further information. So Mr. Kroll, you are recognized, sir.
JACK KROLL: Thank you. Can you all hear me OK?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
JACK KROLL: And can you see the screen share here?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir, we do.
JACK KROLL: And you should see a draft Board meeting agenda for November 28, 2023. So this was
published in the committee packet for the Executive Committee. And I apologize I didn't get the attention
of everyone sooner. Because the budget occupies a very special place, given Director Guzman's
concerns and the concerns of many others, both previously on the Board and in the public space and at
the legislature.
We are actually required to hold a public hearing on the budget. And so the budget actually, as it will be
presented at the November meeting, has its own specific place on the agenda. It's here under item 15.
And as you can see, it comes before both the unanimous consent items on the agenda and the
recommended action items on the agenda.
So that's all I wanted to impart to everyone on that front.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's a very important amplification on this, that state statute does require
that there be a public hearing conducted before we approve the budget, and that is part of the Board
meeting. Anything further from you, Mr. Kroll? All right, thank you.
JACK KROLL: No sir, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And now, Madam General Manager/CEO.

DEBRA A. JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I wanted to share, as it relates to the $150
million, as Mr. MacLeod indicated during the course of his very thorough presentation, that we are
seeking an appropriation from this Board, recognizing that there is a delegation that you have provided.
This is not within my auspices to go forward with a project of this magnitude without bringing it back to the
Board.
So I put that out there just for everyone's edification. And more specifically, to the point that Chair Tisdale
raised, that any project would be subject to having greater discussions, but recognizing the magnitude of
this project, since this organization has not undertaken a comprehensive rail replacement, there's a lot of
implications as it relates to our service delivery, communicating with the public, and we are in the process
of working on a comprehensive communications plan.
So I share that, specific to that project, as any other project going forward, that we would not be doing this
under a cloak. So I want to just to state that for the record so everybody is cognizant of our intent as we
go forward. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to opine.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for adding that. And I will also note for the record that Mr. Welch
was present at the meeting of DRCOG today and made an announcement relative to that plan concerning
the Downtown light rail replacement, so that we have begun the process of communicating with our sister
organizations to this effect. And there will be, I am certain, from Mr. Summers a spirited public outreach
process that will be engaged in connection with this as well.
Further questions from the committee members before I open up to other Directors. I see no hands raised
at this time. Now let me ask, are there any other Board Directors who are in this meeting with us who
have any questions at this time on any aspect of these three resolutions concerning the 2024 proposed
budget. I will recognize first Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'd just like to thank Mr. MacLeod for a presentation that was
easy to follow along with, despite the fact that there were some terms that we didn't understand,
generically that was beautifully done. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for your kind words. They are appreciated, I know, by Mr.
MacLeod and everyone who has worked diligently on this budget.
Director Whitmore, you are recognized, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: I just want to echo what Director Williams said. I have sat through a lot of these
presentations over the last, well, this period, going back several months with our staff, and appreciate the
thoroughness and this ebb and flow of change that we're looking forward to. And I appreciate all the
committee members' questions.
But I did happen to remember that we have to have a public hearing. So I'm glad that Mr. Kroll mentioned
that. And it's a good process that we have full disclosure and transparency for the public. So thank you for
the opportunity. No constructive questions or criticism whatsoever.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. That is appreciated. Any other Directors who have questions
at this time? And recall, this does not forestall your opportunity to ask questions at the Board meeting on
November 28 regarding this item and at that time also to have the benefit of the public hearing that will be
held before we take this item up for consideration.

So any other questions or comments from any committee members or from any Director at this time?
Director Catlin, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I was just wondering if this memorandum of all the questions and responses
would be included in the full Board packet.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for asking that. And I see Mr. Kroll nodding his head. As I stated
at the beginning, when talking about the questions that were submitted and the response, that, as
Director Dishell pointed out, Mr. MacLeod must have done over the weekend, late at night, something,
whatever, but he got it out in good order with General Manager/CEO Johnson. So it was excellent. But
yes, that is part of the committee materials now. And it is my understanding that we will attach it as a part
of the Board report for consideration of this item at the November 28 Board meeting.
And Mr. Kroll, if I have misspoken, please feel free to correct me. It wouldn't be the first time.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to ask that for the record, because I think that if
people would take time to review that, that it would, some of the questions that they might have could be
answered by virtue of that very thorough response. So that's all I wanted to say.
DOUG TISDALE: Indeed. Mr. Kroll, you are acknowledged.
JACK KROLL: Yes. Thank you, Committee Chair Tisdale. We will absolutely include that as a-- we'll
include it as part of the record for this meeting but also add it to the Board packet for the meeting on
November 28.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, sir. Any other comments or questions from any committee
member or from any Board Director concerning this resolution, these three resolutions for this
recommended action item on the 2024 proposed budget?
I see no hands raised. Mr. Kroll, can you confirm, please, if there's anyone on the phone who is a
committee member or a Board Director who has indicated a desire to speak at this time?
JACK KROLL: I see no other indication that there are others wishing to speak at this time.
All right. Thank you very much. We, therefore, have before us three resolutions that are part of this
recommended action item. We've had a very comprehensive discussion, after an excellent presentation
and the benefit of a significant Board packet addressing all of these items and the assurance that there
will be further discussion in detail at the Board meeting on November 28. And I want to applaud staff, all
staff, from General Manager/CEO and our CFO on down, and Todd Nikkel, for their participation and
presentation of this matter.
We have a motion before us on this recommended action that was made by Committee Vice Chair
Davidson and seconded by Director Dishell. Are there any no votes on this item?
Having paused and waited to hear if there was any indication of no votes and hearing none, then this
matter passes and will proceed to the meeting on November 28, as I have indicated.
There are no discussion items on the agenda this evening and we have processed the two recommended
action items that were presented to us. Are there any other matters that any Director wishes to bring
forward at this time?

Hearing none, let me just take a moment to observe that this is our last Finance and Planning Committee
meeting for 2023. It has been my distinct pleasure and privilege to serve as your Chair for this year.
We've done great work over the past 12 months and have stewarded RTD through continuing challenging
times. And by continuing to communicate, to collaborate, and to cooperate with each other as a Board
and doing the same with our General Manager/CEO and her very capable staff, we will prosper and thrive
as an agency that provides safe, clean, reliable, courteous, accessible, cost effective transportation
services throughout the largest transportation district in the United States. So I thank you for that
privilege.
Finally, the next Finance and Planning Committee meeting will be held on a date to be determined in
January, 2024. Seeing no other discussion items being presented by any committee members, this
meeting is now adjourned at 7:25 PM Mountain Standard Time. Thank you all very much and I wish you a
very pleasant evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair.

greaterdenvertransit@gmail.com

Submitted as public comment to the
RTD Finance and Planning Committee Meeting, November 14th, 2023.
November 14th, 2023
Doug Tisdale, RTD Finance and Planning Committee Chair
Regional Transportation District
1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202
2024 Proposed Budget
Dear Chair Tisdale,
Greater Denver Transit (GDT) has the following preliminary comments to make on the 2024 proposed budget:
 The 2024 proposed budget in the agenda packet for this meeting is an updated version (November
2024) from the one on the Board of Directors page on the RTD Website. To avoid confusion and ensure
that the public is able to comment on the latest version, we request staff to update the website
accordingly.
 GDT notes the sudden inclusion of $150m for a complete replacement of all light rail track in the
downtown area. While such significant investment and commitment to the light rail system is most
welcome, we urge directors to exercise appropriate oversight of this project, given that the light rail
system downtown has been subject to frequent closures for track replacement in recent years and has
even been the subject of a Colorado Public Utilities Commission corrective action plan.
 GDT is concerned that the only method currently being planned by the agency to keep the system safe
and secure is expanding the RTD Police Department. GDT believes budgeting for a variety of rider
support positions such as transit ambassadors and outreach staff who will work alongside RTD Police
is an approach that is more likely to result in success.
GDT urges all directors on the committee to keep these points in mind when deciding how to vote on the 2024
proposed budget. We thank you for all you do.
Best Regards,

James Flattum
Greater Denver Transit
CC:

Richard Bamber
Greater Denver Transit

RTD Board of Directors
Debra Johnson, RTD General Manager & CEO.

www.greaterdenvertransit.com

Page1

