1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, April 1, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:29 p.m. She requested that the
Board members not use their cell phones during the meeting.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:24 PM
Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:27 PM

Bruce Daly

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

5:29 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:01 PM
4:49 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:27 PM
5:23 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:25 PM

Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present

5:36 PM
4:59 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:26 PM
5:03 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:28 PM

Director Anderson left early.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bell, Lacy Bell, Douglas Carrington, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Cheryl Holmes, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Tony McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Vivian Morales,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Rob Andrews, Alex Brown, John Desmond, Tami Door, Sherman
Hamilton, Aylene McCallum, Bill Mosher, Cathy Proctor, Roger
Sherman, Cyndi Stovall, Mike Sullivan, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Elbra Wedgeworth, Monte Whaley

B. Recommended Actions
C. Updates

 RTD/DDP/DUSPA Collaboration - Tami Door/Elbra Wedgeworth
Committee Chair Folska welcomed Tamara Door, President and CEO of the
Denver Downtown Partnership (DDP) and Elbra Wedgeworth, DDP Chair.
They gave an overview of who the partnership is, what they do, and what
they do in collaboration with other entities. Among items discussed were
the different collaborations with RTD and Denver Union Station Project
Authority (DUSPA), including the 16th St. Mall and Mall Ride, FasTracks,
Wynkoop Plaza and Denver Union Station (DUS).
Director Hoy asked to get a copy of the presentation. Ms. Wedgeworth
confirmed that the Board Office staff has a copy.
Director Bagley thanked DDP for their part in this complex relationship.
DDP/RTD collaborative work demonstrates what can be done when groups
sit down and exchange ideas.
Director James said it was a pleasure working with DDP in the past and
looks forward to working in the future with the DUS plazas.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked DDP for having their door open and
congratulated them on their outstanding staff.

Director Deadwyler thanked the DDP on their fine presentation and reminded
the staff to provide a copy. She also mentioned she doesn’t know the
background on the complicated history.
Director Menten asked how she could get a copy of the DDP and the
Downtown Denver Business Improvement District (BID) financials. Ms. Door
said she could make them available.
Phil Washington, General Manager, explained that the term “complicated” is
not used negatively. He also thanked the DDP on behalf of the RTD staff.
He stressed that when putting services together in Denver, it is not just for
the residents but also for the many people who work in the area. He asked
DDP if they had a percentage of workers that commute from the outlying
areas. Ms. Door referred the question to Aylene McCallum, Senior Manager
for Transportation and Research at DDP, who said that she would need to
look into the commuter survey for an actual number, but acknowledge that
the average distance traveled is 14 miles. Mr. Washington used this point to
stress the importance of providing services for Denver really means
providing services to anyone who visits.
Committee Chair Folska asked about the quantity of the kiosks and the rent
paid for them on the 16th St. Mall. Ms. Door deferred the question to John
Desmond, Executive Vice President of Urban Planning & Environment at DDP
and Executive Director at BID. He answered that there are 5-6 kiosks along
the mall with a sliding scale monthly rent of $500 to $800 depending on
location. Push cars rent for $300 a month. Director Folska asked if any
kiosk were planned for Wynkoop Plaza. Mr. Desmond said DDP/BID will
wait a year before making a decision on that. Ms. Door pointed out that
there is turn over on the kiosks since some vendors have grown into brick
and mortar locations. Director Folska thanked the DDP and encouraged
those in attendance to attend DDP fundraisers.

 APTA Legislative Conference Recap
Committee Chair Folska called for a point of order and asked the Directors to
please turn their phones off during the meeting as a sign of respect to the
audience and reinforcing the transparency of the available information.
Director Anderson responded as a point of order and stated that she was
using her phone in order to access the consolidated agenda as other
Directors use their iPad for similar purposes. She further commented on the
phone being another tool in order to perform the job on behalf of the
constituents and asked for a committee to discuss the tools allowed during
meetings. Committee Chair Folska asked that until then the Directors please
refrain from using the phones during the meetings.

Director Deadwyler commented that in the beginning Executive Committee
member Kent Bagley made the suggestion that Directors not have cell
phones in our Board meetings and it was decided by the Executive
Committee at that time. She does not think the Board needs to have a
committee to decide as she thinks the Board should adhere to the original
decision. She stated that when the Directors got the tools, i.e. the iPad and
Ultrabooks, it was decided that Directors would not use cell phones or be
able to text each other with notes on the system to keep everything
perfectly honest and everybody on the same page. Director Deadwyler said
that she thinks the Board should keep the status quo.
Director Anderson got up from her seat to show Chair Sisk that she was
viewing the Consolidated Agenda on her phone. She stated that she was
leaving if she could not look at an agenda during the meeting and would just
be calling-in. Director Anderson left the meeting at 7:55 p.m.
Director Solano thanked Committee Chair Folska for her leadership and
encouraged transparency during meetings.
Committee Chair Folska welcomed Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations
Officer, to the meeting. Ms. Ellebracht noted that the APTA Conference
was covered during the last Board Meeting but left it on the agenda in case
there were any more questions or comments.
Director Deadwyler noted that she wasn’t present for the Board Meeting,
but wanted to thank Ms. Ellebracht for the organization of the APTA
conference.
Director Walker mentioned that the conference was great due to the quality
of the meetings and asked to pass on the comments to Patton Boggs.
Director Solano thanked Patton Boggs for their work during the conference.
Committee Chair Folska commended Patton Boggs on their performance,
including the prepared response for Mr. Washington at the House
Transportation and Infrastructure committee.

 Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Ms. Ellebracht introduced Roger Sherman, Chief Operating Officer for CRL
Associates, Inc. Additional analysis on the polling information related to
MPACT64 as requested by the Directors will be sent to the Board Office this
week. He explained that the analysis is not divided by Districts but by North,
Central, and South regions. He will be at the Denver Mayor’s caucus
meeting the next day discussing how the significant work in transportation
in the past couple of years has had an impact on how the Colorado

Department of Transportation (CDOT) looks at partnering with transit
agencies as well as how to continue the conversation and utilize this
coalition as the process grows. He also mentioned that Sue Horn, Mayor for
the town of Bennett, which is outside of the District, is in a recall process
due to her participation on the Denver Regional Council of Government
(DRCOG) and her perceived regionalism support for RTD.
Director Solano thanked CRL Associates, Inc. for their work.
Director Menten asked for a resource other than legislative counsel to get an
overview of how much Highway Use Tax Account (HUTA) funding has been
diverted to public mass transit in the state in the past 10 years. Mr.
Sherman replied that his team would have to look into it and that it may be
something DRCOG has access to. Director Menten asked for a timeframe
when the Board could expect the additional polling data. Mr. Sherman said
in the next couple of days.

 State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna
Ms. Ellebracht introduced Jennifer Brandenberry for the State Legislative
update. She mentioned there are 36 days left in the Legislative session as
they finalize the budget. Both the House of Representatives and the Senate
may have a bit of wiggle room of $12 to $15 million, but overall most bills
will not pass on due to lack of funding. There are no bills initiated by RTD
but a few do need to be cleaned up to negate any impact. The Honorable
Nancy Todd, Chair of the Senate’s Transportation Committee, is excited
about RTD’s work and has toured the I-225 corridor and the DIA
construction. Ms. Brandenberry also mentioned the proactive process of the
Northwest Area Mobility Study and how reaching out to local legislators for
one-on-one meetings has been successful.
Director Lubow thanked Ms. Brandenberry for the work with the legislators
as history indicates they are not often kept in the conversation.

 Federal Update - Patton Boggs (Sherry Ellebracht)
Ms. Ellebracht mentioned how overall it is difficult to create a bill in
Washington D.C. at this time due to funding and/or timeframe. There are no
new bills projected before the November elections and there’s not a lot of
hope for anything to go through during the “lame duck” session. The
anticipation was that HUTA would last until September but the new date is
July. Patton Boggs continues working on the DUS opening and are still
working hard to get Mr. Anthony Foxx, Secretary of Transportation, to the
event. Colorado State Senators Udall and Bennett have reached out to him.

Chair Sisk acknowledged the cancellation of the Transportation and
Infrastructure Committee Special Panel focusing on Public-Private
Partnerships (P3s) visit in April that was communicated to the Directors via
email and noted how this opens up time to concentrate on the DUS opening.
He hopes Secretary Foxx would be able to make it. Ms. Ellebracht said RTD
extended the invitation to the Congressional Committee for the summer.

D. Other Matters
Director James asked Marla Lien, General Counsel, if the RTD Board has a policy or
Robert’s Rules of Orders addresses the topic of the attention of members of a
committee or board during meetings, whether it would be documents, devices,
other people or anything else. Ms. Lien said she’s not aware of anything in
Robert’s Rules that addresses devices specifically. The general rule of a meeting is
only the person called to speak is speaking. Director James asked to confirm that
there isn’t anything in neither place that has to do with the attention of the
members of that board or committee. She replied that there was none that she
was aware of, even for napping.
Committee Chair Folska recalled that when Chair Sisk was elected as Chair he
asked the Directors to not use their phones during meetings. Director Solano
encouraged Directors to speak on cue and not using their mobile devices. He
emphasized the need for common courtesy. Director Rivera-Malpiede asked to
clarify the use of iPads during meetings, as she uses hers to do research on the
topic being discussed at the moment. Committee Chair Folska suggested a
conversation at the Executive Committee level and added that other councils do not
allow the use of electronic devices because it is not known what they are used for.
Chair Sisk agreed to take the mobile devices conversation to the Executive
Committee and since there is no policy on Robert’s Rule, the Board of Directors will
have to come up with their own policy which makes way for the Directors to be
informed while not having outside advice during meetings, thus developing trust
and not having Directors feel alienated. Director Daly asked Ms. Brandeberry about
the use of mobile devices in legislative settings. She answered that it is really up to
the leadership of the meeting keeping in mind that public meetings are public and
there is pressure for the members to pay attention and do their job.
Director Walker directed Director Menten to CDOT for more information regarding
funding of any agency using funds in any state.
Director Deadwyler mentioned how Mr. Washington is held in high regard in
Washington D.C. and shared that Mr. Washington and Jared Fleisher from Patton
Boggs assisted her by carrying her scooter up a flight of stairs.
Director Daly commended Mr. Fleisher on his support of Mr. Washington while at
Washington, D.C., even sitting beside him during meetings.

Ms. Ellebracht mentioned that Patton Boggs worked with RTD on a long list of
questions, helping RTD to compile what was needed to be submitted correctly and
promptly.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 13, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned the meeting at 6:27 p.m. to the Planning &
Development Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

