Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 21, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
July 21, 2009 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:27 p.m.

II.

RTD HONOR AND COLOR GUARD
In recognition of Cal Marsella’s last day attending a formal Board meeting, the RTD Honor
and Color Guards posted the flags and presented Cal Marsella with the Colorado State Flag
that was flown half-mast earlier at the State Capitol in his honor.

III.
III.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board members were present at roll call.

Director Brohl was absent.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retiree awards. Chair Kemp acknowledged Jose Duran for over 39 years of
service. He lived and breathed RTD.
Special Recognition-Cal Marsella Farewell
Chair Kemp shared this was a bittersweet evening both to recognize Cal Marsella for his many
contributions to RTD and to also say goodbye to the man who has operated at the helm of
RTD for fourteen years. He stated that we would have two public participations. First,
anyone who wanted to publicly speak on behalf of Cal Marsella would be allowed followed by
a separate public participation on RTD business. The following people spoke:








Russ George, CDOT Executive Director, read a proclamation from Governor Bill Ritter
proclaiming July 21, 2009, as Cal Marsella Day
Chair Kemp read a commendation from the State Senate, Brandon Shaffer, president,
honoring Cal Marsella
Honorable Mayor Hickenlooper made remarks and read a Mayoral Proclamation from
the City of Denver proclaiming July 21, 2009 as Cal Marsella Day
Bob Briggs representing the City of Westminster read a proclamation from
Westminster.
Terri Binder, former RTD Board of Director, stated how exciting it was to be part of the
team when FasTracks was approved and what an honor it was to work with Cal
Marsella, a true leader and visionary.
Barbara Yamrick, former RTD Board Member, spoke on behalf of the City of Aurora to
express appreciation for Cal Marsella’s focus on fairness and equitable treatment of all
the various corridors in the rollout of FasTracks and for bringing the needs of the







Aurora community to the forefront.
Mary Blue, former RTD Board of Director and Chairperson dittoed Terry Binder’s
remarks and shared how good it was to be a part of this RTD history. Although
Longmont is at the end of the line, she thanks Cal for the inclusion and making sure
their voice is heard. She thanked Cal for his leadership and perseverance.
Bob Wilson thanked Cal for his service and the attention to renewable energy sources.
He invited the people to attend the Arvada reception in honor of Cal Marsella this
Thursday, 7/23/09.
Chair Kemp recognized all the former and present Board members who were in
attendance. He provided Cal with going away gifts from the Board.

Chair Kemp introduced a video that was dedicated to Cal Marsella, “the Cal Marsella
Story.”


Cal Marsella offers some closing remarks and thanked the Board for the wonderful
fourteen year tenure. He offered up some of the accomplishments of RTD including the
purchase of DUS as an intermodal hub. He reflected on many things but to him RTD
has been a manifestation of the regional vision. RTD has represented to him “Reason
to Dream” about what public transportation can be. He thanked all the people who he
had come in contact with and the tremendous staff who are helping to implement the
vision. He commented that Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Public Affairs
was one of the most capable persons in this position that he knows. Phil Washington,
now Interim General Manager has incredible energy and focus, and Marla Lien, his
friend, bus rider buddy, confidante and incredibly talented lawyer, would always
remain close in his heart.

Various members of the current RTD Board of Directors shared remarks:
 Director Busck related a story of how before he became Mayor of Thornton he asked
the City Manager if he planned on staying around for his eight year term; sadly he failed
to ask the same question of Cal Marsella. Nevertheless, Cal has left a legacy of
professionalism, good teamwork, and has acquired the respect of all the Directors. He
thanked Cal for the friendship, the professionalism, and thanked Cal’s family for their
sacrifices to allow Cal time away from his family.
 Director Tayer related that he had met Cal at a period when there were some
conflicting roles between RTD and the City of Boulder which he represented. Cal
managed to work with Boulder through these differences and create a positive working
relationship. He thanked Cal for his regional vision, his ability to articulate on any
subject and for all the talents and gifts that he brought to this agency. Director Tayer
then read a proclamation from the “People’s Republic of Boulder” as his district has
been affectionately referenced allowing Cal to travel across the greens in Boulder.
(humor)
 Director Martinez shared that Cal was the champion of the underdog and that he did
not advance any district at the expense of other districts. Three things he attributes to
the Cal Marsella legacy: (1) T-REX—the ability to bring transit and highway together to
implement this project for the public good
(2) SBE/DBE Program—has made the RTD program a national model
(3) Penta-P—RTD remains the last property holding out for the Penta P
 Director James shared that what he found good about Cal was his ability to attract and
staff good people. He has the ability to bring out the best in people.
 Director Daly stated how amazed he is at Cal’s grace under fire.
 Director McMullen reflected on how FasTracks has put the Dayton Station
neighborhood on the map and brought together a community of people who now talk
to each other, walk through the neighborhood and are riders of the light rail. He







believes the quality of life has been greatly enhanced by the support Cal provided to
the Dayton Station neighborhood.
Director O’Boyle echoed Cal’s grace under fire and reflected on his exceptional vision
and leadership.
Legal Counsel Marla Lien stated how inspiring Cal was and that his vision was
unsurpassed.
Director Chacon reflected on Cal’s passion and leadership with hopes that paths may
cross again.
Director Pulliam stated that Cal has done all these things and more and now is the time
for him to take care of his health.
Chair Kemp summarized the sentiments by stating we will be fighting an uphill battle
without Cal but that he has left a solid foundation on which to build. He has known Cal
for fourteen years and sees him as an “anything is possible, the sky is the limit” type
person who inspires others to be their best. Phil Washington, one of Cal’s Assistant
General Manager now serving as Interim General Manager, has been mentored well by
Cal and already is establishing himself within the community. We have a great stellar
senior staff who are well postured to move RTD and FasTracks forward.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
There were no one signed to speak for the public participation for the business.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS
There were no changes to the committee reports.

VI.

GM TRANSITION AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE REPORT
GM Committee Chair Noel Busck reported that 44 RFPs were sent out and we received back
15 responsive bids. A sub-ad hoc team consisting of Directors Martinez, Christopher, Bagley
and Linda Wells, Procurement, will review this candidate list and arrive at a short list to be
discussed at the next GM Executive Search committee meeting. The full GM Executive Search
team will review this short list, schedule interviews if applicable and present to the full Board
their recommended search firm candidate/s.
They are targeting August 18 to provide their recommendation to the full Board.
The committee reviewed a preliminary list of key stakeholders and will be modifying this list for
the whole Board to do outreach to stakeholders as our partners in transit. The committee will
come up with questions which will provide for consistency and openness in the process. RTD
will communicate that we are very interested in hearing what our key stakeholders and
communities want in a General Manager but will reserve the final decision on who that will be
for the Board of Directors.

VII.

METRO MAYORS REPORT
Chair Kemp reported there has not been a Metro Mayors’ Task Force meeting. The next
scheduled Metro Mayors Caucus meeting is scheduled for August 5 and Phil Washington is on
the agenda to present on FasTracks.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF JUNE 23, 2009
MOTION:

Director Pulliam moved for the adoption of the June 23, 2009
regular board meeting minutes.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 13 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Tobiassen abstained since he had been on
vacation during this meeting.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
 Measures to alleviate recent mall shuttle battery fires
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reported that maintenance is performing an
extensive analysis of the two fires on the shuttle buses and believes the cause to be
temperature related. They are monitoring the temperature, checking with the bus
manufacturer, adding battery system protection and exploring other ways to mitigate
this occurrence.
Director Pulliam wanted to know what the difference was since we have always
operated during high temperatures. Dean Shaklee shared these are the batteries that
came with the bus that is a 26 unit pack. They think that the two batteries that caught
fire had a premature life. Director O’Boyle asked if the batteries are replaced one at a
time and Dean Shaklee indicated yes. Director Tobiassen wanted to know what could
be the catastrophic effect if more than 1 battery fails at a time. Dean Shaklee did not
think this was a possibility and stated they are carefully monitoring these batteries.
 Meeting with Various Local Chambers
Interim General Manager Phil Washington has begun meeting with various local
Chambers (i.e. Black Chambers, Hispanic Chambers) and will continue this process to
provide a listening ear to their concerns.
 ATU Local 1001’s Open House
Interim General Manager Phil Washington and Board members (Chair Kemp, Director
Daly) attended the ATU Open House. The contracted community was represented.


Downtown 2027 Committee Meeting
Interim General Manager Phil Washington, Chair Kemp and Director James attended the
Downtown 2027 committee meeting to discuss future plans for the downtown area.
This was an interesting meeting and included new concepts such as urban markets.



Introduction of RTD’s New Automated Telephone System: myStop
RTD will be introducing this new automated telephone system which allows bus riders
to call the number to determine when the next scheduled bus will arrive.
Director Chacon wants to see more communications on myStop. Director Martinez
requested a one page cheat sheet on how it works that the Board can use with
constituents. Director Tayer expressed we need a market plan and shared putting
stickers on the bus. Scott Reed indicated this will be posted on the web.



Meeting with Government Accounting Office (GAO) 7/22/09
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reported he and some members of his team
will be meeting with the GAO tomorrow afternoon to discuss RTD’s administration of

transit agency Recovery Act funds. RTD is in a good position and has good
accountability for the use of these funds.
Director O’Boyle requested that staff keep the Board apprised on the special monitoring
efforts related to the agency Recovery funds.
Director Christopher asked about the availability of 300M that had been discussed
earlier. Marla Lien explained this was part of the Tigger 1.5B grant program in which
no state is eligible to receive more than 300M. Denver has two targeted uses for these
grants:
1. DUS—has applied for approximately 200M of the Tigger discretionary funds
2. US 36—CDOT is working with US 36 to prepare a grant. They are using data
from the EIS DUS study on ridership and demand to show impacts. Director
Kemp will travel to Washington with representatives of the US 36 corridor to
appeal for more funds. Grant applications are due the first of September with
hopes of an award after the first of the year.
X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
MOTION:

Director O’Boyle made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda items A through F.
Director Pulliam seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic roll call vote was taken with 14 votes in
favor and 0 against.
Chair Kemp declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

A.

Approval to Release the US36 Final Environmental Impact Statement (FEIS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the US 36 Final Environmental Impact Statement and direct the General
Manager to approve the document for public and agency review. This is the second of
a series of steps in the National Environmental Policy Act process and means that the
agencies are requesting official feedback on the Preferred Alternative, along with the
No Action Alternative.

B.

Award of “Group 21” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of “Group 21” contracted fixed-route transit services with Veolia
Transportation Services, Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to
exceed $67,689,488 with two (2) one-year options in the amount of $23,985,940
(option year 1) and $24,780,818 (option year 2), for a total five year amount not to
exceed $116,456,246. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel

costs in an amount estimated to be approximately $12,264,770 for the initial three
year contract term, $4,323,822 for option year 1, $4,459,836 for option year 2, for a
total of $21,048,428 for the five year period. This results in a total contract amount
not to exceed $79,954,258 for the initial three year contract period and
$137,504,674 for the five year period. This proposal represents the most responsive
and responsible proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 19-DH010 to provide “Group 21” Public Transportation Services. The contract to provide this
service is scheduled to be effective with implementation of Group 21 service effective

January 10, 2010.
C.

North American Video (NAV), #38FH009 Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend contract #38FH009 with North
American Video (NAV) for CCTV installation and upgrade services at light rail stations
in the amount of $789,410.00 for a new contract amount of $1,905,373.00. Funding
for this contract is being provided through a combination of security grant funding and
RTD capital funding in the 2009 budget.

XI.

D.

Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the attached Bank Account Signature Authorization Agreement
(the Agreement”).

E.

Contract Amendment - Sherman & Howard
It is recommended by the Financial/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to amend the District’s contract with Sherman
& Howard LLC for Bond Counsel Services through the addition of $140,000.

F.

IT Work Order Contract Third Year Option – Exercise of Third Year Option
It is recommended by the Finance/Administration Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all documents
necessary
to award a third year contract option in the amount of $250,000 to extend the
current work order contract IT Technical and Management Support for General
Software Development Life-Cycle Services and Migration of Legacy Software
(17DK001). This contract was originally awarded May 1st, 2007 to Dataman USA,
LLC (a DBE/SBE company) through the competitive bid process. The contract
allowed for an initial year plus four one year options to renew based on positive
performances by the vendor. In order to continue the 3rd year option additional
funding must be added to the contract.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
G.
RESOLUTION NO.___, SERIES OF 2009, MCCASLIN BRIDGE DEDICATION IN
MEMORY OF DENNIS COLE
Motion:
Director Cohen made the motion to
approve the resolution dedicating the
McCaslin Bridge in honor of Dennis Cole.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
Discussion:

Director Martinez supports this action but
feels the Board should adopt a policy on
how these things should be handled.

Director Pulliam did not feel we need a
policy but this should be looked at on a
case x case basis.
Director Busck expressed that perhaps we
need to look at the procedure, not
necessarily a policy.
Chair Kemp instructed that this item be

placed on the operations agenda for further
discussion.
Vote on
the Motion:

XII.

An electronic roll call vote was taken with
14 votes in favor and 0 against.

UNFINISHED BUSINESS
There was no unfinished business.

XIII.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Martinez provided readout from his trip to the COMTO Conference in Dallas Texas.
He shared that within minutes of the opening session; Phil Washington was recognized as
the Interim General Manager for RTD. This was not standard protocol but spoke to Phil’s
leadership to COMTO over the years and how much they valued his service.
He also shared that in one of the FTA sessions, Dusty had shared that RTD is the only
Penta P still remaining in the program and that they are committed to making sure that
Denver is successful. (Marla Lien later clarified that the others had modified their program
but were still a part of the funding consideration). The FTA recognized they need to do
some fine tuning of their model. A significant difference between the US model and the
European model is in Europe, the grant money is provided up-front whereas in the US, it is
later in the process. Director Martinez expressed one of our Congressional Legislative focus
this year should be on how we can change the funding mechanism model that would
provide the bidders familiar with both models a better incentive to compete in the US.
Director Martinez also talked about agencies looking for creative sources of funding and
talked about the selling of air rights. Marla Lien reminded Director Martinez that the Civic
Center Station uses such a model today.
Director Bagley requested an update on CRMF. Interim General Manager Phil Washington
shared that Owen Corning appears receptive to the proposed changes but are still working
through the details.
Director Daly reminded everyone of the Pueblo plant tour and to see Henry Stopplecamp if
they were interested.
Director Tayer thanked Chair Kemp, staff and RTD Board staff for a wonderful Cal Marsella
sendoff.

XIV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
MOTION: Director Pulliam made the motion to move into
Executive session for the purpose to discuss C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(e) P-3 Contract Negotiations.
Director O’Boyle seconded the motion.
The motion passed.

XIV.

ADJOURNMENT
The meeting adjourned to executive session at 7:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

_________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, July 21, 2009

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Noel Busck, Second Vice Chair
Bruce Daly, Secretary
John Tayer, Treasurer
Kent Bagley
Juanita Chacon
Bill Christopher
Matt Cohen
Bill James
William McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen

District I
District B
District K
District N
District O
District H
District C
District J
District M
District A
District E
District G
District L
District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Amanda Abraham
Fulton Bell
Shirley Bennett
Larry Buter
Susan Cohen
Carolyn Conover
Bob Downes
Phil Eberl
Lisa Fliam
Rosalie Hankus
Martha Hecox
Cheryl Holmes
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo

Chontelle Williams-Humphrey
Brian Iacono
Marla Lien
Caitlin Magee
Dustin Martinez
Cal Marsella
Anthony Menendez
Robert Merriman
Karen Morales
Paula Perdue
John Perry
Bill Van Meter
Phil Washington
Scott Reed

OTHERS PRESENT:
Victoria Martinez
Steve Gee – Spectrum A/V
Mark Itkonen
Debbie Gibbs – Classique
Bruce Behncke – Veolia
Bill Elfenbein
Dave Rose
Terri Binder
Russell George – CDOT
Mary Blue
Sheri Marsella
Ed Colby - URS
Chris Takagi
Liz Rao
Bob Briggs – City of Westminster
Bill Vidal – City and County of Denver
Steph Millard

Teresa Sedmak
Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
Cal Shankster
John Shonsey
Bill Sirois
Julie Skeen
Greg Straight
Stan Szabelak
John Tarbert
Liz Telford
Greg Yates

Jack McCroskey
Bob Tonsing
Bob Wilson
Dave Ruchman
Edie Bryan
Gary Ulberg – First Transit
Diane Barrett – City and County of Denver
John Hickenlooper – Mayor, City and County of Denver
A. Ellwood Ervin - NRHS
Holman Carter – ATU
Jeff Leib – The Denver Post

