Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, June 2, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Claudia Folska

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Folska called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Absent
Present

5:14 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Absent
Present

5:28 PM

Claudia Folska

Committee Chair

Present

5:03 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present

5:17 PM
5:27 PM
5:21 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

5:18 PM
5:28 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:26 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Remote
Present

5:24 PM
5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:12 PM

Director Anderson, Director Bagley, and Director Lasater were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Able, Susan Altes, Jessie Carter, Bernard Celestin, Rick Clarke,
Kevin Diviness, John Elias, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Kate
Iverson, Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Patrick McMahon, Barbara McManus, Vivian Morales, Bill
Sirois, Kirk Strand, Stan Szabelak, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Maggie Bedwerx, Tyrone Beverly, Jenifer Brandeberry, Michelle Brier,
Mike Dino, Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton, Dale Honor, Dave Sachs,
Roger Sherman, Marta Sipeki, Tim Stokes, Joe Triplet, Gary Van
Dorn, Megan Warner

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Local Government Update - CRL Associates
Roger Sherman from CRL Associates informed the Board that the City and
Council of Denver (Denver) held their runoff elections today, which include
four City Council seats. One of the candidates is Kevin Flynn, Eagle P3
Public Information Manager.
He mentioned that the Metro Transportation Dialogue between the Metro
Mayors Caucus (MMC) and the Metro Area County Commissioners (MACC)
met on May 21st. The meeting served to provide background and to bring
everyone to the same level of knowledge. The next meeting will be in
September. This meeting will invite the private sector to work on a vision.
The MACC/MMC agreed that RTD needs to have a seat at the table. Roger
Sherman said that an invitation will be extended to Chair Sisk to join the
dialogue.
Roger Sherman reminded the Directors that the Colorado Counties, Inc. (CCI)
started their summer conference on Monday, June 1st. The conference will
end tomorrow, Wednesday, June 3rd. Roger Sherman plans to attend the
conference tomorrow. He also reminded the Director that the Colorado
Municipal League (CML) summer conference will be held from June 16th19th. Roger Sherman plans to attend on June 18th. He noted that the
Citizens Advisory Committee will host a General Manager search open forum
on June 17th at RTD’s Administrative Offices in rooms T and D.

Committee Chair Folska asked Roger Sherman to resend the CML
Conference schedule.

• State Legislative Update - Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs
Jenifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry~McKenna notified the Board that
Governor Hickenlooper appointed Kurt Morrison as Legislative Affairs
Director. She mentioned that he has an extensive transportation background
as a house staffer and the former liaison to the Colorado Department of
Transportation (CDOT). Jenifer Brandeberry said that
Brandeberry~McKenna looks forward to working with him.
She noted that her firm is working with the Transportation Legislation
Review Committee (TLRC) to set a date for an RTD presentation. The
TLRC’s next meetings will be on July 7th–8th and September 29th–30th. No
agendas have been set. Jenifer Brandeberry pointed out that there is
interest for corridor tours during the fall.
Jenifer Brandeberry said that Senate Bill 221 on Public Transit Officers will
be signed by the Governor on Wednesday, June 3rd. She noted that there
has not been any action regarding HB15-1098 on Red Light Cameras.
Megan Wagner, Director of Client Services for Brandeberry~McKenna,
informed the Directors that the Council of State Governments (CSG) invited
RTD to their conference on Monday, July 27, 2015 to join the discussion on
transportation. The panel discussion will be held at the Westin Hotel.
Director Francone asked who will be speaking on behalf of RTD at the panel.
Megan Wagener replied that they are working with Sherry Ellebracht,
Government Relations Officer, to finalize details.
Committee Chair Folska asked for the time Governor Hickenlooper will sign
SB-221 and to send an invitation to the Directors. Jenifer Brandeberry
replied that the signing will be at 3:15 p.m. She will verify with the
administration if visitors are welcomed at the signing.

• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs
Mike Dino, Squire Patton Boggs, informed the Directors that MAP-21 was
extended for two months. The length of the extensions was dictated by the
level of funding remaining in the Highway Trust Fund. He added that the
fund will probably expire in August. Mike Dino foresees another extension
when it expires and maybe an extension until the next Presidential
campaign.
He noted that Congress is back in session after the Memorial Day recess.
The House Appropriations Committee approved a spending bill to fund the
programs of the US Department of Transportation for the fiscal year

beginning on October 1. None of the amendments offered by Democrats
were adopted. These amendments would have increased funding for New
Starts and TIGER Grants, among others. This decreases the funding by
almost $550 million from what the President proposed. This will affects
new Full Funding Grant Agreements and the Southeast Rail Extension. The
Eagle P3 project will not be affected. Mike Dino added that the Senate has
not made it known how they will work with these changes.
Director Lubow asked how the MAP-21 situation will impact RTD and Bus
Rapid Transit (BRT) investments. Mike Dino replied that he sees no real
effort on reauthorization language. His firm continues to reiterate this issue
with the appropriate committees and delegations. He added that the current
BRT definition limits what RTD can do. A more flexible definition would
open up new Federal funding opportunities.
Director Walker wondered if there is any conversation at the Federal level on
Oregon’s Road Usage Charge Program. Mike Dino said that there is no
conversation about it in Washington, D.C. Mike Dino mentioned that Former
Secretary of Transportation Ray LaHood liked the idea but was not able to
get President Obama on board.
Director Menten asked for a copy of the Highway Trust Fund’s line items.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair Folska shared that earlier that day Director Hoy and she
participated in the Bustang Maiden Voyage event. She said that the buses are
beautiful and include such amenities as bathroom, tv, bike storage, ski storage,
overhead lights, overhead air vents, seatbelts, wifi, and electric outlets. She was
able to obtain bus schedules and a free pass for each of the Directors, which she
distributed during the meeting. Committee Chair Folska added that the Bustang
service starts on July 13th.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 14, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Folska adjourned to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 5:48
p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

