Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Shelley Cook, District L
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Claudia Folska, District E
Lynn Guissinger, District O
Shontel M. Lewis, District B

Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Ken Mihalik, District G
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 17, 2019 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Bruce E. Baltzer – Bus Operator – 29 years
Kenneth Chumley – Bus Operator – 27 years
Tim Isabell – Body Shop Mechanic – 23 years
Richard Lopez – Unit Shop Tech – 25 years
Terry Nordholm – Body Shop Mechanic - 23 years
Ken Pfeifer – Radiator Tech – 26 years
Susan Shirey – Bus Operator – 18 years
Special Recognition
Julio Rivera, ATU 1001, President – 9 years, member – 26 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Communications & Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Guissinger
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Lewis
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Williams
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Broom

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of November 19, 2019

IX.

Approval of the Special Board Meeting minutes of December 3, 2019

X.

Chair's Report

XI.

General Manager's Report

XII.

Public Hearing for 2020 Budget
A.

2020 Recommended Budget

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2019 for the adoption of the 2020 Budget,
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2019 for the 2020 Budget Appropriation and Resolution No.
___, Series of 2019 for the appropriation of 2020 Previously Appropriated Capital.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s goals:
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #1: Fiscal Sustainability

XIII.

Unanimous Consent
B.

On-Vehicle Advertising Contract Extension

It is recommended by the Communications & Government Relations Committee that the
General Manager or his designee be authorized to exercise a contract extension with
Lamar Advertising of Denver (Lamar) for the one-year period January 1, 2020 through
December 31, 2020.
The proposed extension would include one “activation” option.
In the event RTD is unable to select a contractor(s) for a combined On-Vehicle and Digital
System Advertising Contract by July 31, 2020, RTD would extend the period of
performance one year, January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021.
Under the terms of the recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either 1) a
minimum guarantee of $3.4 million in 2020 and $3.4 million minimum guarantee for the
activation period in 2021; or 2) sixty percent of net sales, whichever is greater.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #1 – Fiscal Sustainability
C.

RTD Boundary Certification & Director District Designation

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the revised boundary map of the District and authorize the

Board Secretary to certify the boundary map and description. It is further recommended
that the areas newly annexed to RTD pursuant to the provisions of CRS 32-9-106 be
designated as follows:
1. The ten Aurora annexations – Bravada/Neher Annexation, Cottonwood Creek
Annexation No.1, Cottonwood Creek Annexation No. 2, Cottonwood Creek
Annexation No. 3, Cottonwood Creek Annexation No. 4, Watkins Road Annexation
No. 2, Watkins Road Annexation No. 3, Watkins Road II Annexation No. 1, Watkins
Road II Annexation No. 2 and the Walnut Peacemaker Annexation – are
recommended to be included in Director District F (Director Broom); and
2. The seven Parker annexations – Heirloom Parkway Property Serial I and Heirloom
Parkway Serial II, Chambers Road & Main Street Tract P, Chambers Road & Public
Service Company Right-of-Way, Chambers Road No. 1, Chambers Road No. 2 and
Chambers Road No. 3 – are recommended to be included in Director District G
(Director Mihalik).
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
D.

State Highway (SH) 119 Planning and Environmental Linkages Document

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors accept the Multimodal Corridor Vision for the SH 119 corridor as
defined in the Planning and Environmental Linkages (PEL) document, which was accepted
by the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) and the Federal Highway Administration
(FHWA) on October 22, 2019. RTD has currently committed $30 million to the transit
elements of the corridor through the Mid-Term Financial Plan. It is also recommended that
the Board of Directors support the transit elements of the PEL’s Multimodal Corridor
Vision. Further, the RTD Board affirms that the $30 million RTD commitment will be used
solely for implementation of transit elements and directs staff to pursue grant
opportunities, partnerships and other opportunities to leverage this commitment to that
end.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #4 Address Future Transportation Needs
E.

Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Boulder/HOP for 2020

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the commercial
areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and adjacent business

and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2020 and is for an amount not to
exceed $1,901,675.
This recommended action supports the General Manager’s 2020 Task Goal – Successful
Delivery of Transit Services.
F.

Cost Sharing Agreements - non-urbanized funding for 2020

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility Services and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for non-urbanized services for Boulder
County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year
2020 and for amounts not to exceed $395,752.00 for Boulder County, $389,148.00 for
Adams County and $138,204.00 for Jefferson County.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals for 2020:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
G.

Cost Sharing Agreement - City of Englewood/Englewood Trolley for 2020

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the Englewood Trolley circulator bus service in
the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2020 and is for an amount not
to exceed $394,284.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals for 2020:
Task Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
H.

Access-a-Cab 2020 Service Agreement

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary in order to continue providing a subsidy for Access-a-Cab program for calendar
year 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals for 2020:
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3 – Enhance Current and Future Transportation Methods
I.

Approval of the 2020 Public Agency Transportation Safety Plan

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the 2020 Public Transportation Agency Safety Plan (PTASP) as required
by 49 CFR Part 674 State Safety Oversight Regulations.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #1 Enhance Safety and Security

XIV. Recommended Action
J.

Local Government Liaison Services

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into an
agreement for Local Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc. (CRL) to
exercise the first option year (January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020) to extend
Contract No. 16-DO-025, at a cost of $105,000. Funding for this contract is included in
the annual budget.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach
K.

Revised System Advertising Policy

It is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors approve the revision to the RTD System Advertising Policy. The
revisions bring the policy up to date to reflect current trends and factors that impact
advertising policy. The proposed policy (attached) provides two specific updates from the
previous version:
1. Includes stations, buildings, facilities and properties as well as RTD’s electronic
communications channels to expand the assets available for advertising.
2. Formally prohibits the advertising of cannabis and electronic cigarette products
on RTD assets.
The first revision is needed in order to provide the forum for RTD to entertain proposals for
digital advertising. The second revision formally excludes cannabis as a product allowable
for advertising on RTD properties. Despite not being excluded previously, RTD has not
entertained any cannabis advertising to date.
This recommended action supports the General Manager’s 2019 goals – Task Goal #1 –
Fiscal Sustainability
L.

Amend Iliff Initial Parking Management IGA with Aurora

It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary to amend an existing agreement with the City of Aurora
(Intergovernmental Agreement Between the City of Aurora and the Regional Transportation
District for the Initial Parking Management Plan for the Iliff Parking Garage, the “Parking

Pilot IGA”) to extend the term of the IGA for an additional two years. With this action, the
IGA would terminate in February 2022.
This action addresses the General Manager’s Core Goal #5 for 2019:
Effective
Communications & Community Outreach and Task Goal #4 – Address Future
Transportation Needs and Methods.
M.

Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG for 2020

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2020 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $780,000.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals for 2020:
Task Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services.
N.

Annual Audit Plan 2020

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approves the attached Annual Audit Plan for 2020.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals for 2020:
Core Goal #1 – Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Core Goal #3 – Strong Financial Management
O.

Adoption of Pension Plan Contribution

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors adopt a 2020 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD’s Salaried Employees’
Defined Benefit Pension Trust (the “DB Plan”), which pays a specified monthly benefit at
retirement. It is also recommended that the RTD Board of Directors adopt a 2020
contribution of 9% of each participant’s eligible compensation to the Salaried Employees’
Defined Contribution Plan (the “DC Plan”), which contributes a specified amount to the
plan for each year of employment.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Task Goal #2 – Address Service & Human Capital
P.

Free Rides for Active Members of the Military

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors approve free rides on RTD for active duty members of the United States Military
for the period of January 1, 2020- December 31, 2020.

This recommended action supports the following General Manager’s Goals:
Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications and Community Outreach

XV.

Old Business

XVI. New Business
XVII. Executive Session
Conference with Legal Counsel on DTP litigation matters, CRS 24-6-402 (4) (b)
(conferences with an attorney for the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal
advice on specific legal questions); and further conferences with the attorney for legal
advice and to provide instructions regarding CRS 24-6-402 (3.5) and the powers and
duties of a search committee of a state public body or local public body). Subsection 3.5
provides as follows:
24-6-402. Meetings - open to public - legislative declaration –
definitions. (3.5) A search committee of a state public body or local public
body shall establish job search goals, including the writing of the job
description, deadlines for applications, requirements for applicants, selection
procedures, and the time frame for appointing or employing a chief executive
officer of an agency, authority, institution, or other entity at an open
meeting. The state or local public body shall make public the list of all
finalists under consideration for the position of chief executive officer no
later than fourteen days prior to appointing or employing one of the finalists
to fill the position. No offer of appointment or employment shall be made
prior to this public notice. Records submitted by or on behalf of a finalist for
such position shall be subject to the provisions of section 24-72-204 (3) (a)
(XI). As used in this subsection (3.5), "finalist" shall have the same meaning
as in section 24-72-204 (3) (a) (XI). Nothing in this subsection (3.5) shall be
construed to prohibit a search committee from holding an executive session
to consider appointment or employment matters not described in this
subsection (3.5) and otherwise authorized by this section.

XVIII. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

