December 17, 2019
Board of Directors Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: --will reflect that we are now convened as of 5:38 PM Mountain Standard
time. I would respectfully request everyone to silence your phones or other electronic devices,
please. And be reminded that for the benefit of the public, this meeting is being video and audio
recorded. So if we may now commence with the Pledge of Allegiance. If you would all please
rise, and face the flag, and recite with me.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. You may be seated. Ms. McManus, if you would now
please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
BOB BROOM: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present and accounted for. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. McManus. We begin all of our meetings with a
safety briefing. And that's because safety is our core value here at the RTD. Please note that if we
have a medical emergency that will require 911 to be called, we will ask our general counsel,
Rolf Asphaug, to make that call for us.
If needed, there is and automatic emergency defibrillator device, an AED, in a glass case located
just outside this room on the wall to the right. Now, if we should need to evacuate this building
for any reason, we ask you, please, to exit through the door in through which you entered, which
is in the back of the room there.
And go up the stairs, around the security desk, and out on to Blake Street where we will have
security staff available to guide you to a safe place. If there is anyone who needs special attention
in the event of an evacuation, they will be assisted by RTD staff as necessary.

There is one other thing we want to share with you. And that's recall that there is a saying. If you
see something, say something. That's embodied on the Transit Watch app, which you can get for
your Apple iPhone or for your Android phone. And that will put you in immediate contact with
our transit police, either by way of a text message or a telephone call.
So, please, if you haven't downloaded the Transit Watch app, do so. And once you have done so,
we assure you, you will never ride alone. So we thank you. We apologize for the fact that we
were a few minutes late in commencing. We had a very productive conversation with members
of the state legislature, who were kind enough to come over to RTD to visit with us, rather than
having us go down to the capital to meet with them.
So we appreciate your kind and patient indulgence. Next, we have a couple of retiree awards to
present this evening. There are actually seven retirees for the month of December. But two of
them are here with us this evening. And our Assistant General Manager for bus operations, Mr.
Fred Worthen, is going to recognize our esteemed guests this evening. Mr. Worthen, please do
the honors, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening, Mr. Chair, honorable Board members. Thank you very
much. We have two of our retirees from our unit shop with us tonight. I'll ask, first, Mr. Richard
Lopez to come forward. Mr. Lopez? Mr. Lopez has been with RTD for 25 years. And I will tell
you that he has worked on both the general repair side of the house. But he is our primary engine
builder.
We have two people that rebuilt engines. Rich is really the guy that takes care of this and is
going to be a huge loss to us. He has his wife with him. Yvonne, Thank you for coming out
tonight and thank you for all of your time. I wish you would have stayed longer, but I appreciate
all you did during the time you were here. Congratulations.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: You get in here, sir. Congratulations to you. That's great. Thank you for a
quarter century.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
DOUG TISDALE: Do you want to invite him, Fred, to say a few words?
FRED WORTHEN: Would you like to?
RICHARD LOPEZ: No, I'm good.
[LAUGHTER]
FRED WORTHEN: All right.
[APPLAUSE]

Next, I'd like to invite Mr. Kenneth Fifer to come forward. So while Mr. Fifer is coming forward,
he has been with the RTD for 26 years. And I will say that it is very unusual for somebody to
come to work in a job and stay in that job. He has been on our radiator repair side for 26 years
working with us.
He is planning on retiring and moved into North Carolina. I told him about humidity and
mosquitoes, but that isn't deterring him, because he has grand babies there that he wants to see.
But thank you very much for all of your time with us. It's been a pleasure.
KENNETH FIFER: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[APPLAUSE]
FRED WORTHEN: And I apologize, Mr. Chair. I did fail to introduce to-- Mr. Fifer is joined by
his wife, Mary. And, Mary, thank you also for coming out tonight.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Well, welcome. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
And now, I'll ask if any of our other retirees are present with us here this evening, otherwise I'll
go ahead and acknowledge them at this time. We do express our very deepest and sincere
appreciation and gratitude to the following individuals for their many dedicated years of service
to RTD.
Bruce E. Baxler, Bus Operator for 29 years. Kenneth Chumley, a Bus Operator for 27 years. Tim
Isabel, a Body Shop Mechanic for 23 years, Terry Nordholm, a Body Shop Mechanic for 23
years and Susan Shirey, a Bus Operator for 18 years. Let's give it up for all of them.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: RTD would not be RTD without all of our dedicated employees. And we are
deeply indebted to each and every one of you. Now, some of you will argue that this may be a
little premature, because there's still one more meeting that this individual will be at, that will be
a full Board meeting, along with the Study Session that we have this week.
But it is an opportunity now for us this evening to take a moment, pause and reflect, and recall
that we have a General Manager who has been with us for 26 incredible years of dedicated
service to this organization. His last day will be January the 20th of 2020.

And if you worked on that, it's 1/20/2020. This Board would be remiss. I would be remiss in not
pausing tonight just to acknowledge some of the accomplishments. This list is hardly conclusive.
And I won't go on as long as I did at the General Managers Forum going through this.
But some of the accomplishments during the tenure of David A. Genova as General Manager are
the opening of the University of Colorado A Line, transforming downtown Denver and Denver
Airport forever, opening the B Line out to Westminster, opening the G Line to Arvada and
Wheat Ridge, transforming Arvada and points in between and Wheat Ridge forever, opening the
R Line, which will transform Aurora forever, opening the Southeast Rail Extension, which will
completely transform the rest of Lone Tree, Castle Pines, and that whole general area, building
the N Line to Thornton, and Northglenn, and beyond.
That will transform those areas forever. The LiVE program, RTD's first ever low-income
program and a model for the country, one of the very first in the country. The TNC partnerships
that we have with Uber, and Lyft, and with transit, relative to being able to see your transit
options and in the case of Uber, to book your transit options.
Fare payment improvements making it possible that you can buy your RTD tickets on other apps,
on RTD own apps, anywhere you are at anytime. One of the first in the country to be rolled out
and for honestly addressing our labor shortage issues, and the economic issues, and for
instituting the Reimagine RTD program, the transportation transformation, and transformative
change in every single RTD department.
He has been through the course of his career an inimitable champion of safe, clean, reliable,
courteous, accessible, and cost-effective transportation services throughout the district for all of
the aforementioned accomplishments and for countless more. Mr. Genova, please accept the
humble thanks, appreciation, and gratitude of the Board and godspeed in your future endeavors,
Dave Genova.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: There is another special recognition tonight. And I will just introduce it. It
will come to Mr. Genova's benefit to be able to say a few words. But it's a special time to
recognize and acknowledge Julio Rivera. Julio Rivera has recently concluded now his third term
as the president of the Amalgamated Transit Union local 1001, in which he's been a member for
more than 26 years on behalf of this agency.
Thank you for your timeless service and dedication to your colleagues without whom, suffice it
to say, the agency simply could not function. Mr. Rivera is here. And Mr. Genova is going to
take a moment to say a few words on his behalf. And I think Mr. Rivera might be speaking as
well.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair and Board. And, Julio, why don't you join me, please?
And I'll just say a few words about Julio. We've got about the same number of years-- I think 26

each within the organization. So I really want to recognize Julio for his leadership, especially his
nine years of the president of our local ATU.
It's a challenging job like a lot of ours, but we've had a great partnership together. And we've
worked diligently. And I know I just can't thank Julio and his leadership enough in terms of
meeting all of the needs and challenges of our membership and our employees, but also, the
years of service to our patron. So I want to recognize Julio first, let him say a few words. And
then after that, he's going to introduce the newly elected ATU new leadership for next year.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
JULIO RIVERA: Most appreciated for the award. It's been a long time coming. When you serve
as president, you serve it in dog years, so I'm looking forward to it. But right now more
importantly, I want to introduce the newly elected officers. First of all, Lance Longenbohn,
President and Business Agent.
[APPLAUSE]
Ronald Short, the Vice President.
[APPLAUSE]
Michael Harvey, the Financial Secretary and Assistant Business Agent.
[APPLAUSE]
And last but not least, Marvin Roberts, the Recording Secretary and Correspondent.
[APPLAUSE]
Again, thank you for the award. [APPLAUSE]
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you very much, Julio. Thank you. Thank you very much.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Before going to public participation, I see that Director Williams has put
herself in the queue. Director Williams, you are recognized.
JULIO RIVERA: Excuse me. There's one more thing real quick I also want to recognize my
wife, Winona Rivera.
[APPLAUSE]

DOUG TISDALE: Oh, smart man. Now, it'll be safe to go home. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just want to note for the record that the
comments that Chair Tisdale made about Mr. Genova were not mine. You did not speak for me. I
was not aware of those comments before they were made. They're not entered into the record any
place. And as much as I have my own admiration for the things that Mr. Genova was-- done, I
resent having somebody say that they're speaking for me when it hasn't been cleared with me
first. So I just wanted to get that on the record. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for sharing. Public participation period now. This is
our public participation period which-- oh, wait. Director Lubow would like to be recognized.
Yes, please?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just want to say for myself what a pleasure it has been and is
working with you, Dave. It's really-- you're such an incredible gentleman. And you have put up
with incredible stress, with all this-- the railroad stuff and whatever. And you're always smiling.
So thank you so much.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Lubow. We appreciate your comment being
made part of the record here. All right. I am at public participation now. And this is our period
that is open to anyone who wishes to speak. As is our custom, we do allow elected officials to
speak first, so that they may get back to their meetings and attend to their business.
If you have signed up to speak, I will call you in the order in which your name appears on the
list. If you haven't signed up and you would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the
end of the list. And we'll handle that at that time. Each speaker, please, is allowed three minutes.
I'll repeat that. Three minutes. We respectfully request that all the members of the audience
refrain from any indications of support or opposition to a speaker's comments. As such outbursts
actually, reasonably have the effect of chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers.
We are all respectful here. And please also bear in mind that by appearing at the microphone,
you are actually consenting to being both audio and video recorded. Because these meetings are
made available on the RTD website. So if you do not wish to be recorded, your comments would
have to be submitted in writing.
Please come to the lectern when you are called. State your name and your address. And if you
have documentation or materials, please provide them to Board office staff prior to speaking. I
have one person who has signed up on the public participation log. I will call forward at this
time. Adam Dempsey. Adam Dempsey, if you'd please come forward and give us again your
name and address. And you'll have three minutes.

ADAM DEMPSEY: Only one person. You must have scared the rest of them off tonight. But I
know this is a part of my three minutes, but congratulations on your retirement on one of your
customers and beneficiary of all that work that you have been doing.
And I found it very interesting that you picked a holiday for Dr. Martin Luther King to retire. So
you could walk out, saying free at last, free at last. No more transit. I'm free at last. So good job,
sir. My name is Adam Dempsey. I at 9625 East Center Avenue.
I was a part of the RTD Consumer Board about four years ago. And I'm on the mayor's
Commission for the Aging here in Denver. But I'm not representing them. I'm representing me
getting on your Board, of getting on your trains and buses. On Thursday, you'll have the study
Session that's going to speak to some of the changes that you're going to have to make because of
operators' shortages.
I'm one of those people who support that pesky R Line. I know that R has just been driving you
nuts. But the thing that's been the problem with the R is that it's always been forecast wrong from
the beginning. Every line you have comes into downtown Denver, the major destination.
The R does not. It will never have the numbers the other lines have until that happens. And it's
not going to happen. So you have to look at the R with a different set of eyes. Period. At one
point, some of the pie in the sky was for an inner suburban line along E for 70 North or through
Highlands Ranch.
The R gives you an idea of what that ridership would look like and how to operate that particular
line. So when you see that on Thursday, take another jaundice look at that. Number two, if you
go down to 225 and 25 every morning, you'll see 40% of the cars going south to the Texas
Center and 60% going north.
The 40% are going south, because they don't know how to get from the stations to their offices.
The people who ride the trains downtown-- we have a mall bus. We have the metro ride. They
get off. They walk on that bus. They go through their offices. Bang. No problem.
The R or the E southbound don't have that luxury at all. And people will show you if they're in a
hurry to get there or they want to get home, it's not going to help them to go call the FlexRIDE to
get there. So it's about time. Even with the driver shortage, RTD consider a scheduled circular
with stops they can see.
And people will use that R and that E southbound a heck of a lot more. That is one thing you
have to do. The third thing about the R is something nobody ever talks about. The best train to
the train, to the plane is the R from the east side of town. It's not the E.
And it's for a reason. You're not even thinking about. A lot of people-- a few people have
discovered that when you ride the E downtown or any train that comes in on that north platform,
you have to drag bags, herd kids, and tow grandma and grandpa two and a half blocks to get to
the A, period.

The R comes up on the same platform 40 feet away. And I've talked to several people on that
platform who said nobody ever told me that. It's never been promoted. 40 feet-- a little more than
a Bronco first down. Now, when you got to tug and carry all those people, that makes a big
difference on who uses your train.
So then R comes up, saying, oh, the train is are not being used. The foundation is wrong. It's
never been promoted correctly. And that's what you have to do to get there. My final comment
comes on the 3 bus. The cut back as saying that the deviation of the three is up to be revised.
It's not a deviation. That's the route. The 3 going through Adams Street goes to Kavod. The
seniors use it. It is not an unused bus stop at all. And central Cherry Creek-- they use it as well.
Here's the problem. RTD says you're about safety. Safety. If seniors have to get a bus to the R
east, they got to cross six lanes of Steele Street, period.
Try that even for us at our age. Or they'll say, well, they can take the bus west. Yes, you can and
don't have to cross Steele, except when you come back. When you come back, they're going to
drop you at the mall. You've got to cross Steele. That's-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mr. Dempsey.
ADAM DEPMPSEY: --a safety hazard.
DOUG TISDALE: We appreciate your time.
ADAM DEPMPSEY: Don't let that deviation happen for the seniors that you have to keep safe.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate-ADAM DEPMPSEY: Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: --your comments. All right. Committee reports. The committee minutes were
included in the Board. I'm sorry. Are there any other people who wish to speak at this time? All
right. Moving on, the committee minutes were including in the Board packet. And any questions
as to the committee minutes?
If not, those committee room minutes will stand as submitted. And they become a part of the
permanent record. Relative to the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Update, I'll ask Committee Chair Broom if you have any update that you would wish to share
with us at this time.
BOB BROOM: No report at this time. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Then we turn to the approval of the Board minutes of
November 19. May I please have a motion to approve the minutes?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the second vice chair. Is there a second? There is a
second from the first vice chair and discussion on that motion. If not, all those in favor, please
indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Any opposed? That passes unanimously. Thank you. I would also like to
have at this time a motion to approve the minutes from the special Board meeting that we
conducted on December the 3rd. May I have a motion to approve?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion to approve from Director Broom. And I have a second from
Director Rivera-Malpiede. Any discussion on the motion to approve the minutes from the special
Board meeting? Hearing none, all those in favor, please indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed. There are none that passes unanimously. Both of the
minutes that have been presented to us this evening are approved. We turn then to the Chair's
Report. A number of things to talk about, so bear with us for a moment, please.
On Friday, December the 6th, First Vice Chair Catlin and I attended the General Manager Forum
that was held in the Studio Loft at the Ellie Caulkins Opera House. During that event, a General
Manager in front of a very appreciative crowd, reviewed the agency's highlights and challenges
in 2019 and spoke to the vision for 2020 and beyond.
We have a number of upcoming events that we want to bring to your attention at this time.
Please note that the Board pursuant to the direction of the full Executive Committee will convene
in a Special Board Meeting on Thursday, January 2 to discuss the next steps in the evaluation of
candidates for the position of interim General Manager.
The Board will be meeting in Executive Session for virtually all of that meeting in order to have
a candid discussion regarding the applicants. If a second such meeting is required, the Board will
then convene on the following day, Friday, January the 3rd at 5:30 PM.
And again, we'll spend the vast majority of its time in Executive Session for more information.
We ask you, please, to watch the website for further information and for the agenda packets.
Now, having announced what the Executive Committee has scheduled, it's appropriate that we
now share some very important news with our staff and the public.
We hope that all of yo-- our senior leadership team, our staff, our constituents, our stakeholders,
our collaborators, our partners, and the members of the fourth estate will pay very close attention
to this. There has been some misinformation circulating, so allow me to set the record straight.

Selection as the interim General Manager neither precludes nor promises selection as a
permanent General Manager. Let me say that again. Selection as the interim General Manager
neither precludes nor promises selection as the permanent General Manager.
This is important to say and to repeat. Because a rumor has been circulating that if you applied
for the position of interim General Manager, you would be precluded from applying for the
position of permanent General Manager. That is wrong. That is incorrect. That is not accurate.
And so I say again, selection as the interim General Manager neither precludes nor promises
selection as the permanent General Manager. I think that's pretty clear. We've tried to make it
clear. So we would be happy to have any of you contact the Board office staff or our
communications department if you have any further inquiries beyond that.
Next announcement-- the Board will be back here in about 47 hours from now to hold a study
Session on the staff's consideration and presentation of potential temporary service cuts to
respond to the operator shortage issue that the agency is facing.
So that's Thursday night this week, December 19 at 5:30 PM. And then our next regularly
scheduled meeting of the Board next year will be held on Tuesday, January 7. And during that
meeting, the Board will elect a new Executive Committee for 2020.
There are two legislative breakfast events that are on the horizon in anticipation of the start of the
new legislative Session in January, about which we heard some interesting observations this
evening from the legislators who had dinner with us. So we're all very interested in what's going
on.
The first is the Commuting Solutions 11th Annual Legislative Breakfast. That will be held on
Monday, January the 6th at the Aloft hotel in Broomfield. Director Guissinger will attend that.
Governor Polis will attend that. And I believe that your chair will also attend that.
And the Denver Metro Chamber's 2020 Business Legislative Preview Breakfast will be held on
the following day, Tuesday, January the 7th. Director Williams and Second Vice Chair RiveraMalpiede will attend that event. Thank you for your patience with a very long and extended
Chair's Report, but we have a lot of things going on. At this time, I will turn to General Manager
Genova and ask you if you would please share with us your report this evening, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I do have a brief report tonight-- update the Board on a
few meetings, presentations, and things like that. So on November 20, I was able to give an RTD
presentation, an update to the Downtown Denver Partnership Board.
They were very interested in a variety of things that we have going on and particularly the
Reimagine process looking forward. We continue to have our regular meetings with our Denver
Chief Projects Officer Josh Laipply. So we had one of those on November 21.

On November 22, we had our Northwest US 36 Elected Officials Quarterly Briefing that was
really very well attended. We had a full agenda, a lot of good conversation and dialogue. On
November 27, I met with the FTA Region 8 Administrator Cindy Terwilliger.
And then we've been having a number of meetings set up through Brandeberry McKenna with
our state legislators. So some of those have been Senator Kevin Priola, Senator Faith Winter,
Majority Leader Stephen Fenberg. And then I'll talk about one or two others in a moment to get
into some more detail.
Had an opportunity to interact with FTA Administrator Jane Williams. The FTA was here on a
couple of non-RTD related activities and announcements. But it was good to be with her and her
team and discuss some things that we have going on.
I attended the Governor's Transportation Funding Meeting on December 5. This was the second
meeting convened on that. And I think those meetings have been really kind of advancing the
dialogue on possibilities for transportation funding. So I think those are proceeding well.
On December 5, we had what we call the Advanced Mobility Partnership Executive Committee
Meeting. And I'll explain a little bit about what this. This is the follow up to the Mobility Choice
work. So many of the Board members will recall that Mobility Choice efforts that we undertook
along with the Denver Metro Chamber-- DRCOG and CDOT.
So the Advanced Mobility Partnership Executive Committee is one of the main tasks that was
identified or one of the action items from the Mobility Choice Blueprint to have essentially a
steering committee of those agencies to kind of oversee the work and advancement on all the
action items that were developed as part of the Mobility Choice.
So on that day, RTD, DRCOG, CDOT, and the Denver Metro Chamber signed an MOU on how
this group is going to be structured. We'll be meeting quarterly. We all gave an update on our
respective action items that have been kind of assigned out to the different agencies.
So that's a huge milestone, I think an event to be able to advance that body of work that was done
some time ago. So that work is still alive and moving ahead. As the chair mentioned, we did
have the Employee General Managers Forum. And it was an honor to talk to employees about
what's happening at the agency-- things good and things that are challenging as well.
We also had our Leadership Academy 2019 class graduation last week. I was not able to be there
because I was at the DTP mediation, but understand that we had great presentations. And we
continue to have great value in the development of our employees.
I attended the Metro Mayors Caucus Transportation Committee on Friday, December 13. More
to come on those meetings, but a good dialogue as far as just transportation funding needs in
general, and how RTD can participate, and we at the table in those conversations.

Info on employee survey. So we we've conducted our employee survey. We have sent out some
initial results a number of weeks ago. We're anticipating this Friday to be sending out a little bit
more information, including the areas of focus that we'd like to be focusing on in the future.
So I want to let the Board know to look for those. On December 16, we met with House Speaker
KC Becker. And that was just another one of our ongoing legislative meetings. And I'll say, by
the way, Director Guissinger has been involved in these meetings, along with myself and
Brandeberry McKenna.
But this meeting was a little unique in that I provided the Board with some information on Friday
via email. And it is the 2018 County Revenue and Cost Allocations. And this is information that
was requested by Speaker Becker. And some other electeds have been asking RTD for this kind
of information for some time.
Again, I sent this out in a separate email to the Board on Friday. It's a lot of information to
digest. We will be going through this information in detail with the Board at the next Finance
Administration and Audit Committee. But at this point, I would just like to take a minute, maybe
two, to have our Chief Financial Officer Heather McKillop just cover a couple of highlights on
that in case there are some questions on that information.
DOUG TISDALE: Ms. McKillop, you're recognized.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you. If it's OK, I'll just stay here. I just wanted to talk a little bit
about the layout, so you can kind of walk through it. And as Dave mentioned, we're going to be
going through it in more detail in January. But just so you know kind of how to read the
document, we have three pages attached in addition to the cover page that walks you down some
of the methodology that we used.
I did want to mention that most of this was put together manually. We do not track that
information by county. So I did want to thank Jonathan Wade, Zach Van Gemert, Susan Cohen,
and Doug MacLeod for their extensive work on putting that together and developing the
methodology that we can use in the future to do this.
I just want to cover the first page. What we've done is a summary. So we've taken all of the
revenues and divided them out by county. And again, we mentioned in there how we did that
process. Then we took the total costs and allocated that also out by county. This is a one-year
snapshot. Included in those costs is depreciation.
And that's how we've accounted for the capital piece of it. So every capital project has
depreciated over time. And so depreciation is the methodology we use. So we could tie that back
to the Service on Performance Metrics that is presented to you each year in the Family of Service
Reports that Jeff Becker does.
We also tied all these numbers out to our CAFR, so that-- and that's why we use 2018, so that
you would have audited financial statements. And then the net subsidy by county is really the

total revenue, less the cost equals the net subsidy. If there is a number in parentheses, that means
it is receiving more services than it generates in revenue.
And if it doesn't, it means it's kind of donating to the pot. As we mentioned in there, the city and
county of Denver has the largest subsidy. And that makes sense to a certain degree. Because all
of our services with the few that were mentioned like the R Line-- very few of our service don't
either begin, or end, or go through the city and county of Denver.
So if there was a stop or if there was a way to get on the train, a platform, and it was in the city
or county of Denver, that was counted. So that's page 1. Page 2, then, we break it out. So you can
see it just in operating costs. So we looked just at operating revenues, which are fare revenues.
We have other operating like buy-ups and things like that. Those are smaller dollar amounts.
And then we total the revenues by county. And then we subtract out all our operating costs by
county. So as you can see, everything is negative there. That's why we get sales and use tax to
cover the difference.
Because our fares do not cover what we-- costs to operate our services. So then on the very last
page, we bring over those negative numbers. And then we show the allocation of non-operating
revenues, which are basically, mainly sales and use tax as well as some grants, but mainly sales
and use tax.
And then we show you interest expense, which we don't allocate. And I'll get to that in a minute.
And then we have the overall net subsidy that ties back to the first page. I did want to mentioned,
there's some large numbers in the unallocated category. Several of those are interest, which we
have difficulty allocating at this time.
And the other are project costs related to FasTracks. Because those are then allocated out through
[AUDIO OUT] method once the project is open and operational. We didn't want to allocate those
for a second time. Because those will show up in future years. So with that, if anybody has
questions, we'd be glad-- the team-- to answer those over the next month.
I'm sure you'll be studying this hard for the next couple of weeks. But we also-- I wanted to
mention-- listed as draft. Because this is the first debut of this process and calculation. And so
we're going to be taking feedback. If we hear things that make more sense than the way we did it,
we're open to having those discussions. We'll also be looking at other ways of allocating those
unallocated costs in the future if we can do that. So thank you very much.
DAVE GENOVA: Thanks, Heather. So as Heather said, if you have questions in the meantime,
before the next committee, feel free to contact either Heather or myself. So that concludes my
report, Mr. Chair. I'm happy to take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that. And if there are questions on the
report that Ms. McKillop identified in greater detail, you might consider-- you're free to do
whatever you wish. But you might consider waiting until the Finance Administration and Audit

Committee, when we will all have had a chance to study that. But Director Guissinger, you are
recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to add that Speaker Becker-- that
Heather did a great job and Dave presenting it yesterday. And Jennifer Brandeberry mentioned
that Speaker Becker was-- she was very-- she didn't say this in the meeting.
But she was very impressed with the amount of work that went into putting that together from
the service team, and the finance team, and all of that. So thanks for doing. She has pulled a bill
title to look at some of this. And I know Heather is going to be looking at that. But I think that
the effort that went into what happened yesterday will help to make that a cooperative process.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Any other questions for General Manager
before we move on? All right. Seeing none, then the next item on our agenda is the public
hearing for the 2020 budget. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors adopt resolution and number series of 2019 for the
adoption of the 2020 Budget Resolution.
Number blank series of 2019 for the 2020 Budget Appropriation and resolution number blank
series of 2019 for the appropriation of 2020 previously appropriated capital. This recommended
action supports the following General Manager's goals. Core Goal 3-- strong financial
management.
Pass Goal 1-- fiscal sustainability. We have three items that we will be considering before I
entertain the motion. We'll do that after the public hearing. Because first, we have a public
hearing on the 2020 Recommended Budget, which public hearing is conducted this Tuesday,
December 17, 2019.
And ladies and gentlemen, for the sake of the record, the chair hereby calls to order the Public
Hearing on the Regional Transportation Districts Recommended Budget for the Year 2020 in
accordance with both RTD's requirements and local government statutes.
Notice of the public hearing was duly posted in the Office of the Executive Manager to the
Board of Directors. The notice was also published in two major daily newspapers of the district
prior to October 15, 2019, and also on the RTD website. Copies of the notice and the
certification of such notice will be a part of the record of this public hearing.
Persons who have not already indicated a desire to speak at this hearing should register at the
desk-- excuse me-- outside this room. The public hearing will be conducted under the rules and
regulations for public hearings that have been adopted by the RTD Board. And a copy of those
rules will also be made a part of the record for this public hearing.
The chair would like to point out the testimony will be limited to, at this time, to the subject of
the public hearing. And that's relative to those motions that I read into the record. And
presentations of testimony should be no longer than three minutes. Written testimony should be

presented to Ms. Barbara McManus, the Executive Manager of the Board of Directors, for
distribution to the Board.
There is a copy of the 2020 Recommended Budget available to each Board member here this
evening. Copies are available for the public at the sign-in table outside of the room. Now, Ms
McManus, do we have anyone who has signed up to speak at the Budget Public Hearing?
BARBARA MCMANUS: No.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. The record will reflect that no one has signed up for the public
hearing. But I note that Director Williams wishes to be recognized during the course of the
public hearing. So, Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. I just have a couple of questions of mine. I've been on
the Board for about three years now. And I don't remember that we did this in years past. Do we
every year have a public hearing on the budget and Ms. McKillop?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, we do. And on amended budget as well.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. I know. There's a lot of stuff that goes on here that I don't remember.
I just wanted to make sure that there wasn't anything unusual or different about this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: A fair question, but the answer is yes. This is exactly the procedure. We have
followed each of the years. So we have before us, then, the three resolutions that I previously
read into the record, relative to the adoption of the budget, the budget appropriation, and the-adoption of the budget, and the budget appropriation, and appropriation of the 2020 previously
appropriated capital. All right. Thank you. So may I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, Thank you. Second Vice Chair is the movant. Is there a second to
the motion?
PEGGY CATLIN: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And there's a second by the first vice chair.
BOB BROOM: Is this for all three?
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Again?
BOB BROOM: Is this for all three?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, sir. This is for all three motion-- all three recommended actions. So we
have a motion to approve all three of the resolutions that were identified and obviously included
in your packet. And the motion is by the second vice chair with a second by the first vice chair.

Is there any discussion on the motion? Hearing no discussion on the motion, we are ready for a
vote. The second vice chair was the movant. And if she will vote first. And then the first vice
chair was the second. And if she will vote, then the rest of us may vote.
And so by a vote of 13 in favor, and one opposed, and a non-vote registered for Director Lewis,
who has absented herself from the meeting room for a moment, the one no-vote was by Director
Menten, and that was noted. So other than Director Menten, all of the votes were either in favor
of the amendment-- or in favor of the motion or silent.
So it passes. The budget now is approved as submitted. Thank you all very much. We turn to the
unanimous consent portion of our agenda now. The action items that are presented there this
evening are eight in number. They are noted as agenda items 11, actions B through I.
And I said 11. And I meant 12. I apologize.
LYNN GUISSINGER: It's 13.
DOUG TISDALE: And it's actually 13, isn't it? Come to think of it. Yes, so give me a moment to
correct my notes to make sure I say it correctly. So there are under Roman 13, the actions B
through I, which include on vehicle advertising, contract extension, RTD boundary certification,
Director district designation, state Highway 119 planning environmental linkages, cost-sharing
agreements with Boulder, and for non-urbanized funding and with Englewood, Access-a-Cab,
and a Public Transportation Safety Plan.
If anyone has any changes to or questions on any of the unanimous consent items, then please, if
you would, indicate you wish to be recognized, so I know who wishes to be recognized. And
then I'll recognize you. And then we can deal with that.
I hear no one asking for anything to be removed. So may I have option to approve the consent
agenda? Director Broom has moved to approve the consent agenda. And there is a second by
Director Williams to approve the consent agenda. Is there any discussion on the motion to
approve the consent agenda?
Hearing none, may we please have a vote with Director Broom initiating the vote and with
Director Williams doing the second vote? And the rest of us may vote. By a vote of 15 in favor
and no Directors opposed, the unanimous consent agenda is passed unanimously.
We then turn to agenda item 14. This is the recommended action portion of the agenda. There are
a number of recommended actions before us this evening. They are indicated in your agendas as
agenda 14J through P. And I note that the first is the contract for local government liaison
services.
It is recommended by the Communications Government Human Relations Committee. The
Board of Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to enter into an agreement
for local government liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc. to exercise the first option year-January 1, 2020, through December 31, 2020, to extend contract number 16-DO-025 at a cost of

$105,000. Funding for this contract is included in the annual budget. And it supports the
manager's goal of effective communications and community outreach. May I have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Williams. I have a second from Director
Buzek. Discussion on the motion for local government liaison services? Seeing no discussion,
we may proceed to a vote. Director Williams, you were the movement. If you would please vote
first.
Director Buzek, if you would follow and then the rest of us may vote. By a vote of 12 in favor,
and 2 opposed, and one abstention the resolution passes. The abstention was by Director Lewis.
And the no-votes were by Directors Menten and Mihalik. The other boats were yes.
Turning then to the next item on our recommended action item, it's action K. And its a revised
system advertising policy. It is recommended by the Communications Government Relations
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve the revision to the RTD system advertising
policy.
The revisions bring the policy up to date to reflect current trends and factors that impact
advertising policy. The proposed policy which is attached and found in your materials provides
two specific updates from the previous version. Number one, it includes stations, buildings,
facilities, and properties as well as RTD's electronic communications channels to expand the
assets available for advertising. Number two, it formally prohibits the advertising of cannabis
and electronic cigarette products on RTD assets.
The first revision is needed in order to provide the forum for RTD to entertain proposals for
digital advertising. The second revision formally excludes cannabis as a product allowable for
advertising on RTD properties. Despite not being excluded previously, RTD has not entertained
any cannabis advertising to date. This action supports General Managers' tax goal number one,
fiscal sustainability. May have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Whitmore.
JEFF WALKER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second from Director Walker. Is there discussion on the motion
relative to the revised system advertising policy? Seeing none, if we can proceed to a vote.
Director Whitmore, if you would vote first. Director Walker, if you would follow. Than the rest
of us may vote.

By a vote of 14 in favor and one opposed, this resolution passes. Director Lewis was a negative
vote. All of the other boats were in favor of the resolution for revised system advertising policy.
Next up is our agenda item L. This is the amended Iliff Initial Parking Management IGA with
Aurora.
It is recommended by the Planning Capital Programs and FasTrack's Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or need to negotiate and execute all
documents necessary to amend an existing agreement with the city of Aurora, an
intergovernmental agreement bringing the city of Aurora and the Regional Transportation
District for the Initial Parking Management Plan for the iliff parking garage, referred to as the
Parking Pilot IGA, to extend the term of the IGA for an additional two years.
With this action, the IGA would terminate in February of '22. This action addresses Core Goal 5- effective communications, and community outreach, and Task Goal 4 addressing future
transportation needs and methods. May i have a motion?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Broom. I have a second from Director Folska.
Is there discussion on the motion concerning the IGA? Seeing no one indicating desire for
discussion, if Director Broom as the movant would vote first. And, Director Folska, if you would
follow, then the rest of us may add our votes.
By a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, this passes unanimously for the amended Iliff Initial
Parking Management IGA with the city of Aurora. Our next recommended action is action item
M. This is the vanpooling agreement with DRCOG for 2020. It is recommended by the
Operations and Customer Service Committee.
The Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments to
provide RTD financial support and expansion of the DRCOG Way to Go vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2020 and shall be in an amount
not to exceed $780,000. It supports the General Manager's goal, Task Goal number 1, successful
delivery of transit services. May have a motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. And that was-- who is the motion?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Lewis and Williams. Thank you much. I appreciate the clarity of who's
moving and seconding. And Director Folska, you are recognized to comment on this one.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Tisdale. I wanted to thank Mr. Worthen for
providing additional information on the DRCOG program, the Way to Go in that partnership.
And it is a great partnership. And I really appreciate that it's there. However, 30 days to find an
accessible vehicle for people in a vanpool, I think, is unacceptable.
And for those of you who already know, pardon me for being redundant and reminding you this
story that is kind of, I think, a very interesting story. But there are those who may not know it. So
in 1973, there was a Vocational Rehabilitation Act that provided people with disabilities
accessible transportation.
And in 1978, RTD was still not accessible. And so you may be familiar. And our former Board
member from Director Catlin's district, Director Daly was a bus driver at the time. And he was
the fourth bus in the row that was stopped by people from ADAPT who chained themselves to
each other and stopped RTD.
And the reason they did that was because RTD was not accessible. RTD's rationale at the time
was, well, we don't make our buses accessible because there's nobody waiting in a wheelchair. I
think you get the point. So for that reason, I will not be voting for this tonight. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Any other Directors wish to speak on
the topic? And I should identify that our Chief Operating Officer Mr. Michael Ford and our
Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations, Mr. Fred Worthen are at the table and prepared
to respond should a question be addressed directly to them. So are there any other comments
from any Board members at this time? Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, there, Mr. F--whoops. Mr. Ford, just responding to Director Folska's
comments. Is there a way that as just a means of introducing one that is already wheelchair
accessible, that one can be secured for use and/or they could all be marked or some marking
indicated that they are open as well, as a way to start addressing the concern that if it's not shown
to be available, people don't demand it necessarily?
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen. I deal in bus operations. Apologies. DRCOG does
prominently advertise on their website that they do have accessible vehicles available upon
demand, and that there is no extra charge for those vehicles. So it is clearly noted that they do
have those available.
SHELLEY COOK: And I was thinking on the vehicles themselves. I don't know what kind of
markings there are. But I do know that are some. Not that you would indicate accessibility, but
the promise or potential of, or something just to make that clear. I don't even know if that would
be helpful. But the other thought is to introduce, if it's possible, at least one of those vans that is
wheelchair accessible, so that they're seen to be operating one that is in fact accessible.
FRED WORTHEN: We can approach this with the DRCOG staff.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any other questions, comments from the Directors?
Seeing none, we're prepared to vote on approving the vanpooling agreement with DRCOG for
2020. Director Lewis was the movant. Director Williams was the second. If you will vote first,
then the rest of us may follow.
My vote of 12 in favor and three opposed. That resolution passes. Director Folska, Director
Menten, and Director Mihalik are the no-votes, and the other Directors voted yes. Our next item
on the recommended action agenda is action item N as in Nancy.
It's the Annual Audit Plan for 2020. It is recommended by the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee that the Board of Directors approves the Annual Audit Plan for 2020 as
submitted in our materials. This supports the General Managers' Core Goal 1-- successful
delivery of transit services and Core Goal 3-- strong financial management. May I have a
motion?
JEFF WALKER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Walker. Is there a second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second from Director Williams. Any discussion on the motion for
the Annual Audit Plan for 2020? Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I will be voting against this basically as a protest. I want to
support the greater effectiveness of our audit department. And I think personally that that would
require having some mandatory follow-up provisions for each of the audits. And that's not really
required now, or it's not always done. So that's why I'll be voting against this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Any other Directors wish to
comment at this time? The chair will just note that the plan and the audit standards that we have
adopted speak for themselves. And so I leave them to address the remarks of Director Lubow.
Any other comments? Any other issues? If not, it appears that we are prepared to vote. Director
Walker, you were the movant. If you would vote first. And then Director Williams if you would
vote. And then the rest of us may follow. By a vote of 14 in favor and one opposed, the Annual
Audit Plan for 2020 passes.
Director Lubow is the negative vote, and the other votes are in the affirmative. We turn then to
the penultimate. The next to last recommended action item on the agenda tonight is
recommended action O. This is the adoption of the Pension Plan Contribution.
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the 2020 contribution of $6.1 million to RTD's salaried employees defined
Benefit Pension Trust. That's the DB plan, which pays a specified monthly benefit at retirement.

It is also recommended the RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2020 contribution of 9% of each
participant's eligible compensation to the salaried employees defined contribution plan. That's
the DC plan, which contributes a specified amount to the plan for each year of employment. This
recommended action supports the General Managers' Tax Goal number 2 of addressing service
and human capital. May have a motion?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Folska and a second from Second Vice Chair
Rivera-Malpiede. And discussion-- Director Williams, you are in the queue, and you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, I think. I think that this has been a big topic of discussion
amongst all of us. I think that all of the Directors that I have heard really, really want to support
our employees, that nobody wants to do any harm to all of the people who work here, and have
worked here, and worked so hard.
I think that we've heard some documentation that it is an unusual plan, and that there is no
contribution from the employee. And I think that that is the issue. Not that our employees get 9%
annually contributed to their pension, but that they don't contribute to that amount, I think, has
what I have heard is the bottom line.
And I think we need to say that to our employees, that we respect you, and we need you, and we
admire all of the work that you do, and we are happy to give you 9%. But we think that you
ought to contribute something, too. And that's all I have to say.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for sharing, Director Williams. Director Folska, you are
recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And with all due respect, Director Williams,
for the record, you don't speak for me either. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much Director Folska. Any other discussion on the adoption
of the Pension Plan Contribution? Seeing none, I believe we're ready for a vote. Director Folska,
you are the movant. If you would vote first. The second vice chair Rivera-Malpiede, if you will
vote, then the rest of us may follow you, too.
By a vote of 12 in favor and 3 opposed, the adoption of the Pension Plan Contribution is
approved by this Board. Director Lewis, and Director Menten, and Director Mihalik are negative
votes. And all of the other votes are in the affirmative. We then turn to the final recommended
action on tonight's agenda.
And that is recommended action item P as in Peter. And this is-- ready for it? This one should
fly, right? Free rides for active members of the military. Somebody ought to stop watching to see
how long this takes. I'll note that for the record, Director Folska.

It is recommended with the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors for free rides on RTD for active duty members the United States military for the period
January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020. This recommended action supports the following
General Managers' goals, which is Core Goal 5-- effective communications and community
outreach. I have a motion from Director Folska. I have a second from Director Whitmore.
Discussion on the motion? Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I think this activity would be better suited through-or better resolved or addressed through something like a benevolent fund or something like that
versus creating an exempt class of passenger. And I can make the first donation to that
benevolent fund. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Mihalik. Any other discussion on the
motion? Seeing none, we're ready for a vote. Director Folska, if you would vote first. And then
Director Whitmore, if you would vote, then the rest of us may follow. By a vote of 13 in favor
and 1 opposed, the resolution for free rides for active members of the military passes.
Director Mihalik is in the negative for the reasons that he expressed. We turn then to any old
business at this time, having concluded our recommended action item agenda. I will remind the
Board that old business includes the opportunity for Directors to speak and perhaps identify, for
example, events that the chair neglected to mention at the beginning of the meeting.
If you would particularly like to have it noted that you were involved in some activity. For
example, I didn't mention that we did have a meeting with Jane Williams, the acting
administrator of FTA on December the 3, which is very nice. Because whenever she comes to
Colorado, we want to make sure that she sees us and feels good about it. Madam Treasurer
Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. This slipped. Our public hearing on the budget slipped by
so quickly. But Director Williams' comments about the public hearing made me remember that.
When we were looking at the study Session for the budget, I did some googling just to see what
other entities had in that, that I could bring up.
And what struck me was the amount of outreach and ease of access of the budget for the public
as a whole on our sister agencies, like the Sound Transit, and LA Metro, and Valley Metro, et
cetera. In other words, they had meetings in the district to talk about the budget. They made a
link with the budget as presented in the October Session readily available on the website.
They advertised the public hearing more than just once or twice in one publication. And I think
that's the sort of thing that we can do to reach out and generate more interest in the budget, which
is one of the most important things that we do every year. So anyway, just wanted to comment
on that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And I'm certain that our chief financial officer has
made careful note.

SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I'm just urging that we work toward that in the subsequent.
DOUG TISDALE: Appreciate that. Other old business? And remember, if I didn't mention
something and you would like to speak about it, this is the opportunity. And we invite you and
encourage you to share anything that you would like during this section of the agenda. Going
once, going twice, gone.
All right, new business. Is there any new business from any Director? I thought I saw a flash for
a second there. Maybe not. Oh, there. Oh, Director Buzek. That's like a little lightning bolt
coming and going. Director Buzek, you are recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I am quick, but I'm not that quick. I have yet to make
my comments. So my comments-- and I hope this is the proper place to make them-- have to do
with a December 13th memo from our General Manager, David Genova, regarding the
recruitment of the general counsel position. So a question first. Does the general counsel operate
as an at-will employee? Or does a general counsel operate under a contract?
DAVE GENOVA: It's an at-will employee.
VINCE BUZEK: OK, so there's no contract for the general counsel?
DAVE GENOVA: That's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So I have issues with the outgoing General Manager hiring a new general
counsel. They are three-fold. First, there's been some discussion among a number of Board
members regarding making the general counsel position a position that the Board hires and
evaluates, just like the General Manager.
And just like every city and municipality in Colorado-- typically does. They hire their City
Managers and their City Attorneys. So that would tie the hands of Board members who are
considering that type of an action. Further, I think that an action by the departing General
Manager of hiring general counsel can act to tie the hands of the incoming General Manager who
may or may not agree with the choice of general counsel.
And that said, I think it also is unfair to the new general counsel who may be hired. Because the
new General Manager may not want that general counsel. And it's unfair to that person to have
come on to a job. And suddenly, we've got a new General Manager.
And that person might not want them, just like they might not want-- they can do what they want
with the senior leadership team as well. So I think for those reasons, I would really hope that the
advertising for the general counsel position be withdrawn and we appoint an interim from in
house, I guess, and let the new General Manager appoint their own general counsel. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Buzek. Director Folska, you are recognized.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. And I think that the points that Director Buzek
has brought up are fascinating. And to the one-- I think it was the third one that you mentioned.
It makes me think that maybe the new General Manager doesn't like anybody here that you hire.
And then he should just fire everybody.
Or maybe all of the staff doesn't like the new General Manager this body decides to hire
permanently. So I'm not sure that that line of argument is all that thought out. I think you put
thought into it. But I don't think it's generalizable, really. But I do appreciate what you're saying.
And I don't agree with it, though. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. I'd like to do some clarification. I believe that the general
counsel is not leaving until sometime in February. Could you tell us the final date, Rolf?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Sure.
DOUG TISDALE: General counsel, if you wish to respond to your last date, I know it's
February.
ROLF ASPHAUG: February 7.
KATE WILLIAMS: So in fact, there is not really any need to hire somebody in any hurry. And
perhaps to Director Buzek's points, we could wait. Or at the very least, we could extend the
interview period and then wait a little bit to do some hiring. Then I would be in favor of that.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. And should he choose to do so, I'll let general
MANAGER weigh in on this. But I don't think anyone's in a particular hurry. But I think they do
want to start the process. Madam Treasurer Director Cook, you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. So just wanted to voice agreement with the request that the
General Manager pause on that and if for no other reason than to allow the incoming GM, as
mentioned, to have a hand in making that selection, or make that selection, or to give the Board a
chance to review that reporting relationship.
But regardless of that decision, it just would be a courtesy and the right thing, I think, to do for
the incoming GM to allow that person to help to craft that-- when they have an opening like this,
to craft their team as they see fit. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Director Lubow, you are
recognized.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I wanted to agree with the comments of the former
Directors. I also feel it just-- it's common sense and decency to let the new person coming in,
whoever that may be, have a hand in choosing his or her counsel. So I second what people are
suggesting. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree as well. I think Director Buzek spoke the reasoning well. And it
just seems like, again, with an opening like that, it makes sense in such a critical position to leave
it for the new GM. Or if this Board wants to consider, as Director Buzek suggested, the
possibility of this being a hire from the Board. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Walker, you are recognized, Mr. Secretary.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you I'm somewhat confused by that. Because I think we're all bound by
the decisions of some other entity, whether it's 1 day, or 100 years, or 1,000 years. So I don't see
any need to hold up the process of hiring staff when any event could alter the course of events.
And the new GM might-- or, well, a new GM might pass away or leave pretty shortly after being
hired. And then, what do we do? Do we hold on for the next one? I remember a Supreme Court
Justice was up for consideration not too long ago. And the same argument was given back then.
And I didn't agree with it then. And I certainly don't agree with it now, that we hold up the
process that's been given, that's laid out and waiting for someone new to take the helm. So I think
I understand the logic, but I just don't agree with it. So, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. We appreciate your observations as
well. The chair will note that it begs the question, of course, when we say that the new General
Manager should appoint, are we talking about the interim General Manager who is anticipated to
be at least four months in the position and potentially as long as 14 months in the position?
Or do we think that the permanent General Manager should make the appointment of a general
counsel, which of course, would contemplate something well over a year from now? All that
said, I think both General Manager and General Counsel have heard the remarks. And we'll take
them to heart. And there may well be some reaction. And general counsel, you wish to be
recognized.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, general counsel. I just want to note for the
record, I have no involvement in choosing my successor other than as an RTD employee. I'm not
involved in the process at all. And I just want to make that clear.
DOUG TISDALE: I think that undoubtedly gives some comfort to some folks, just to know that
it's a clean process in terms of how this proceeds. Thank you. Any other comments on that at this
time? If not, is there any other new business that any Director wishes to bring before the Board at
this time?

I see no indication, so then we turn to the question of an Executive Session. And before I begin
that process, I do want to advise the public that we do have two items that will be up for
Executive Session this evening. We will be, prior to going in to the Executive Session, having
some discussion related to the second topic.
And that is the process and procedures associated with the appointment of an interim General
Manager. Most of that is a timing discussion, really. Then following the conclusion of the two
Executive Sessions, this Board will adjourn, will not take any further action. No business will be
conducted. So to put it in plain terms, you ain't missing out on nuttin, so it's OK. All right. So let
me identify, then, at this time.
We have a conference with legal counsel on DTP litigation matters pursuant to Colorado Revised
Statute Section 42-6-402 paren (4) paren (b), which relates to conferences with an attorney for
the local public body for the purposes of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions and
then further conferences with the attorney for legal advice and to provide instructions regarding
Colorado Revised Statute Section 42-6-402 paren 3.5 and the powers and duties of a search
committee of a state public body or local public body.
For the sake of the record, because you may not have it handy in your pocket, Subsection 3.5 of
the referenced statute provides as follows. A search committee of a state public body or local
public body shall establish job search goals, including the writing of the job description
deadlines for applications, requirements for applicants, selection procedures, and the time frame
for appointing or employing a chief Executive officer of an agency, authority institution, or other
entity at an open meeting.
The state or local body shall make public the list of all finalists under consideration for the
position of chief Executive officer no later than 14 days prior to appointing or employing one of
the finalists to fill the position. No offer of appointment or employment shall be made prior to
this public notice.
Record submitted by or on behalf of a finalist for such positions shall be subject to revisions of
Section 24-72-204, paren (3), paren (a), paren Roman (XI). As used in this subsection, 3.5
finalists shall have the same meaning as in that same referenced statute.
Nothing in this subsection 3.5 shall be construed to prohibit a search committee from holding an
Executive Session to consider appointment or employment matters not described in this
subsection 3.5 and otherwise authorized by this section. So I will ask for in a moment for a
motion to enter into Executive Session for these two.
But I state again that prior to going into the Executive Session, we will have some procedural
discussion of the interim General Manager search, as I just identified the statute requires to be
conducted in open meeting. And then following that, we'll take a brief recess. Then we will
convene an Executive Session. So at this time, I will entertain a motion to-KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.

DOUG TISDALE: All right. But I will note that for the record. And I'm ready for you, Director,
to move into Executive Session for the purpose of holding conference with legal counsel on DTP
litigation matters pursuant to Colorado Revised Statute Section 42-6-402, paren (4), paren (b),
conferences with an attorney for local body, for the purposes of receiving legal advice on
specific legal questions, and for the purpose of holding further conferences with the attorney for
legal advice, and to provide instructions regarding Colorado Revised Statute Section 42-6-402,
paren (3.5) and the powers and duties of a search committee of a state public body or a local
public body. I have a motion from Director Williams. And the second is from-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Rivera-Malpiede, our second vice chair. All right. Discussion on the
motion to convene in Executive Session. Director Menten, I'll come back to you, if you wish to
speak on another matter. Do you wish to speak on the motion to enter into Executive Session?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: I would prefer to see this be two separate Executive Sessions, in part
because I will definitely be participating in one, but potentially not in the other and also would-Mr. Genova is an example-- certainly should be a part of one of these discussions. Would he also
be part of the other discussion? I don't know. He may want to. I don't know. Main thing is I'm
talking about-- for me, it's two separate things or maybe some different participants. So would
that be possible?
DOUG TISDALE: I thank you very much for raising the issue. That's why we phrase the motion
that we did. We can have one motion that authorizes both Sessions, but they will be separately
designated. Because they constitute separate records. So, yes, we will, at the conclusion of the
discussion on the DTP litigation, make a clear, obvious, unambiguous pronouncement that that is
over and then commence into the second Executive Session with a similar clear, unambiguous
announcement giving you the opportunity, should you feel necessary to exit the room.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then this procedural discussion then would occur before the
DTP or during the break in between DTP and the second item?
DOUG TISDALE: Before DTP. It's for the public to hear as well.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. OK, so I do not have any other questions. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Any discussion further on the motion for Executive
Session? Seeing none, all those in favor of Executive Session, please indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.

DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none unopposed. It passes unanimously.
Now, prior to entering into the Executive Session, there will be a recess. But prior to that, there
will be a procedural discussion briefly. That procedural discussion points out as the chair
identified earlier, that we will have some discussion about privileged and confidential matters
this evening in the Executive Session, which each Director has personally been directly advised
of yesterday at length.
So there are no surprises. I want the public to understand that, too. Every single Director here has
been briefed on this at length yesterday and is aware of the content of the Executive Session.
That discussion is appropriate for Executive Session.
The general process discussion. We initiated earlier in advising that the Board will be meeting on
Thursday, January 2 at 5:30 PM and on Friday, January 3 at 5:30 PM if necessary for purposes of
initial consideration of candidates for the interim General Manager position, which to state again,
is a position, upon selection of which one is neither precluded nor promised the opportunity to be
the permanent General Manager.
There will also be a meeting of the Executive Committee on Friday, December the 27th. Because
the Executive Committee will receive materials on Christmas Eve as to all of the applicants.
Because to repeat for the sake of this record, any applications internal, external, in whatever
form, condition, format, whatever must be received by close of business, specifically 5:00 PM
Mountain Standard time on Monday, December 23.
The Executive Committee will review those in the first instance. And then every single one of
those applicants without exception or variance will be provided to the full Board for the Board's
consideration on January 2 and January 3. Director Catlin, Madam First Vice Chair, you are
recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. One minor correction-- not every single Director
was able to be contacted yesterday. And I just wanted to make a clarification that the majority
were. But not everyone was able to connect. So despite some efforts, Director Broom and I were
not able to talk. So I just wanted to make that distinction.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate the clarification. Director Lubow, you
are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair, I just wanted to raise a point that-- some of the Directors
know this. I'm going to be away over the 2nd and the 3rd. I'm just not going to be here. I will be
here through Christmas. The day after is when I'm traveling.
And I request getting couriered the applications before I leave, so that I can read it. And what I
would like to do is in writing. And I'm not exactly sure how to do it, but submit my comments so
that I could at least have input.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We can address that. One thing that I would ask the
Directors to consider is there is no such thing as making an exception. If you are couriered the
materials, 15 people must receive them on the same day. There is no exception.
JUDY LUBOW: I just don't agree to that.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. There is something simple about the law, and that's equal
protection.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, I'm sorry. Please?
JUDY LUBOW: That's you interpreting. What law is it?
DOUG TISDALE: Well, we'll be happy to let the general counsel address that as well. And I
think the Executive Committee may weigh in. And the Board just expresses the Board's thoughts
and opinions. But that will end soon enough, so not to worry. Director Buzek, you are
recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would agree that Director Lubow should receive those
at the same time as the Executive Committee. And I would request that every member of the
Board do so as same. I can't imagine why we wouldn't get that at the same time as the Executive
Committee, so we can look at them over the Christmas break and not be forced to look at them
10 minutes before the interview. So I think everybody should get them at same time. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Let me just clarify for the record. There are no interviews that are being
conducted on the 2nd or the 3rd. And as was previously announced-- and I apologize, because I
didn't restate it for the benefit of the public. But I did restated for the benefit of the Board
previously. The materials will be hand delivered to the Board on December 27, as I recall, is
what Director Cook and Director Rivera-Malpiede mandated in the Executive Committee
meeting.
BARBARA MCMANUS: The 30th.
DOUG TISDALE: The 30th?
VINCE BUZEK: Is there some reason why we can't have them at the same time as the Executive
Committee? What's the point? Why should the Exec Committee get them five days ahead and we
have to like tuck them into our schedule at some point in time? If we have the same amount of
time to look at them, it's only fair. We've advertised this as a Board process and not an Executive
Committee process. I think we all need to get them same time. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think that it may be appropriate for a motion. And we could easily deal
with it tonight. There was some consideration. But actually, I'll let Director Cook. She is the one
who drafted the motion in the first instance. Director Cook, your thoughts, please.

SHELLEY COOK: I'm sorry. Sorry, Chair. I agree entirely with Director Buzek. So the idea was
that we would turn them over to the Board as a whole with, if we chose, our top two in each
category. Now, I think we can do that by December 2 or 3, whatever the-- I think was December
3.
But we could also give them the submittals aisles before that to allow them the time to review it.
And then our rank ordering-- the top two in each category by the 3rd as required in the motion.
So it seems to me, we can keep with the motion, but then do what Director Buzek is doing and
address the concerns.
And as you said, this is the most important decision we make as a Board. And disenfranchising
her in terms of deciding or helping to decide whom to interview or helping with some of that
early winnowing-- I don't see that we want to do that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. If it's going to be couriered on December 30, somebody will have
to drive up to the mountains to get it to me, because I'm coming back for the meeting on January
2 and not before. And I also don't think it's necessary to courier it.
I was on the governor's transition panel that was recommending the head of CDOT and DOLA
and this emailing where it's all signed in DA's email. And you can always make it password
protected if you want. But I think that's sufficient.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair, I just wanted my support for Director Lubow. I
absolutely agree with you. I agree with Director Cook and Director Buzek. We should all have
those things at the same time. And I'm in complete support of you. If we are going to run and
operate a transparent process, that's a way in which we do that. So-JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --I hope we can agree to that as a Board.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek, you have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, that's what I was going to ask if that's the appropriate way to go. And
since you've indicated, it may be. I'm going to move that the entire Board of Directors receive the
packet of applicant cover letters and resumes at the same time. I believe that was December 24.
Is that right? December 24.
JUDY LUBOW: Can it be done?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry.

JUDY LUBOW: The close-out is December 23.
DOUG TISDALE: Director, if you want to speak, we are going to have to hear you. Because we
have to make a record for the benefit of the public.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: It's not just our secret meeting. This is for the public.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. OK, the close-out is 5:00 PM on the 23rd. And I'm
wondering, could it be couriered then so that-- I mean-VINCE BUZEK: Well, they've got to put those packets together and make copies. I think that
might be tough. I'd like to stick with a motion to be the 24th.
[LAUGHTER]
See, I could do it.
DOUG TISDALE: Can we have just a touch of order, please? OK. Director Buzek, were you
done speaking?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm done, Mr. Chair, Your Honor.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And I take there's a point of order, Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Actually, I'm not in to click and then try to get in to click the Speak to be
in the queue.
DOUG TISDALE: We can have someone from our IT department help to get you signed in.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: There's no one else in the queue. So if I click-DOUG TISDALE: No, there's no one else in the queue. Actually, we're waiting for a second on
the motion, though.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a second. OK, now-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: And you can make just one little comment to Director Buzek's question.
Can I make those comments?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I'm sorry. Yes, I had recognized you. I'm sorry. Please?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, sorry about that. So I would like it to be electronically conveyed to
me-- these documents-- so that my computer can read it to me, because I use assistive
technology. And it seems to me if you can do that, everyone ought to be able to have an
electronic version that they can look at.
And it's bypassing the challenge of courier everything around. But in any case, how you all want
to do it is your business. But I require it to be electronically, so just-- you could do that, right?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And general counsel wanted to weigh in at this point. I don't have
the Board resolution before me. I know there was something about guaranteeing people
confidentiality. But if the general counsel of the Board feels that confidentiality can be absolute
guaranteed for these people and we just email them around, then I'm more than happy to support
the motion. General counsel, you are recognized.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you, Chair. This is Rolf Asphaug, general counsel. Actually, I was
just trying to make sure there was a second for the motion before we started discussing it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yeah. I would just state that I cannot guarantee anything and neither can
anyone else, regardless of whether it's electronically sent, regardless of how it's sent. I just think I
would just like to impress upon the Board, it is imperative. It is imperative that these matters be
kept confidential, and that these applications be kept confidential.
There have been other governmental entities where there's been-- where entire applications, all
the names of applicants have been leaked. And when that happens, you have good people who
are applying who may not-- their current employers may not be aware of it, who can have their
employment in jeopardy.
So there can be no guarantees, regardless of how you do things. I just-- without getting into the
merits of the motion, it's just extremely important that the Board exercise that very carefully.
And if we do get any sort of open records request, we'll deal with it as staff. There are exceptions
for finalists as you know. But it's just very, very important that these matters be kept confidential
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And for the sake of the record, 14 of the Directors have signed a
non-disclosure agreement. So as to 14 of the Directors, we do have promises of confidentiality.
Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to raise the point that I would like to-- because
I'm not going to be around for the meeting on the 2nd-- submit my comments to someone. And
I'm not sure who, about how I feel who should be interviewed, et cetera. So I could send them to
everyone.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, if you did it one at a time, yes, then you could.

JUDY LUBOW: OK, all right. I just wanted to clarify that that was an additional need. Thank
you.
DOUG TISDALE: Again, and I'm going to ask Director Buzek to restate his motion now, with a
benefit of understanding the requirement for confidentiality, and protections be taken, and that
request has been made that it be done electronically, rather than by courier. We're going to-- I'm
going to recognize Director Williams in just a moment.
But I am going to ask Director Buzek after I hear from Director Williams to restate his motion.
Because right now, it's a little ambiguous. And if we could have a clear, concise, precise
restatement of the motion, then we'll be able to vote on it. But first, I'll recognize Director
Williams and give you a chance to think about that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair. And then we'll let you think for a minute. And number
one. I think that there is no guarantee of confidentiality any place in the world today, whether it
is print, or verbal, or electronic. And I think that we have all made a commitment or 14 of the 15
of us, which would be a super majority, have made a commitment to the best confidentiality that
we can have.
Because we do not want to damage the possibility of a candidate that would please us. And we
don't want that threat hanging out there. Number two, I'm going to suggest that there are very
simple ways to put this information on a flash drive that's about the size of my thumb, and that
there is overnight delivery service of all kinds.
And so we could have everybody that can and wants to get it through an email-- have that. Or we
could all get a flash drive. I can come down and pick it up. I don't have a problem with that. I
don't need a courier service. I'll drive here to get it.
But those who may be in the mountains or elsewhere. I think that we could do that. And if you
wanted to pay for it yourself, you could do that, too. And then it would be-- I think it's $9.95 to
overnight a flash drive. So I just wanted to point out those before the gentleman to my left begins
to recraft his motion. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And we'll give the gentleman on your left a little more time, because I'll
recognize Director Broom first.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I'd like a hard copy delivered. Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Director Buzek, you are recognized for a clear statement of your
motion, so that we'll know what it is we're voting on.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would move that we direct the Board office to deliver
to each and every Board member a packet containing the application materials for each and
every applicant for the interim General Manager position.

The Board office can do so in whatever way ensures the utmost confidentiality, whether it's a
hard copy delivered, whether it's a flash drive delivered, so that Director Folska can still have her
electronic copy, or whether it's by email with password encryption, or some other similar safety
measure. That's the motion.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. And the second?
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. So we have a motion and a second, further discussion on the
restated motion. And I see Director Williams. Are you still speaking or is that-VINCE BUZEK: Speaking, but I wasn't speaking to you.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: I've already spoke.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, is it cycling through? All right. We are cycling through, unless, no,
Director Lubow does want to speak. See, that was-- we were fooled.
JUDY LUBOW: I don't know if I heard it all. But did you state a date that this had to happen by?
VINCE BUZEK: December 24.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh.
KATE WILLIAMS: Merry Christmas.
JUDY LUBOW: Right, but when? I mean, like-- no, no. I mean, I'd like it early, as early as I can
get it. That's all.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, the Board office-- it will be taking taking applications until
close of business at 5 o'clock on the 23rd. And now, instead of putting together five packets, we
are putting together 15. So whatever time that takes. And when we're done, we coordinate the
courier. And we'll get it to you. I promise it will be a swift as it possibly can.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And I think that's all Director Lubow is asking-- just as soon as you possibly
can. But we don't expect Ms. McManus to be here at 3:00 AM putting the packets together. Mr.
Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. And that goes along-- Ms. McManus' comments go along with my
question. I'm wondering how many applications we do have so far and if it might be possible or
impossible for staff to assemble those packets. Because I don't know how many we have. I don't

know how involved they might be. Maybe it might be in the best interest of staff for some
Directors to come down and forego the delivery or the assemblage of those packages.
It seems like this process is creating a whole lot of headache for a bunch of people during a time
when it's not really necessary and extremely inconvenient with people going to the mountains, or
going on vacation, or being with family. Anyway, so number one concern-- can staff get it?
Number two concern-- can Board members come down so staff does not have to assemble those?
And that's it. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair, Director RiveraMalpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would be more than happy to come on
Christmas Eve and help you put those together to get out in an efficient way. I do not want to put
a heavy burden on our staff. I mean, this is Christmas Eve, and they're working really, really
hard. And I'm happy to come down and assist.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, just one point. Since I'll be making comments, I'm wondering if when this
is put together, it can be numbered. So when I make comments, I'll just say as to number one or
number four.
DOUG TISDALE: I believe that that's the way these things typically are done by the Board
office staff, but thank you for asking for that clarification. Because now, we all understand that,
yes, they will be numbered. And if you do need to refer to a particular applicant, you can say
number one, number two, and so forth.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And Ms. McManus, you are recognized.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So there will be an evaluation sheet attached to each application with
all of the items that are to be considered for each of the candidates that you will fill out. There is
a scaling system, if you will. So a lot of that will be available to you. It's not all for your own and
figuring out how the evaluation goes.
There has to be a fair playing field for all of the candidates, that they're being evaluated in the
same way. So we will discuss that in Executive Session with some of the documents. I'm sorry.
Some of the documents that we'll be using in that process.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I may just emphasize that point. That is what we said about 45
minutes ago is the topic of the second Executive Session. OK, point of order has been called. Or
are you calling the question?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, that too.

DOUG TISDALE: Calling the question? All right. Is there objection to the question being called
to have a vote on the motion of Director Buzek to proceed? And does staff have the motion? We
have a recording of it. So we can transcribe it and confirm.
Any objection to the question being called? Seeing none, all those in favor of the motion-- we
should do electronic vote. We have an electronic vote relative to a motion by Director Buzek and
a second by Director Williams.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I'll undo that. It's OK.
DOUG TISDALE: By a vote of 14 in favor and 1 opposed, we have an approval of a motion to
direct the Board office to provide copies on Tuesday, December 24 to all Directors in some
convenient format, the applications received at or before 5:00 PM on Monday, December 23.
Director Walker was a negative vote. And the other votes were in the affirmative. Now, having
addressed that issue, there is, as we indicated, a procedural issue that faces the Board.
Specifically, 14 of the Directors have signed a non-disclosure agreement.
One Director has not. And so we're going to accord in the second Executive Session the
opportunity for that Director to exclude herself from the meeting, unless she wishes to make
comments at this time. Because I will absolutely always make sure that everyone has a right to
speak fully as to any issue. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Yes, I was 99% ready to sign the confidentiality agreement,
until I realized in conversations last Friday that the Executive Committee-- I don't know the
exact breadcrumb trail here, but all of a sudden had volunteered to call other Board Directors to
share with them 16 potential questions for this interim General Manager on the phone.
And I say that I did not get those expressed to me. One of the Directors, Director Malpiede, or
Rivera-Malpiede, was ready to do that, except I had not signed the NDA. So I stopped in my
tracks and said, I've been through this thing before.
I am not going to even go down the road where I'm going to go upstairs to our Board conference
room and be expected to digest a binder thick of stuff, and can't take it home with me, and sit on
my couch, and pet my dog, and do all the fun things and go through it.
So I was ready to sign this disclosure agreement. But all of a sudden, I saw that we were asking
Board Directors go out of their way and give 16 questions to people over the phone and expect
them to write them down. Or I don't know what the process was because I didn't sign the NDA.
But I want to be very, very clear throughout both the interim process, and the General Manager
process, and each step of the way that we are allowed to take documents home with us and keep
them. We're already saying that we'll keep them safe and secure.

But I do not want to encounter what I started to see last Friday. I think it's unreasonable for us to
be expected to only have privilege, and access to those in the room upstairs. Just frankly, we're
just uncompensated enough to do something like that, OK?
I know we stepped up for the job, but I think it's unreasonable. I don't know where that came
from. And that's where I want to go with this. I just want to be really clear. This is a follow-up on
last week's message. There's certain things I'm not going to do again. I don't know how others
feel. That's why I didn't sign the NDA.
So I had crafted one and made a couple edits. This has not been accepted. Because they've said
that it's not OK if I make a custom NDA. And here's what mine said. Instead of where I may be
granted access, mine said, I shall be granted access to information in the form of documents,
whether printed or electronic, including but not limited to the resumes, letters of reference, job
applications, questionnaires, and comments.
And the most importantly, the one sentence is, I shall be able to retain such documents, whether
printed or electronic, provided I maintain security control over all documents. So where it came
from last Friday with phone calls, making could Directors go out of their way to do that. I don't
know.
I don't know if the Executive Committee wanted to do that. I don't mean any harm to anyone. I'm
just trying to say for me to do my duty. That's what I need to have. So those are my comments on
the process. I'll leave it at that. So is there a way to get a response? Why were we dealing with
phone calls?
DOUG TISDALE: I'll be happy to provide a response in a moment. But first, I'm going to listen
to the other Directors, because that's what the chair always does.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair, I'd like to give a couple of comments that are only my
sentiment. I value Director Menten's input and have. It's frequently different than some of the
rest of us. But that gives it value in my opinion. I see no reason.
Since we have already had a motion that we're going to distribute information electronically, and
by courier, and in printed copy, and that we're going to come down here and help with it, that
you should not be able to have what it is that you're asking for. And I think that I would like to
see you sign whatever makes you comfortable in terms of non-disclosure. And if it's a simple
wording between I shall and I may, have at it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis, you are recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair, I just wanted to offer my support as well. I support you
and the documents that you need to feel like this process is transparent. I have shared with you.

And I also shared with Director here that it was difficult for me to have 16 questions read out to
me over the phone. And I'm not actually sure why that process exists as it does.
Because I think if you interview and you have a trashy answer, it's just going to be trash, even if
you have the answer in advance. You can't prepare for that. And so I just want to voice my
support for you and having as many documents as Directors need necessary to feel like this
process is transparent and they have the information that they need to make meaningful decisions
around this.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I support the request, also. I just want to say that it might be
useful for all of us to agree to, at the end of the process, destroy the records of people who
applied so that it's not sitting around in a cubbyhole in our desk or something in furtherance of
ensuring privacy. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Madam First Vice Chair, you are recognized, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. This question is probably for Rolf. If Director Menten signs a
revised NDA, would the rest of us need to sign the same one? Or is there a problem having two
different versions as long as they convey the same intent?
DOUG TISDALE: General counsel, of course, we very much want to hear your answer on this.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Thank you. This is Rolf Asphaug, general counsel. I can't recommend
different NDAs-- custom NDAs for different persons. We all should be operating under the same
rules. And that, I think, is important. If I could note two things. And I take no pride in ownership.
I didn't draft this NDA. I didn't see it. So I think I can speak objectively in terms of what the
interpretation of it. The first sentence where it says, I may receive information, that is indicated
to me. I might receive information in the course of this that's confidential. May equals might.
If you want to change it on all 15 to say "might" instead of "may," perhaps that would address
the issue. This is not a mutual agreement that goes back and forth between somebody in RTD.
This is a non-disclosure agreement being signed by one person, the Board member.
It doesn't obligate RTD, you the Board, to do anything. It doesn't-- if you change it to say, I shall
receive, there's nobody signing this from RTD on the other end of this. That's for you, the Board,
to decide as a whole who gets what. And you've already made a decision by the motion that was
passed today, that you will be receiving information at your homes.
And you have an obligation to keep it confidential. So that also addresses the other concern
about whether people could keep their own notes or had to come to the Board to kind of-- and I
understand that in 2015, there actually was a position that everyone needed to keep their notes in
a lock box at RTD, couldn't take anything home at all.

Reasonable minds can differ as to whether that was going too far or just right in terms of
confidentiality. I think that confidentiality is extremely important. So when I hear one Director
say it doesn't matter if people get questions in advance, yes, it does. It matters very, very much.
And it's critical that nobody decide on their own that, well, it's OK for me to give this to
somebody.
It's so important to keep everything confidential. So that's going maybe a little bit far afield. But I
think that the NDA as it's written now addresses all of Director Menten's concerns. And that if
the Board as a whole wants to state anything else along the lines of confirming that they will be
allowed to take their own notes, they can do that. And the current NDA doesn't prevent that from
happening. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, counsel. Madam First Vice Chair, was your question
answered?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, it was. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Yeah. I'd just like to go on record as being opposed to the timing that's been set
up on this. I don't know who in the world is going to spend Christmas Day reading through this
big packet of stuff.
[LAUGHTER]
Well, I'm not. I'm sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Broom. We appreciate it. Director Lewis, you are
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I'd like to clarify I was not saying to give people the
answers in advance, just so you're clear that's not what I said.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I can, the reason for the Executive Session to discuss, among other
things, the questions is not that we're giving people answers. We don't want people to have the
questions. That's the point. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just to be clear, you're talking about giving candidates the questions in
advance, right? Because I'm not sure why we can't have the questions in advance.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair? Yes. Rolf Asphaug. Yes, the Board could have the questions in
advance. The concern was that the candidates should not have the questions in advance, unless
the Board so decided that they wanted to make an open book type thing. That's really up to the
Board.

DOUG TISDALE: The Board can do whatever it wishes. It's new territory. We can certainly-- if
the Board decides just to make it a totally open process, we could publish these questions, give
everybody a chance to prepare for them in advance.
SHELLEY COOK: No, no, no. But we've all signed NDAs. And so it is hard to-- I'm Shelley,
and I didn't connect yesterday. So I didn't see the questions till I came in. And I think the
questions have been revised. I think when you get 16 or 18 questions, it's easier to see them on
paper. So that's my comment. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: And if I may, that's what we're trying to get to now, is that discussion of
those questions with everybody present in the same room to talk about them. But we're talking a
lot about other procedures first, which is fine. That's the choice of the Board. Director Folska,
you are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I don't know why everybody is so wound up
and uptight about keeping these questions secret. You're going to get better responses when
people have time to create. So let's just say you come up with 5 of these 18. That's my
recommendation.
And they'll have like the broad question and then sort of ABC within that. These folks get some
time. I've got two PhDs. I did these written, oral qualifying exams, and defenses of dissertations,
and questions unbelievable. And it doesn't matter that you know the question. It's the answers
that you get. And the answers you get are really going to be important.
And the longer somebody has to consider those questions, the better the response, and the richer
the response will be, and perhaps make it even easier for the folks making the decision on the
interim. And even the permanent person-- a better decision, right? Because some people just
aren't good on the spot, right? And either they're going to have a great answer or they're not. But
they can think about it.
And it's more open. I think the more important part is keeping things confidential when the
person is applying before you announce who is applying. Because you want to protect, if they are
currently employed, their current employment, should they not be chosen for the interview or
selected for the permanent job. To me, that's where the confidentiality becomes really important.
That's all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Folska. Mr. Secretary, Director Walker, you are
recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm afraid I might just echo Director Folska. But, yeah, I'm fine with
the questions being available. Because we have a roomful of attorneys and folks who went to law
school. And everybody knows the black letter of the law, so everybody gets a chance to argue
that.
And there's discovery and things like that. So everybody knows everybody's business when they
appear before a judge. But also, as was stated earlier, what's really important is that the names of

the applicants be kept confidential. I think that's what's extremely important, that we don't
divulge that.
Because we're not talking about just somebody who's doing this as a hobby. We're talking about
somebody whose livelihood in their current position, and a potential future position, and the
reputation of this agency. We want to make sure that this agency stands strong as somebody as a
body that can be trusted.
So that's the reason for keeping it close. That part should not be transparent. Although, the
questions-- those can be open up to the world and how the people respond is-- will be a testament
to their preparation or their depth of knowledge or experience. That's it. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Walker. Madam Second Vice Chair, Director RiveraMalpiede, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I would have to agree with Director
Walker and Director Folska. I don't think there's any reason to keep these questions a secret. I
agree with you. Some people do better preparing. And some people are better on the cuff.
And I think that for me, the big issue is that this Board has taken a position of being open,
transparent, and working together collaboratively. And I think that this is a good way to show
that to the community, is that we're open. This is what we need. We'll see who applies. We'll
hear what they have to say.
But we are also elected official leaders in our communities. And so we can keep things
confidential. I don't have a problem with trusting anyone on this Board to keep that together.
And I also don't have any problem with the questions. I think that the questions that I saw were
good.
I would just like to state for the record that as a member of the Executive Committee, when we
started looking at these questions, I thought that we weren't going to be able to see them until
tonight. And I felt very strongly that we needed to call every Board member to give him a heads
up on, here's what we're thinking.
What do you think? So that it was an inclusive process. It was really done out of respect to
everyone sitting at this table, so that you knew what we were thinking and what we were talking
about. So I just would like to say that for the record. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Director. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you for sharing that, OK? Because I didn't quite know the
background. And you may have said that to me. And I was so like, why are we going through
this? So I didn't hear it. So anyway. I want to go with the same thing. When it was said, if you
don't sign the NDA, then you're not going to get it-- be part of this meeting where we talk about
these questions.

And I was like, you know what? I bet if we sat down and wrote 20 questions out, each of us,
none of this is going to be rocket science stuff, folks, right? And I'm wondering now in the back
of my head, and I may be wrong, whether in our last GM search, we actually asked for people to
submit questions from the union, the public.
I don't remember what the sequence was because it was so long. But I agree. To me, tonight the
main discussion was about process, not about the questions. And I just wanted to go back. Rolf,
you mentioned-- we've gotten it out that-- we got it on that everybody is going to get this packet
one way or the other.
And I'm happy to drive down and get it, by the way. But I just want to be very clear. Nobody,
please. Every single step. The vote we had tonight that you proposed-- that's one document.
Every single step of the way. they should be present for us. I'll sign the NDA. I really don't care
about the questions at this point. It's about the process. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten. I thank you twice, I suppose. Dr. Folska, you
are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you so much, Chair Tisdale. I'll be brief. In our process last time-and Director Menten is quite right. We had solicited questions to be collated for our candidates
from the public, from the ATU. From stakeholders. And they were compiled by our Board
office.
So I mean, maybe we've just for this short process use our social media with our fantastic
communications department to reach out to the public in a short order. It's not going to be for the
long process trying to offer the permanent candidate.
But I mean, if you wanted to be open, you could put up the questions you come up with that
you're finalizing tonight. Throw those out and ask the public for their feedback. And then they
are transparent. And they feel engaged and invested in the process, both for the interim and the
permanent person. I mean, you could go that far.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Folska. Just for the sake of the record, the questions
were collected from a number of people and particularly from Directors last time in 2015. The
questions were not published and were not disclosed to candidates in advance.
They were asked the same questions, asked of each candidate separately, so that the Board would
have a level playing field. Because as some of you know, if you apply for a state job, state
interviews are programmed questions that must be asked the same of every candidate. We as a
creature of state are obligated in the same fashion. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'm in agreement with those Directors-- I think Director
Walker, and Folska, and others who spoke about making these questions not confidential, not
part of Executive Session and letting them be known to the world. I guess I don't agree with
inviting the world to give us more questions to ask. I think we've got a good start on these
questions.

If we have consensus or if a motion is required to make these questions publicly available, we
can eliminate a good part of our Executive Session tonight, and just circulate these questions,
and have Directors reply with comments to the Board office that the Executive Committee could
take and do with what they will. But I don't see the need for having them remain confidential.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Buzek. Madam First Vice Chair, Director Catlin, you
are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. In reviewing these 16 questions, there's some
redundancy. But in fact, if you've been through an Executive search, almost all of those
questions are fairly routinely asked. And having been-- well, our CFO Heather McKillop is
familiar with the process, having gone through interviewing candidates.
It is true that you do ask the same questions, but you can also ask follow-up questions. That
being said, at CDOT when I applied and I'm sure when Heather applied, they sent you an essay
question or an exam that you had to fill out in advance.
And you could take as much time as you wanted. You could elaborate as much as possible. And
you were scored based on that. It was like an essay test. So that's the same as providing questions
in advance or at least giving a candidate an indicator of what the panel would be looking for.
Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Let me try to take the temperature of the room.
Because we could continue this dialogue forever. I mean, some of us have spoken four or five
times on it now. I'd like to know. Is there head nods? Is there a sense in the room you just want
to make the questions public? Just want to let everybody know the questions. Is that the sense in
the room? Are there people who are opposed to making the questions public?
TROY WHITMORE: I have a question in that regard, Mr. Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Then, Director Whitmore, you are identified for the question, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: So I was going to wait for the next Session, but it seems like this is
appropriate. I do have the desire to have some questions that are not rehearsed or not prepared in
advance. When I think of the situations that half the people in this room are put into on the spot,
whether it's NATA or wherever it may be, dealing with a legislator, I want to have a sense of
their ability to think on their feet.
So I don't feel comfortable with a blanket. Every question is given to every candidate out there.
I'm a little nervous about scrutiny of them from far and wide. Anyway, but I would like to
reserve at least a partial time for, how are you on your feet? How are you extemporaneously?
Because that is extremely important for our senior leadership team. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I very much appreciate those comments. And I would second
them, but we may be a minority here, Director Whitmore. Director Lubow, you are recognized.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. This isn't about the point of confidentiality of the statements
of the questions. But it actually impacts that. I did not see the 16 questions. I heard them. But
being who I am, I sat down and wrote some questions of my own, because it helps me think. And
they're more particular to RTD. They're not the kind of generic that you would ask to any GM.
They're about us and about some of our specific problems. So I'm just wondering. One, I think
these are important questions to ask. And that raises another issue of, should these specific
questions that we may or may not choose be public? I would be OK with it. But I share the
concern that Troy has, that it is also important to see how somebody thinks on their feet.
DOUG TISDALE: Which, after all, is not an unusual interview technique to see how employees
respond. But again, it's the Board's pleasure as of right now. I'm sorry were you not done? I
apologize.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm not in the sense-- I don't know if the questions that I've written have been
seen by everybody or just by a couple of people.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, the plan was to share them during the Executive Session, but that could
come around 10:00 or so. So we'll see how we do. We do have them available. Ms McManus has
reproduced that information at your request. And it is available for discussion. Yes.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry. I missed your question earlier asking about the public. I think
the question should be available to us. I'm fine. I agree with Troy that there's advantages. I don't
think we have to publish all our questions. And I guess I would move that we move on to
Executive Session.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, that's one approach. We could proceed with the agenda. That's always a
good idea. But the notion that has been raised, whether we need it. But there is no motion
pending. The Executive Committee decided that the questions would not be disclosed to the
public.
And the Executive Committee was charged with responsibility for preparing the process. The
Executive Committee determined to collaborate with the full Board relative to the content of the
questions to ensure that it was a collaborative process which, again, was also done last time.
The goal was to have a discussion tonight relative to those questions. But if someone wishes to
make a motion, this is the time. Otherwise, we'll proceed into the Executive Sessions. I see no
motion. I hear no motion. We will proceed. I'm sorry. Is your computer off?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK.

KATE WILLIAMS: Your hat is off.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I just wanted to-- just because we're going into Executive Session, there's
some people that haven't even seen the questions. So we can go into Executive Session and then
have of a discussion about whether we want them to be public or confidential. Would that be
correct?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, but you can't take action in an Executive Session, unless you want to
break the law. That's your choice.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I got my fill for today.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Oh, I'm sorry. Are you not done?
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I'm fine. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Madam Treasurer, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. You've mentioned that the Executive Committee was tasked with
developing the process for the selection. And that is not true, actually. What that committee was
given per the motion was the role of receiving those applications. I think developing the process
in terms of getting the announcement out was part of that, but not in term-- we're going a little bit
beyond that by developing questions at this point.
Because that wasn't a specific charge of the Executive Committee. So you may have done us a
great favor by bringing those questions forward, but they weren't actually part of the charge that
the Board gave the Executive Committee. So I just wanted to make that clear.
Because we haven't yet agreed to the idea of scoring criteria or how we're going to evaluate this.
And if we can decide or at least sketch that out in the course of the Executive Session, then, yes,
I want to go into that piece. But if we need to do that in an open Session, then we should do it
now.
DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. The notion of how the process should be conducted is to be conducted
in Executive Session. For example, you don't give the scoring sheet to students before an exam.
You tell them, here's your exam. And then you take the scoring sheet and you score it.
And so that's the reason for the evaluative criteria is, is to be able to come up with some kind of
scoring. But this Board has chosen to act as a committee of the whole as a selection committee.
If you wish, we could throw out evaluative criteria. We don't need that. It could be the
chancellor's foot. Everybody gets to decide on their own.
SHELLEY COOK: I'm not suggesting we do that. I'm just simply saying that the Executive
Committee went beyond its charge in identifying that. Now, it may be helpful, but it wasn't

specifically the charge of the Executive Committee. So we do need to discuss it, I think. And if
it's best done during the Executive Session, then I support going into that.
DOUG TISDALE: No, it's not best done in the Executive Session. If you want to talk about the
process, that needs to be done in an open Session in terms of
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: --if you have observation. And that was it. Yes, it must be done in open
Session. You have the mic, please. Feel free.
SHELLEY COOK: So the evaluation criteria, scoring mechanisms, the requirement that we have
to go. And we haven't had a chance to discuss. And I had assumed that would be beyond the
questions. That would be what we were talking about tonight.
In fact, you've talked about that several times, that that process is what we would discuss. So,
OK, then what will need to have laid out is what is currently kind of proposed. Because Barbara
McManus mentioned that there would be an evaluation sheet attached. We haven't, any of us,
seen that. Or at least we've not seen it in a way that would allow us to discuss it and approve it.
DOUG TISDALE: Oh, OK. I'm sorry. Were you done?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. The point is that this was all discussed in the Executive Committee
meeting that you attended.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, I believe I was excluded, because it was taken up in the Executive
Session.
DOUG TISDALE: Not the question of having questions or evaluative criteria.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, the questions. That's true. And we can evaluative criteria for the
Executive Committee to make that determination of the top two in each category. So to the
extent we were talking about that, yes. That's correct. But what Barbara McManus said was that
those would be attached to all Directors for them to evaluate. And we hadn't yet discussed that.
DOUG TISDALE: Anything further?
SHELLEY COOK: No.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Actually, I wanted to make a similar observation to
Director Cook. And I have the motion in front of me that with the evaluation, with the score, and

with the questions, I just want us to be careful that we're not moving beyond the scope of what
was put forth and the motion that we all agreed to as a Board.
And I think Director Cook is right that we may be not intentionally creeping into that area. And I
want to make sure the entire Board has the opportunity to weigh in on those aspects that are not
outlined within this motion that was before.
DOUG TISDALE: Does anyone have a motion then?
SHONTEL LEWIS: A motion for what?
DOUG TISDALE: As to how to proceed. How do you want to hire a new General Manager?
Anybody have any ideas? This is a good time to share them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Because you're looking at me, and it looks like you want an answer, I'm
happy to give you one. I think as a Board, we should determine what the evaluation criteria is.
As a Board, we should agree to what the questions are that we'd like to ask to potential
candidates. I think as a Board, we should determine what the scoring mechanism that we might
use.
We have the job description. We have not taken the job description and created evaluative tool
that we could use, based on the job description or the collection of the characteristics of what we
might find in an ideal candidate. And so if you wanted me to put a motion together with all of
those things, I'm happy to. But that's what it sounds like, is the request. And it's also not
identified within the motion.
DOUG TISDALE: It's the Board's privilege on how it wishes to proceed. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: I just wanted to add that as somebody that worked with Director Cook in
making the original jurisdictional motion, that we never thought that the Executive Committee
would be creating the scoring mechanism. It just was beyond that pale. We weren't thinking like
that. So I agree that as a Board, as a committee, as a whole, we need to do that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Was it stated in the motion that the Board would?
JUDY LUBOW: It was stated that there would be-- that the Executive Committee would be
acting under the instructions of the Board. And if there were no instructions about something,
they weren't supposed to be acting on it. That was, anyway, the way we thought of it.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Mr. Chair. If we're supposed to talk about process in this public forum,
most of us don't know what the process was that has been going on at the Executive Committee.
We've never seen these evaluation criteria scoring mechanisms and so forth. So it's kind of hard
to discuss that in a public forum now, when we haven't seen that. So I don't know what the
answer to that is. But I'll leave that in your capable hands. Thanks.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Well, the two vice chairs, I think, are silent on the point. So I'll
go to the secretary now to respond.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I'll read from what I believe is the motion that we passed-- this
Board passed, OK? Second bullet-- "The Executive Committee will oversee the interim GM
announcement and can receive applications and conduct a preliminary screening of the
applicants' applications."
To me-- and information about all prospects will remain confidential. But to me, that says that
the Executive Committee will create some type of criteria by which to screen the applicants
preliminarily. I think that's a process that we voted on. Now, I didn't agree with this. I thought we
had a perfectly fine process already. But this is what we voted on. And this is what was passed.
So it seems to me that the Executive Committee by way of gathering information about the
question that we did have, the Executive Committee was creating a more refined process for this
interim before the interim GM search. So I think the Executive Committee is charged with that
initial. It doesn't exclude the Board participation.
And I think the Board participation did come about yesterday to the extent that we were available
to answer questions from those who did call. But I think the process is pretty clear that the
Executive Committee is charged with screening at some preliminary level the applicants that we
receive. I'm not clear why nobody's clear or why so few are clear on the process.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And there were four members of the Executive
Committee-- Second Vice Chair, Director Rivera-Malpiede, First Vice Chair, Director Catlin,
Secretary Walker, and Chair Tisdale who all understood that from the motion and proceeded
accordingly as the motion said. But the treasurer is not in agreement on that.
SHELLEY COOK: Actually, I am. I am. Go ahead. I'm sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. So I want to go to the treasurer now and give her the opportunity
to talk.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair, sorry. So I do agree that was exactly the charge. What I was
disagreeing with was that those criteria would become the criteria and scoring mechanism that
the Board as a whole would undertake in order to make the selection.
So our job was to conduct that preliminary screening in order to come up with the top two, if we
wished, in each category and then turn the whole packet over to the Board as a whole. And the
motion is silent about how then the final selection is made. So that's the distinction that I was
making.
And the reason I wanted to make it with a point on it is that Barbara McManus had indicated to
the Board as a whole that they would be getting the packet with an evaluation, she incorporating
scoring criteria and some evaluation directions. And we hadn't yet gone there. So that was-- and
at that point, you said that's part of what we're going to discuss in the Executive Session.

BARBARA MCMANUS: So if I could add, in the meeting-- the first meeting we had with the
Executive Committee, I was tasked with putting together samples that we would bring forward
for the full Board. And that's exactly what I have done to bring forward to you tonight.
There is no decisions that have been made. There was no overstepping of boundaries by
anybody. I was tasked with doing that. And I brought it forward. If you want to speak about it in
an open Session, that's perfectly fine. The decision will be made by you. We just needed to have
a starting point. And the Executive Committee tasked me with that.
DOUG TISDALE: And I hear concurrence from the second vice chair and from the first vice
chair as to the comments of the Executive Manager. Mr. Secretary, Director Walker, you are
recognized.
JEFF WALKER: That should be it.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. All right. What's the Board's pleasure? I don't hear a motion. What I
hear is the opportunity for this Board at this time to say that the policy that the Executive
Committee proposed of keeping the questions confidential. We can ask for an affirmation at this
time. We can also ask for the opportunity to proceed into Executive Session to talk about what
those questions might be.
And then there's the question of the evaluative criteria, which were, in fact, just proposed for the
Executive Committee in order to determine its task, which the motion gave them the opportunity
to perform. And that is to select two candidates internal and external as the top two candidates.
And unless there is an alternative motion or an objection, the chair intends to proceed in that
manner. Madam First Vice Chair, you are recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was just going to point out that we already did pass a motion to go into
Executive Session. And so if we want to proceed to go into Executive Session to look at the
questions and the criteria, I think that's already in order. So I don't know if there needs to be
another motion made.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you for the clarification. The point is, yes, we did pass a motion for
Executive Session. But we did say before going into it, we were going to discuss process.
Because if you recall that section 3.5 that I read, articulates clearly that a lot of things, including
the process, must be discussed in open Session.
And then there was also the question as to whether Director Menten would be joining us in
Executive Session, since she had heretofore declined to execute a non-disclosure agreement. So
the process-- unless there is a motion to change it, the process that has been explained to you is
what will be followed.
The Executive Committee by a vote of 4 to 1 determined it would proceed in that manner. The
Board may, if it chooses to do so, overrule the Executive Committee and compel us to proceed in
a different manner. The Board has the power to do that. But the Board has to make a motion to
do that. Director Menten, you are recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: I'd like to make a motion to discuss the 16 questions in open Session.
DOUG TISDALE: There is a motion. Is there a second?
NATALIE MENTEN: Questions? What?
JUDY LUBOW: All the questions.
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. All of the questions, however many of those may be, in open
Session and with the note that these would potentially be our first round one questions. Because
it has been stated that when we get a candidate into an interview, we could have off the cuff
follow-up questions. So that's my motion-- open meeting, discuss.
DOUG TISDALE: Discuss all the questions, right?
NATALIE MENTEN: All the questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Is there a second?
WILLIAMS: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: Discussion on the motion? Director Menten has made a motion to have all of
the questions discussed in open Session, thereby publishing that, so that all individual candidates
would be aware of the questions. And we would proceed accordingly. Any further discussion on
the motion?
JUDY LUBOW: I have. Oh, I'm sorry. I didn't put speak up.
DOUG TISDALE: We've forgotten everything tonight, haven't we?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, we have.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Well, that's fine, except there was a whole bunch of us said that there should be
some questions reserved to determine people's ability to handle on the spot tension. And I think-DOUG TISDALE: That's not the motion.
JUDY LUBOW: I know. Right.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. Thank you. Director Broom, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: I would support keeping the questions confidential at this point and try it during
this process of doing the intern person and see how it works out. If it doesn't work out, then when

we do the next round, we can change it at that point. But let's stick with what the
recommendation in the Executive Committee was.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Director Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: I wanted to say what I was trying to say in the motion, is round one, the
base questions discussed in open Session. because we have the ability to have off the cuff
questions to see. How do they handle themselves on their feet? That maybe was not clear in what
I was trying to state there.
DOUG TISDALE: But again, understanding that any off the cuff questions, if you will, have to
be truly spontaneous, not planned. Otherwise, you are deliberately trying to give people different
treatment, aren't you?
NATALIE MENTEN: I am very good at calling things off the cuff. I planned. I am not devious
in any way.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Walker, Mr. Secretary, you are recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So even though I do support having the questions out there, I think we
can release-- those can be released at any time, even before while somebody is sitting out in the
hallway waiting to be interviewed. So at this point, I'm fine with discussing the questions in
Executive Session. So I will not be supporting the motion. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Director Whitmore, you are recognized.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes, I would urge a no-vote. The questions that I heard yesterday, in
addition to some [INAUDIBLE] questions from Director Lubow, were broad based, wide
ranging, very thoughtful. I appreciate the quality work in those.
I just feel like it would be too early to release those to the public, that we can use them as a better
tool by being a little more thoughtful and addressing some of the concerns that Director Walker
had mentioned. So I'm not going to vote for that situation.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. The motion is to discuss the questions in open Session, and publish
them, and have them be available for all candidates, essentially following tonight. And the
motion was Director Menten. And the second was Director Williams. OK, hearing no further
discussion, are we ready for a vote? Do we need electronic? Yes, we do.
So Director Menten, if you would vote. Director Williams, if you would follow. Then the rest of
us may cast our votes. By a vote of 2 in favor and 12 opposed, the motion fails. I will simply
read the two in favor. And that was Director Menten and Director Williams. There was no vote
cast by Director Folska who was away.
NATALIE MENTEN: She's gone for the night, by the way.

DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Are you seeking to be recognized?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm sorry. Yes. Director Folska has left for the evening.
DOUG TISDALE: She has? Thank you very much for that clarification. I appreciate that. So the
vote was 2 in favor, 12 opposed, and 1 not voting. We move on then to the process of an
Executive Session. I think we have reasonably exhausted the discussion.
But does anyone feel that they were cut off? Does anyone feel that they didn't have a chance to
speak? I'm curious. I just want to ensure. Director Buzek, please. No, I insist. All right. That
having been said, a delightful expository conversation. It is now 8:15 p.m. Yes, Director Lubow?
Of course. What?
JUDY LUBOW: No-DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. It is now 8:15 PM. And we will call a recess. We will commence
the Executive Session on the first subject of the Executive section on the DTP litigation at 8:20
on that clock. We stand in [AUDIO OUT]
SHELLEY COOK: I think it's good to through this, even though it's messy.
DOUG TISDALE: It is. Yeah.
SHELLY COOK: --the Boards involvement-DOUG TISDALE: Yeah. No, I mean-[SIDE CONVERSATION]
PEGGY CATLIN: It's like making sausage.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
DOUG TISDALE: That's the majority.
PEGGY CATLIN: It's like making sausage.
BOB BROOM: We didn't even decide where the Board members were eligible to run for this.
PEGGY CATLIN: Making sausage.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

