1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, April 1, 2014
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 6:29 P.M.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:29 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:28 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:28 PM
6:31 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Committee Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:30 PM
6:32 PM
6:31 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:31 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:30 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:30 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:30 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:28 PM
6:30 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Bill Bell, Lacy Bell, Douglas Carrington, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht,
David Genova, Cheryl Holmes, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Tony McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Vivian Morales,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Bill Sirois, Kirk Strand, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Rob Andrews, Alex Brown, John Desmond, Tami Door, Sherman
Hamilton, Aylene McCallum, Bill Mosher, Cathy Proctor, Roger
Sherman, Cyndi Stovall, Mike Sullivan, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn,
Elbra Wedgeworth, Monte Whaley

B. Updates

• Denver Union Station Project Update
Committee Chair James told the Directors as long as they are paying
attention to the topic at hand they have freedom to consult any tools.
He then introduced Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital
Programs, Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for Planning, and Bill
Mosher, Senior Managing Director for Trammell Crow Company (TCC). Mr.
Clarke and Mr. Mosher presented the last Denver Union Station (DUS)
update starting on page 4 of the Government Relations/Planning and
Development/FasTracks Monitoring Committees Packet for the April 1, 2014
Committee Meetings.
Committee Chair James thanked Mr. Mosher and Elbra Wedgeworth, Chair
of the Board for the Downtown Denver Partnership (DDP) for their leadership
and commitment to the community.
Director Deadwyler took a tour of DUS earlier in the day and expressed how
impressive it is. She noted that the bus concourse, which measures 1200
feet, only has one restroom facility at one end. Mr. Mosher pointed that the
restrooms on the other end are upstairs in the DUS main hall. Director
Deadwyler expressed the challenge this will pose for females and young
mothers as they would have to cross the concourse to have access to that
level’s bathroom.
Director Folska said that DUS is transforming the city, not just downtown
and thanked Mr. Mosher and Mr. Clarke for a job well done leading such a
complex group of people in such a long-term fashion.

Director Daly thanked Mr. Mosher and Mr. Clarke for their work and
mentioned he took a group of 40 people from his District on a DUS tour and
everyone was very impressed.
Director Hoy attended earlier in the day a Smart Commute Metro North
meeting and noted how Karen Stuart, Executive Director of the organization,
expressed ownership over DUS as a destination. She explained during the
meeting that money spent in downtown Denver benefits everyone in the
state.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked Mr. Mosher and Mr. Clarke. She grew up
near DUS and is honored to have it in her District. She wanted to maintain
its hallowed ground sense as many families, historical figures, and soldiers
going to war have stepped through DUS as the heart of Denver. She
pointed out the role of women in leadership throughout this project and
thanked Ms. Wedgeworth for her leadership and support. Her leadership,
she said, adds to the thread of history and coming together as a community.
She noted how her Highlands community stops by Riverpoint to take
pictures of the landmark.
Director Bagley reflected on his participation as the Board of Directors’
Conduit to the Denver Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) since 2010
and how Bill Mosher’s leadership as the owner’s representative has been
outstanding.
Committee Chair James noted the major projects and openings RTD has
planned for the near future and how these are sure to grab the attention of
the constituents.
Mr. Mosher recognized Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant
General Manager for Finance & Administration, and Marla Lien, General
Counsel, as original RTD members to the DUSPA. He also acknowledged the
leadership of Ms. Wedgeworth as well as the City and County of Denver and
the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG), among others.
Committee Chair James asked about the federal loans used to develop the
project and wondered if repayment would be accelerated. Mr. Mosher
replied that it is up to the City and County of Denver, RTD, as part of the
loan, is paid by FasTracks tax revenues as well as Downtown Development
Authority (DDA) tax revenues. The understanding is that the current City
and County of Denver administration would like to pay the loan as soon as
possible, but this could change anytime due to City policy. Ms. Lien further
explained that there’s a split in the DDA revenue and if there is an excess in
revenue it could be applied towards paying off the loan.

Mr. Clarke thanked Mr. Mosher and Mike Sullivan, Alex Brown, and Rob
Andrews from TCC. Each one was presented with a plaque recognizing
their contribution to the DUS project.

• Union Station Bus Concourse Update
Phil Washington, General Manager, told the Board the goal of this update is
to give a briefing on the May 9th opening including logistics, steps taken, and
other details. He introduced Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus
Operations, Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager for Communications,
and Jessie Carter, Manager for Service Planning & Scheduling, who
reviewed the DUS Bus Concourse presentation starting on page 29 of the
Government Relations/Planning and Development/FasTracks Monitoring
Committees Packet for the April 1, 2014 Committee Meetings.
Mr. Reed expressed the privilege of working alongside Tony McCaulay,
Senior Manager for Marketing, Stephen Reilly, Manager for Marketing
Communications, Pauletta Tonilas, Manager for FasTracks Public
Information, and Cheryl Holmes, Manager for Creative Services throughout
the Bus Concourse project. Together they presented to the Board the
communication strategy as well as the graphics already being used to
promote DUS and inform the public of the closing of Market Street Station
as well as bus route changes. As to the events leading to the opening, the
team invited the Directors to the Employee Day on April 26th and shared that
the sponsorships for the Evening Gala on May 8th, which will sit 1200
people, are sold out.
Mr. Washington briefed the Directors on the Private-Public Partnership (P3)
roundtables scheduled for the morning of May 9th. They will be educational
events wrapped around the P3 delivery model. With a capacity of 500
people, the idea is to have 3 panels: one from the public perspective, one
from the private perspective and one that envisions Transportation Secretary
Anthony Foxx interacting with the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN)
participants. Participants will include CDOT, RTD, FTA, AECOM, Goldman
Sachs, and Fluor, among others. Confirmed presenters and moderators
include Federico Peña, Mike Schneider, and Alethia Nancoo. Chair Sisk will
open the event and Denver Mayor Michael Hancock will close the event.
Mr. Reed informed the Directors that the Ribbon-Cutting Ceremony will be at
noon on May 9th. Mr. Washington added that the idea is to integrate
existing services as seamlessly as possible. He also interjected regarding the
potential opportunities being opened by the Free Metro Ride on 18th and 19th
Streets. One developer confirmed that they are planning an outdoor café on
18th St. because of the new service.

Director Folska sees the opening ceremonies as an opportunity to train
constituents about RTD services. She suggested an educational voice loop at
DIA’s concourse shuttle and asked what other types of marketing are
planned and/or in effect. Mr. Riley mentioned that RTD is using outdoor
billboards, digital billboard in the downtown area, open ad spaces on buses
and trains, street teams from RTD marketing, public relations, and customer
service going out to various Park-n-Rides. Director Folska asked if bus
operators are equipped to make announcements and distribute materials.
Mr. Riley said that yes, those materials are available and that the street
teams will focus on the origination of routes affected by the changes. They
have also targeted businesses and HOA’s on 18th and 19th Streets. Director
Foslka asked if the team has tapped into the Citizens Advisory Committee
(CAC). Mr. Reed said that yes, they’ve been working with the CAC and
other stakeholders, such as schools, disabled communities, chambers of
commerce, Denver Business Journal, etc.
Director Bagley congratulated the team on a great job and noted the
employee event on April 26th as a great opportunity to spread the word
about DUS and the new services.
Director Walker, who rides the 0 Route every day, is excited to see how it
all pans out. He spoke with John Tarbert, Transit Police Chief Officer,
regarding security of the area and everything is in place for a safe and
secure opening and operation. He also noted how train passengers will arrive
at an airy terminal and how bus passengers will have skylights, adding to
the quality of travel of the constituents.
Chair Sisk congratulated the team on their mindboggling hard work. He
asked what would happen on Monday, May 11th, the first day for
commuters arriving at DUS. Mr. Riley said that RTD
Ambassadors/Employees will have a presence at the different stations two
weeks prior and two weeks after to inform and educate the public.
Director Daly asked what is being done to point out alternatives to the 16th
St. Mall Ride. Mr. Riley responded that the teams will be at DUS, Civic
Center, in front of Market Station, Park-n-Rides, different stations
throughout the Mall and Metro Ride area. Mr. Reed said that the total is
500 shifts and the process has been implemented at other openings.
Director Solano asked what has been done to reach out to the Hispanic
community. Mr. Reed said that materials are available in Spanish. Director
Solano said he was glad to hear that. Mr. Riley added that they’ve reached
out to various Hispanic publications as well.

Director Hoy asked how many people go through Market St. Station in a
day. Mr. Carter said 5,000. Director Hoy also congratulated the team on
the Employee Day invitation. He asked if RTD Ambassadors would be open
to public volunteers. Mr. McCauley said that it is best to keep it to RTD
employees as they are invested in the project. Director Walker added that
constituents already help each other with route information and he suspects
the same will happen with these new changes.
Committee Chair James noted that the Civic Center Station was not
mentioned along the way and that he hopes that both Civic Center and DUS
will function as centers of gravity for RTD and Denver. He also noted that
collaboration between CDOT, DRCOG, City and County of Denver has
enabled the DUS project and have been the conduit for development.

C. Other Matters
Director Solano reminded the Directors and staff of his request at the Board
Meeting for a copy of the North Metro Ground Breaking Ceremony. Ms. Tonilas
said that a raw video is ready and will be made available to the Board Office as
soon as possible.

D. Next Meeting Date - May 13, 2014
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned to the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at 7:49
P.M.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

