Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Government Relations Committee
Tuesday, May 2, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Government Relations Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• State Legislative Liaison Services
C. Updates

• Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.
• State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna
• Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - June 6, 2017
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 25, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 25, 2017

Board Meeting Date: May 23, 2017

Subject:

State Legislative Liaison Services

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Government Relations Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or his designee, to enter into an agreement for state legislative liaison services with
Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year option (June 30, 2017 through
June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of $127,000, pursuant to the Contract
Award agreement.
BACKGROUND
Contract 13-DX-001 for State Legislative Liaison Services was signed with Brandeberry~McKenna
Public Affairs, effective July 1, 2013, and contained a provision for four (4) additional one-year option
periods. This board action would exercise the option for Year 4 of the option years. Of extreme
importance, the lobbyists are in daily contact with state legislators regarding bills that RTD seeks to have
passed, as well as regarding bills that would be harmful to RTD.
DISCUSSION
The state lobbying team provides guidance and direction for the RTD Board of Directors and staff in
their relationships with the General Assembly members. Constant monitoring of the activities within
the General Assembly and the Executive Office of the state of Colorado is required, and RTD’s
interests must be conveyed to appropriate legislators, including testifying before certain committees.
Advice and assistance in drafting legislation are also provided by the lobbying team. When RTD has
had legislation before the General Assembly, Brandeberry~McKenna has an excellent record of
making certain that these bills pass and become part of the Colorado statutes.
As part of the services, frequent contact is made with RTD staff and board members regarding various
bills in the legislature; written summary reports are issued on a weekly basis during the legislative
session; and status reports are given at the Government Relations Committee meetings while the
General Assembly is in session and as deemed necessary thereafter.
The Brandeberry~McKenna team also takes the initiative to educate state legislators on RTD issues and
projects so that these legislators understand mass transit and RTD’s mission.

Board of Directors Report
State Legislative Liaison Services
May 2, 2017
Page 2 of 2

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the Recommended Action. It is recommended by RTD’s Government Relations Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement for state
legislative liaison services with Brandeberry~McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK) to exercise a one-year
option (June 30, 2017 through June 29, 2018) to extend Contract No. 13-DX-001, at a cost of
$127,000, pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.
2. Do not approve the Recommended Action.
Do not accept the recommendation by the
Government Relations Committee that authorizes the General Manager to enter into a contract to
execute the state legislative liaison services one-year option agreement. A new Request for
Proposals could be sent to interested parties, interviews conducted, and a different state lobbying
firm could possibly be selected by the Government Relations Committee and retained. This action
is not recommended because it is the consensus of the Government Relations Committee to
recommend to the Board the selection of the Brandeberry~McKenna team.
3. Do not approve the Recommended Action. Do not retain the services of a state legislative liaison
firm. This action is not recommended because it would put RTD in the position of facing
contentious and potentially harmful legislative issues with no direct legislative liaison services. It
was determined by the Government Relations Committee that the Brandeberry~McKenna team
has been very effective in pursuing the RTD state legislative agenda and will continue to
represent RTD’s interests very well in the future. This team is very familiar with RTD’s issues
and policies.

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 26, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Board Meeting Date: May 2, 2017

Subject:

Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.

ATTACHMENTS:


CRL LGR Report 04-25-17

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

Date:

April 25, 2017

To:

Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer

From:

Roger Sherman

Subject:

Local Government Relations Update

The following are items for May 2, 2017:
1. CAC Call for Applications – Applications are being accepted for three upcoming
vacancies on the Citizens Advisory Committee. A call for applications has been widely
distributed to media outlets, internal stakeholder lists, elected officials, etc. Applications
are due by the close of business on May 12.
2. Municipal Elections – Most cities within RTD’s boundaries will hold municipal elections
this November. CRL is monitoring candidate filings and will compile and distribute a
“snapshot” of the elections later this summer as information becomes available.
3. Metro Mayors Caucus (MMC) – The next full caucus meeting is June 7 from 7:30-10
A.M. Meetings are held at the Metro Denver Chamber, 1445 Market St.
4. State of the City Addresses – There are a few states of the city addresses remaining this
year. Please let me know if you would like to attend one of the events.
 5/18 Aurora State of the City – 11:30-1:30 @ Hyatt Regency Aurora-Denver
 6/1 Englewood State of the City – 6-8pm @ Englewood City Center
 7/10 Denver State of the City – Time and location TBD

1660 Lincoln Street, Suite 1800 Denver, CO 80264

p. 303.592.5450

f. 303.592.5460

www.crlassociates.com

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: CRL LGR Report 04-25-17 (3124 : Local Update - CRL Associates, Inc.)

1.C.1.a

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 25, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 25, 2017

Board Meeting Date: May 2, 2017

Subject:

State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna

ATTACHMENTS:


April Board Report

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 7

1.C.2.a

1410 Grant Street, C-307 | Denver, CO 80203
office 303.539.1320 | fax 303.861.0683

To:

RTD

Date: April 25, 2017
Re:

May Board Update

On April 28th, the Legislative Council Committee will consider several requests for Interim
Committees on various subjects. Speaker Duran and Rep. Pabon requested that an interim study
committee be formed to study approaches to address and mitigate the impacts of large
transportation projects. BBMK has included a copy of this interim study.
HB17-1348 Prohibit HOV High Occupancy Vehicle 3 Requirements North I -25 sponsored
by Senator Scott and Rep. Lebsock. The bill specifies that after July 1, 2018 the use of the North
I-25 express lane that is managed by HPTE or a P3 partner is free for any motor vehicle that is
occupied by two or more individuals including the driver. The bill was introduced and assigned
to the House Transportation and Energy Committee. The House co-sponsors include Reps.
Gray, McKean and Pabon.
HB17-1242 New Transportation Infrastructure Funding Revenue sponsored by Speaker
Duran, Senate President Grantham and Transportation Chairs Rep. Mitsch Bush and Senator
Baumgardner. The bill requires a ballot question to be submitted to the voters of the state at the
November 2017 statewide election, that seeks approval for the state to temporarily increase the
rate of the state sales and use tax for 20 years, beginning in 2018. If the voters approve the
temporary sales and use tax rate increase, the new revenue generated is allocated solely for
transportation infrastructure funding purposes. Specific projects to be funded will be required to
be included in the 2017 ballot information booklet, provided to the voters of the state.
The bill passed the Senate Transportation Committee with significant amendments to the
allocation formula. The following amendments were adopted in the Senate Transportation
Committee:
L122: Change in formula
L125: Increases the maximum repayment amount for TRANs from $5 billion to $5.5
billion.
L127: Additions to ballot language
L126: CDOT development list/ Bluebook 30 to 45 days
L.128: Removes transit affordability language added to the bill in the House through
amendments L.060 and L.065 from the bill.
L129: Eliminates the multimodal transportation options committee and assigns its duties
relating to the allocation of money from the transportation options account of the
multimodal transportation options fund to CDOT's transit and rail advisory
committee and adds advocates for affordable transportation options, persons with
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)

From: Brandeberry McKenna Public Affairs (BBMK)

disabilities, and bicyclists and pedestrians to the advisory committee
L131: $50 million CDOT buy in for bond payment
L132: $100 million general fund for CDOT bond payments
L133: Reduce sales tax to half cent
L134: Additions to transportation options committee
L135: Website (Lawrence amendment request)
L136: Contractor prequalification (Lawrence amendment request)
L137: Best value (Lawrence amendment request)
The bill is scheduled for a hearing in the Senate Finance Committee on April 25th at 2pm.
SB17-153 Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission sponsored by
Senators Garcia and Crowder and Rep. Esgar. The bill replaces the Southwest Chief Rail Line
Commission housed in CDOT with the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail
Commission. The new commission will assume the duties of the old commission which was set
to repeal on July 1, 2017. These duties include the coordination of efforts to ensure that track
repairs and upgrades required for continuation of the existing Southwest Chief Rail service in
Colorado are completed. The bill will also study extending rail service to Pueblo as well as
exploring the benefits of extending service to Walsenberg. The Commission is also tasked with
developing draft legislation that facilitates the development of a passenger rail system to provide
service in and along the I-25 corridor. An appointee from the District would be a member of
the Board. CDOT is supporting the bill and the legislation provides an opportunity to have all
stakeholders involved in this discussion at the table. The bill has passed the House and
Senate.
SB17-040 Public Access to Government Files sponsored by Senators Kefalas and Gardner and
Rep. Pabon. The bill concerns public access to digital database records. The bill passed the
Senate with an amendment requiring the judicial division to be subject to the Colorado Open
Records Act. Additional amendments were added on Second Reading that provide exemptions
to CORA for infrastructure as well as information allowing public employees to request
certain information be protected from disclosure. The bill was heard in the House Finance
Committee on Tuesday. The Senate amendments were removed from the bill and the bill
passed on a party line vote. Rep. Pabon has committed to work with stakeholders to address
outstanding concerns related to infrastructure protections and how searchable structured data
is provided.
HB17-1177 Mediation for Disputes Arising Under CORA sponsored by Reps. Wist and
Garnett and Senator Cooke. This bill is intended to encourage record requesters and
governmental entities to resolve disputes through mediation rather than in the court system. The
bill would require the requesters and record custodians to evenly split the cost of hiring a
mediator. A strike below amendment was adopted by the Committee that simply requires a
meeting or call between the records custodian and requestor after a denial of a request but
before filing a request with district court to resolve a dispute. The meeting may include
recourse to any dispute resolution agreeable and paid for by both parties. The bill has passed
the Senate and the House.
2
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)

1.C.2.a

1.C.2.a

HB17-1103 Sales and Use Tax Exemption for Historic Aircraft sponsored by Reps. Nordberg
and Pabon and Senators Moreno and Gardner. The bill is attempting to address an issue
regarding state historic aircraft owners wishing to loan their historic aircraft to museums in
Colorado without being taxed. The fiscal note only mentions a “potential impact.” The bill
passed both chambers.
HB17-1127 Exempt Feminine Hygiene Products from Sales Tax sponsored by Rep. Lontine
and Senator Martinez Humenik. The bill creates a state sales tax exemption, commencing
January 1, 2018, for all sales, storage, and use of feminine hygiene products. The bill has a
large fiscal note and will likely not survive the Appropriations Committee. The bill is waiting
to be calendared in the House Appropriations Committee.
HB17-1195 Create a State Sales Tax Exemption for Diapers sponsored by Rep. Winter and
Senator Martinez Humenik. The bill creates a sales tax exemption, commencing January 1, 2018
for the sale, storage and use of diapers. The bill further allows local taxing jurisdictions to adopt
the same exemption. The bill passed the House Finance Committee and is waiting to be
scheduled in the House Appropriations Committee.
BBMK is monitoring bills related to Construction Defects and has included them for Board
members interested in the issue.
HB17-1279 Construction Defect Actions Notice Vote Approval sponsored by Reps. Garnett
and Saine and Senators Tate and Guzman. The bill would require that a majority of a HOA’s
members approve the initiation of a legal complaint. The bill further mandates certain
disclosures to homeowners detailing the expected cost and time of pursuing a complaint and the
potential difficulty of selling their unit during a lawsuit. The bill passed the House State Affairs
Committee on Tuesday. The stakeholders agreed on a compromise on the following key
components to the bill: a decrease in tolling from 120 days to 90 days, a required public
meeting prior to the vote or filing of a claim, inclusion of bank-owned properties in the vote,
and a fifty percent plus one vote of all homeowners to enter litigation. The bill passed the
House on Third Reading 64-0 with one excused.
SB17-045 Construction Defect Claim Allocation of Defense Costs sponsored by Senators
Williams and Grantham and Reps. Wist and Duran. This is a bipartisan measure concerning a
requirement for the equitable allocation of the costs of defending a construction defect
claim. This bill will likely be postponed indefinitely because of the agreement on HB 1279.
SB17-156 Homeowners Association Construction Defect Lawsuit Approval Timelines
sponsored by Senator Hill and Rep. Wist. The bill is supported by the Homeownership
Opportunity Alliance, a large diverse coalition which has been leading the charge to change
Colorado Statutes as they pertain to construction litigation. The bill requires written consent of a
3
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)

In addition to monitoring transportation related legislation, BBMK continues to follow sales tax
bills which have a direct operational impact on the district.

1.C.2.a

majority of homeowners in an association prior to initiating litigation, disclosure of the costs and
duration of litigation and a process for alternative dispute resolution. This bill was laid over
until May 12th, effectively killing the bill.

BBMK would like to provide an update of all the Transportation Ballot Initiatives filed to date.
Initiative 14 seeks to increase the state sales tax for twenty years beginning in 2018 from 2.9%
to 3.4% and to use the first $350 million to fund the highway users tax fund and credit up to
$100 million to the multimodal transportation options fund and other transportation funding.
Initiative 15 seeks to increase the state sales tax for twenty years beginning in 2018 from 2.9%
to 3.5%; the other components are the same as Initiative 14.
Initiative 16 seeks to increase the state sales tax for twenty years beginning in 2018 from 2.9%
to 3.9% and to credit 35% of the net revenue to the highway users tax fund and the remaining
30% of the net revenue to the multimodal transportation options fund and other transportation
funding.
Initiative 17 seeks to increase the state sales tax for twenty years beginning in 2018 from 2.9%
to 3.5%; the other components are the same as Initiative 16.
Initiative 21 seeks to authorize $2.5 million in bonding for roads, bridges, construction and
maintenance of roads in Colorado.
Initiative 22 seeks to authorize $3.5 million in bonding for roads, bridges, construction and
maintenance of roads in Colorado.
Initiatives 23, 24, 25 seek to increase state sales tax for 20 years beginning in 2018 from 2.9%
to 3.52% and to credit 85% of the net revenue to the highway users tax fund and the remaining
15% of the net revenue to the multimodal transportation options fund and other transportation
funding.
Initiative 26 seeks to increase state sales tax for 20 years beginning in 2018 from 2.9% to 3.4%
and to credit 85% of the net revenue to the highway users tax fund and the remaining 15% of the
net revenue to the multimodal transportation options fund and other transportation funding.
Initiative 27 seeks to increase the state sales tax for 20 years beginning in 2018 from 2.9% to
3.9% and to credit 85% of the net revenue to the highway users tax fund and the remaining 15%
of the net revenue to the multimodal transportation options fund and other transportation
funding.

4
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)

Ballot Initiatives

1.C.2.a

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)

Initiative 28 seeks to increase state sales tax for 20 years beginning in 2018 from 2.9% to
3.52% and to credit 83% of the net revenue to the highway users tax fund, 15% of the net
revenue to the multimodal transportation options fund and other transportation funding, and the
remaining 2% of the net revenue to a new high priority water project fund and other
transportation funding.

5
Packet Pg. 12

1.C.2.a

Request 2017-13

State of Colorado

To:

Legislative Council

Requested by:

Speaker Duran and Representative Pabon

Re:

Request for Interim Study Committee Regarding Impact Mitigation of
Large Transportation Projects

Date:

04/14/2017

Information Required Pursuant to Section 2-3-303.3, C.R.S.
We hereby request that an interim study committee be formed to study approaches to address
and mitigate the impacts of large transportation projects during the interim between the 2017
and 2018 legislative sessions. The interim study committee would be named the “Interim
Committee on Impact Mitigation of Large Transportation Projects.”
The policy issues to be studied are:


Identification of anticipated impacts of large transportation projects that are either
underway or planned to begin, including the specific effects of particular projects.
Impacts to be considered include:
o
o
o
o
o

Potential air pollution in areas neighboring a project;
Potential groundwater pollution in areas neighboring a project;
Disruptions affecting residents and businesses in a project area;
Displacement of residents and businesses from a project area; and
Other concerns of residents and businesses in areas neighboring a project.



Specific ways that federal, state, and local governments have mitigated the impacts of
past projects and are mitigating impacts of current projects across the state and country.



Proposals to mitigate the anticipated impacts of future large transportation projects
located in Colorado, including proposals involving specific projects.

The interim study committee would need to meet two times to study the policy issues outlined
above.

Request 2017-13
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)

LEGISLATIVE REQUEST FOR INTERIM STUDY COMMITTEE

1.C.2.a

Request 2017-13
The committee is authorized to approve up to three bills to address the outlined issues.
The interim study committee should consist of six members of the general assembly selected as
follows:



three Senators; two appointed by the President of the Senate and one appointed by the
Senate minority leader.
three Representatives; two appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives
and one appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.

The chair will be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the vice-chair
will be appointed by the President of the Senate.
The appointments must be made by June 1, 2017.

Additional Information Related to the Interim Study Committee Request
The following agencies may be called upon to provide assistance or information to the interim
committee:




The Department of Transportation;
The Housing Division within the Department of Local Affairs; and
Within the Department of Public Health and Environment:
o
o
o
o
o

Air Pollution Control Division;
Center for Health and Environmental Data;
Division of Environmental Health and Sustainability;
Hazardous Materials and Waste Management Division; and
Water Quality Control Division

The committee may seek information from local governments and their agencies as well.
Thank you for your consideration of this request.

Request 2017-13
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: April Board Report (3122 : State Update - Brandeberry-McKenna)



1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, General Manager and CEO

Date: April 27, 2017

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

April 26, 2017

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs

ATTACHMENTS:


Federal Update 5 2 17 (DOCX)

Prepared by:
Sherry Ellebracht, Government Relations Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 15

1.C.3.a

FEDERAL UPDATE FOR REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT: MAY 2, 2017
President Trump’s Infrastructure Proposal

Secretary Chao, meanwhile, has stated that regulatory burdens in the project approval process, rather
than lack of Federal funding, are the largest impediment to advancing needed transportation projects –
potentially signaling her intent to propose significant regulatory relief measures.
Federal Appropriations for the Remainder of FY 2017:
For fiscal year 2017 (ending September 30, 2017), nearly all agencies and programs of the Federal
government continue to operate under a Continuing Resolution through Friday, April 28. To avoid a
shutdown of the Federal government, Congress must pass and President Trump must sign one or more
new spending bills by midnight on April 28.
Transportation Funding
With respect to transportation funding for the remainder of FY 2017, we understand that the House and
Senate have completed their negotiations based on the spending bills each chamber advanced last Spring;
we do not expect the final 2017 Transportation/HUD spending bill to include radical changes from
those House- and Senate-advanced bills. For example, we believe any debate on the future of the New
Starts program will play out in the discussion of FY 2018 spending later this spring.
This Federal Update is drafted before April 28; Mike Dino will provide more up-to-date information on
Federal spending measures for FY 2017 during his May 2 presentation.
Federal Appropriations and the President’s Budget Proposal for FY 2018:
We expect the President to release his full FY 2018 budget proposal for all agencies and programs of the
Federal government in mid-May. In addition to setting forth the President’s priorities for surface
transportation spending in FY 2018 – much of which is governed by the FAST Act – this proposal may
foretell what Trump will propose for transportation programs in his infrastructure bill later this year.
Transportation Funding
With President Trump’s FY 2018 “skinny budget” (released in March) proposing to support only New
Starts projects with signed FFGAs already in place, public transit stakeholders and Congressional
Democrats have launched an aggressive campaign championing the important role the Federal
government has played in New Starts projects. These efforts mainly seek to quantify the nationwide
benefits of – and therefore the Federal role in – funding for New Starts.
Work on House and Senate Transportation/HUD spending bills for FY 2018 is underway, with Member
funding requests and subcommittee hearings taking place in advance of introduction of any legislation.
Most Congressional Republicans have remained silent on Trump’s cuts to New Starts and the popular
TIGER program.
RTD’s Eagle P3 project continues to enjoy bipartisan Congressional support. In letters to House and
Senate Appropriations Committee leaders earlier this month, RTD’s entire Colorado Congressional
delegation requested full funding for the Eagle P3 FFGA through its final year: FY 2018.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Federal Update 5 2 17 (3125 : Federal Update - Squire Patton Boggs)

Details have been slow to emerge on the substance and timing of President Trump’s promised
infrastructure proposal. Trump’s OMB director, Mick Mulvaney, recently announced that the
Administration plans to provide approximately $200 billion in direct spending for infrastructure, which
he explained will be leveraged in a 5 to 1 ratio to achieve the President’s pledged $1 trillion in total
investment. Mulvaney cautioned that the plan won’t be ready until this Fall – well past the initial “first
100 days” pledge.

