2020-07-08
Ad Hoc Code of Conduct Committee
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --according to my computer clock. So let me just say I would now
like to call to order the Wednesday, July 8 2020 meeting of the Ad Hoc Committee on RTD's Code
of Conduct. We are convened as of 8:30-- I mean, I'm sorry, 8:02 AM Mountain Daylight Time.
And I would respectfully ask everyone in the meeting to ensure that your phones are on mute or
that your ringers are set to silent.
I do want to have Ms. McManus just do a roll call briefly so we know who's on the line, and then
I'll do our safety moment. Ms. McManus?
[COMPUTER TONE]
EVAN DREYER: Angie, I don't think Barbara's on the call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, OK. then I'll do it. Evan Dreyer.
EVAN DREYER: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief Pazen. Britta Fisher. Did I hear Britta? Gary Brzezinski?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Good morning, everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Denise Maes? Carly Saigon. Bob Dorscheimer.
And Kate Barton.
OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Good morning. I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik. Director Whitmore? I'm sorry?
[CHUCKLES] Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And Director-- or General Manager Ballard.
PAUL BALLARD: I'm here. Good morning.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: I'm here. Good morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Morning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. Marisela Sandoval.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Good morning, everyone.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Good morning. OK, that is it.
So let me go ahead and go on with my little safety speech. There is new evidence that COVID-19
is spreading primarily by asymptomatic and presymptomatic people and possibly through the
means of aerosol virus particles. So it's even more important than ever that we follow the practices
of social distancing, frequently washing our hands, and minimizing our time spent in poorly
ventilated indoor public areas, especially when a large number of people are present, and wear a
mask at all times in public spaces, such as offices, grocery stores, and while using public transit.
This morning I would like to have Mr. Meader and his team briefly review the last round of
changes to our code. Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair.
OK, after our last meeting, we had one particular item in the code of conduct that there was quite
a bit of discussion about. And that was item number 28. The language stated, lying or sitting on
the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance of any RTD vehicle or facility. That
was one of the prohibitions. We talked quite a bit specifically about the need perhaps for people
to sit on the floor. And I know that Britta presented some examples. Some others did as well.
So we took a look at that very closely, discussed it amongst our team, and did decide to propose a
change to that where number 28, item number 28, would still include the prohibition against lying
on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility with
the one exception, and that would be for medical reasons.
So we included language in there to say medical reasons excepted. That is, if there were some
medical reason that required an individual to lie down on the floor temporarily, obviously that
would signal our security or our RTD employees to check on that person and make sure they
received medical care, as often happens over there. And so that would be addressed in that fashion.
We
Did remove the sitting on the floor, based upon the discussion, and then changed item number 34,
where this was, it was kind of related to this. And I think that there were some inference made that
it could be included in this particular prohibition, number 34, which the team agreed.

So we propose to change that language in 34 to say blocking or impeding the movement of another
person or blocking a seat or an aisle, elevator, escalator, pathway, door, or stairway with one's
body, either sitting or standing, or any object, except a mobility aid, or interfering with the
operations or facilities maintenance in a way that poses a danger, unreasonably impedes a patron's
movement or ability to sit, or displaces a person, of course, subject to ADA reasonable
modification in section number four of the code where that's addressed.
So I'll just give a quick explanation here as to why some of these things were added in 34.
Obviously, we wanted to make sure that the pathway piece-- and that was one of the concerns, if
there were large people, large number of people sitting in an area where people had to move
through a station or the vehicle that created an egress problem, or a safety problem period, we
wanted to point that out.
The interfering with operations or facilities maintenance, that would apply to some kind of activity
that was occurring in the station or facility or vehicle from a maintenance perspective or
operationally. And some of the concerns there, obviously if people are lying down in areas where
we're operating trains or buses or sitting down, it could create a problem where an operator or
someone didn't actually see the person, expecting people to be standing. And we didn't want to put
anybody in a position where they may get hit by a vehicle, a train, or some other activity that's
happening from an operational perspective, which led to the change in 34.
In 28, as we evaluated that, I actually took some time to do quite a bit of research here, just asking- [CLEARS THROAT] excuse me-- all of the government buildings, any building that provides
some type of a service, called the museums, of course, talked to grocery stores, you name it,
including some shelters. And there really isn't anywhere that anyone is permitted to lie on the floor.
Of course, in the shelters, they can, if they're in a sleeping area with a mat. And so there wasn't
any operational need certainly we could identify where there would be a need for someone to lie
on the floor of any of our stations, facilities, or vehicles. So we kept that one in there as well.
So that's the explanation. And I'd open it up to some discussion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you, sir. Let me just first, for the record, show that
Director Whitmore is on the call. Welcome, Director Whitmore.
Yeah, we really want this to be an inclusive process. So I'd like to open up this item for discussion
one more time. Are there any comments or questions on this last iteration of this document? Does
anybody have any comments? Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have a couple of questions. And I really
appreciate the effort to [AUDIO OUT] some of the comments from our last discussion here with
these edits. So I much appreciate it.
So my first question is, was there a consideration given to adding lying down to what's in the
parentheses there, sitting or standing, in number 34? And if that were to be added to 34, just adding
lying down, what would be an example of the circumstance that would be covered still in 28 that
wouldn't be covered in 34?

Now I've got one more question, but I'll stop there for now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
MIKE MEADER: We felt it was important that we specified lying down on the floor any place. It
wasn't just from the standpoint of blocking something. There really isn't any operational need or
transit need for anyone to lie down on the floor.
Some of the explanations I heard from some of the other folks, as I said, I talked to was, lying
down obviously puts a lot more body on the ground. As Gary had mentioned before, I think, he
talked about having people on the floor lying down, those kinds of things, it does create a problem
for our first responders. That was one of the reasons a lot of the other folks that I talked to specified
why they didn't allow that anywhere.
There were reasons for sanitary reasons, getting your face and whatnot closer to the ground as well
isn't healthy. More opportunity for injury as well. And also, it tended to encourage congregating
of people kind of lying down in areas when they would see that, and it led to some of those rules
around these other places as well.
So as I said, we talked about it extensively, could not come up with any reason why there would
be a need to lie down on a floor anywhere. So we kept that separate and we pointed out the standing
and sitting. We didn't include that in that because it's a specific prohibition in one of the other
items.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you for that explanation. I still have some of the same concerns,
although I do appreciate the movement that's been made. But another question that I have is in 28,
when it says medical reasons excepted, can you expand a little bit more on what this means? Does
this mean-- would this include somebody who's feeling lightheaded, somebody who needs to
stretch out some sciatica pain, exhaustion? Would it require a doctor's note? Or would this only
include cases in which you would call a paramedic or 911?
MIKE MEADER: Right. That's typically what we would see. If someone was lightheaded, we
have had instances where people, let's say, with diabetes, low blood sugar, those kinds of things,
where they've had to sit down and, in some cases, lie down. And what that initiated was obviously
a welfare check and then a call for medical assistance.
So we would expect to take care of people if we saw that. And that's where we put the medical
reasons excepted. It would be more of a kind of an emergency or immediate need for someone to
take some action to ensure that they don't hurt themselves further. But it would initiate some
medical help, or at least a welfare check.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Unmuting myself. That's good to know and it might be helpful to expand
on that in the language, just for the sake of the public use of this code of conduct, that might be
helpful for folks. So thank you for expanding on that.

I'll stop here. But I do still have some concerns on 28 that I voiced in our last discussion. But it
would be interested in what others have to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. Anyone else?
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford. Just a typo, I think, Mike, on number 30. The third line,
it says to to function safely.
MIKE MEADER: OK. Thank you, Michael.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Anyone else? Yes, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hi. Thank you. I think we want to remember that we're a transit agency. And
like I said in previous meetings, I have been known to sit down. I mean, I'll sit down anyplace I
can. I sit down in the airport. I sit down in the bus station, on the ground. So I get that people need
to sit. But I think that anytime that anybody is laying down at a transit location, if they have a
problem and they have to lay down, maybe they're pregnant and they're having some issues, maybe
they are lightheaded, then I think that's a medical issue and that we need to then put that we will
call the EMTs.
And I don't see any other reason that anybody would be lying down at a transit stop. Me. I really
thought about it a lot. And I think that anytime somebody is laying down, it would be a medical,
maybe not emergency, but situation. Not that people don't ever do it or don't ever have to do it.
But if they do, then they need medical help.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Anyone else?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hey, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. This is Shontel Lewis. Thank you, Chair. I have
some similar concerns with 28. I hear you, Kate. And I think I might have brought this up on
another call. And so forgive me if I've already said this.
One of the concerns I have is that-- so previously I used to do gang reduction work. And one of
the things we figured out really early on when I did gang reduction work is that, when I worked in
tandem with our Denver Police Department is that we were not going to arrest our way out of
gangs, and the gangs were still going to exist. And I feel like 28 resembles this, at least it does for
me, that we are trying to figure out how to enforce our way out of folks who are experiencing
homelessness. And I think we're not naming that.
And so I think it would be really important for us to one, name that, to your point, Director
Williams, what would what would be a reason that an individual would need to be to be lying
down. I mean, I could think of a few. Because like you, sitting down, I might lie down anywhere
because I just get tired.

But it might be helpful for us to think about a strategy, as we are a transit agency, a strategy to
address the underlying concerns and the tensions that represent within 28. Because I think it does,
to some degree, because of the ambiguity but also because it's specific to individuals lying down,
and at least what I've heard as a Director from Chief Grado and from Mr. Meader during our safety
reports is that our transit security officers and even our operators are having a tough time figuring
out what to do when they see folks on our transit systems and on our platforms who are
experiencing homelessness.
And so I think that's the underlying language that we may not be talking about, which is why it
brings me concern, because I'm concerned that this demographic of folks might be unfairly or
unjustly or disproportionately marginalized or impacted by this specific rule or prohibition, as Mr.
Meader would say.
And so that's why I feel really uncomfortable with it. I know, Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you will
probably ask us, can we live with it. And I'm going to say no for that one. I can't live with it.
Because I would hate to see a specific demographic of folks unfairly or overly impacted by the
restrictions within this one. So that's my piece for that one.
I know we've come back to this a few times and I don't imagine that we're going to come back and
make additional updates. So I wanted to say that. That's one. I'm happy to give time to respond to
it, but I think it's just going to be an explanation of why we are going to move forward in it, and
I'll save you all that, I'll save that for you.
The next one that I wanted to point out, and I brought these up on the last call, and maybe you
didn't miss them because I didn't identify them correctly. It's 14, distributing or posting handbills
in RTD vehicles or in RTD property. I wanted to point out that this is actually contradictory to
what are permitted activities as it is specified in our-- let's see, oh, I guess they're just called
permitted activity, permitted RTD activities-- and so in the permitted RTD activities, you actually
can do this.
And so I'm a bit confused about why in the permitted activities, this would show us something that
RTD patrons would be allowed to do, and then in another portion of our-- another place within our
system that it would be something that RTD patrons are restricted from doing.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader, do you want to address number 14?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. I mean, these are-- and I'll ask Marisela maybe to jump in on this one-- I
know that there are specific public and non-public forum for, again, for speaking out or for posting
things. There are areas that are designated as such. I do know that we do have a permit process for
handing items out at specific times. I believe that this is more focused on posting things in areas
where those things aren't specifically allowed.
Marisela, if you want to jump in and help me out on this one, you may be more prepared to answer
it than I am.

MARISELA SANDOVAL: Sure. I think you did a great job. But if you look carefully, I think
what you're talking about is the Use of Facilities policy. And I'm sorry if you called that out and I
missed it. But as Mike said, there's areas that are non-public forums. And if you look at the Use of
Facilities policy, it specifically calls out from expressive activity the interior spaces of Union
Station and specific other facilities that we have.
So we could maybe clarify that, I guess. Because I do see what you're saying, looking at it. It
doesn't specifically call out which areas, but it does say vehicles. And so I think that's pretty clear.
RTD property, perhaps, we could put excluding those identified in the Use of Facility policy, if
that would probably be more clear. That could be an edit. I don't know, again, at this point, are we
editing? But happy to try to clarify that language.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks, Marisela.
BOB GRADO: Yeah. Hey, guys. This is Chief Grado. If I can just talk to that for a second. I think
the issue here is, sometimes people are distributing things that others find offensive. And it could,
believe it or not, when people are out there distributing religious material, we get more calls on
that than really anything else. And what happens is they'll hand them a pamphlet or whatever it
might be, and these folks just take a few steps ahead and they throw it on the ground. So it winds
up creating a lot of trash and things like that.
So I think that might be why that's in there too. Honestly, no one's questioned that one, so it's
interesting. I'm looking at that too. And maybe we do need to clean that up a little bit. But we do
allow people to do it if they go through our permit process. So generally, what happens is security
officers will ask them for the permit to distribute the material. And that just basically covers things
like assuring that the area is cleaned up and stuff like that when they're done and they're not
blocking pass and tables and stuff. So I'll throw that out there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
MIKE MEADER: I know number 20-- this is Mike Meader-- number 20 says engaging in activities
not authorized by RTD's Facilities Use policy. And as Marisela said, I know that the intent is that
it's covered in that. So that may capture that, Director Lewis, so that it would specify what was
allowed and where it was allowed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you. That's actually the policy that I was referencing. And so
within the Facilities Use policy, this is not something that is restricted, but it's a restriction on
showing up in our Code of Conduct.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Well, I think it is-- there's some restrictions on it in terms of-- so I do,
I hear what you're saying. But in the Use of Facility policy, the way I read it, there are some
parameters about where you can do that. And those would be, yeah, the public forums where
there's, and it does specifically, though, call out other places where that activity, expressive activity
is not allowed. And that would be every view. It's not any certain view. It's just a time, place, and
manner restriction.

So I do hear what you're saying, that it does not specifically kind of ex-- because I focus a lot on
DUS, because I'm on a couple other committees. But yeah, these are for all our facilities. So I
could see where we may be able to clarify that a little bit. Or I mean, I wonder if 14 can be this-again, I don't want to, I don't know where we're at with making changes. But perhaps eliminating
14 and relying on 20 for that? I don't know, from the operational standpoint, if that's troublesome.
But, I mean-SHONTEL LEWIS: I mean, it does-- it is covered in, it's more explicit in 20. And in 14, it's kind
of a contradiction than 20, which is essentially what I was [AUDIO OUT], or pointed out, excuse
me, Marisela. And so I would be most comfortable with removing 14. Because if you go to the 20
and actually click on that link, you will get very specific actions that you can-- actions and
behaviors that you can and can not participate in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So could it include, when you click on the link, distributing and
posting of handbills, so that could be included in the link rather than number 14, is that what you're
saying, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's actually already in there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Well then-SHONTEL LEWIS: And it says that you can do this but only under certain circumstances, like on
certain specific properties, locations with the proper permitting. But if you read 14 in the Code of
Conduct, what, if you read it standing alone without the other information, you would think that
you're not ever allowed to distribute or post handbills on RTD vehicles or RTD properties. But if
you were, I don't know, giving out services, you actually could. You just need proper permission.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Mr. Meader, is there a way to put those, or to take that
out, because it is covered under 20?
MIKE MEADER: You know, that would be a consider-- the other option might be just adding that
same language that we have in 20, according to RTD's Facility Use policy there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That'd be great. OK.
MIKE MEADER: To make the recovered, if that would do it probably. So it would reference that
policy.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Does that, would that suffice for you,
Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, that's fine.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Great.
MIKE MEADER: Sure. We can add [AUDIO OUT].

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
TROY WHITMORE: I would agree with that, too. I think it's important that we are clear. But
yeah, stopping the littering issue is, to the Chief's point, I think is important. But as Shontel brings
up, it looks conflictual.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
TROY WHITMORE: Let's just clarify. And that's about it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
OK, I'd like to go back to, first of all, number 34. Is everybody OK with the way 34 has been
revised? That's my first question.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Director Williams, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Shontel?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, I can live with that one.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Is there anybody who can not live with that one? OK.
Then really, the one piece we have to resolve today is number 28. And Mr. Meader and Marisela,
I'd like to have your input on this. Because is there any reason why we can't incorporate part of
that into 34? I don't know. I'd like to know if you cannot live without 28 for sure.
That seems to be the sticking point. Not just today, but last time there was a lot of discussion
around this. And I understand the not-- Director Williams, where you say, I don't understand any
reason why someone would lie down. I think the way that it was written this time, we had agreed
as a group to make this people centric and not stereotypical.
And you know, I read this and then I read it again. And I was like, well, it's not stereotypical. It
really is about a condition of someone laying down. But I am so willing to hear everybody's
position on this on do we move this forward or do we say absolutely not. Because when we vote
on this today, it's going to be the final document.
It is a fluid document. We could come back and change things, I suppose. But I would really be-my goal is to take this to the Board of Directors saying, this group vetted this. The community's
voice was listened to and we all agree that we can live with this Code of Conduct.

So I'd like to open this up again just for discussion on how we should move forward. Because
we've already heard that Director Lewis is saying no she will not support this moving forward.
Aubrey, would you support moving this forward or are you a staunch no?
AUBREY HASVOLD: I still can't support moving forward with number 28. Everything else I am
fine with.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, got it. Gary, what about you?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Yeah, this is difficult. And I know this team has put an amazing amount
of work in this. From my perspective in the public safety side, I'm very comfortable moving
forward with this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. OK.
Well, I'm going to just go through the list then and we're going to just all go here. And then we're
going to have to discuss this. Because this is the sticking point, right?
Director Lewis is a no. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, again, I will echo Gary's words, and a little bit of Kate's. I understand- I think I'm having some internet issues here, so bear with me. I can live with it. You know, it's
important that we have the medical stuff in there. I could support moving it to the Board,
understanding where everybody else is coming from that's not supportive of it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Let me go through this list. Aubrey, Gary. Really, you
guys, it's us, right?
So let me go back to our Aubrey and Shontel and say, what would your recommendations be on
this? Aubrey, I'll start with you.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you. My preference would be to include lying down in 34. I just
still can't understand any circumstance, except for the identity of someone appearing to be
experiencing homelessness, laying down. That's not captured in 34 if we include laying down.
I just think that the best comparison for RTD facilities is other transit, like airports, rather than
other public accommodations. And you can lie down in airports. And I said this last time, but I
still believe that the only difference here is that you don't often see people experiencing
homelessness in airports.
And to Director Lewis's point about we need to address the root causes, I think we're doing a really
good job of that in the Homelessness Working Group. And we're exploring solutions like greater
collaboration with outreach collaboratives, training for RTD staff and security, and the possibility
of looking at bringing more social workers into the space.

But for the time being, I mean, this is a community issue. This isn't just an RTD issue. And we
need to be creative about the solutions. And I don't think the solution is to move forward with rules
that aren't equitable and aren't able to be enforced equitably.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am actually OK with Aubrey's suggestion. I actually love that. I do think
that as we look throughout the-- so let me start by prefacing that I think we could eliminate it
completely, because I do think that we have covered it pretty thoroughly in different sections of
this Code of Conduct. And to some degree, this is-- it shows up many times within this Code of
Conduct. And so I would be most comfortable with taking it out. But I could live with Aubrey's
suggestion of adding lying down-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK. Marisela, what do you think?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: That's a tough question. I can see both sides. I think the purpose of
this committee was to look at this carefully and make sure it was being fair and enforced equitably
for all. And so I could see it fitting into 34, but I don't know if the operational people really have
a concern.
And I agree. I think we do have in here, impeding ability for people to access transit, you know,
the various rules here. So I could potentially see it being woven into 34. But I don't know if anyone,
from a operational standpoint, if that's really troublesome, because that's not my area.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm going to ask Chief Grado to give us his opinion about
this. Chief, could you live with going under 34?
BOB GRADO: You know, I think it should be separated. I think it should be left the way it is. I
mean, we can clarify the medical part, in my opinion. But it is a continuous problem. And I
understand what's Aubrey's saying, and Director Lewis. But really, I don't see it as being an issue
just with the people experiencing homeless. It's teenagers. It's other people, too, that we never
allow this. We just don't allow it, because of what Gary's talking about.
When you're lying on the floor, you're taking up so much space. And I just don't see a reason to lie
down. And I understand, Aubrey, as far as the airport goes. And again, I keep thinking of the bus
concourse. It's so narrow and there's-- you know, with the benches and everything going on in
there and people, when they get crowded. When you have somebody that's lying on the floor, it is
so disruptive to the flow.
And in an airport, you're trapped there. In our facilities, you have the option to go somewhere else,
go outside, if you want to lie down. Maybe even just narrowing it down to indoor facilities would
be helpful. Because we are-- Civic Center is such a confined space, and so is the bus concourse, it
just becomes very disruptive in those areas. Or in the foyers. We have people that lie down in the

foyers where they're walking in towards the escalator. And you know, passengers are having to
step over the top of people coming in there. It's definitely a hazard.
So that's my opinion. I'm just the advice giver. I don't have a vote here, on purpose. But I'll just
throw that out there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Sure. Thank you, Chair. You know, for the reasons that I had presented, I think
it's important that we keep this one the way it is. In my conversations with multiple places, they
talk about creating rules based upon the use of the facility. And this is with the museums. This is
with many of the stores and a lot of the government buildings.
And the fact of the matter was, there wasn't considered to be any use or a need for people to lie
down based upon the use of facility. And that's kind of the lens that I'm trying to use here. Because
that really is the intent. We don't want to prohibit people from doing things that they need so long
as it kind of fits in with the use of the facility.
One of the other things Director Lewis mentioned was about services and trying to help folks that
are experiencing homelessness. And that's what our Homeless Task Force is doing. And I know
Aubrey's a part of that. And we are trying to create opportunities for us to help people. The use of
a shelter is for people experiencing homelessness to go there, to get services that they need, to rest,
to sleep. We are not set up to provide those services currently and we're working very hard in that
group to provide those services.
And we also need to consider that we keep the facilities safe for the intended use of all of the
customers that are actually using the facility. And this is a particular problem that we hear from
our security folks, from the police, from many of our customers who use our facilities.
Another example, there were instances of people lying down on train platforms close to our yellow
strip. It's unsafe. Operators can't see people. They're not expecting them to lie there. And it creates
problems.
So I think it's important that we keep this particular item in there, specifically about lying down.
And again, for the other reasons I talked about, injury to people, the sanitary aspect of it, as well.
And in the airport, it is slightly different. I'll go with Chief Grado. If you're outside of security,
you cannot lay down on the floor and stay there. They will ask you to leave. If you're inside
security, you are kind of trapped. And if there is a flight delayed, people understand, flights are
delayed for hours. We've all experienced that. There may be a need for someone to kind of lie
down. Even overnight, they will allow them to do that inside of the airport, inside of security.
But that's not the case here at RTD in any of our facilities. You're not going to be waiting for three
hours for your bus with nowhere to go. So I think there is a difference certainly there.

But again, focusing on making sure that we're providing the services that we provide from a transit
perspective and not putting ourselves in a position where we are acting as a shelter with an
expectation that we have services to provide people who might be using it as such.
So I think it's important that we keep this one there. I think it's a great compromise. We certainly
considered all of the other comments, people needing to sit down, those kinds of things. But I don't
believe that lying is something that needs to be allowed in any of our facilities or vehicles.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. You know, I will just say this. And I've been taking
copious notes as people have been involved in this. And this 28 has been a particular issue [AUDIO
OUT].
I'm not hearing that people don't want to have the word lying down on here. What they're saying
is, could you just incorporate it into number 34 so that it is all encompassing. Because it really
does-- it's included. It could be included in this. I guess personally, I don't see it as the need to have
a 28, but could enlarge 34 to say, and no lying down.
So I think that's what I'm hearing from community members who work with community folks who
are struggling. That's the compromise that we're-- and I'm joining them in asking for that, is that
could we augment 34 to have lying down incorporated into it? And I don't even think I'm hearing
that they want it struck out completely.
But you could put all of that under 34, this includes lying down, whatever, the rest of it. But just
taking it out as a single item on 28, that's what I'm hearing. Is that correct, Aubrey?
AUBREY HASVOLD: Yes. So where I think it would fit well is within that parentheses that was
just added in this last iteration. So door or stairway with one's body, in parentheses, sitting,
standing, or lying down. I think that would be an appropriate place. Because what I keep hearing
from all of the other folks here on the line is that the reason we need this is because it's a narrow
space and we don't want people to have to step over bodies. Absolutely. I completely agree with
that. And so that's why I think this is a really appropriate space for it, because it talks about
impeding people's movement.
And then there there was some discussion about the danger of people lying on a platform near the
yellow line. And I think that that's covered here too, because it talks about posing a danger. So I
really feel like this is an elegant way to incorporate it. It's clear and it's equitable.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for clarifying that, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. That's exactly right.
That's exactly what I was going to say. And I am more than comfortable with what Audrey has
proposed. I think it's a fair compromise. It's something that I can live with and it is something that
I won't be in opposition against. And I think Director Williams also had a comment.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Go ahead. Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah. I think this is maybe the crux of the whole discussion. I work all the
time with older adults and people with disabilities. And from my outlook, anybody that was lying
down needs help. And that's something we're not addressing. We're addressing do we single out
people for lying down in a negative way, when in fact, in light of what we're trying to do, we want
to single out people who are lying down as having a problem, because it's not the appropriate place
to be lying down.
And so looking at my people that I work with, if somebody was laying down, I would assume that
we would approach them and that we would offer to help them. And if we come at it from that
outlook and not from an enforcement outlook, which I think is what Aubrey's saying and what
Director Lewis is saying, then we have a different way of looking at the situation.
So I think that's where we're trying, as a group, to get.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So would you support adding it under 34?
KATE WILLIAMS: I would. I think that would be all right. I think we need to identify it. Because
whet I hear from our staff who work in the situation all the time is that it has been a problem. And
I have heard from other people who are riders that it has been a problem. So we want to address
it. I just think we want to address it with a positive approach.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Got it. Director Whitmore, would you be in favor of incorporating
that piece into 34?
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah. I'm a little torn. I can live with that compromise. I just hear from
constituents of playing dodge bodies when they arrive. And certainly they're not homeless and not
dealing with issues that some of these folks are to, in all due respect, to the folks that went on it
the other way. But as long as lying is in there, in 34, I can live with it.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you so much. And then again, what I'm hearing is that
they're not opposed to having it down, just not having it there and incorporating it under 34, where
it's all encompassed into one area. We'll make it a much smoother read for people to understand.
That's what I'm hearing from this. And this has been a continual issue of concern for our
community members who have been part of this work who've with disenfranchised communities.
So I think it's a good compromise.
Gary, would you be OK with that then?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: : Yeah. You know, I understand where Chief Grado is coming from in
having this as stated kind of separately. I guess my whole thing was if we do move it over, then to
me would be moving over that whole description as said. Because I think that the intent of what
we're trying to accomplish here-- and I understand everybody's side on this. I really, really do. But
you know, I really was happy with what the work that was done with kind of redefining you know
why a person would be lying down.

And you know, this is something that I know the subject of the airport has come up. This is
something we're starting to see at the airport now that the A line is in place. And I know from a
Denver paramedic's perspective, we are running homelessness calls out there. And so it is an issue
out there. And I think you're going to see policy changes in how they're going to address that in
the coming future.
So I guess to answer your question, I would be in favor of it just as long as we're moving that over.
That description piece, to me, is very important. I'll support it either way. But that would be my
recommendation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, and I will say to you what I'm hearing is that in fact they are
OK with it all being moved over. They just don't want it under singled out on 28. And that's what
I'm hearing. So I'm not saying that they want to take it completely, but that it would be OK doing
it.
Aubrey, did you have something else to say?
AUBREY HASVOLD: I just wanted to clarify from my perspective, I would hope that we wouldn't
move all of that language as it's written right now and just plunk that into 34. Because I think what
was most important for me is that the reference to lying down is in relation to the way it impedes
the delivery of services and the way it impedes people using pathways and the way it poses a
danger.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So there needs to be some wordsmithing on this is what I'm
hearing.
AUBREY HASVOLD: And Madam Chair, I did just send you an email describing, or writing out,
what I was trying to say verbally. It's a little bit easier to see when it's on paper. So maybe that will
be helpful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Chair, if I-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: If I may. I was kind of thinking about this as everyone was talking.
And I do, I hear the concerns. But now I'm wondering if we do put that in 34, does that leave a
little more discretion there, which may, hopefully not, but lead to an inequitable result. So if we
say all lying, it should be everybody enforced equally without a specific, targeting any specific
population. Whereas if we put it in 34, then we're kind of giving that, well, is it blocking, is it
impeding.
I mean, I don't know if I'm off base here. But I was just wondering if anyone else kind of sees it in
that way, where, well, is this lying blocking and impeding upon operations. Or you know, this
lying isn't.

MIKE MEADER: Yeah, Marisela, this is Mike. I agree with you. I was going to make that same
comment. I believe if we take it out of its individual line, it is going to lead to more interactions,
confrontations, whatever that is, with people saying, well, I don't think I'm blocking anyone. Well,
I think you are. It may create some inequitable perceived interactions.
Whereas if we say, you just can't be lying down prone on the floor anywhere, it's fair to everyone.
No one can lie down on the floor anywhere. So I do have some concerns about that, and some
concerns that we'll be back readdressing what we feel are profiling, targeting, any of those kinds
of instances if someone is experiencing homelessness who, where there's a disagreement about
whether they're blocking someone.
So I do have some concerns about that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Chair?
BOB GRADO: But if I could-- this is Bob Grado again. I agree. I hate-- I have so much respect
for Aubrey and Director Lewis. But I just, I hate to disagree. But I really think it needs to be
separate. Because-- and Marisela, she said, I think it's going to create a problem because we're
going to have-- there's people out there that want to challenge us no matter what. And I think they'll
read that and they'll go lie in the corner of a space just to see if we'll approach them and challenge
us and create a risk that should not exist. Because there's no reason for it that I can see, anyway.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. I am going to send Mr. Meader and Marisela this
verbiage that Aubrey has just sent over. I'll try and send it to everyone. But here's a suggestion for
her, if my might, is number 34, blocking or impeding the movement of another person or blocking
a seat or an aisle, elevator, escalator, pathway, door, or stairway with one's body. And then in
parentheses, and in parentheses, sitting, comma, standing, comma, or lying down, parentheses, or
any object, and then parentheses, except mobility aid, parentheses, or interfering with the
operations or facility maintenance in a way that poses a danger unreasonably, impedes a patron's
movement or ability to sit or displace a person, and then in parentheses, subject to ADA reasonable
modification, City Code Section 4.
So what do you think of that?
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Who's saying. Who's saying Madam Chair? So Maricela, I'll go
to you first.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I think that was Director Williams. But I'll try to be brief. I still, I think
I did capture that. So Aubrey, I think you did a good job of relaying that verbally. But I guess I
would reiterate the same concern about more just room for discretionary enforcement. Obviously,
we don't want that and there's training to avoid that, all those efforts. But I still am concerned.
And I think perhaps we have to think about, well, what is the purpose of-- you know, because we
had a lot of discussion before, it was no sitting down. And we really, we had a really thorough

discussion. And I really appreciate where we landed on that. We have to provide our patrons that
opportunity.
So here, I think we have to think about, are we trying to allow people to lie down? I'm not
advocating for that. I know Chief Grado is probably shaking his head. But you know, I think if
we're not a advocate, or we're not trying to reach that result, then I think calling out lying down for
everyone and all people, and ensuring that it's enforced fairly, no matter what you look like or what
somebody may perceive the situation that you're in.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a couple things. I don't know that we want to reinvent the wheel. Surely
there are other public agencies that have policies about this. What's the policy at the state capitol?
Can you lay down in the hallways at the state capitol? What verbiage do they use about that? How
about in, I don't know, the office building that houses the DRCOG? Do they have policies there
about it? Because I don't see that we need to reinvent this wheel.
Number two, I want us to keep coming back to the positive outlook. I think that anytime we see
somebody laying down at a transit stop, a transit stop is designed to help people move. That's what
we do, we move people. We don't house people. We don't sleep people. We don't heal people. We
move people.
And if you're laying down at a transit location, you need help of some kind. And I think if we
approach it from that in our verbiage, that we want to help anybody who's laying down at a transit
stop, how we define that help I think is a whole 'nother ball of wax.
But in terms of what our policies are here, I think sitting is fine. I think staying and being and all
of those verbs. But I am opposed to people lying down at a transit location.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PAUL BALLARD: Madam Chair, this is Paul Ballard. If I could jump in for a minute.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
PAUL BALLARD: I mean, I agree with Director Williams' point of view. I've managed many,
many train stations and bus stations over the years. And not one single facility has ever permitted
anybody to lie down on the floor. It's not safe for the person who's lying down and it's not safe for
the people who are in the station. And I'm not aware of anywhere in the United States where that's
permitted in a bus or a train station. So we're plowing completely new ground here as far as
allowing people to lie on the floor.
And I have to support Chief Grado and Mike Meader. I think we're opening up a whole can of
worms when we allow some people to lie down and some people not, or if you're in this area you
can do it and if you that area, you do not. This is making the problem much more serious than it
is. If someone's lying down on the floor, they need medical assistance. And that's the way we

should approach them. Other than that, they should not be lying on the floor. It's not safe for them
and the people around them. So sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, no, thank you. But what I'm hearing is that they don't not want
to have lying down, they just want it incorporated in 34, so it's all in one place rather than separated.
And that's the issue, as I'm hearing it from [AUDIO OUT].
PAUL BALLARD: I think if it's clear, then that's fine. But we can't allow some people to do it,
some people not, you can do it in certain parts of the station, you can't do it in others. That's just
asking for trouble. And as long as it's clear, doesn't make any difference to me what section it's in,
as long as it's clear that you just can't lay on the floor.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right. Right. And that's what I'm hearing is they just want it all
under 34. It's already incorporated and assumed in there. And then just take out 28. Correct?
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair? Mike Meader.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
MIKE MEADER: I think that, to General Manager Ballard's point, is if we say it's only for these
specific reasons, and I understand about blocking or impeding movement, it's still saying you can
lay down in other places. And that will create those discretionary interactions that we're trying to
avoid.
As I said, I have not found one place, one other public place where there is a specific use of a
facility that allows anyone to lie down anywhere on the floor. There just isn't a need for doing that.
And I would propose, we can certainly say medical reasons excepted, the welfare checks. We can
add that medical will be offered or whatever that is.
But I'm still opposed to having people lie down anywhere in our facilities. There just isn't a reason.
It's either a medical reason or someone just wants to take a nap. And I don't see that as being a
legitimate reason anywhere in any of our transit facilities for lying down there.
So that's kind of where my stance is. I'm happy to elaborate a little bit more, maybe to say that
lying down on the floor. Or lying on the floor, medical reasons excepted, medical response may
be required. Or whatever we want to say to include that. But I think if we incorporate it into 34.
We're? Separating out areas where we allow people to lie down some places and not lie down other
places.
So of course, the role of this committee is to come up with a consensus that we think is a fair and
equitable Code of Conduct. My position still is, and I'll respect whatever the committee decides,
is that lying down should remain as one of the items anywhere. Because as everyone has said, it's
not permitted anywhere that I'm aware of in the country, except in shelters and in some of the other
things like that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. With all of this discussion-- go ahead, Aubrey.

AUBREY HASVOLD: I just have one possible space for compromise. And this is to Director
Williams' point about the concern about people who might be lying down and what kind of health
issues might be happening here. I'm looking at number 29, where it says sleeping or dozing where
such activity may cause concern for a person's well-being. In these cases, RTD may conduct a
wellness check.
What if we included lying down in 34 in the language that I proposed and also included it here in
29, saying sleeping, dozing, or lying down, where such activity may cause concern for a person's
well-being, in these cases, RTD may cause a wellness check. This would give RTD some more
flexibility to check on somebody if they are lying down, or sleeping or dozing. But it also
incorporate some of the concerns that Director Lewis and I had raised.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, I think the intent of that is if someone's sitting in a chair or something
and they're dozing or they're sitting on the bus and they're dozing, not lying down on the floor, that
we're going to check on them for a welfare check. Really, the difference is if someone sitting in a
chair, again, and they've dozed off or something like that, but they're sitting in a safe place, in a
sanitary place, those kinds of things, it's different.
I think the specificity of this one is on the floor, lying on the floor. That's really what we're trying
to discuss here. Certainly if someone was lying down for a medical reason or something, someone
would check on them and do a welfare check. But I still think there's a very specific reason, other
specific reasons we want to keep that in there.
But without a doubt, Aubrey, if someone was lying down on the floor, they would be checked on
and offered medical assistance. There's no doubt about that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm getting a little concerned that we're going to get caught
up in semantics here. But just for a point of clarification, 29 just says sleeping or dozing. It doesn't
make me assume they're sitting down. They could be lying down sleeping, sleeping or dozing as
well.
So where do we go from here? Mr. Meader, you're saying that you just want to keep it in number
28. That's your preference for you and the chief and where you'd like it to be, correct?
MIKE MEADER: Correct. And we can expand on offering medical assistance and doing those
kinds of things if it's a medical reason. But without it being a medical reason, I don't think it's
appropriate that we pull that out and just allow people to lie down some places and not lie down
other places.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'd like to hear what Aubrey and Director Lewis thinks about
that compromise.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think Aubrey provided two really strong opportunities of compromise. And
I think both were rejected. And so I'm not really sure where to go from here to be--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm not either.
Mr. Ballard, I'm going to call on you. Because I'm with you. I don't care what section it's under, as
long as it's under a section. Your thoughts, please.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, I think building on what Aubrey said, we may be able to work with as
long as we follow the language that she said with, should medical assistance be refused, then the
party lying on the ground will be required to take a seat or stand up, something like that. And then
it's clarified, the person is given the option, do you need medical assistance. If they say, no, it's not
a medical issue, then we require you to take a chair or stand up.
I would find that as a, I think, a reasonable compromise. It protects everyone involved. It protects
the individual. It protects the people trying to maneuver around the person. And then we fulfill our
responsibility to do the welfare check, but then they have to stand up.
I would offer that as some additional explanatory language that would build on Audrey's
suggestion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Aubrey, are you OK with that?
AUBREY HASVOLD: I'm not entirely comfortable with that. I feel like that just mirrors the
language that's in 28 right now, which, I hate to sound like a broken record, but I think has a lot of
concerns.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So we really are at an impasse here. And I'm wondering if
we could just take a five minute break, go away, grab some coffee, come back, and then let's look
on it with fresh eyes. Would everybody be willing to do that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Great. Let's do five minutes. It's 9:05, 9:06. We'll come back
in just five minutes, like 10 after.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
AUBREY HASVOLD: And I hope that we can still consider some of the compromises that I did
put on the table.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But I do believe that the Board would take that up.
Director Lewis. Your thoughts.
BOB GRADO: She dropped off. She sent a message that she had to go.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Williams.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis is here.
BOB GRADO: Oh, I'm sorry. I got it mixed up. You're right. Disregard.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Lewis, what do you think?
SHONTEL LEWIS: You asked me what I think the question is about going back to the Board and
having-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: But letting them know that we're really stuck right here. Because
I'm having some real conflict with this as well. What do you think?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. You know, I think about this in many ways. One of the places I have
deep appreciation is for our partners who have been willing to take their time to participate in this
discussion and to review and to revise our Code of Conduct. And I do-- at least my inclination is
that some of our partners have felt defeated, particularly around these two that we have.
And I am discouraged and disappointed, as Audrey said, our partners won't be able to participate
in that dialogue. And I think the Board, at least from the discussions we've had, were really excited
to have this Code of Conduct come to them, come back to us, where the committee was able to
find consensus. And it might be disappointing for us to go back to the Board and say we haven't
found consensus.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what, I share that with you. It was, this has gone so
well and so-- it has been such a great process. And I would love to go with a document, saying,
OK, we're all on this.
I know how opposed Britta would be to this as well. And that's where I'm stuck is it is the
community members who have their finger on the pulse of those who struggle daily who are
saying, whoa, wait a minute. And so I'm really struggling here. And this is our last committee
meeting. So we're just talking back and forth.
My first initiation thing after drinking some fresh coffee was like, do we just take it back to the
Board and let the Board deal with it? If you want to deal with it now, I am willing to do it. But I
think that it's going to take some give and take a little bit here.
Director Whitmore, what do you think?
TROY WHITMORE: I would love to have a bow on this package to present it to the Board. And
I guess I'd be willing to work a little longer if we think we can get there this morning.

The one thing that I do ask of staff and especially Aubrey, it seems like this is an improved
document and an improved tool in many ways. And I don't want all of the good work around all
the other items to be dismissed. So I think we are presenting something, if we come to an impasse,
that's new and improved. But sooner or later, we have to bring it to the Board, who are the
policymakers, and see what happens.
But I guess I'm just curious if other participants feel like it is improved in a significant manner, at
least around the other issues that we've addressed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you so much. I would say this is so much more
improved based on all the work that we've done over the last two months. And there are 50
paragraphs here that we have looked at, revised, reworded, wordsmithed, talked about, and really
delved into. And we're down to one. So we've done tremendous work.
And I feel like if we just take a breath and look at it again that maybe we can come up with
something. Maybe we rewrite 28 so that it is more inclusive, and not put it on-- leave 34 alone, but
really look at 28, dismantle it, and rewrite it might be the way to go. That way it's a fresh
perspective.
So what do you think about that piece? I'll go with you, Aubrey, starting first. Would you be willing
to take a look at this and rewordsmithing it?
AUBREY HASVOLD: I'm willing to take a look at that. Yeah, absolutely.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, good. What about you, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I absolutely am. And I'd really love to see-- I'd love for all of us to see
the language that Aubrey proposed because I think it [AUDIO OUT] because I am a visual learner,
but I think it might be helpful for the rest of the folks on the call to just see what it looked like. But
I am more than open to that, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I'm going to send it right now to you, Director Lewis, and to
Director Whitmore. And Mr. Ballard, I'll send it to you. And who else is on this call I need to send
it to? Michael Ford.
Mr. Meader you have it. Marisela, you have it.
PAUL BALLARD: --do. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't have Chief Grado's email. Can you forward it to him?
PAUL BALLARD: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I'll send it to John McKay. And I'll send it to Roger as well.
I think that's everybody on this call.
All right. So you should be getting that any second.
Marisela, what do you think about that, just rewordsmithing 28?
MARISELA SANDOVAL: I guess I'm hopeful we can reach a compromise. But I love to take
time, but I know we don't have that and take a day or something and figure it out. I don't know. I
mean, I think that it's not necessarily a wordsmithing issue. It's really a fundamental difference on
thought.
So I mean, we can take a stab at it. I'm more than-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Let's give it a stab. At least we can start there.
Mr. Meader, what do you think about that idea of looking at rewording 28 altogether to incorporate
what you were thinking of and us, what the community is thinking of and if we can come up with
a compromise?
MIKE MEADER: Yeah. You know, I think that, to Marisela's point, I think there's just obviously,
we're differing of opinion. But let me step back for just a second.
First of all, I think that we have an incredibly improved document-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I do too.
MIKE MEADER: --right now with all of the inputs. I mean, we've revised over 20 of the items in
a very thoughtful way. And for that, I'm very grateful and I appreciate all of the discussion that
we've had.
There are always going to be some things, there's going to be just a slight different of opinion on
for all of the reasons all of us discussed. And they're all valid reasons. There's no doubt about that.
You know, I think in this particular instance, doing too much of a change in terms of taking that
language out is going to create some issues we may not even be thinking about right now with
some of the discretionary type of things that it's going to create.
I think that we could certainly, to Aubrey's point, include in there, maybe as a second piece of that,
that RTD will conduct a welfare check with anyone who's lying on the floor and if medical
assistance, and provide medical assistance for whatever is ailing them, or something like that,
which I think is kind of the revision we could make. I think that's important that we make sure
people understand if they're lying down for a medical reason, they get that help.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So if I could stop you there and have you just re-say that
under number 28, I propose blah, then let's look at that, so that we're not losing it in the dialogue.
So could you just restate the 28 again?

MIKE MEADER: Sure. I would say, lying on the floor, as it says, platform, stairway, landing,
ground, or conveyance of any RTD vehicle or facility. RTD will conduct a welfare check and
medical assistance will be required-- will be offered for medical reasons or whatever that is. But
that would be making sure we infer that that would be the only reason we would expect anyone to
be lying on the floor .
So we would certainly conduct a welfare check and provide medical assistance to anyone who's
lying on the floor. But again, to General Manager Ballard's-- and I'm not sure how this is said-- we
wouldn't expect them to lie on the floor if it wasn't medically related. And I think that's where the
difference of opinion continues to come in. And I'm not sure how wordsmithing is going to correct
that particular piece. We can certainly add a welfare check.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Aubrey, what do you think of that extension of 28.
AUBREY HASVOLD: So mandating that medical professionals be called, if somebody is lying
on the ground or they have to get up, I think it's a little bit too prescriptive. I'm just thinking as an
RTD rider myself. If I get motion sick and I get off a bus and I need to lie down for a little bit, I
don't necessarily need paramedics called, but I also may not be ready to stand up or get out.
So that concerns me that it's just so directive in that way. But I do think that it's fair to say RTD
can do a wellness check.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So what if we did lying on the floor, platform, stairway,
landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility, RTD will conduct a welfare check,
period. And then-GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: This is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: I'm sorry. This is Gary. As I was looking at this, is there a reason why
we can't combine 28 and 29? And it would be lying on the floor, platform, stairway, landing,
ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility, or sleeping or dozing where such activity
may cause concern for a person's well-being, in these cases RTD may conduct a welfare check.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. What do you think, Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, I think that still certainly signifies that you wouldn't be lying on the floor
unless there were some medical necessity.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Right.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah.
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Correct.

MICHAEL FORD: What if you said rendering assistance if warranted, or something like that, that
gives you flexibility. Doesn't mean you call in the medical professionals, but you might be able to
offer some kind of help or support at the time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Well, I think that RTD may conduct a wellness check would
incorporate that myself.
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: I would agree. I think there's a public perception that once somebody
has been identified that additional help is needed, additional help will be sought after, right?
MIKE MEADER: Right. Yes, Gary, I agree with that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So let me go back and say the suggestion now is number
28 and 29 be combined to read, lying on the floor, platform, stairway, landing, ground, or
conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility, or sleeping, dozing, or dozing where such activity may
cause concern for a person's well-being, in these cases RTD may conduct a wellness check. Right?
Am I reading that correctly?
GARY BRYSKIEWICZ: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Now Aubrey, could you live with that?
AUBREY HASVOLD: So, and this may just go back to what Marisela said about just a difference
of ideas versus wordsmithing. But what I would prefer to see still is the lying down tied to blocking
or impeding the delivery of RTD services.
So what I would propose-- and I would happily send this out to folks, if you'd like to see it visually,
because I know some of us are visual learners-- in 28 saying, lying on the floor, platform, stairway,
landing, ground, or conveyance of an RTD vehicle or facility, except that in the case, except in the
case of medical reasons, when it blocks or impedes the delivery of RTD services or creates a
danger to that person or others. And then in 29 saying, sleeping, dozing, or lying down or such
activity may cause concern for the person's well-being, in these cases RTD may conduct a wellness
check.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So are you saying 28 would stand alone or be combined with 29?
AUBREY HASVOLD: The way I wrote it, it stands alone but incorporates some new language as
well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So could you-AUBREY HASVOLD: Is it OK with everyone if I send that out?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please do.
AUBREY HASVOLD: OK, thank you.

MARISELA SANDOVAL: And if I may, Chair-- is that OK?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, oh yes.
MARISELA SANDOVAL: Oh, OK. I actually like, if we're going to go in that direction, I think
Aubrey's initial suggestion was more clear, where she combined it with 34.
Again, I think we're [AUDIO OUT] like we're saying, we're at that crossroads. But if we're going
to go with it, I think it makes more sense in 34. It's already there. And she set it up nicely, if we do
go that direction.
MIKE MEADER: Yeah. And Chair, this is Mike Meader. I think that, as you talked about-- as I
think about combining those, it implies that it's allowed to lie down. We'll do a check. But if you're
OK, we're going to allow you to lie down. So I'm not necessarily in agreement with that, I guess,
as I think it through, combining those two things. I think it's still important that we keep that
specific that lying down isn't permitted anywhere in the facility.
That's my take on it. And I think that maybe your initial, as I hear the discussion, I feel like we
kind of still are at that impasse. Maybe we should take this to the full Board and have them take a
look at it from a policy perspective. I'm not sure that with some of these changes we've made, my
concern is it does take away or change the overall meaning of what I'm proposing we accomplish
here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. So here's what I'd like to do. I'd like to have Aubrey send out
what she's suggesting for 28, correct? And let's look at that at first. And then, you know, it is 9:30,
which is, we've been on this call now for an hour and a half. And it seems to me that maybe this is
such an area of concern that we could come back maybe tomorrow morning, just for get something
out, look at it, sleep on it, and then come back and see if there's something we can agree to.
So Aubrey, can you send out your revision? And the number that you want it under, if it's under
28 or 34.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Yes. I just sent those out. I sent out both of those suggestions, so people
can review those. Let me know if everyone got those.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Angie, I have to-- I have to-- Aubrey, thank you so much. Aubrey, thank you
so much. I really appreciate it.
Angie, I really appreciate this process. I think you've done a really, really good job of facilitating
this. I do have to jump off because I'm facilitating another call. But might I suggest that we continue
some of this via email and even send it out to the folks who weren't able to make this call and see
if we might even vote as a committee to see where people land.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I actually agree with that. It is now 9:30. And other people have
their stuff. I think we should continue this online and send it out to the whole committee to say,
here, we have an impasse, we have some, and we'd like for everybody to take a look at this.

And Mr. Meader, for sure need to have yours and Chief Grado's input as well, so that it is a holistic
point of view looking at this, understanding that we've had a really robust dialogue about this. But
I just don't see us coming to a consensus right now. I think maybe we do need to take a little break,
think about it, and then let's do email. And Aubrey, I'll have you-- I'll make sure everybody gets
the emails. And then let's just do some online discussion by email and see how we move forward
from there. It might be a quick call tomorrow. But if we could do that, I think that would be the
best way to move forward.
Is everybody OK with that? OK. Well, let me-- Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Yes. No, it's fine. That's fine, Chair. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. So we really did want this to be an inclusive process. So
what I'd like to do is I'm going to have to move that we close the Code of Conduct. But I want to
table referring the RTD Code of Conduct to the Operations and Customer Service Committee until
we resolve this issue, pro or con.
So with that, I'd like to have a movant and a second to adjourn this meeting. Anyone?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Whitmore. Second?
MIKE MEADER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Meader. OK. All in favor just say aye.
UNISON: Aye.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Any objection? Anybody else want to stay on air for another
[AUDIO OUT]?
OK. It is now 9:33 AM and we're adjourned. And we will continue this on email.
Thank you, everybody.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you.
AUBREY HASVOLD: Thank you so much.

