1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Bill James, District A
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Kent Bagley, District H
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 16, 2014 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Sisk called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Sisk asked everyone to rise for the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name
Lorraine Anderson
Kent Bagley

Title
Director, District L
Director, District H

Status
Present
Present

Arrived
5:28 PM
5:29 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Absent
Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:29 PM
5:41 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:25 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:13 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:28 PM
5:26 PM

5:21 PM
5:30 PM
5:32 PM

Paula Perdue called roll. There were thirteen present at roll call. Director Menten arrived
after roll call and Director Deadwyler was absent.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Mike Barnes, Jessie Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen,
Robert Downes, Kelly Dryer, Phil Eberl, John Elias, Ken Fleck, Jill
Fontaine, David Genova, Mike Gil, Cory Granrud, Alan Hill, Austin
Jenkins, Jim Kelly, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, David Lockwood, Barbara
McManus, Doug MacLeod, Diane Marquiss, Deborah Mendez-Wilson,
Vivian Morales, Todd Nikkel, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette
Scarpino, John Song, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, F. Brian Thye, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van
Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Timothy Walker, Phil Washington, C.
Scott Woodruff

Others Present:

Fadumo Adan, Erin Bennett, Andrea Chibunga-Flor, David Delz, Gary
Fontaine, Mary Garcia, Daviane Greene, Zulma Guerra, Andres
Guerrero, Felicia Gurole, Virginia Gutierrez, Amy Hill, Eugene Howard,
Alice Huyler, Jerome Johnson, Rita Kahn, Scott Kerr, Lorena Limón,
Sandy Lockwood, Robert Lopez, Matt McAuliffe, Cheryl Nobles, Dana
Nobles, Luke O’Kelley, Bertha Perez, Maricruz Reyes, Bryon Rockwell,
Stacy Sundell, Zach Sundell, Shane Tempel, Joe Triplett, Dave West,
Monte Whaley, Zoë Williams, Bob Wilson, Simon Wirecki

Retiree Awards
Chair Sisk acknowledged there were three retirees this month. He asked General Manager
Washington to introduce the two who were present.
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager for Bus Operations and Mike Gil, Deputy AGM for
Bus Operations presented Allan Hill, a street supervisor with over 35 years of service with
RTD. Bruce shared that during Allan’s extensive years with RTD, he has served in a
number of capacities (i.e. bus ops, dispatch, emergency service, street supervisor). Allan
has been a dedicated employee during this time.
Mike Gil added that Allan is one of those seasoned employees who has been an integral
part of the operations team. He characterized Allan as a very diligent, prepared person
who was “Johnny on the spot.” Allan loves photography and has an image of everything
that has happened on the job. He even has black and white picture of Director Daly when
he was a driver. Allan catalogues his photos and in one month, covered 43 accidents.
Allan is always there with his camera and taking photos. He also credited Allan with
bringing us up to date with technology. Allan mapped every intersection for RTD so we
would have good information in our database for the drivers.
Allan acknowledged his wife Amy, his daughter Stacy and husband Jack in the audience.
He stated his life will be full with them and his grandkids. He started his career in 1978
and is proud of his legend of having driven with his father. At the time, buses were
manual with no power steering or anything. They did have windows that could open wide

and he shared a story of one unfortunate experience. He plans to retire to a little traveled
area about 100 miles from Denver with lots of acreage and few neighbors. He considers
RTD part of his family and wants to thank RTD for his many years of service.
Assistant General Manager Austin Jenkins with rail operations and Phil Eberl, General
Superintendent of light rail, introduced David Lockwood who was retiring with 36 years of
experience. David has also had a very extensive career with RTD starting first in bus
operations and moving over to the light rail division. Dave is the type of person who gets
along with everyone and is well liked.
Dave complimented the leadership for the fine job they are doing at RTD. It was a
pleasure to work for them and he is thankful for his time at RTD.
Pat Sisk, customer care sales representative with over 23 years was not present to receive
her plaque.
Chair Sisk acknowledged what a fine job each of these employees do and what they have
done to make RTD one of the best agencies in the industry. We know that it is the work
of the employees who make all of us look good. Thanks for a job well done.
Special Recognition-GFOA Distinguished Budget Presentation Award
General Manager Washington recognized the finance department for being the recipient of
the Government Finance Officers Association (GFOA) award. This team has won this
honor for the last 4 or 5 years and it is what makes our finance and budgeting department
tops in what they do. He acknowledged Jannette Scarpino, Finance Manager, Todd
Nikkel, Senior Budget Analyst, and Doug McLeod, Manager of Financial Reporting for their
contributions. Terry Howerter, CFO, was not present.
Director Anderson commented she is very aware of this aware and knows it is no small
feat to achieve.

V.

Public Participation




Andrea Chiriboga-Flor, Denver, CO, spoke on behalf of the people who could not be
at the meeting. She is a member of the 9-5 group. She wanted to relay how the
costs of transportation affect residents. There are a group of residents who use
the Denver Indian Center. This is part of their heritage and sacred grounds.
Families congregate there as part of communal connections and the children play
and learn about their culture. They have been unable to go or send their children
because they cannot afford to pay the bus fare. This community is being cut off
from their culture.
Lorena Limón who lives in the vicinity of Mississippi and Lipan, spoke with an
interpreter. She stated it is difficult for her to get around due to the poor public













transportation. The bus comes infrequently, there are few bus stops and the roads
are not paved. Financially it is very costly for her to travel with her three kids
which cost her $9.00 each time. This is a major hardship on her family and she is
looking for affordable transportation options.
Andres Guerrero spoke on behalf of the re-entry population. Good transportation
access is vital, even life changing, for this population who must use public
transportation to look for jobs, visit their parole officers, and comply with testing
requirements. RTD is the last resort and the lifeblood for these individuals who are
trying to turn their lives around and become producing members of society.
Transportation must be affordable.
Zoë Williams, 9-5, commented on the public process for the fare study. She stated
that the overwhelming comment from the public is the desire to make public transit
more affordable. The low-income already spend a large amount of their income on
transportation which keeps them in the spiral cycle of poverty. She would ask RTD
to listen to the voices of the public.
Dana Nobles, Denver shared her personal story around public transportation. She
was six months pregnant when she graduated from college. Since that time, she
has been on a path where it has become difficult to dig her way out. She lived in
transitional housing but found it difficult to get to job interviews because of
transportation issues and at some point had to drop out of the market. She is
trying to find a job close to home but even that proves difficult. She is concerned
about her ability to find a job along a path where transit is accessible and
affordable. She sees this as the “slip effect.” If she is successful in getting a job,
she will lose her current benefits now, which will drive her cost of living higher.
She needs affordable transportable to even make this a viable option. She does not
want to choose between a job or her child.
Fadumo Adan, Aurora, spoke on behalf of the refugee community. She stated she
is a student and works two jobs; yet wages are stagnant and it is hard to make
ends meet. She needs sustainable work and pay. The refugee community which
lives along the Colfax line are seeing less and less of the American dream. These
days the focus is just on trying to pay all the bills, rising student debt and less than
affordable transportation. Making transportation affordable is a lifeline to her
community.
Robert Lopez indicated that he was homeless and just trying to make it. He stated
the cost of housing, and transportation are becoming unaffordable in this city. He
believes the cost of bus passes needs to be made similar to the ECO Pass for the
transit dependents and poor in this city. He also shared an experience with fare
reinforcement and asked for information on how to make a complaint.
Scott Kerr, Denver, thanked RTD for its service. He noted there has been
community dialogue over the last year about affordable transportation but he has
not seen any change. He has witnessed the community solidarity grow on the

issue of affordable transportation. Means based fares, expansion of the non-profit
program or expansion of the ECO Pass programs are options that can be
considered. He works at Bayaud Enterprises where he witnesses people not being
able to get or keep a job because of transportation issues. He offers up his service
and the service of many in the room in coming up with solutions on this problem.
Let’s build a bridge to the solution. Right now, there are various fare structures
where everyone on the bus are paying different fares; there is a bubbling up of a
sense of injustice. Please look for ways to make transportation affordable for the
working and non-working poor.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Folska
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Anderson/Director Solano
Northwest Parkway – Director Hoy
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Director Bagley shared that the survey monkey for the General Manager’s assessment will
be coming out on October 6th. We will need a response for the Board by October 20th. He
reminded them that they should prepare to complete the survey at one time since the
system cannot associate multiple entries with names or attempts. This skews the results.
Also around the first of October, the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee will began the annual performance evaluation process for 2014
goals which were set in 2013.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 15, 2014
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve
the minutes of July 15, 2014.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker) and 1
abstention (Lasater). Director Deadwyler was absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [13 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSTAIN:
Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Sisk provided the following updates:
Attended Events/Awards:
• August 5th - FasTracks Update to Transportation Review Committee – Capital
Building (Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen)
• August 9th – 7:30 AM – RTD Rail Operations’ Rodeo, Elati Maintenance Facility
• Friday August 15th - Aurora Chamber congressional Forum, (Deadwyler, Folska,
Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen)
• August 15th – 8:30 AM – RTD Snow Plow Roadeo, CDL Course, Westin Lot
(behind District Shops)
• September 4th, September 5th, September 9th - US 36 Commuting Solutions RTD
Appreciation Events – Chair Sisk and Director Hoy participated
• Today - September 16th – Commuter Tail Maintenance Facility Tour ( Anderson,
Bagley, Hoy, James)
Upcoming Events
• September 18th – 9:00 AM – East Line Board Members Tour (Bagley, Daly, Folska,
Lubow, Sisk, Solano)
• September 20th – RTD Bus Roadeo, District Shops
• September 21st – 24th Rail~Volution – Minneapolis/St Paul, MN (Bagley, Hoy,
James, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Walker)
• September 25th – Jefferson County Economic Development Annual Luncheon
(Rivera-Malpiede, Solano)
• September 29th – Private DIA Tour Scheduled from 3 – 5PM leaving from Blake
Street – You must be registered to go through Paula Perdue in the board office
• September 30th – East Line Board Members Tour (Anderson , Hoy)

October 1st – DRMAC’s Annual Awards Ceremony and Fundraiser ( Folska,
Tobiassen)
• October 4th – (CBWPA) Colorado Black Women for Political Action – Director
Deadwyler being honored
• October 12 to 15th – APTA Annual Conference Houston, TX (Anderson, Lasater,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk)
• October 24th – A-List 2014, Wings Over the Rockies Air and Space Museum
(Daly, Lasater, Lubow, Tobiassen)
Other Matters
• Today is Director Lubow’s Birthday
•

X.

General Manager's Report
General Manager Washington shared these updates:
 White House Infrastructure Investment Summit—He was invited to be a participant
in this summit that occurred on September 9, 2014. This summit was hosted by
the US DOT Secretary of Transportation Anthony Foxx, and included Secretary of
Commerce, Penny Pritzker, and Secretary of Treasury, Jacob Lew. The focus was
on ways to get more funds for infrastructure. He sat on a panel that was
moderated by USDOT Foxx and had a chance to tell the RTD story of using P3 for
the Eagle project. He referenced the Lessons Learned document that RTD produced
on the Eagle procurement in 2011, as did several others on the panel and at this
summit. This document is becoming a Bible on how to do a successful P3 project.
RTD has the only successful P3 project in the country. What he garnered from the
summit is there are private investors out there who may want to play but without
some national standards, this becomes challenging for them. The Secretary plans
to present recommendations to the President around November 16th.
 Meeting with USDOT Under Secretary for Policy, Peter Rogoff—While in
Washington, he met with Under Secretary Peter Rogoff to discuss issues on Buy
America. This is becoming more of a challenge for many transit agencies today.
The process to get waivers is long and arduous and delays projects.
 2014 Security Operations Peer Review in Sacramento, CA—The Sacramento office
requested Chief Tarbert to participate on a peer review of the Sacramento agency.
They have subsequently called and told him what a good job that Chief Tarbert did.
He also received notification today that Chief Tarbert has been selected as Chair of
the Transit Policing and Security Peer Advisory Group to the TSA.
 General Manager announced that RTD did not win a TIGER grant for the Central
Corridor or the US HWY 119 submission; He understands there were $9B
submission for the $300M grant; Colorado did receive two grants for other
projects.
 National Transit Institute Model Program Award—the MAX program which consists
of Dart Dallas, Marta-Atlanta, Los Angeles-LAX and Denver is the recipient of the





National Transit Institute Model program Award for its focus on innovative
workforce.
RTD received Leeds Certification for Denver Union Station—this is a great feat with
focus on sustainability and efficiency.
Denver Union Station was named by the American Public Works as project of the
year.
Jerry Nery, Project Manager for the Denver Union Station, was the recipient of the
Denver Business Journal PowerBook award.

Several Board members expressed congratulations and asked for more clarification around
the Buy America issue. Marla Lien provided clarification.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Sisk called for a motion to approve the unanimous consent agenda. He reviewed the
three items on the agenda and asked if there were questions or comments. Seeing none,
he asked for a motion.

Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items A-C.

Director Folska seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion Passed 14 in favor and 0 against.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

A.
Contract Amendment; 2nd year 2014 option 2013-2015 Street Improvements &
Shelter Installations Contract # 33DM005
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract amendment to initiate the second year of a three-year option contract for the annual
Street Improvements & Shelter Installation contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for
$371,711.30. Funding for this contract amendment is provided by the annual 2014 – 2015
Engineering Expense Budgets.

B.

Transfer Funds to Support the Light Rail Gearbox Overhaul Program

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to transfer $676,745 from
the event recorder capital project (10360) to the Light Rail Vehicle Maintenance campaign
expense line item.
C.

Contract Extension for First Southwest Financial Advisors

It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to authorize the second option
year of the contract with First Southwest (FSC) for Financial Advisory Services, which will
extend the performance period through December 31, 2015 and increase the total
contract amount from $480,000 to $600,000. Funding for the 2015 option is included in
the FasTracks financial plan, and will be included in the 2015 expense budget for
FasTracks.

XII.

Recommended Action

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business


Director Anderson shared that she and Director Daly had attended a meeting of the
Jefferson County Transportation Advisory Group. One of the interesting things is
the cities shared their TIF projects and Arvada and Lakewood are dedicating their
projects to bicycles and pedestrian friendly streets. Westminster plans to make
some improvement around the 72nd Street. Chair Sisk added that the TIF
application from Boulder included Highway 7 from Boulder to Brighton.

XV.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
Chair Sisk reminded the audience we will have an executive session tonight but would
resume the meeting to vote on a recommended action item following the executive
session. He then called for a motion to approve going into an executive session per
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b) and (e) Collective Bargaining Agreement – Health and Welfare
issues and pending arbitration, matters subject to negotiation and legal issues.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve going
into an executive session for the purpose to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4)(b) and (e), Collective Bargaining
Agreement-Health and Welfare issues and pending
arbitration, matters subject to negotiation and legal
issues.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion passed with 13 in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, RiveraMalpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen and Walker) and 1
against (Menten). Director Deadwyler was absent.

RESULT:
ADOPTED [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED and adjourned the meeting into executive session.
The meeting adjourned to Executive Session at 6:51 p.m.

XVI. Motion to Adjourn from Executive Session
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 8:10 p.m. and resumed to the Board
meeting.

XVII. Recommended Action
D.

Budget Transfer for Contribution to RTD/ATU 1001 Health & Welfare Trust

It is recommended that the RTD Board of Directors authorize a budget transfer of
$675,000 from the unrestricted fund balance to fund the RTD contribution to the
RTD/ATU 1001 Health & Welfare Trust beginning October 1 through December 31, 2014.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to approve item D,
Budget transfer for contribution to RTD/ATU 1001
Health & Welfare Trust.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion:

The motion passed with 11 in favor (Anderson, Bagley,
Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Tobiassen and Walker) and 2 opposed (Lasater,
Menten). Director Solano abstained and Director
Deadwyler was absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [11 TO 2 WITH 1 ABSENTION]
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Gary Lasater, Natalie Menten
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED.

XVIII. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:15 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

