Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
8, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
(Corrected-2/22/11)
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of Directors

Date:

February 8, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
February 8 at 7:40 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl, Cohen,
Daly, Deadwyler, James, Hoy, Malpiede, O’Boyle, Riley, Tayer, and
Tobiassen.

Board Members
Absent:

Director McMullen

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Janne Bennick, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Libby Cox, J.
Donovan, Mantell Dyles, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod,
Anthony Menendez, Karen Morales, Andy Mutz, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Greg Straight, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Del Walker, Phil
Washington, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Greg Amparano - DTP, Bruce Armistead-DTP, Debra Baskett, Kenneth
Burns - CAC, Sara Castellanos – Aurora Sentinel, Aaron Epstein – DTP,
Chuck Esterly – DTR, Jerry Glick – DUSPA, Anne Hays – CAC, David
Hollis – HNTB, Carl Koelbel – Koelbel & Co., Bill Mosher – DUSPA, Ray
Murphy – First Southwest, Blake Pendergrass – Fresc, Gene Pitman –
City of Thornton, Tom Rowiakis – GS, Jeanne Shrene – Adams City,
Roger Sherman-CRL, George Thorm – Mile High Development, Scott
Weeks – DRCOG.

****
Call to Order:

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:40 p.m.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
8, 2011
Page 2 of 5

I.

Recommended Action
Lease of Parking to Mile High Development, LLC at University Station
Bill Sirois introduced this item and passed out a handout sheet on the site in question.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to enter into negotiations
and execute all documents necessary to enter into a lease agreement with Mile High
Development, LLC for the use of up to 50 parking spaces in the University Station
parking structure.
MOTION:

Director Brohl made the motion to move
this item forward to the full Board for the
February 22nd meeting.

SECOND:

Director James seconded the motion.

DISCUSSION: Director Bagley asked Bill Sirois to explain
the arrangement and the similarity to other
stations such as Lincoln Station and Dry
Creek. Bill Sirois explained at the Lincoln
Station we have entered into agreement
with the condominium to lease the first
floor back to them and RTD occupies the
second level. At the Dry Creek Station,
Rick Clarke stated we have a shared garage
arrangement that appears to be working
quite well.
Pertaining to the general
parking in the SE corridor, we have about
60% utilization.
Director Brohl provided some background
history around the University Station. She
has been involved from the beginning.
George Thorn took care of getting the
property rezoned and then paid RTD. The
amount of revenue that RTD receives is
comparable to if they were reserving
spaces. The most significant thing about
this arrangement is it supports affordable
housing and 60 units of mixed income
housing will be going into this site location;

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
8, 2011
Page 3 of 5

Director James added his kudos to George
Thorn and stated he has known George for
a long time. George is also looking at
possible retail space as part of that
development.
Because of his knowledge and involvement,
he will abstain from voting on this item.
Director Tayer inquired if a study has been
performed on the growth potential and the
possible impact to transit riders. Bill Sirois
responded they do anticipate some growth
and have not done a formal study but
believe there is sufficient parking in the
vicinity. Director Tayer responded that he
has a concern that if we have not thought
this through, what happens when transit
parking needs start to conflict with building
and ridership.
Director O’Boyle provided anecdotal
comments from people around the Dry
Creek Station. “Where did that come
from? Isn’t the parking suppose to be for
transit use? Why are those signs there
saying transit stay away? Why does the
condominium gets the premium spots?” He
also noted that DU has asked to use some
of our facility for students. We need to
look at our policy around these types of
agreements. His concern is we have not
done analysis of future parking needs. This
is a crucial process before we can make
this decision. Did we do a fair market
analysis on the cost for the space? He
needs more definitive analysis before he
can support.
Director Hoy inquired about the term of the
agreement. Bill Sirois commented the
reason for the long term has to do with
market conditions and zoning issues to be
resolved.
Director Anderson stated she was
concerned about TOD requiring parking
spaces. Bill Sirois indicated that right now
we do not have a market that is current
with what TOD is trying to do. The idea is

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
8, 2011
Page 4 of 5

to monitor this and change over time.
Director James stated he had placed a
request to George Thorn to take a look at a
concept called “mark-to-market analysis”
that allows for correction in the market for
RTD and the developer. The mark-tomarket is a way that when the lease terms
expire, the option for renewal rent
agreement is matched against the market
rent levels.
Director Bagley summarized to say that
Lincoln Station, Dry Creek, University
Station all point to a need for a general
policy that relates to utilization of surface
and structural parking so that we will have
the proper framework in the future to make
these type of decisions.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed with eleven in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Brohl, Cohen, Daly,
Hoy, Kemp, Malpiede, Riley, Tayer, and
Tobiassen,) and 2 against (Directors
Deadwyler and O’Boyle) and Director
James abstained. Director McMullen was
absent.
Committee Chair Bagley declared the
motion PASSED.

II. Updates
Bill Mosher, DUSPA, provided a presentation on the DUS updates. A copy of that
presentation is included with the minutes notebook located in the Board office.
Some of the highlights from Bill Mosher:
 They have currently spent over $118.5M
 The bus facility is on critical path
 Amtrak has been moved to its temporary location
 They are starting to work on the public arts program
Committee Chair Bagley had noted that Jerry Glick had been there earlier but had to
leave. They believe he had planned to speak to the DUS Station.
Bill Sirois provided an update on the DUS Historical Building process. They are
planning on coming back in April to discuss issues and make recommendations on next

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, February
8, 2011
Page 5 of 5

steps.

III. Other Matters
Chair Kemp commented he has been keeping up with our operations especially during
this inclement weather. He is pleased to see the bus and rail operations are running
well.
General Manager Washington commented he had just gotten back from a CEO
conference where he had talked with the Dallas transit CEO. He had heard that Denver
was mentioned in an article in the Dallas paper pertaining to staying operational during
inclement weather.
Director Bagley shared that he and Director James were trying to stay on top of the
RFP as it relates to the Denver Historic site and to identify elements and items from a
Board perspective that might need to be addressed. He also referenced the Board to
the handout that he passed out on items of interest identified by the Board for inclusion
in P&D meetings in 2011. A copy of that handout is enclosed with these minutes.

IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for March
1, 2011.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:30 p.m.

