RTD Planning, Capital Programs, FasTracks
Committee - Committee 08-04-20
JUDY LUBOW: Hi, everybody. This is Judy Lubow, and I'm Chair of the Planning, Capital
Programs, and Fast Tracks Committee. And I'm going to be calling to order the August 4, 2020
meeting of this committee. What's very nice is that it seems like it might be a fast night tonight
because we have no recommended actions. However, there are three updates. And after each
update, I'm going to poll the Board members if they have any questions or comments.
So the first update concerns Reimagine RTD. And it's my understanding that Bill Van Meter is
going to speak. And I would ask that Bill or whoever is going to speak step forward and say your
name and title.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager for
Planning at RTD. And thanks for the opportunity to provide this update on Reimagine RTD.
Tonight's update is going to really focus on one item. And that is the draft system operations plan
network design guiding principles. That's a mouthful. We brought those principles in July to the
RTD Operations Committee and then to the Technical Working Group and Advisory
Committees for Reimagine RTD the following two days.
If you go to the second slide in the deck, you'll see the initial draft, design guiding principles-network design guiding principles for the system optimization plan. And you'll see the modified
draft that we're presenting tonight for consideration. The modifications, to point them out,
include a switch of the top two priorities. Both of them are extremely high priority to our
stakeholders, to the Board of Directors, and to staff. But we are recommending, particularly
based on input that we heard from the Technical Working Group, who has consistently rated
social equity as a top priority, particularly in a COVID-constrained and near term service
delivery environment. We've heard clearly from the Technical Working Group a desire to rank
social equity communities and transit support of land use corridors as a top or the top priority.
We also brought that same recommendation from the Technical Working Group to the Advisory
Committee group meeting in July. And although we didn't directly test the question, we told
them the recommendation from the Technical Working Group and received what we understood
from the Advisory Committee to be general concurrence regarding pushing the social equity
priority as number one on this listing.
Talking to you about all of this tonight-- and I want to draw a parallel back to the study session
discussion that you had this afternoon around Reimagine and finance. One of the key things from
our perspective is the schedule and maintaining schedules so that we can implement these service
system optimization plan scenario recommendations in January of 2021. And as Bruce and
Heather noted, the schedule for achieving that is becoming very tight. We need to bring a draft
through to you by mid-September, September 15, the draft of the January run board and service
changes. And we need to have a good understanding and general concurrence and acceptance
and direction from the Board on these guiding principles to guide that very constrained service

plan as well as the slightly longer-- we're calling it 2023 to 2026 when hopefully we get back
closer to what we-- an 8% reduction from 2019 service level.
So we are under a tight deadline. We need some general acceptance and agreement regarding
these guiding principles moving forward. So I want to give you a flavor and a feel for how we
arrived at that and the input that we've received around the guiding principles from a variety of
different sources.
So our next slide shows key terms and definitions. We had about 10 of those. And they are
various service characteristics that we tested through various forums over the past few weeks,
including a community survey that was statistically valid-- 50% riders and 50% non-riders. They
ranked, particularly the first five items-- reliable service, convenient stop locations, frequent
service, geographical access, and equitable access-- as the top five. And there was a significant
drop-off after that. So for a statistically valid community survey.
We also did an online public survey. That survey had about 1,200-plus responses. It's not
statistically valid, but you can see a lot of similar input and results from the folks who took our
online public survey ranking reliable service, geographic access, equitable access, frequent
service, fast trips, some very similar themes to the statistically valid survey.
We also did a targeted outreach-- moving on through the slide deck-- to a number of different
groups and organizations that have real interests in the Reimagine effort and in transit provision
in RTD in general. And as we reached out to them, we heard from these groups, these kind of
key groups-- and they're listed in some of the supporting materials tonight-- that equitable access
and reliability were their two highest priorities. We definitely also heard strongly that
geographical access should be highlighted. But the discussions really focused on equity
populations even outside of the major urban centers and making sure that as we are thinking
about geographical access, we're not just talking about within the core of Denver, but also
throughout the district and equity populations throughout the district.
You can see what else we heard through our targeted outreach meeting results on the slide titled
that in the slide deck. A few takeaways from the public-- reliability ranked the highest priority by
far. Geographic access, equitable access, frequent service also priorities. You can read more
about that on the key takeaways from the public.
Then there's a slide entitled Mentimeter Exercise TWG, AC, and Board of Directors. That's the
Technical Working Group and the Advisory Committee and the RTD Board of Directors. So it
asserts in here that TWG and AC strongly supported service equity populations. As I stated, that
was very strong from the TWG. And we heard general concurrence when we brought that
recommendation and those observations from the TWG to the Advisory Committee.
They also strongly support high frequency service. They all favored a regional transit backbone
provided by RTD and exploring local community partnerships to operate or pay for local service.
And I will note that when we did the Mentimeter exercise with you, the Board of Directors, those
preliminary results indicated some leaning towards more of a coverage-based system. The next
few slides highlight the kind of four topic areas that we have looked at and tried to focus and

differentiate between in our Reimagine System Optimization Plan work. And those are service
quality, social equity, service productivity, and geographic coverage.
And so some observations on the next couple of slides around those focus areas and observations
in terms of the trade-offs and key takeaways regarding trade-offs when you put more emphasis
on service quality-- for example, more boardings, lowest cost per boarding, and best travel time
ratio. Social equity resulting in the most social equity populations served by quality service, 15
minute or better, and highest bus boardings per service hour. Service productivity is very similar
in emphasis and in results to social equity, while geographic coverage-- it's the most population
employment albeit with less frequent service, has fewer boardings, lowest equity population
served, highest cost per boarding, but definitely reaches a larger population employment service
area.
So want to just kind of try to close things out in terms of my presentation by reiterating our
recommendation, staff's recommendation, for proceeding forward, System Optimization Plan
and Reimagine RTD, and particularly for our service planning efforts around the January 2021
COVID-constrained service plan. Deliver strong connectivity to social equity communities, high
quality transit backbone. We changed the wording a little bit there based on feedback that we
heard from our Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee to make it very clear what
that item is about. A network that reflects the very difficult financial constraints that we talked
about this afternoon. And then finally integrating mutually beneficial partnerships with local
agencies.
And just wanted to take a few more seconds on that topic just to say that we continue to solicit
ideas from our partners and stakeholders for alternative service delivery options. We've brought
this up at numerous Technical Working Group and Advisory Committee meetings at Reimagine.
We have some recent pilots and examples of successes in entering local agency partnerships,
including downtown Denver bus lanes with Denver, the North I-25 or Wagon Road and 144th
FlexRide implementation with Smart Commute Metro North, cost sharing with Boulder,
Longmont, and Englewood, Metro Taxi, Uber Pilot. So we are definitely open to those sorts of
suggestions and opportunities.
That, Chair, ends my presentation. And I would love to hear feedback from the Board of
Directors regarding these priorities.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much, Bill. So my sense is what you're looking for is guidance
from the Board.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. Yes, that's correct.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. OK. You know, we had a study session, and we did something that I think
is a very smart thing to do is after the Board gave its comments and guidance, staff was asked to
summarize what they heard so that we could make sure we could cut off immediately if there
were any disagreements on what was heard. So I'm going to ask you to do that too if you don't
mind.

BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. I will be taking copious notes. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I want to take the prerogative of leadership just to go first. I'm
going to be asking the directors in alphabetical order their questions and comments. But I wanted
to go first, because I felt very strongly about this. And I just wanted to lay out some ideas that I
had.
And it has to do with the principles and the order that they are in. And it just seemed to me
personally obvious that the first thing that should be up there, because that's the first thing that
matters at least to me, and I would think to most of us, is creating a network that reflects
financial constraints and travel demand, that in the first year of our COVID plan-- well, actually
the second it's going to be. But we are being controlled by financial constraints and by who is
actually using our service. So to me, that should be number one.
And I would put after that to deliver strong connectivity to social equity communities, which
basically mirrors travel demand, because the two are working together. And personally, I would
not put transit support of land use corridors as a requirement for the short run or short-term
principles, because I don't think people when they joined RTD as a district signed up to
necessarily have their transit dependent on if they were using supportive land use corridors. I
think that's a long-term goal that should be first spent based on education. That's my input.
And then after that would be providing a high quality transit backbone that emphasizes regional
connections and integrating mutually beneficial partnerships. So basically, I'm just asking that
testing be kind of moved around to reflect the reality that financial constraints and travel demand
really are dictating what we're doing and will be for the next couple of years, I would think, and
also to take out of this short run list of priorities the demand that there be transit supportive land
use corridors, which is a great demand, but I think it's a long-term one.
So enough for me. And I hope that people will excuse me for having taken the prerogative of
leadership to do that. But now I'm going to go in alphabetical order and just ask each Board
member if they have comments or suggestions to give to Bill Van Meter about these principles
and about the SOP. So first is Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I guess my feeling is this whole effort should be put on hold
for six to nine months, that we're in such unsettled times right now, and things are changing so
dramatically. You know, the thing that you worry about is are people going to continue to work
from home? And does that mean that the demand for everything that goes to the center of
downtown Denver is going to dramatically be reduced? We're just perpetuating kind of the
system that we've had in place. I don't know. I just feel like now's a poor time to make changes
and that we should just stay with the temporary COVID system that we've got currently in place
and see what happens for the next six or nine months and then take a look at where should we go
from there. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director. Director Buzek, please.

VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And, Bob Broom, I have to say that I agree with you.
And there's this big question, are these COVID changes COVID changes, or are they going to be
permanent changes? How many people are going to continue to work from home and
telecommute after everything's back to some kind of normal and we have a vaccine? This could
be a permanent change. And to make all these changes in thinking that we're going to get back to
where we once were I think is-- well, I don't-- I don't know. I guess I would agree with Bob
Broom on some of that.
To the extent that we're going to move forward with this, because I'm sure we are, because this is
a machine that can't be stopped apparently, I appreciate that there's thought being given to
geographic coverage. And I have to say that when it comes to geographic equity and social
equity, these items are interrelated very much in that more and more people are moving out of
the core of the region, out of the Denver area because of the pricing and housing prices and
gentrification issues and things like that. People tend to move to places that are less expensive.
You know, realtors now are saying they're back to that drive until you qualify mindset where
people are going out places in more remote areas because housing is much less expensive there.
So the geographic equity and the social equity components are really overlapping more and
more. And I hope that we continue to look at things moving forward with both of those as
priorities. I think that's all I've got to say. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Both Director Broom and Director Buzek brought
up some very valid points. And one of the points that I made-- I think it was in our study session- was that geographic equity doesn't mean the same levels of service in different geographic
locations within the district. It merely means that there is some coverage across the district. It
doesn't mean that you have 10-minute headways on a route that only provides minimal ridership,
but that there be some coverage for the geography.
So it's really a tough balance, and I understand that. But I just wanted to say that it's not equal in
terms of the level of service, but that there'd be some consideration for geographic equity, but
also with an emphasis on social equity piece and providing service to those people who depend
on it the most. So I would say, Bill Van Meter, you guys have your work cut out for you, because
it's not an easy decision. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. So, Bill, just to work on that one issue further, you had
mentioned, and we've previously talked about social equity being a focus of our service during
the pandemic. Now I think you're suggesting that it would be the priority, especially or
particularly in the pandemic. Are you suggesting that there would be then some revisiting of that
emphasis, or what does that mean now if we're transitioning from a pandemic period to the long
term?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. May I respond?

JUDY LUBOW: Oh. Please. Yes.
BILL VAN METER: OK. Yeah, so this is Bill Van Meter, AGM of Planning. So, Director, this
afternoon, Bruce kind of referenced some of this. Bruce Abel, Manager of Special Projects kind
of referenced and framed things the way we're starting to think about it and trying to think about
it. And that is that all four of these are important. All four of these are priorities. We need to be
thinking about all of them in a very fiscally constrained COVID-19 2021 service run board. We
likely have to prioritize and emphasize social equity communities and that high quality transit
backbone. And recognizing our severe fiscal constraints, we don't have much capacity to do
more than that. But that then sets our stage for as we move forward and as finances get better and
we're able to restore services, we can continue to take all four of these priorities into
consideration and flush out and address all of them and use them as our guiding principles as we
restore services as fiscal-- as our finances allow.
Having said all of that, if any opportunities arise, such as partnerships with local agencies to
enhance local connectivity in the next few months, in the next year or two, we should be jumping
on them. If we can afford them, we should be considering them and pulling them into a mix. So
all of these are important. All these should be considered. But as we move forward from a
severely fiscally constrained system towards that 2023 to 2026 scenario, these remain our
guiding principles, and it allows us to start doing even more in terms of providing that high
quality transit backbone and entering into local partnerships and expanding geographic coverage.
Hopefully that made some sense and addresses your question.
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, please.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. So you have talked a couple of times about seizing these opportunities if
they arise or being open to them. And what I think we ought to do both near term and for the
longer term is actually integrate those. I think the Amazon FlexRide gives us a really good model
for focusing on the type of service that perhaps serves an outlying area. And that drives-- it
serves the equity populations you're talking about. And that might be applicable other places.
So I would say-- the one thing I would say is not put this off, but integrate that later piece, not
just say we're going to be open to it in the meantime, but actually pull that in as a responsive
element of our current planning for both the fiscal situation we find ourselves in and the longer
term, the service models that we'll be pursuing over time. So that's my two thoughts on that.
On land use, I would suggest that we incentivize land use that supports transit and not just
reward those places that manage to put it into position previously. I would say find ways to work
with communities who are pursuing-- incredibly pursuing TOD and rezoning their parcels to
support land uses that aren't just dense, but that really do integrate well with the transit nearby.
And then I think I had one other thing. But for right now that's good. Thank you much.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger, please. Director Guissinger?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh. Sorry. I was on mute. Thank you. And thanks to the-- so just to be
clear, these are the long-term principles? They're not just the short-term January principles,
right? Bill?
BILL VAN METER: Sorry, I started talking without unmuting myself. That is correct.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, well, you know, I think that Director Lubow made some very good
points. You know, I've kind of been-- we went from Reimagine working on a SOP that would go
into effect in mid-2021 to one that we're supposed to be adopting in September that would go
into effect in January. And I haven't really understood why we're doing that honestly, because I
kind of think that really the only reason to do that right now in a time of flux, as Director Broom
and Director Buzek have also said, is our financial constraints. Is it going to save us more
money? I mean, we are, I think, serving our equity communities pretty well. We've added back
service. And certainly we should look at that, especially right now in the short term.
But I don't see how number one is a single thing-- deliver strong connectivity to social equity
communities and transit supportive land use corridors. Those are very different things. And I
agree with Director Cook. We should incentivize transit supportive land use. There's some places
that, of course, have had trains in service for many years.
Someone last week singled out Boulder for having a height limit. But Boulder puts people on
buses and believes in transit. And so I guess I have a concern about that. But I just don't think it
belongs together with social equity communities.
It seems to me like we need short-term principles, and that should really be serving the people
that we are serving and, you know, figuring out how we-- if we've gone down 40%, it should be
saving us a lot of money. How do we make that happen? So looking at the financial constraints. I
would not object to putting this on hold for a while, but I feel like it's being rushed with us
making decisions next month for January. And that's all. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Lubow. I hope I'm not on mute. Am I on mute?
JUDY LUBOW: No, you're fine. I hear you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can you hear me? OK. All right. Bill, that's really great. I have not been
real encouraged by this whole Reimagine program, and it's no secret. But it went forward, and so
be it.
But I think that what I heard from Dr. Broom, Director Buzek is appropriate. And I think that I
would even say and suggest, although I won't even be on the Board at that time, I would
encourage you to postpone it for at least one year. And here's why. We have coming up soon the
results of our state audit that should inform how we reimagine things and transform our
organization.

The second thing we have is the Accountability Committee that has just recently been convened
by the Governor. And their first meeting I think is next Monday from 8:30 to 10:30 at DRCOG.
So they're supposed to be working on this for a year. It may be extended. But I don't know.
Maybe it's longer than that. But at least to hear their recommendations also before-- you know,
what winds up happening is you're stepping all over each other, and there may be a lot of
redundancy. And I don't think it's the best use of your time or money or any other resources that
the agency has at this time.
So that is why I would recommend putting it off, including the whole pandemic changing the
way America works. And I've said it before. We were talking about telecommuting in the '70s.
We came up with diamond lanes, which are now called HOV lanes, in the '70s. And we didn't get
around to it until this pandemic.
And with the internet-- I mean, and we know a lot of the tech companies-- and Google just
announced they're not going to have anybody going into the office for another year. And
universities are doing that all over the place. And it could be that schools do too. I mean, you
know, elementary and junior high and high schools and our local schools-- so I think the best
thing for us to do is to keep our nose to the grindstone, work under the worst case scenario, and
hope for the best. And until we have a solution and a resolution to the pandemic, we get the
feedback from the state audit and the first year report from this Accountability Committee, we
shouldn't be reimagining anything. And that information informs your Reimagine program. And
that's all I have to say. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I just wanted to clarify a few things. The social equity
communities-- I looked in the definitions, and that's actually not in the definitions. So if you
could just define what a social equity community is, I'd really appreciate it.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. Yeah. So yes, thank you. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant
General Manager for Planning. We're talking about communities and providing service towards
communities that are low income, elderly, disabled, those that are covered under the Civil Rights
Act and Title VI, the Executive Order on Environmental Justice, those populations that often
depend on public transit for many of their trips and trip purposes. Does that help?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely.
BILL VAN METER: Particularly low income-- particularly low income, elderly, disabled.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I assumed as much, but I just wanted to clarify. And then I had a
question about the targeted outreach meeting. Do you-- Bill, is this a comprehensive list, or is
this just an FYI for the Board, and you all are constantly adding to this list?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. No, it's B, Director Lewis. So staff, for example, have met with the
local coordinating councils and continue that outreach and tried to avail themselves to a number
of different audiences. And the intent is for that dialogue and discussion to keep going and for us

to continue to accumulate their feedback. That's probably not the best word, but-- and report that
back and what we hear to you. So since even this presentation was made, we've reached out, for
example, to other local coordinating councils and other groups as well. And so it's a continuing
process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much. And then to answer the question that you posed-I'm taking it as a question-- regarding the design guiding principles, I'm actually comfortable
with the design guiding principles. I do agree with Director Lubow about maybe moving three to
two because we are going to have to figure out our financial constraints and travel demand. And
so I'm comfortable with that.
To Director Buzek's point about the suburbanization of poverty, I trust that you all are thinking
about that, particularly as we are seeing more folks lose their housing, as we're seeing
employment benefits go away-- unemployment, excuse me, go away, that you all are considering
all of this. And I know lots in flux and lots to think about and to consider. I don't know if I have
an opinion about whether or not we should be moving forward in this process or if we should
not, at least not at this moment, because the pandemic is just so insane. And so those are all my
comments. I don't have any others.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: I got skipped.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I think-JUDY LUBOW: Oh! Oh, heavens to Betsy. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Well, please-- please go
forward. Yeah. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I'm not sure how we can hold up. I keep thinking back to
November 2019 where we were unable to create a mid-term [INAUDIBLE] plan. And that was
pre-COVID. That was pre-economic crash, shut down, government mandates, don't do business.
And Miss McKillop told us that we cannot continue to fund operations and maintenance unless
we do something. And that's where Reimagine became part of the solution.
And then we had the workforce issue. That also was the reduction that we talked about, again
pre-COVID. And now we have ridership at tremendous drop in service. And today, this
afternoon, heard about routes that weren't high performers before and now are maybe carrying
four or five people on a trip. And if we look at FlexRide and the tremendous over-- extremely
high subsidy that goes to that, $20, $30, maybe even $40 subsidy per boarding, I don't know how
we can hold off on the Reimagine. It's part of the growing pains. We can blame portions of this
on FasTracks [INAUDIBLE], especially even going beyond what was voter approved. I use
NCOPs getting around these things. But I just don't know how we hold off on it.
But I am concerned as an area that doesn't have particularly high ridership, these citizens out
here still contribute. That's actually not-- contribute is not the word. Money is taken from them

when they buy toilet paper and certain food products. So, you know, that's a struggle. But I don't
see how we hold off on the Reimagine process.
But I do also feel that aiming it at those communities that have high density TOD is a bit unfair.
There's communities where whether it's government regulations or the citizens don't want to live
downtown, it's hard to, again, penalize them because they do-- you know, single-family
residential homes. And going to the equity piece, I don't know if we've ever gotten a map, like a
map of every low income housing parcel around the metro area. I mean, these are spread out. It's
not just in pockets. They are all around the community. So those are my thoughts. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK. Now Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Chair Lubow. Lots of good comments. I'm certainly in agreement
with Directors Broom and Buzek, Folska, Menten, and comments from others. This does seem
really tricky to do given so many uncertainties. And I guess while I'm on the thought, the idea of
the map of income distribution around-- I think before too long, the majority of the area is going
to be either low income or elderly. And so it's all the changing demographics, all the unknown
economic uncertainties. And I wonder if there isn't a way to do a short-term Reimagine, a quick
Reimagine in the next couple of years or year or two and then the longer Reimagine based upon
what comes out of this. But I would suggest maybe holding off at least as far as the long term
Reimagine just because of so much uncertainty. And those are my thoughts.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Relative to this first issue that is being
addressed by a number of the directors on should we continue on with Reimagine, or should we
put it on hold, I suppose to some extent I am persuaded by the words of Director Menten that we
almost don't have a choice. We have to reimagine something now. And we should do it in such a
way that it is flexible, scalable, adaptable to the future. So I think there is merit in proceeding
with the process and putting ourselves in a position that we create something that can be more
responsive in the future.
Then I have two other points. We talk a lot about equity. Geographic equity is important. It's
very important. But social equity is critical. And I submit that any proposals that are brought
forward must go through the crucible of social equity or we really aren't doing our job in my
opinion. And secondly, I need to remind at least the public, not so much the Board-- I need to
remind people that equity does not mean equality. They are not synonyms. Equity refers to
fairness, to justice, and justness.
And I think the Board does get that. Some of our constituents, however, I submit, do not. They
argue that if one route has three buses an hour, then they, no matter how little demand there may
be, should also have three buses an hour. Well, I submit that would be equality, but it would not
be equity. And I think we have to be vocal about identifying that to people. Much of what has
been said has been said in that context. But I think people, when they hear equity think that it
means "I get the equal treatment that somebody else gets." No, you get that which is equitable,

and it may not be the same thing. It will be equitable. It may not be equal. Thank you, Madam
Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Hi. Can you hear me?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. JEFF WALKER: OK. So there's been discussion about holding off
because of the uncertainty. But there is never any certainty in this life. If there were, then we
would have prepared for a pandemic in 2020, or we would have prepared for the Great Recession
in 2007 and carrying on through 2009. There is never any certainty. There was uncertainty when
I moved here 21 years ago. There was uncertainty when Fast Track passed in '04. We had an
idea. We think this is what might happen, how we pay for it. But we don't know.
So whether or not this system hauls or moves 300,000 boardings a day or 30,000 boardings a day
or 3 million boardings a day, the staff needs to know how to allocate our resources, how to-where to put those buses and those trains and what type of service we should put out there and
what drives that level of service in those areas. So I think that these principles do that. I think
there is some strong similarities or some overlap and support between the first three, strong
connectivity to social equity communities and transit supportive land corridors. I think we've
seen from some of the maps that have been presented to us in other presentations that Colfax,
Broadway, Federal, and some other thoroughfares, that's where the ridership is. And that's where
a lot of the density is. Even though a lot of them have strip malls on them, there's still a whole lot
of apartments that line Federal Boulevard and that line Colfax East and West. And the high
quality transit backbones, the same-- Broadway, Colfax, Federal, Quebec.
And the network reflects financial constraints and travel demand. Well, that demand is on those
streets that I just mentioned and some others-- US 36, for example. So I think that a lot of these
support-- those first three at least support each other. I think the partnerships with the local
jurisdictions is crucial. Englewood has that-- I can't remember what it's called now-- the
Englewood trolley. That's something like what I would like to see, and that's what I've been-whenever I come across somebody from another jurisdiction, that's what I talk to them about,
that there are small improvements that can be made that can facilitate movement of their
residents, our customers, one and the same.
So we're social animals, and we will rebuild. That money moves to fill whatever void there is. So
if folks aren't living or folks aren't choosing or can't afford to live in the city now and they move
out to the suburbs or exurbs, eventually that demand for that city falls, and that void is filled by
people coming back, just like it was from the '60s and '70s. And we started to see that influx back
into the '90s up until now. And it's still somewhat, because the house across the street from me is
selling for close to $600,000. And I've seen garages bigger than that house.
So I'm not concerned about what the long-term prognosis is for where people live. People will
need to use transit. We've seen that during this time. And staff needs to know how to allocate
those resources. That's our job to tell them. I'm fine with going out with these principles, with
them putting that service out there according to these principles. And that is it. So thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you. Not too much to add. Great discussion. So much
thoughtfulness from my colleagues on the Board. I guess I tend to get a little apprehensive of the
purported permanency of our decision-making and tend to move towards Director Tisdale's kind
of shorter term or hybrid plan.
That being said, I know that's probably highly unlikely and formidable for staff. And I guess that
would be my preference. But I do think we should move ahead per the details I think that Chair
Lubow had expressed as far as a reordering of the priorities. So I guess proceed with caution is
what I'll leave with. And I'm sure that's not very helpful. But that's kind of where I'm at, at this
point in time. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Is Director Williams on the phone? OK. The last one is Chair
Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Boy, this has been quite an
interesting conversation. You know, when we started Reimagine, it feels like it was decades ago.
And the world was so completely different, and the whole theory of why we're going into it feels
so antiquated.
I first want to start with I absolutely agree in making number three under the modified draft for
consideration, you know, guiding principle to number one, particularly after we had the
workshop this afternoon. We're going to have to start looking at the picture very realistically on
how we can move forward. I absolutely do believe in prioritizing high quality transit backbone
for connectivity for social equity communities.
The other thing that I'm not hearing a lot about is how much everything has changed, and it has
always been such a huge concern of mine about gentrification. Particularly in my community, in
the Latino community, we've been pushed out further and further and further. And they are
moving out and are having to pay the most to come in to do frontline work. And I think we
changed transit-oriented developments into transit-oriented communities. And I think it's our
responsibility as a transit agency to make sure that we're being inclusive and that we do
incentives around affordable housing. I think we're going to have to really delve into the issues
that are affecting the region and how our part could be advantageous to those communities that
struggle the most.
And I consistently think about TDM components and first last mile options. And people have the
opportunity to work from home and what's going to happen with telecommuting. But for those
working poor folks who have no choice, historically have always paid whatever we tell them to,
number one. And number two, they don't have a choice. And so I think this is our chance to
make sure that they're being protected. That's number one.
Mr. Van Meter, I know how much time has gone into this. I know how much commitment has
gone into this from the community, from both working groups. And I was part of that Working
Group at the very beginning. But I do think we need to-- I have to agree with Director Broom

and Director Buzek and Director Tisdale that we really need to kind of check out, maybe do a
short-term Reimagine and then do a longer term later on, because we really don't know what
we'll be facing as we move down this road. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Well, Mr. Van Meter, it's your time up to summarize.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, Chair. This is Bill Van Meter. Before I do that, I would like to
invite Bruce Abel to speak. He has a few words that he wanted to add. Thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you, Madam Chair, if it's agreeable.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you. This is Bruce Abel. I wanted to make a couple of comments if I
wanted to. And actually I think that there were a great segue from some comments from Director
Tisdale, Director Whitmore, and Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I think when this process started, we
were obviously pre-COVID. And what we were attempting to do is develop a system
optimization plan that would be a short to mid-term resource allocation that responded to
community desires. Obviously-- and we've talked about this some this afternoon-- our entire
environment changed. And so we need to be flexible and change as well.
And so we changed our focus to focus on what do we need to be in the immediate short near
term. And sometimes I think we confuse ourselves when we use jargon terms like the COVID
SOP, the SOP, et cetera, et cetera. So perhaps let me try to use some different jargon terms that
we've shifted our focus so that we have to because of our financial reality, shift our focus onto
what are we going to do today and tomorrow. And as we discussed today, how will we devote
our very limited financial resources in the January service plan? And we had some conversation
about focusing our resources on those services where people have continued to ride.
But I think that that gives us the core of the system that still allows us to build out to an SOP that
as resources become available, we want to build out in such a way that represents the
communities' target, which for five years may be different than what we're looking to do today. I
think as we went through the exercises with the Technical Working Group, with the Advisory
Committee, they had different perspectives of what they wanted from a transit system in January
of 2021 in an extremely fiscally constrained environment and a transit system in 2025.
When we did the Mentimeter with them, they were clear that in the very short term fiscal, let's
focus on the equity communities. But in 2026, let's have more of a system that focuses on a
backbone, connectivity, partnerships with local governments, support of land use, et cetera. So I
think all of that really speaks to the same thing that several of the Directors talked about, which
is we need to be flexible. In the near term, we're really looking to be focused on very, very
constrained financial resources. Do we devote those to the equity communities as part of our
question/conversation? But as resources become available, we need to be flexible to respond to
them.

And that timeline isn't going to be ours. That timeline is going to be determined by how the
economy recovers, which is going to be driven by the reality of how the world responds to
COVID. So I think that that's sort of a growth process, a flexibility process of starting out in the
near term. Being very focused on serving the equity communities is really sort of part of the
question that we're discussing here this evening. And I think we've heard some consensus on
that's what we want to do in the near term.
We seem to have greater ambiguity as to what we want to do as we proceed out of what we've
called the COVID environment. But those I think really are two different targets, so to speak.
And I think that perhaps that could be where some of our challenge in our conversation has been
this evening. So, Bill, I'll turn it back over to you.
BILL VAN METER: Thanks, Bruce. Chair, Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
BILL VAN METER: OK, thank you. Yeah, so that-- I think Bruce's recap helps quite a bit in
terms of understanding, you know, we have the opportunity with extremely limited resources to
make sure that we are allocating our resources well and towards social equity communities as a
top priority, because that's where our riders are today. That's where our ridership in the COVID19 environment, and that's where it likely will be come this January as well. And I clearly heard
from multiple Board members focus and a desire to focus on a network that reflects financial
constraints and travel demand And they do align well together. And that's kind of that near term
or shorter term perspective that we're pushing towards for January to make sure that we are
allocating our very limited COVID-19 affected resources very well and appropriately. So that's
one of the things I wanted to try to say that I heard clearly.
I also clearly heard from a number of Directors some skepticism regarding prioritizing, at least in
the near term, transit supportive land use corridors. Importantly, I heard every-- I did not hear
anyone calling into question these four guiding principles. The timing, the prioritization, and
how we are going to accomplish a 2021 run board versus a 20-- well, Bruce called 2025. I've
been calling 2023 to 2026, a longer term scenario that we can grow into. But in both of those
contexts, I hope and I think that I heard consent and agreement from the Directors that all of
these are four strong guiding principles. We should be putting financial constraints high. We
should be putting social equity high. But we should be making sure and pursuing partnerships
and making sure that we can grow and expand geographic coverage and a transit backbone that
emphasizes regional connections as priorities as well.
And so one of the things that I also heard was some interest and desire in revisiting and seeing
where these social equity populations live and reside and importantly, how our plans and our
services will respond to that. I heard that from a number of directors as well, a desire to make
sure that as we're growing from a 2021 scenario to that kind of mid-term-ish, 2025, 2023, 2026,
hopefully more robust scenario that we keep these guiding principles in consideration, but that
we also give ourselves enough flexibility that if travel demands and travel patterns change postCOVID that we have the flexibility to bring back to you and successive Boards

recommendations that reflect those changes. And very difficult to do, but something that we will
take to heart.
Those were the things that pop out. I took more copious notes than that. But that's my attempt at
a recap.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. It seems-PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin. I'm sorry, Madam Chair. This is Peggy
Catlin. You know, what I heard from Director Broom, Director Buzek, and other directors was
that there might need to be a pause. And what I am seeing in a lot of these discussions are
activities that are normal to our planning staff, to our operations staff, to what Bruce is doing.
And to the extent that-- and I might be speaking-- misspeaking for some of my fellow Board
members. But I think the fact that we are in such a state of flux that some are feeling that this
high price planning effort could be going on in perpetuity if we don't maybe take a pause and
start just looking at what we need to do to get by and then re-embark on the planning process
when we have a little bit more certainty about COVID-19 and what the future is and what our
customers are going to be doing in terms of commuting and working.
So I kind of got the impression that the pause was more in reaction to the real state of flux that
we're in right now as opposed to not moving forward with principles or anything like that. I just
think that a lot of the things that you talked about are activities that are done normally by our
staff and that we should not necessarily be moving forward with the scope of work that the
Reimagine process envisioned. And I would sure like to hear opinions of other Directors.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
JUDY LUBOW: Go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, I agree completely with Director Catlin. This high priced Reimagine
RTD process, this $4 million process, can be put on hold. And we can still continue to look at the
immediacy of need as we do and have done in the past all the time. So like Director Catlin said,
this is just typical work that our staff does until we get our feet back on the ground and our feet
under us. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Are there any other comments?
KEN MIHALIK: Director Mihalik.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Mihalik. Yes, go ahead please.
KEN MIHALIK: That's at least twice tonight that I'm in agreement with Director Buzek.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, how exciting.
VINCE BUZEK: Keep it up.

LYNN GUISSINGER: This is Guissinger.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think that's very well spoken, Peggy, that-- you know, as I said before
the original plan with Reimagine was to come up with an SOP in mid-2021. And I just haven't
quite understood why we would be moving it forward to where we're voting on it in the next
month. I think let's look at what we're doing as we always do and see how we can save money
and serve the populations that are needing our service right now, which I think is the so-called
social equity populations. And [INAUDIBLE].
SHELLEY COOK: Madam Chair-JUDY LUBOW: Director Guissinger, have you finished? OK.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
JUDY LUBOW: I believe-- thank you. Director Cook please.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, you know, I've been urging that we re-scope the second phase of that
to make it more responsive to the changing situations. But that just does not-- is not going to
happen. I mean, Bill talked about pursuing, but I'm talking about actively planning for putting in
a program in place, that sort of thing. So in some ways, I feel like yes, let's delay, because the
path it's moving just seems inexorably towards not doing what I'd hoped. And so I don't feel
strongly about continuing. If there's six I'm counting or seven actually who are in favor of
delaying and I feel like we might have a better chance of bringing in those other elements at a
later time when things have settled out, well, I would switch over to that side actually.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Madam, Chair, I was after Director Cook.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yes, that's right. Director Folska, please. Yeah. Go ahead.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I would have to agree with Director Catlin. And I really appreciate
her summation of the thoughts of folks of postponing this, putting it on pause for a while. It's not
getting rid of it, but put it on pause and continue with the regular planning that you do under the
new circumstances. That's all. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I do want to thank
First Vice Chair Catlin. She did encapsulate everything pretty precisely. And I absolutely agree.
I'm wondering if we don't need to just take a pause, not eliminate it, but I do think we're under
such dire circumstances that we really need to take a look at what we're doing and how we move
forward. Thank you.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Bill, I'm just wondering, legally and-- is it possible to just take a
pause from this because we haven't landed on our feet yet and don't have a clue where things are
going really? No one knows.
VINCE BUZEK: That's eight Directors, Madam Chair.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is-JUDY LUBOW: Hello?
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is-- Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, hi.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, so I believe-- that sounded like Director Buzek noting that there
were at least in this discussion a majority eight Board members kind of voicing similar opinions.
And so in response, I would like the opportunity to provide some detail and information
regarding our contractual arrangements, the grant funding and requirements around that, the
process to date, some of the way out, some of the pros that these Board members have brought
up regarding putting Reimagine on pause and put together some cons as well in a information
piece that we get to the Board for next Tuesday night. I'd make that as a proposal that I'm
committing to on the fly.
JUDY LUBOW: Sounds good to me. It sounds appropriate. You know, we're being asked to be
quote unquote "nimble." And this is being nimble. It's a different direction, but it seems worth
exploring.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair?
JEFF WALKER: This is Jeff Walker.
JUDY LUBOW: Was that Director Whitmore?
DOUG TISDALE: No, it was Director Tisdale, but I'll yield to Director Walker if I can be
recognized after that, please.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. So I've-- yeah. Can you hear me?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Yes.
JEFF WALKER: OK. So I've heard several Directors say that there's no certainty in the future.
And of course there never is under any circumstance. But it seems like what staff is providing,
what we're considering in this meeting is something that does provide some level of certainty.
And we're telling staff, these are the principles that we want you to follow when you put service,

however much service it is, whether it's one bus an hour or four buses an hour. These are the
principles that we want you to follow in instituting or implementing that service.
So I'm confused about why we would want to pause on something that does provide some level
of certainty when things are in such noticeable flux. And it's not around the corner anymore. It's
here. And we have no idea what is around the corner, but we would know how we operate if this
were to proceed. So I'll look forward to Mr. Van Meter's presentation I guess next week, but I'm
just really confused about why we would not want some level of certainty that is provided by this
process, this Reimagine RTD. That's it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I don't want my earlier comments to be
misunderstood or misinterpreted. What I was saying was that I was in agreement with Director
Menten that we needed this process to go forward. And with respect, I submit it is actually
different from the process that we undergo three times a year when we look at system
optimization, because quite honestly, that's just based upon doing tweaks and saying, oh, gosh,
we've got decreased ridership on this particular run. Let's address this run, or we've got more
demand over here. We need to increase that. And it is not something that attempts to step back
and look at the entire system and say, wait a minute, what are we really doing here, and how are
we doing it.
And I submit that we can do that now and establish a structure, as I said, that can be nimble,
facile, scalable, responsive, and adjust as demands change in the future. But I think to put it on
hold and say, well, let's just go back to our regular service planning devalues all of the work that
has been done so far and squanders an opportunity that we have to, with the benefit of the
Technical Group, the Advisory Group, and so forth to demonstrate some real responsiveness to
what's going on. And I think that's something that, for example, the Accountability Committee
will be looking at us to respond to if they should come in and say, all right, well, you committed
X million dollars, you spent Y million dollars so far. And now you're basically going to put it on
the shelf and say, well, we'll pick it up when we have time.
I think, no, that's not an appropriate thing for us to do. And I think that we have an opportunity
now to proceed. And we should do so, but informed by this discussion, informed by these
considerations, informed by the changing environment in which we find ourselves. That is what I
think Reimagine can do. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin. And since I started this brouhaha, I
apologize. But I agree with Director Tisdale. We need to be nimble and responsive to the current
environment. And my point was that perhaps we need to look at the scale and what we are doing
at this point so that we can preserve some of the resources in this contract moving forward after
our situation stabilizes a little bit. So I didn't want to scrap the idea of this altogether, but I did
want to look at it through a different lens. So thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I would like to add my three cents, which is that I would love it if,
Mr. Van Meter, you'd come forward with an analysis of would it be better to move forward with

dealing with COVID and dealing with all these complexities with Reimagine, or would it be
better to put that on hold as we sort through these things and then go back to the Reimagine? I
mean, to me, I think that's the issue. We're not saying not do it. But what is the best path forward
given the very strange circumstances that we find ourselves in?
OK, I think that's it. I said that I thought this meeting was going to be quick, and that was untrue.
So anyway, Bill, thank you very much.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce. This is Bruce. May I make a comment?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, please.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you. In response to your comment, part of your comment was should we
move forward with addressing our COVID circumstance? I prefer to call that the January run
board, which is how we have been devoting our resources and our efforts here recently to how do
we respond to circumstance that we're in. So I would hope that given that our recommendation to
you for a January run board is due in-- be socialized in September and adopted in October, that
we're not really considering not looking at how we're responding in the immediate short run, but
that perhaps your question is how do we respond more in the mid run and the longer run?
JUDY LUBOW: That could indeed be true, and I leave it to you guys to move forward with a
presentation of what you think is appropriate, pros and cons, if you don't mind. OK. I think we
can move forward now to another update.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a-- this is Director Lewis.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yes, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I just had a question. If we were going to pivot, I'm curious-- I
know we talked a bit about the social equity communities. And to, I think Director Buzek, or
maybe it was Mr. Van Meter's point, that we want to make sure that we're still focusing on those
social equity communities as we're moving forward. And I'm curious how that might show up if- what that means if we were to stop this process and how we might center social equity
communities in what might come back to the Board in September to be approved in October for
the January run board. And would we be applying these guiding principles or the guiding
principles that Director Cook came up with a few weeks back? So lots of questions.
BILL VAN METER: Chair-JUDY LUBOW: That was a long-BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is-- yeah, Chair, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM, Planning.
JUDY LUBOW: Help me out. Help me out.

BILL VAN METER: Yeah, well, one, I can assure you that I think I heard enough consensus
around prioritization of social equity in our recommendation there that regardless, we will
prioritize service to social equity populations regardless of this other question that's been
introduced and that we will bring a white paper on pros and cons and laying out a discussion of
impacts and opportunities and pros and cons around putting the process on hold versus moving
forward that I committed to. But regardless, I can assure you that I think we heard enough
around guiding principles in this discussion to say social equity is top prioritization, and we will
take that regardless of the outcome. And we will address that in the white paper as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you so much. And then the second piece around the guiding
principles, both the guiding principles within the Reimagine process but also the guiding
principles that Director Cook brought forward a few weeks ago. And maybe it's too early
because this has kind of sprung up on you that you might not have those answers, and that's
totally OK.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah, we will attempt to address those in the white paper that we'll
prepare.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sounds good. Thank you so much, Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Well, I hope we're done. There is a second update. There is, by the
way, a third one too. But the second one is transit oriented development. And I believe Chessy
Brady is going to lead the discussion.
CHESSY BRADY: Yes. Good evening. This is Chessy Brady, Transit Oriented Development
Manager.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes.
CHESSY BRADY: Thank you. So I appreciated that last discussion. I hope you still have some
energy left, because I have two questions that I hope you can provide us some guidance on. And
our TOD update in your packet reviews our recent research and reports and updates on projects.
And I'm not going to go through side by side. But what you can see in our work just reinforces
what we already know, that transit oriented development makes sense both for many
communities and for RTD itself. And that was true pre-COVID. And I think that continues to be
true in these uncertain times. And we see that as development continues and, as Director Walker
pointed out, the real estate market continues.
We know that dense development near transit increases access to housing and jobs. Denver
Union Station, which we have one slide on in the packet, is our huge success story. But you'll
also see that up and down the rail and BRT corridors in our status report, our TOD illustrated
document, the development continues. And if you live or work near a well-connected station, it's
just that much easier to get where you need to go.

And we know that that's appealing for all kinds of people, but what we see in our research is that
the people who truly take advantage of that proximity are those with lower incomes. And you
can see in particular on package page 68, our survey work, what we see is that residents of
market rate units like the idea of living near the train, but they don't necessarily use it that often.
And they tend to have at least one car, often more.
On the other hand, our research showed that-- this won't surprise you, but we're glad to have the
numbers to confirm it-- that low-income residents are less likely to own a car and much more
likely to use transit. And generally, the development that we're tracking in our reports and our
research is occurring around our stations on private land. And we don't control that land. We
can't tell the private developers what to do. We don't control the zoning, though we do
collaborate with both the jurisdictions and developers to support transit wherever we can.
But the two issues we'd like to hear from you today have to do with RTD land where we do
actually have some control. And the first is the 29th and Welton site. And the second is a policy
question around equitable TOD. So for both topics, when we think about what kind of
development should happen on RTD land, our research shows that the residential development
that prioritizes affordable and mixed income housing will benefit RTD in a measurable way
through ridership. And of course it will benefit those new residents too in terms of access. And
there's been some conversation about the suburbanization of poverty tonight. All this is related.
So to dig in a little deeper on the two questions, I'll start with 29th and Welton. Again, so this is
packet page 65. In 2016, the Board approved the sale of the 29th and Welton parking lot in Five
Points. And it's a parking lot, not a park and ride. It's not for transit users. The lot was to be sold
in partnership with Denver to be developed as for sale condos. And at least 25% of those would
be affordable.
The city and the community preferred, and they continue to prefer, for sale affordable units at
that location. And that's largely due to the high number of affordable rentals that have gone up in
the area and also barriers to homeownership, especially to condos because of the construction
defects laws. And as of earlier this year, the developer that we selected through the RFP process
determined they were not able to finalize the transaction. So that RFP, those agreements have
expired, and that puts us back at square one where we have this parking lot, and we're coming
back to you to ask for some general direction on what you would have us do with the site,
whether you'd prefer to hold, sell, or lease the property and for what purpose-- market rate,
affordable, some other use.
We know many Board members-- we've heard over the years, they expressed a strong preference
for ground leasing land rather than selling it. And when this site was brought to the Board, there
was no mechanism for building condos on leased land. So a sale was really the only way to get
condos.
At this point, through community land trusts that have popped up in Denver, we think it might be
possible-- might be-- to develop condos on ground lease land. So what we would propose to you
is that we make another attempt at getting for sale affordable units on the site with a strong
preference for ground leasing rather than sale, but with the understanding that when we get into

the nuts and bolts of the financial arrangement, a ground lease may not be possible. So that's the
first topic.
The next is packet page 70, so the last of the-- the end of the TOD update, which is about
equitable TOD policy. And we're not asking for a vote tonight or proposing any policy language.
We just want to know if this is the direction the Board wants to go.
We know there are benefits to transit and the community of affordable housing at transit stations.
And many transit agencies have an equitable TOD policy. So we're wondering whether you
would like to learn more about such policies. And if you would, we would be happy to provide
more information and propose some policy options. We've included a little bit on the side here.
Some of the west coast agencies in particular have implemented policies.
In general, an equitable TOD policy would, among other things, likely create a goal for
affordable housing developments on RTD land. And when I say RTD land, stations, I'm really
talking about park and rides. And some park and rides are more appropriate for development
than others, and some are more appropriate for affordable housing than others.
So what we know regardless, development on RTD land is going to generate revenue for the
agency, which is good. And it also installs potential riders at our doorstep, which is also good.
And the equitable TOD policy itself opens the door for staff to push developers to focus on
generating ridership on their projects.
I think I've said a number of times, our research shows that residents of affordable housing are
more likely to ride the system. And they're also likely to own fewer cars, all of which helps our
bottom line and our mission of moving people. So an equitable TOD policy would prioritize
those riders.
Right now our TOD evaluation metrics take affordable housing into account in a qualitative way.
We're proposing to explore and share with the board a more quantitative, but still flexible policy
that would encourage and help enable affordable housing where the location makes sense and
where the local jurisdiction is in favor. So we'd like to hear from you whether that is the direction
you would like us to pursue and what questions you have that we can prepare to answer at future
Board meetings. Again, I'm happy to take questions on anything in the TOD update, but would
particularly appreciate your thoughts on 29th and Welton and the equitable TOD policy.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Thank you for your questions. So I'm going to go and
ask each of the Directors in turn if they have comment and also wanted to comment on those two
questions. And I'm going to go in alphabetical order. So Director Broom, please. Directed
Broom? Are you on mute?
BOB BROOM: I don't think so.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, good. All right. I hear you.

BOB BROOM: I don't think I have anything to add at this point. I certainly support residential
development at stations. It really makes sense all the way around. Obviously townhomes are
nice, but as you mentioned, there's legal problems with them. And so on the lower end, they're
not being built. If you've got million dollar units, then you can buy insurance to cover what you
need to cover. But-- the only thing I might add is that I don't know whether you've explored
doing some type of a joint venture with the Denver Housing Authority or not, but there's a lot of
tax credit programs out there. There is a huge need for housing for particularly veterans and that
type of thing. So somebody should be able to put together an attractive package and get it done.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek said he had to leave. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I think this is really good. I'm kind of disappointed
that the 29th and Welton project folded-- I don't know if that's the correct term. But I would
encourage staff to pursue other opportunities.
And with regard to TOD development in general, I think the extent that we can encourage and
incentivize, that's fine. But we are not in the business of land development. We're in the business
of transportation. So I would caution about overreach a little bit. I would-- I liked what I saw in
the presentation. And I do agree that the ridership that is generated from transit oriented
development for equitable housing is important. I just want to make sure that we strike the right
balance. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. I support Chessy Brady's recommendations regarding the property and
the equitable policy research. OK?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. That was very nicely succinct. Director Folska, please.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you. Sorry about that. I do support that. I think when at all
possible, we would only do ground leases, because when you sell the property, you don't get any
more cash flow. So that would, you know, help our bottom line. I also think that I'd like to see
some cash flow projections that might be possible, you know, just kind of a draft idea of what we
could generate both from sales and use tax as well as a ground lease, because we do at Union
Station. We have that. And then we also get revenue from the businesses that operate in Union
Station in a historic building. And so that's what makes it so attractive.
In addition, I would hope that there are some clear guidance in the TOD development for really
true walkability. And I mentioned this too in our conversation, Chessy, that the question to ask is
who's doing the walking, and where are they going. And in some cases, rolling, maybe not
walking-- rolling. And that there is somewhere to go, you know? So it's all fine and well to
develop affordable housing, whether it's workforce or any other population. But there need to be
accessible amenities in a 5- to 10-minute walk, you said, of the development.

And seniors don't commute to work. So when you think about getting people in there that are
going to use the transit system, then it should be people who are going to work, right, or school
or something like that. So that's all I have. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I support the proposal on both counts. That's all I have. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I support the equitable TOD policy research proposal. As for
29th and Welton, I'm comfortable with a sanctioned homeless encampment. I'm comfortable
with housing-- rental housing. I'm also comfortable with-- and I think Chessy and I talked about
this a few maybe months or weeks-- I don't know. It's all a blur-- about the land trust. I would
love to see a community land trust move forward as well. That's it.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Menten, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: Regarding 29th and Welton, I would like to open it up beyond the
housing. I'd love to see us sell that property. That was not a lease. I don't think we should be in
the development business. Sell it to the highest bidder. And I would love to see some jobs,
especially higher paying jobs in that area. So those are my thoughts on that.
And then I do not-- I guess for the TOD [INAUDIBLE] you know, what RTD is supposed to be
doing, which is transportation. The TOD has always been a little bit uncomfortable for me. I do
not need to have the TOD policy research. So those are my thoughts. I believe we had one other
property on here though that you were asking for a little more feedback, and that one I really
don't have much comment on that one. But I would love to get rid of 29th and Welton I think
while the market is still pretty good here. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Mihalik, please.
KEN MIHALIK: Hi. Thanks. And, Chessy, thanks for the update or pre-meeting the other day.
Yeah, I'm in alignment with Directors Catlin and Menten that the discussion all tonight
[INAUDIBLE] to move people and all these types of things and not house them or derivatives
thereof. So yeah, I would say that I don't think that we need to change the existing policy, the
TOD policy. That's it.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very-- thank you very much, Madam Chair. I am in favor of
looking at the consideration of a ground lease for 29th and Welton with that ground lease
containing strict covenants regarding what is to be built and what is to be charged for what is
being built, in other words, a guarantee that it actually is affordable housing. I recognize that
building for sale units would be challenging even if it is a 99-year ground lease, but nonetheless
it's possible that somebody might do that I just want to avoid a scenario whereby we enter into a

financial transaction with a developer and the developer, through various machinations, turns it
into a very successful property that makes a lot of money, and it looks like we got snookered. So
I would like to avoid that.
I do understand the concern raised by Director Menten relative to the fact that the RTD is not in
the property development business. That's right. But it is in the business of stewarding its assets
and resources and protecting the RTD and its constituents and taxpayers from having somebody
make a windfall profit over our transactions. I do agree that there should be more research. I
think we need that to justify this to third parties who would be examining us for accountability.
Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker, please.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Regarding the 29th and Welton, I'm fine with either selling or leasing.
You know, part of me, with a lease-- with a lease, sometimes those decisions need to be made
quickly for certain types of development. You know, this Board hasn't shown a propensity or a
proclivity to acting quickly when it comes to leases. So I don't know if-- this Board. It'll be a
different Board next year by the time anything gets done. But still, sometimes those decisions
have to be done quickly or have to be made quickly. So I would be more in favor of selling and
just being done with it even if somebody else does make a tidy profit on it. I'm fine with that. I
think that's better for their community and for the agency just to be done with that parcel,
because it's been on our books for a while and not well utilized.
Regarding the policy research, I'm fine with that. I think that provides some direction and some
guidance and some level of certainty as much as can ever be had. But one thing that I noticed is
that our peer agencies tend to be a lot-- they are a lot more land restricted than we are. So it looks
like they can demand or garner those higher percentages, ask for those higher percentages of
affordable housing than we can. I mean, I was on Denver's Planning Board, and we had that
10%. And those developers would build right up to the number of units. I think it was 30 units.
So they'd build 29 to avoid that 10% affordable housing because we're not constrained like
Oakland, San Francisco, Seattle, San Jose.
So while I agree that we should have some type of TOD policy that looks at affordable housing,
that requires some, I think it might be really hard to get. It's extremely important for businesses
to have their employees close by and be able to afford to live close by so they can get to work in
a timely fashion with some level of certainty. But I just don't know if we can reach-- well, I
guess we can always shoot for those 35%. But I don't know if we'll be able to hit them. But I
guess the research is for the purpose of research. So that's it. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede, please.
TROY WHITMORE: Madam Chair, this is Director Whitmore. I think you skipped me.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, heavens.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, I'll be brief.

JUDY LUBOW: I'm sorry. Yeah. Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: That's OK. It's been a long day already. I line up with Directors Cook and
Guissinger in support of Chessy's proposals. Thanks.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. All right. Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, in 2002, there was
this whole new concept called sustainability. And the idea was to live, work, and play in the
same area so that it would eliminate, you know, a VMT reduction. And that's what I keep
thinking about is that we are so landlocked in the metropolitan area, and this is an opportunity for
us to really partner and make some kind of a statement in terms of our commitment to
community. I would really, really like to see a 99-year lease with a land trust, a community land
trust, that would incorporate small businesses and retail on the bottom just like the original plan
called for and affordable housing above it for not just young families, but for seniors as well. I
think that with covenants in place to make sure that, as Director Tisdale talked about, that
somebody couldn't come down the line and just sell it, but that it would truly be a commitment to
the community to provide sustainable transportation and housing that's affordable in the Denver
metropolitan area.
And then on the other piece in terms of research, Chessy, I absolutely agree with that. I think we
really need to start looking at all of those components. So those are my comments. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And, Chessy, for myself, I support both of your proposals, and I do
urge you to make sure, as Director Tisdale suggested, that there be some pretty airtight covenants
in there that protect what we're trying to do. So I think that's it. You got your direction, I assume?
CHESSY BRADY: This is Chessy. Yes, I did. Thank you very much.
JUDY LUBOW: OK, good. Thank you. OK, we have-- excuse me-- one more update. And it's
the Homeless Task Force. And I'm told that Mr. Sirois and Kimberly Ford would be presenting.
Whoever is going to present, would you say your name and title? Thank you.
BILL SIROIS: Hi, Chair Lubow. This is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented
Communities. I'm going to kick off this presentation and then turn it over to Kim for a few
slides. And then I will finish it up. Just to touch on kind of the initiation of the Homelessness
Task Force, it was initiated last spring, spring of 2019, kind of when some issues at Union
Station were really kind of escalating. And we really wanted to kind of establish a task force to
kind of deal with some of the concerns directly.
We did that, and we kind of learned fairly quickly that we wanted to expand that group. It was
internal only. And so we had actually a forum last fall that we had some service providers that
we really thought that some of them needed to be on this committee. So we established a
committee. And on the second slide or packet page 74, you can see some of the agencies that we
incorporated into our committee that have been really good in terms of helping us to come up

with a holistic approach to homelessness issues that we're facing kind of not only at Union
Station but other areas.
And I also wanted to make one mention, because I think this question came up when this was
initial review with you and others is that the overlap between this group and the Code of Conduct
Committee. And there is some overlap, because obviously a lot of members of the-- some of the
members of the Homelessness Task Force were on the Code of Conduct Committee, particularly
those from safety and security. And this was kind of the vehicle to get some of those outside
providers involved in that. So there was a direct connection with that.
So with that, I'm going to turn it over to Kim, who's going to go over some of the details of the
committee itself. And then I'll wrap it up with our next steps.
JUDY LUBOW: Great.
KIMBERLY FORD: Thank you, Bill. Yes, this is Kimberly Ford, Transit Equity Specialist. And
as Bill was saying, we are moving to slide 4 on the slide deck. We are on schedule with the work
tasks. This would be the leadership review portion. And just to highlight some of the things that
have continued throughout the time would be until now is the procedure development where
we're discussing how the code of conduct will be implemented and ensuring that it's
implemented in a non-discriminatory way. And also we have been talking about human-centered
approach and trauma-informed approaches with the procedure development portion.
And really quickly, just an overview of what we've learned along the way. Homelessness in
Colorado, we have seen a decrease overall from 2018 to 2019 of individuals experiencing
homelessness in Colorado, but an increase in the Metro Denver area. And just with the recent
changes with COVID, we have heard from homeless service providers that there is an
expectation that we might see more individuals experiencing homelessness due to job layoffs,
evictions, and foreclosure on homes.
We know that there are situational barriers with individuals experiencing homelessness,
including trauma being an underlying focus of some of these pieces that are listed on slide 6 And
regarding the issues that we saw, which Bill spoke to the reason why the Homeless Task Force
has really convened would be the lack of sufficient shelter. We would see individuals using RTD
property as a form of shelter. There's also some drug-related issues on RTD property, which are
not necessarily completely tied to homelessness, but definitely there can be an overlap of
substance use with homelessness, but not all the time. Potential safety and security discomfort-and I just want to highlight on slide 7 that while we put the RTD removal of the bathroom stall
doors, that is not current. And the doors are there. However that was due to some issues
regarding drug use.
And in addition, this is an industry-wide issue. We've seen several other agencies take on either
an action plan regarding homelessness to better understand the issue and create solutions that are
community-wide. And [INAUDIBLE] has created a call of action regarding the issue as well.
And we're completed slash in progress. We've developed a broader understanding of homeless

issues, not only locally, but nationally. We've developed partnerships with the homeless service
providers that were listed earlier.
We've provided input to the code of conduct revision and then are working on the procedural
piece right now, have identified training for safety and security. And part of that is actually
kicking off tomorrow with some trainings with transit police and trauma-informed approaches
and implicit bias training. In addition to that, we have been working with RTD's Leadership
Academy, which is focused on homelessness. And they actually are working to develop some
brochures that could potentially support our bus operators and any staff at RTD that could help
connect people to services. And then also we submitted a grant that would help us conduct a
study for homeless mobility needs. And I will let Bill Sirois finish off with the final slide.
BILL SIROIS: Thanks, Kim. Again, this is Bill Sirois, Senior Manager, Transit Oriented
Communities. Just in terms of where we're going, we're going to be-- Kim and the Task Force
has been working on finalizing some of the training options. She's been working directly with
Chief Grado and his staff and Mike Meader on that.
We're also going to be looking to how we kind of formalize some of our partnerships with the
providers. We're working on ways that we can make sure that we can be a resource and provide
resource information to those homeless people that are using our facilities and kind of trying to
formalize that a little bit in terms of how we deal with that, some of our ways that we maybe
engage people and engage the homeless population and making sure that we have that
connection to the homeless providers. I think that's something that we really learned about as
we've kind of taken this more of a holistic approach about the importance of this is not just an
RTD issue. It is a much bigger issue beyond us. And so having more partners involved in it is
really important to really addressing it effectively. So with that, we will end our presentation and
ask if there's any questions from the Board.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. I'm going to call on people alphabetically, the Directors,
and ask them if they have any questions or comments. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: No questions or comments.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Buzek has left. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: No questions at this time. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Cook, please.
SHELLEY COOK: No questions. Thanks for the presentation. Good info.
JUDY LUBOW: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. No questions at this time.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I believe Director Guissinger has left. Let's ask though. Director
Guissinger? OK. Director Lewis, please.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I do not have any questions or comments. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Madam Chair. I appreciate the information in the presentation. I
don't have any questions.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Looking at the next steps, I just want to
focus on the second one. And I really want to emphasize, we need to establish, maintain,
enhance, and promote partnerships with service providers. It is critical, and it is important. It is
essential that we demonstrate our humanity. The reality is that Union Station, for example, is
known as, recognized as Denver's living room. But as I have pointed out, it is not Denver's
bedroom. And we need to make sure that we help create these partnerships, foster them, enhance
them, and promote them. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Thanks for the presentation. I noticed that you have SEPTA as one of
the agencies that has been developing strategies to assist unhoused persons. I've heard the GM of
SEPTA speak a few times on this issue. And it sounds like they just stepped into it full on and
embraced it. And they're doing all they can to help those who want services-- to put people who
want services and the agencies that provide services together.
You know, I know this problem isn't going to go away. It's been here forever, and it's going to be
around forever probably. But being able to help those who do want help is a big step in the right
direction. And then briefly, 25 years ago I worked downtown Cleveland, Ohio, and I remember
one of the first times I went into the library there, I saw that the stall doors in the men's room had
been removed for the same reason. So it didn't surprise me when we had to make that move. I
guess maybe it surprised me that it took so long that we had to. But it wasn't the first time I'd
seen it upfront. So anyway, thanks again for the presentation. And I know that you guys are
working hard on a problem that seems intractable. Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Excuse me. Director Whitmore, please.
TROY WHITMORE: No further questions. Thanks for the presentation.
JUDY LUBOW: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Well, I would like to first of all
commend our staff for really doing their due diligence and that they've been working on this
issue for over a year. In light of the ad hoc committee and the conversations that we had with
really a great number of the same organizations and talking about our commitment to all
community members and providing services and making sure that our frontline workers
understand the diversity of the population that we serve, I think this is an excellent platform and
an outline of how to develop a strategy to make sure that we are, in fact working in collaboration
with the community at large to provide services to all populations that we need to make sure
we're partnering with. So I just have to commend you and say thank you so very much. This is
really right on target in terms of the whole collaboration and the continued discussion that I hope
we continue to have regarding diversity. Thank you, Madam Chair.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I would like to comment. I would also like to thank people for
their very useful presentation. And I feel like it is like a 30,000-foot review. And I would love to
see and hear a presentation with some more detail about what exactly we're doing to interact not
only with folks who happen to be homeless, but with other service providers who are helping
them. I think this issue is incredibly important and causes us a lot of issues. And I would like to
learn more as you guys learn more, as you work more about what you do to address this issue. So
thank you very much. Is there anything else that you folks want to say?
BILL SIROIS: Chair, this is Bill Sirois. No, I think we're good. We just wanted to provide you
with an update. Again, we aren't expecting formalized action. We just kind of wanted to report to
the group, to the Board. In terms of this committee, we thought it was important that the Board
understand what this committee was undertaking.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you very much. OK, let's move on. Other matters? Do any of the
Directors or staff have other matters to report?
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, this is Peggy Catlin.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just wanted to remind Board members that tomorrow morning, we are
convening our interviews with semifinalists for the General Manager Position and that hopefully
all of you can participate in the Zoom meetings. And we will be convening at 7:45 AM. Thank
you.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. OK, the next meeting of this committee is October 6, 2020. And
that's it. So we can now adjourn. And so I am adjourning this meeting. Thank you all.

