Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee meeting held on
Thursday, February 15, 2007

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 15, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service/Marketing Committee
Meeting held on Thursday February 15, 2007 at 5:00 p.m.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Co-Chairs McMullen and Kinton
Directors; Chacon, Daly, Elfenbein, Kemp, Quinlan, Tayer, Ruchman,
and Yamrick

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Bill Porter, Phil Washington, Lloyd Mack,
Tony McCaulay, Ron Dodsworth, Manny Herrera, Paula Perdue, Dave
Genova, Scott Reed, Caitlin Magee

Others:

Jeff Leib, The Denver Post, Kevin Flynn, Rocky Mountain News, L.W.
Morrow

Call to Order:
I.

****
Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:15 pm.

Recommended Action
 Light Rail Accident Performance Indicator
Lloyd Mack introduced this item for approval. This item had been presented previously
to the Board at the February Board Study Session.
Motion:

Director Quinlan moved to forward
this item on to the full Board at the
February 20, 2007, Board meeting.

Summary of the Operations Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 16 2007.
Page 2
Second:

Vote on
Motion:

Director Kemp seconded the
motion.

The motion passed unanimously.

 Contracted Fare Inspectors
Lloyd Mack shared that RTD had obtained a signed copy of a contract with the union
on 2/15/07 that supported using contracted security positions as fare inspectors. The
current security company, Wackenhut, will perform this function at no additional cost
to RTD. Dave Genova shared they have started the training process and are targeting
the first part of March for this service.
Motion:
Director Yamrick moved to forward
this item on to the full Board at the
February 20, 2007, Board meeting.
Second:

Director Quinlan seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

The question was raised as to
which jurisdiction had control over
citations issued. Lloyd Mack
explained that at the point that the
citation is issued determines which
jurisdiction. Dave Genova shared
plans RTD has to advertise and
market the fare inspector program
using pictures of fare inspectors
and Wachenhut security. Dave
Genova also indicated that they
will be generating management
reports on the fare inspector
program. Lloyd Mack clarified that
RTD receives no revenue from this
fare inspection but the funds go to
the court in which the citation is
served.

Vote on
Motion:



The motion passed unanimously.

Approval of May 2007 Service Changes
Bill Porter shared the results from a series of public hearings, notably that
approximately 130 people attended the 5 hearings that were held. The largest

Summary of the Operations Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 16 2007.
Page 3
attendance was in Parker with over 100 residents present. Director Elfenbein
commended Jeff Becker and Jesse Carter on the way they conducted themselves
during the hearings held on the Route 46 issue.
Motion:

Director Quinlan made the motion
to approve the proposed May
2007 Service changes.

Second:

Director Kinton seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Bill Porter clarified that the
$1,847,400 cost for these
changes are part of the 1% fixed
route service included in the 2007
budget.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
For more information on the proposed May changes, please refer to the Board of
Directors Report for May 2007 Service changes.

II.

Information Update on Routes P, T, W, and 6X
Since this issue was discussed under the May 2007 Service Changes, no other
discussion was required.

III.

Staffing
Manny Herrera, Senior Manager of Human Resources, provided an update on
staffing issues. The District is approaching headcount on drivers. There are still
issues regarding electro-mechanics. The District is hoping with the increase in the
salary for mechanics that it may be easier to attract people to these jobs.

IV.

Fare Enforcement Report/Bus and Rail
This issue had already been discussed under the recommended action for the
contracted fare inspectors. Director Elfenbein indicated that the issue with buses
had to do with security rather than fare enforcement.

V.

Update on Security Riding the Buses
Chair McMullen shared a number of concerns around safety that he has received
from operators as well as RTD riders on buses, especially such routes as the 15.
Chair McMullen distributed a petition signed by many riders requesting security on
the Route 15. While RTD has indicated that we have undercover security personnel
on Board, there is a need to develop a program so the operators can feel safe as

Summary of the Operations Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 16 2007.
Page 4
well as the riders. Director Elfenbein echoed the concern to somehow come up with
a program that would make the customer feel secure to ride the buses. Dave
Genova indicated this will be reviewed.
VI.

Other Matters
Director Tayer presented his efforts to work with a group at looking at Eco-passes
and shared a proposal to create an unlimited access pass study group. The work
group could be made up of members from the RTD Board, RTD staff,
representatives from Auraria and CU Boulder, the City of Boulder, Boulder County,
Downtown Denver Partnership, the Transit Alliance, Transportation Solutions,
Southeast Business Partnership, Stapleton Management Association and
Neighborhood Pass members. Staff is working to finalize a Request for Proposals
(RFP) for a fare card reader and database management system that would for the
first time provide accurate utilization rates for our unlimited access pass programs.
The Smart Card system would be tested first in Boulder. Tony McCaulay, Assistant
General Manager of Customer Services, distributed a Scoping Document on the
Smart Card/RFID. This document is available for review in the Operations/Customer
Service/Marketing Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook. The Committee asked
that staff come back with a structured program on how this can be implemented.

VII.

Next Meeting Date
The next meeting date will be Tuesday, March 13 at 5:00 p.m. in Rooms T and D.

VIII.

Adjournment
Hearing no objections, Chair McMullen adjourned the meeting at 6:21 p.m.

