2025-04-24 - Executive Committee
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. All right. This is the Thursday, April 24 Executive Committee will now
come to order as convened as of 11:16 AM. I'd respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing communication access real-time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access the service should send an email to the RTD Board Office, at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com, and a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. As well, there is a live stream via RTD's YouTube
page, which can be accessed at any time.
I would now like to call the roll of committee members. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am here.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Present.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. And I am here as well. So we do have a quorum of five. All five members
are present.
I do want to put, for the sake of the record, I do see Director Chandler present. And I believe that is it. So
thank you, Director Chandler, for joining us.
All right. Now we're going to open up the public comment. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who
would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the
current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please
either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you'd like to
be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board Office at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com.
Mr. Kroll-- excuse me, I should actually point out too, staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If
you're dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute settings. Please bear in mind that participating in this
process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, your comments, of course, can be
submitted via writing. Any comments submitted via writing can be sent to the Board Office at the following
email address, rtd.directors@rtd-denver.com. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their
names, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak.
Mr. Kroll, are there any speakers?
JACK KROLL: Chair Bouquet, this is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the Board Office. At this time,
there are no speakers.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Were there any emailed comments?
JACK KROLL: There were not.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. Well, going once, going twice. All right. With no other participants in the
queue and no participants in the queue, we will close public comment at this time.
I'd like to make one small adjustment to the agenda for today, and that is to have one discussion item for
the monthly Government Relations report to go after our recommended actions but before the approval of
our agenda for next week's meeting. Mr. Davies will be presenting some important information and
updates for SB-161, which is the Transit Reform bill, and this might require the Board to take additional
action during next week's meeting.
Is there anyone opposed to this change in the agenda? OK. Seeing none, we'll keep moving forward
then.
So with that being said, there are four recommended actions on today's agenda. The first action under
consideration by the committee is one that was referred back to our committee by the Board itself. And
this is for the records request fee waivers for members of the media. For the Board of Directors to adopt
the attached resolution providing CORA and CCJRA request fee waivers for certain verified members of
the media.
And my understanding is that the Directors who brought this item have now developed an alternative
resolution, which is next on our agenda for-- excuse me, for our agenda today, and they do not intend to
proceed with the version of this resolution. Is this correct, Secretary Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: That is correct. And I'd like to make a motion to postpone this item indefinitely
because of that.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Is there a second?
TROY WHITMORE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. I have Director, or Secretary Nicholson as the mover. And then I have
Director Whitmore as the second. Is there any discussion regarding the postponement of this item?
OK. Are there any no votes on this action to postpone? OK, seeing none. So we will postpone this item
indefinitely with five yes votes and zero no votes.
OK. So moving on, the second action under consideration is for the resolution supporting a pilot program
for records request fee waivers serving a public purpose. This is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
attached resolution creating a pilot program to provide CORA and CCJRA request fee waivers for a set
number of requests serving a public person-- public purpose, excuse me. Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. I move the adoption of the item.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Do we have a second?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And I have O'Keefe as a second. OK. Secretary Nicholson, do you have any
comments for this item?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I do. Thank you, Chair Bouquet.
Every time you tear a leaf off a calendar, you present a new place for new ideas and progress. That was
Debra's quote in the January 8 Inside Connections email. And I think it's fitting here today. I come back to
you a month later with a new idea direct from staff that I think makes significant progress over what I
presented last month.
I first want to say that this proposal is not a compromise. Staff came to me with a better idea. I looked into
it, and I agreed. And that's why this proposal provides one hour of additional free records request time for
every request that serves a public purpose. The importance there is that this resolution is no longer about
the person but about what they're doing.
To quote the bard, this proposal-- sorry, to quote the bard, I don't care who you are, where you're from, or
what you did, as long as your request is in service of a public purpose, then this qualifies for the extra free
hour. The reason this request is tied to a public purpose is that that's exactly what the CORA statute for
decades has said we are allowed to waive fees for.
The statute says, quote, "such fee may be reduced or waived by the custodian if the electronic services
and products are to be used for a public purpose, including public agency program support, nonprofit
activities, journalism, and academic research. Fee reductions and waivers shall be uniformly applied
among persons who are similarly situated."

So all this resolution really does is go from may be reduced or waived to shall be waived for one
additional hour. But that hour is important. 2/3 of all paid requests last year required less than one
additional hour. Those were people doing academic research, looking for footage of accidents, vehicle
thefts, surveillance footage, and more.
This resolution makes us more open as an agency, and it reduces the public's difficulties in accessing
public information. I ask for your support.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Secretary. Are there any further comments or discussion on this item?
OK, seeing none. So I just wanted to throw in my comments. I just wanted to say a big thank you to you,
Secretary, for one, bringing forward this item, and, again, working with staff to bring forward an updated
version, which I think is going to be very beneficial to the public overall. So I just wanted to thank you for
your work.
I think this is a great step in the right direction. It's just showing how much this agency has changed over
the years and is open and is transparent and willing to help out our public needs. So I greatly appreciate
that.
With that being said, Director O'Keeffe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to say one thing, and complimenting staff
and Secretary Nicholson for doing this. The one adage that I heard early on in my career about dealing
with an outside stakeholder is you need to stop talking about it when they're sick of it, not when you are.
Anytime you cut off somebody's desire to learn more, ask more questions, it just builds frustration.
So I'm glad we found this. I hope it's a step in a much larger journey to transparency and kind of sticking
to that belief that most mistakes in public transparency are stopping talking about it when the agency or
person giving the information is sick of it. It just never works. So thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. And I think the agency has always been transparent and has always been a
good partner. I think this is just, again, expanding upon it. Ms. Snyder.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to note, for the sake of the record, that for
clarity, what the staff will be doing to verify whether a requester is eligible, it's merely going to be that
there will be a definition of who is eligible for a fee waiver. And we're going to rely on the public to
honestly and accurately attest to that.
So they will be checking a box when they submit that request. But of course, staff isn't going to be in a
position to do additional due diligence and verify and do any kind of checking. We're going to rely on the
honesty and integrity of our public.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am-- Chair, if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You may.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. Sorry. I just wanted to also add to that that it does also keep the very
close to the same $5,000 a year cap, in that there's 170 hour maximum. So the maximum number of
these that we would grant in a year is 170 of them, which ensures that-- right now we have fewer than
that paid requests last year. So assuming we get the same number, it shouldn't be an issue. But let's say
in some strange world, we had 1,000 or 5,000 of these, this way there's at least a fiscal cap to make sure
that we're being prudent with taxpayer money.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Any further discussion, questions, comments on this action? Let's keep on
rolling. Are there any no votes on this?
OK, seeing none, I see it pass with five to zero. All right. Excellent work, everyone.
All right, moving on. OK, moving on. The third action under consideration today is the 2025 state lobbying
services. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the summary of scope of work for solicitation and to
offer-- excuse me, to authorize the General Manager and CEO, GM/CEO, to enter into a contract for state
lobbying services. Do we have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Director Whitmore. Do I have a second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. And Secretary Nicholson as the second. Perfect.
All right. Mr. Davies, our Government Relations Officer, would you please present this item for me?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Hello, Chair and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer.
As you all know, RTD does utilize external lobbying services. Currently, the contract has utilized its initial
terms of the state lobbying services. Subsequently, in June, on June 28, 2023, RTD executed an option
to utilize additional years, option years, in the contract.
At this point, beginning on July 31, 2025, there are no more options to exercise. And so, in the spirit of
competitive competition, RTD intends to publish a competitive solicitation seeking state lobbying services,
and the Board report that you all have is a summary scope of work. And with that, I think that ends my
remarks, but happy to answer any questions.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd actually-- sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'd actually like to make a motion to update the question to specifically just address
the solicitation. So I can read the updated motion. Basically the same thing that we did basically to have it
be just that we're authorizing the solicitation rather than also the contract itself.
I think this is, you know, the lobbying work is something that's important to us. It's something that the
Board has a specific stay in. So it's not something that's down the totem pole at the agency. We
absolutely work with our lovely Mr. Davies on a regular basis, and with Jen Bradberry and Jen Webster.
And so I think it behooves us to actually review the contract that comes back, rather than just basically
auto approve it, which is what the motion does right now.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. So you're making a motion to-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll give you the language.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, give me the language.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So I would amend the motion, or update the motion to read, for the Board of
Directors to approve the summary scope of work for a solicitation for state lobbying services.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Do we have a second on that?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: I'll second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. And we have O'Keefe as the second.
OK. Director Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Just a quick question. What's the timeline on all of this? So you're going to do an RFP.
When would it come back then to the Board for final approval? How long does this all take?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much. Good afternoon. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
So Mr. Davies presented a summary scope of work. For clarification, there were questions relative to a
contract. Regardless if it's bifurcated or not, a contract wouldn't be coming before this body in open
session because we're trying to ensure open and fair competition. I just wanted to qualify that statement
there.
To the question that Director Benker posed, customarily when we do solicitations, we would have it out on
the streets for 30 days. So recognizing that time frame and any proposals that we may receive, there
would have to be an evaluation of said proposals. So I did want to indicate that there could be a
possibility that we would not have a state lobbyist, recognizing the time frame that's before us, with today
being April 24.

So I just wanted to share that for everybody's edification, not to distract you or deter you from the motion
at hand, but I think that's vital information that's present. And if, in fact, we were to engage with the
current state lobbyists, because I know Secretary Nicholson referenced Jen Webster, that is our local
advocate. So this is not the same contract. And I wanted to ensure that everybody had that information
readily available.
And so Director Benker, once again, considering that there be putting this out on the street, which could
take 30 days, this does have to go to the Board. For all intents and purposes, we're talking May 1 at the
earliest, 30 days. We're talking the end of May, assessing whether or not there's questions and things of
the like. So any time that it would come back, if, in fact, you all acted on the motion, that could be
anywhere from the latter part of June into July. And that's just ballpark. Thank you.
KAREN BENKER: Thank you. That's sufficient.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you. Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, just a piece, actually, in the scope of work, where it says-- where is it-provide guidance-- no, that's not. Yeah, provide guidance and direction to the GM/CEO, Government
Relations Office, the Board as needed to enhance and maintain relationships with the Colorado General
Assembly and the executive branch.
I was wondering, when it comes to agencies like the Front Range Passenger Rail District, is that
something that is covered by our state lobbyist, by our local lobbyists? Is that a Jen Webster? Is that a
Jen Brandeberry? Like, who's assigned to that type of lobbying? Because it's not a state agency. It's not
the executive branch.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. Secretary Nicholson, can you explain what you
mean in reference to this agency trying to lobby the Front Range Passenger Rail District? I'm at a loss as
to what you're actually asking.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Well, when we're handling government relations with the FRPR Board, for
example, presumably there would be-- aside from just, maybe it is just Michael himself who handles those
conversations-- but presumably there would be, in the same way that we have local lobbyists who are
interfacing with city departments, or rather, city elected officials, the governing individuals from FRPR, or
other, E-470. I mean, I can think of a number of different non-local, so to speak, bodies but also non-state
bodies. And I was just, since this came up, trying to understand how does a special district fit into that
framework.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So utilizing Front Range Passenger Rail District, for
everyone's edification, I do sit on said Board. So it would be sort of interesting if we were lobbying that
entity. I think it really is contingent upon what we're doing, quite naturally. We're working from the vantage
point of a partnership. Any type of activity that we needed to engage on, recognizing Front Range
Passenger Rail, for all intents and purposes, or you talked about E-470, there are individuals, more
specifically, I should say, members of the Board, that serve as liaisons to those entities going forward.
And so I really believe it would be the staff and members of the Board that are engaging with these
special districts that you talked about, unless there were something that came forward whereby it was a
special circumstance where we needed to have lobbying activity. But for all intents and purposes, it's
through the relationships in which we have working closely together, because there's interdependencies
relative to the services in which we provide.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, then I guess my other question would be, for the existing contract, for the
last few years that Brandeberry has handled these relationships, has that been-- is this generally, what
we're seeing in scope of work, representative of the work that they've been doing? Are there things that
they've been doing that we're not including in this? Are there things that they are not currently doing that
we are including in this?
Basically what I'm asking is, are we basically asking for the exact same scope of work that we've been
seeing from them over the last few years? Or has there been any thought to modifying it to ask more of
them or less of them. You know, when I'm thinking about a lobbying-- well, I guess the question of mine
would be, with regard to this, how do you go from this statement to here's the size of the contract?
Because if you look at lobbying contracts in the state ledge, there's all different numbers. I mean, as an
example, I was looking at Jen Brandeberry and PBMK's number, client lists. And it goes from $20,000 a
month down to $3,000 a month, depending upon who they're working with. Maybe you can help me
understand, how do we scope the amount of money we want to spend on state lobbying?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I will start, and then I'm going to yield the floor to Mr. Davies. Thank you, Mr.
Chair and Secretary Nicholson, for the question.
I think it's incredibly important that we ground ourself in reference to what's being presented to you at this
current time. This is a summary scope of work. And the reason why I'm emphasizing summary is because
with open and fair competition, this is a public meeting, we would not be presenting the specificity relative
to what's contained in a scope. By doing that, we would not be-- we would not be adhering to the open
and fair competition because someone tuning in would have an unfair advantage.

So keeping in mind that we are here seeking authorization for us to go forward and work in greater
specificity as it relates to what it is that we do want to contain, that will be released when the solicitation is
made available. I will yield the floor to Mr. Davies, as he is the project manager as it relates to this
contract and has day-to-day contact with our current state lobbyists. Because I want to stress that this is
not about Brandeberry McKenna. This is about us seeking authorization to go forward with a summary
scope of work for state lobbyists.
And so with that as a backdrop, I will yield the floor to Mr. Davies. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you. I generally don't have that much more to add to that process or the
explanation that General Manager Johnson gave.
But to your earlier question, with regards to our current lobby contract, we have not utilized them to lobby
the Front Range Passenger Rail District. Has never been part of their scope.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Sorry, one more. This is-- sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Gotta wait to be recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I apologize. It's a very bad habit of mine. I'm so sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: You're good. Secretary?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. So there are sort of a wide variety of manners in which different organizations
handle government relations. And I just wanted to get a sense of two things briefly.
One is, why are we pursuing this as an external lobbyist rather than a hire in the Government Relations
department that would be a full-time staffer, that did that job and worked for RTD proper? And then
second, would this include the possibility of hiring multiple lobbying firms? I've seen, there are many
organizations at the Capitol that have a lobbyist who is primarily focused on the Democrats and one
who's more, has the relationships with the Republicans, or just addressing different types of legislation,
that kind of thing. I mean, we have one scope, really.
But I just wanted to get a sense of, do you expect this to result in a contract with one firm, or is there the
possibility that you could pursue multiple firms? So those are my two questions, the in-house and the one
or multiple.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Whoever would like to take that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'll start and then I'll yield to Mr. Davies. So thank you very much, Mr. Chair. And
thank you, Secretary Nicholson.

I'd be remiss to state that Michael Davies serves as our Government Relations Officer, and he is an
individual that is eminently qualified in reference to the job that he has. This agency has supplemented
that with federal and state lobbyists and a local advocate going forward.
As it relates to where we stand relative to the work that's being done here at this organization, quite
naturally, as it relates to various activities, I would say RTD is in a place where we can be flexible and
agile relative to the solicitation we were putting forward. In my experience, I don't know if you all know, I
used to do Government Relations as well. That's how I started in the transportation business.
And so with that as a backdrop, I think there's a myriad of different factors in what the organization is
seeking. We're not in a position currently where we have major undertakings that would require various
aspects of support working both sides of the aisle, for instance, if we were looking at the federal level in
reference to discretionary grant programming and things of the like.
So it's really indicative of where the organization stands going forward. I did want to start the response,
because I wanted to ensure that this body is very well informed that we have a stellar individual that is
leading the charge here at this organization, and that's Mr. Davies.
So with that as the backdrop, Mr. Davies, I will now yield the floor to you. Thank you.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Just to build on General Manager Johnson's
remarks, it really-- there's a broad number of directions you can go when doing this. Having been a part of
a different organization that utilized multiple lobbyists focused on, say, just the federal government or
multiple lobbyists focused on just the state government, it really is assessing what are the needs of the
agency and balancing that with making sure that we're utilizing taxpayer dollars in an effective and
efficient manner, and making sure that we're getting good value while addressing all of the needs of the
agency.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, both, for your answers. Secretary, if you have any further
questions or comments, I'm going to come back to you.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Just a quick closing.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll come back to you. I'm going to go to Mr. Kroll.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, I'm sorry.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, I'm going to go to Mr Kroll next.
JACK KROLL: Hi, all. I just want to remind everyone of the motion on the floor right now, which is to
amend the recommended actions such that the Board is only approving the summary scope of work
today and not the contracting authority.

Some of the conversation here seems to be speaking to the underlying question of the summary scope,
and I don't want you to lose focus that that's the question before you all. So I recommend tackling that
issue and then returning to a more substantive conversation on the summary scope.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So just a point of clarification for staff. So we've got, I
understand-- this is related to the motion. The reason why we can't come back, that we can't issue the
RFP and then come back for the contract is a calendar problem, versus we just don't have time to do it.
We would have a gap without coverage, which I stipulate would be very bad, given everything that's going
on right now at the federal and state level. But that's the argument? Or we would have never come back
in the past and so we're not coming back again now? I'm just confused by that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ms. Johnson or Mr. Davies.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'll start. I was just-- sorry, Chair. Thank you for recognizing me. And thank you, Vice
Chair O'Keefe, for the question.
I was providing that context just for clarification relative to comments that were made by the Secretary. It
is up to this Board to discern, recognizing the delegation of authority that was granted to the position
which I hold. I was just putting forward that there could be some implications with the timing, and I
indicated that was not to dissuade you from the motion, but I was just providing clarifying facts.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Mr. Davies, I don't know if you were going to add to that.
MICHAEL DAVIES: I can just add, just to remind you, the current contract ends July 31, 2025. And I think,
building on General Manager Johnson's remarks with regard to the timeline, there is no certainty to the
timeline of a procurement. You have to go through an evaluation. You have to post a procurement for a
certain amount of time.
So things can happen that can throw off the end timeline of when this would come back to the Board. And
I think that that was just making the Board aware of all of the timelines and when the contract ends. The
previous contracts that we have brought to the Board with regards to external lobbying services have
been to approve a summary scope of work and subsequently authorize the GM/CEO to enter into a
contract. And this is just separating those processes. So we'll just have to come back to the Board once a
fair and open competition is completed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Yes.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Chair, do I still have the floor? OK, thank you. I would like to take a risk. I'm inclined
to support the motion and take a risk that we're running up against a timeline, because I think this is a
point of interest for the full Board. And so I think in this specific selection, I think it would be good to come
back.

And I think it is incumbent on us to meet your schedule, because I would say the worst thing would be on
August 1 we don't have a state lobbyist, given what I think is going to come back to the state house late
summer, early fall with significant federal funding reductions. So I'd like to-- I support the motion to split
this. And I think it is incumbent on us to fit your timeline then. And I am happy to make sure that that's
communicated to the rest of the Board.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you for your comments, First Vice Chair. Any further comments on
the motion itself?
OK, seeing none. So we will be taking a vote on the motion to split the language. Secretary, could you
say the language for all committee members again?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, it's just the first half, basically. For the Board of Directors to approve the
summary scope of work for a solicitation for state lobbying services.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Thank you, sir. So this is what we'd be voting on is changing the language to the
recommended amended language, as Secretary Nicholson just stated.
So I'm going to do a roll call vote. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Aye.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second Vice Chair Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: No.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Aye.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Treasurer Benker.
KAREN BENKER: Yes.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm also a yes. So the motion will pass to change the language to such. Excellent.
All right. And then correct me if I'm wrong, Mr. Kroll. Do we need to take another vote in regards to it,
since we've just passed it, or-JACK KROLL: So now you would be voting-- if I may.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
JACK KROLL: You would be voting now to approve the summary scope of work as presented.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Is there any further discussion on the summary scope of work? Yes, Secretary.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Coming back to the last thing I wanted to say, with regard to Ms. Johnson-- or
sorry, GM/CEO Johnson's comments about Mr. Davies, I want to just-- I completely concur. I think Mr.
Davies does phenomenal work for the agency. I am incredibly happy to-- I think he's just been doing
really an excellent job in a role that I know a lot about and care a lot about.
Unfortunately, no one can be in three places at once, and he goes to a lot of things and handles a lot on
his plate. So no, I just think that we may be at a point where, with our size and capacity having additional
help to be able to be in all those rooms and handle all those things is warranted. So just putting that out
there that I'd love to see Michael get some assistance.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Yeah. I think we are well served by our in-house government affairs person. It's just
sometimes you need to contract, and I support this. I think this is a great way to do it, especially when you
have someone that can captain it from inside. So it's a full support.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Any further comments or questions? All right. Excellent.
So now we will be taking the vote to approve the summary scope of work. Are there any no votes on this?
Please raise your virtual hand.
OK. Seeing none, it will pass five-zero. Thank you all.
Perfect the fourth and final action under consideration is for the bylaw amendments regarding Director
accountability, for the Board of Directors to adopt the proposed bylaw amendments which details the
grounds and process and accountability measures the Board may take to hold Directors accountable. Do
I have a mover?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Moved, enthusiastically.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. O'Keefe as the mover. Any seconds?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Nicholson as the second. Thank you.
OK, so before we get into discussion, I want to take a moment and thank the Directors who've been
working to crafting this item and taking the feedback on it, because, as we discussed at our March-based on what we've discussed on our March meeting. So I think the bylaw amendments are very
sensible. I think it allows this Board to meet its obligation to ensure good governance.
With that, I'm happy to have any further discussion, debate this item. There's a couple of things I just
wanted to bring up in regards to feedback that I received from Directors, which again, I appreciate that.
We've had I think over a month of time to get feedback from Directors, and I appreciated those who
participated.

So under Article 8-- again, this is all Article 8 items and this is, again, with the Director accountability.
Section 1, we did add in language from Director Chandler regarding obligations to the taxpayer. So that is
part of the newest version. Did appreciate Director Chandler for that.
Section 3, disciplinary actions itself. The written notice and given to the Director has changed to seven
days instead of two weeks. This is actually in the similar manners that we do with other parts of the
bylaws.
And then finally, Section 5, did get feedback in regards to discipline for the Board Chair. So if I ever get
out of hand, this is for all of you guys. It will take a three Director written notice to myself and then, of
course, the First Vice Chair. So in this case, it would be written notice to myself and Director O'Keefe.
And it would be ultimately up to the First Vice Chair to decide to bring this forward, with what disciplinary
actions would be going forward as a vote of the Executive Committee.
So I'm relying on all four of you if I get out of hand. So those are the three big changes. Is there any
further discussion on the Board bylaws? Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I was just going to clarify something you said earlier, the changing of the timeline from 14
days, or two weeks, to 7 days. That mirrors specifically a similar timeline that you all have for providing
notice to any officers you all may wish to remove.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. Yes, specific language on that. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Sorry. It's taking me a moment to figure out how to get myself on camera and
all that stuff.
First of all, thank you very much for taking my feedback. The question I have is, you have that seven days
in there, but do you think it should be from seven days from receipt of the letter? Or is there a specific
measurement of time? Because seven days from what?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Mr. Kroll, if you want to hop in.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, this was-- thank you, Director Chandler, for the question. And thank you, Chair
Bouquet, for the opportunity to respond.
This was something that actually Director O'Keefe had provided some feedback on. And I do believe-- I
don't have the language exactly right in front of me at this moment, but I can get it up very quickly here.
The transmission and the clock begin from the date of the email transmitting any notice to the Director. So
there is a specific agreed upon time in which that clock starts counting down, and it's the timestamp of the
email transmitting the notice.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: OK, so that will be reflected in the-- somewhere, because obviously it's not
reflected in what was just read.

CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of information.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Secretary. Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have the language up in front of me, if you want me to read it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So what it says is, "the Chair of the Board will issue a written notice of violation,
including documentation of each instance which, in the Chair's judgment, the Director is subject to
discipline, as outlined in Article 8, Section 2, to any Board member whose conduct meets the grounds for
discipline. Any Director who receives written notice of violation will be afforded seven days to provide a
written response to the notice."
JACK KROLL: And then it continues from there.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh, I see. Yes. You're right. Sorry. "Written notice is considered, provided"-- you're
right-- "on the date stamped on the email which transmits the written notice of the violation made to the
subject Director." So yeah, it's the date that the email is sent by the Chair to the Director.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Does that help, Director? Director Chandler, I'm sorry.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. Yes, that helps a lot. I just think that it's more fair to give that kind of a
notice than just seven days. It's kind of arbitrary. You need to know when you receive it and that's when
the clock starts, because people can claim all kinds of things. We're just human in that way.
The other one was something about the 2/3. Could you reread that section? The reason I'm asking you to
reread them is I received your update today. I looked at the link and none of those clarifications were in
that link. So I'm just a little off, so I apologize.
JULIEN BOUQUET: No, that's on me. I don't think I put the updated language in the link. I think it was the
previous link that was there. So are you referring to the 2/3 vote to overrule the Chair's decision with the
disciplinary action?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. I think that we need to be careful that the Chairman isn't given too much
power, or that if the punishment is deemed by everyone too harsh, that there is a mechanism for the rest
of the Board to go, hey, wait a minute, this is not appropriate. We just need to be careful about giving
whoever's the Chairman next. And also, just making sure that the Board is all in line with whatever the
action taken to the discipline would be appropriate as well.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure. And again, if I'm off base, just clarifying with me. So how it is written, again, I
don't have the exact language in front of me. But Chair's decision, Chair does a disciplinary action for
Director. The next regularly scheduled Board meeting after that disciplinary action, the Board can overrule
the Chair's decision.

So say, the Chair removes a Director from a committee and 2/3 of the vote, 2/3 of the Board feel that was
just not just. We think that's an abuse of power in your hand, Chair. That mechanism is in place for the
Board to overturn any decision they deem that whoever the Chair is was unfair. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: The only thing I was going to add here, Chair Bouquet, is just to make sure those listening
in, the updated language was-- despite the link issue between yourself and Director Chandler-- the
updated language on all of this was included in this month's, or this week's Board packet, starting-- I'm
scrolling up here-- we'd be starting on page-- If I can get there. A lot of bylaws.
This is starting on packet page 23. And then the specific highlighted changes, the red line version is on
pages 61 and 62 of the packet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you, sir. Director Chandler, any further comments or questions?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I don't think so. Thank you for that clarification. I'll look, make sure that that's
updated. Again, just speaking of bylaws, Karen, Director Benker and I are meeting. And we need to make
sure that, obviously, this is included so that when we look at it again, it's all, if it's approved, that it's all
appropriate. That's all. I just want to make sure.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. No. And thank you for your questions and bringing that up as well. So yourself
and Director Benker, or Treasurer Benker, I appreciate you guys taking that on as a working group.
One of the discussions that I had with Director O'Keefe and Mr. Kroll is in regards to the discipline for the
Chair specifically. So there were some kind of different ideas with that. We believe this is the best
mechanism in place for this year, in regards to three Directors going forward as written notice and then
the First Vice Chair deciding. It could be, as you guys look into that, there could be better options to it.
There is an option of instead of the Executive Committee voting, is it a full Board vote? There's a couple
things discussed.
So that is one I would advise the two of you to look into specifically. So appreciate you both for your work.
First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to share that a lot of the ideas that you're
attributing to me kind of came from Director Chandler as questions to the original language. So she, I
think, helped us make this better in this step. And then they get to take a permanent Sharpie to the rest of
the bylaws and then bring them back.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you for clarifying. And credit to Director Chandler on that.
OK. Any further discussion or questions regarding the bylaws, or proposed bylaw changes? OK.
Are there any no votes with bringing this forward to the full Board? Director O'Keefe, I'm assuming that's a
leftover raised hand. OK. OK.
All right. Seeing none, I do see this pass five to zero. We will vote on Tuesday. Thank you all. All right.

So moving on. All right. So this is now on to the April Board meeting agenda review. Now we're on to the
April Board meeting agenda review, considering the updates that we've gotten from Government
Relations Officer Michael Davies, specifically presented earlier concerns about SB-161.
Sorry, Mr. Kroll. Yeah.
JACK KROLL: Chair, I think we're just a little out of order potentially on this.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry about that.
JACK KROLL: I don't believe we've heard the update from Mr. Davies.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah, sorry. My script's a little out of date. Yeah, Mr. Davies. I believe that's our next
agenda item. Correct, Mr.-JACK KROLL: Correct. The Government Relations report. That's-JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Yes. Mr. Davies, I now give it to you in regards to your Government
Relations report. My apologies for that.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Thank you, Chair, and members of the committee. Michael Davies, Government
Relations Officer, presenting the monthly Government Relations Report.
Beginning at the federal level. As many of you know, Congress did approve a continuing resolution for
appropriations at the federal level that will continue through September 30 of this year. With regards to a
budget resolution, which is really the framework that sets up a discussion and negotiation on a
reconciliation bill, which is something that Congress has been focused on and the Administration has
been focused on since the beginning of this term, at the beginning of the year, there has been work on
that and Congress has passed that budget resolution.
So Congress continues to work on that process. We'll track that really closely and report back to the
Board when we see an actual introduction of the reconciliation bill that will be presented to both the
House and the Senate.
Focusing more on reauthorization, surface transportation reauthorization. And so this is the multi-year bill
that reauthorizes and sets funding levels for multiple years, generally five, six years at a time. Our current
reauthorization bill, our current surface transportation bill, does expire in September 30 of 2026. Congress
is beginning to start to contemplate that bill now.
And some of the committees of jurisdiction do have some portals and processes for members to be able
to enter in information. And RTD will certainly track that process really well, are paying close attention to
committee hearings that are happening on this matter, and will really set the stage for the priorities that
rise to the top and may or may not be considered in a future surface transportation bill.

And lastly, not included in the written report, but I would highlight that Director Benker and Director
Guissinger and myself were able to participate with a group of the mayors and commissioners from the
Northwest, largely Boulder County, to participate in a recent annual lobbying trip at the federal level. And
that's always a great opportunity, I think, for RTD to be involved in and be a part of the discussion from
that Northwest region on the priorities at the federal level.
Moving over to the state level, I'm going to spend my time focusing really on the two primary bills that
RTD has been involved with, starting with Senate Bill 161 concerning transit reform. As you all know, the
Board has taken an amended position on that bill and sought to amend a number of items in there.
There were a number of amendments offered in the second reading of the Senate. And as part of those
amendments, some of the Board's requests, or partial agreement with the Board's requests were included
in that. Specifically with regards to Amendment L018, it was to add one member of the current Board to
the voting ability of the accountability committee being proposed in 161.
That current Board member is to be appointed by the governor. And I know the Board's request was
really for the Board to appoint that people. The bill sponsors wanted to make sure that that remains in the
Governor's court, to appoint that. Previously adopted, and as you all know from updates, another request
of the RD Board was to get a former Board member to be appointed at the voting level to the
accountability committee and for the RTD Board to be able to appoint that member. The bill sponsors did
include a former member, one former member, but again, appointed by the governor to the proposed
accountability committee.
Lastly, a number of other amendments. I won't go through all of them. As you all know, I did email out a
summary to the entire Board of the amendments that were adopted during the second reading. That bill
has now passed the full Senate. It has been introduced into the House and is scheduled to be heard in
the House Transportation Committee next Tuesday. So that will be the first hearing of this bill in the
House. And as you all know, we are coming down to the wire in the end of this session, with about two
weeks left. And so there's a lot of work that the House will do to move that bill along.
I think that covers everything with regards to 161 that I wanted to mention. Obviously, happy to take
questions on that. But I do want to also move on now to House Bill 25-1290 concerning transit worker
assault and funding for training. As you all know, this was a bill that was included broadly as part of the
2025 Government Relations program that was approved by the Board and seeking legislation with
regards to transit worker assault.
And so this bill had moved all the way through the process and was sitting in Senate Judiciary
Committee. In that committee, there was a pretty significant amendment and negotiation that happened
there. This was largely at the request of Senator Roberts, who-- the issue was raised by the state public
defender's office and really was highlighting some confusion with regards to a burden of proof issue of the
way that the current, the bill was drafted when it came to the Senate Judiciary Committee.
And so ultimately, Senator Roberts looked into it. He wanted to solve that issue and make sure that there
was no confusion with regards to that. And so working with the public defender's office, who was in

opposition to the bill, largely came up with a solution to clear up that confusion while not degrading any of
the penalties or any of the impact of the actual bill.
And so really, what the change was in the amendment that both the public defender's office, the Colorado
state public defender's Office supported, as well as Senator Roberts, and ultimately the whole committee
supported it, was to really move one section of the bill with regards, under the current assault statutes,
and move that into the harassment statutes that are currently in law within Colorado statute.
Again, nothing was changed with regards to the penalties and the outcomes. It was really a in-the-weeds
technical discussion from a prosecutor's perspective. And ultimately, I think it came to a good position and
got unanimous support from the Senate Judiciary Committee, and since then has moved on, cleared the
Senate, went back. Those amendments were concurred in the House. And that bill has passed both
houses and is on the way to the Governor's desk. So I think good news overall on House Bill 25-1290.
Oh, I should say there is one more amendment that was offered as a part of the floor amendments. And
that was just a technical amendment that really has to do with the renumbering of the bill. And not a
substantive amendment there.
Lastly, just quickly rounding out on the local level, staff has had a number of opportunities over the last
month to engage with some local municipalities. And I just highlight, as written in the-- or as stated in the
written report-- that Directors Paglieri and Director Catlin and myself and our local government affairs
contractor, Jen Webster, were able to participate in a Jefferson County Economic Development
Commission forum. And it was a great opportunity, I think, just to talk about the priorities of RTD and be
out there in front of local stakeholders that interact with our local jurisdictions.
And then lastly, as noted in the written report, staff has had a number of opportunities, both with the city
of Aurora staff as well as the Transportation Commission with the city of Aurora, the city council
committee, rather with the city of Aurora, and had a wonderful opportunity to engage both with city council
members and city of Aurora staff recently. And again, largely providing updates on the priorities that RTD
is working on and answering questions. And again, just a great opportunity to interact with our local
jurisdiction.
So with that, I'll end my report and happy to take any questions.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Questions or comments for Mr. Davies. Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. Mr. Davies, the floor amendment you were talking about, I emailed this to
you and I didn't really understand. There's language in there that was added about notwithstanding any
law to the contrary, an enforcement agency may grant money received from the Peace Officer Training
and Support fund to RTD, as described in Article 9, for training, equipment, and other purposes deemed
necessary to ensure the safety of employees and patrons of the District.

Was that just replacing other language that was struck that was similar, or was that-- like, I guess what I
was worried about when I read that was, are we going to be able to apply for money directly from that
fund? Or are we only going to be able to get it through the cities?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yes. Thank you, Director. Great question. And yes, that was basically previous
language and potentially being reworded, but the same intent was there from previous committee
hearings and discussion on this bill. And then, like I said, was really just renumbering accordingly in the
bill.
But to answer your question, RTD wasn't going to be able to-- and this was stated in previous bills as
well-- not directly apply, but it was the concept that it was giving authorization to local law enforcement
agencies to be able to give that money to RTD. And so it really is recognizing that local law enforcement
jurisdictions will be getting this Prop 130 money. And this is just authorizing and allowing that those
partnerships can be made between RTD and local municipalities, where that funding can be utilized on
RTD matters with regards to law enforcement.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So there was never a possibility-- Sorry, my apologies. I did it again.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Good, good.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: There was never a possibility of us being able to apply directly for the funds and
get $10 million or something like that. But at least in this case, we'll be able to do joint work with DPD and
other agencies to provide service and partnerships where it makes sense and pay for those officers out,
that kind of stuff.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Correct.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Cool. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent questions. Any further questions or discussions for Mr. Davies?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: In-- Sorry. May I?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. Yeah.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: In the context of 160-- can I ask a question in the context of 161 and it coming to
the Board on Tuesday? Is that part of this discussion? Or is that, like, what were the decisions we're
going to have to make on that?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. I mean, so I'm about ready, after we finish up this part, I'm going to bring it up,
if there is discussion in regards to us actually adding this to our agenda.

So I'm going to make a motion and see if any of you are opposed to it, of actually adding the discussion
for the full Board in regards to 161. We're going to see if the Board-- my recommendation is for us as a
Board to have that discussion there. So if you want to hold off, and then I'll make the motion, we can
move-CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'll ask a question about an amendment. Anyway, you'll see why I'm doing what I'm
doing.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sure.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: My understanding, Mr. Davies, that ATU is currently shopping around amendment
language that they would like in the bill. Do you have any knowledge of those discussions and what
discussions they've had with RTD about that language?
And then maybe, can you speak to some of the concerns or questions that you've gotten maybe from
staff or from-- Ms. Johnson can speak to any of RTD's concerns with regard to that legislation. But I was
just hoping you could elucidate a little bit on what we know about that, what their efforts are and what
requests they've had of us.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Davies.
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Director. I would say that, yes, I am aware of that effort. It was
raised by bill sponsors, largely in discussions with other amendments that bill sponsors were considering
and approved that I discussed earlier. There was a mention of the effort by ATU to look at that. Again,
knowing that RTD has a process to consider legislation and bring it before the Board, that is largely the
process that RTD has always explained with regards to how we take positions, how the Board takes
positions on various legislation.
So beyond that, that is the extent of the conversation. I can't say that staff or myself have a clear
understanding of exactly what might be offered or what might not be offered. I have not been given any
indication by bill sponsors that an amendment will be coming on this subject or not.
But as I've explained to bill sponsors and reiterating now, we have a process to bring positions to the
Board. And we'll continue to follow that process with you all for any amendments that may or may not get
added in the future.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Ms. Johnson, I saw your hand pull up, but it might have been addressed.
Perfect. OK, then Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I would just say that I expect this to come up on Tuesday. So my outstanding
question is just, what is staff's position on this amendment? What do you think-- will it be helpful to RTD?
Will it have no impact on RTD? What impact will it have on RTD? Do we like it? Do we hate it?

I would really appreciate it if you guys could have an answer for that when we talk about it on Tuesday,
because I'm sure that if it comes up as a topic, other people will want to know the same thing.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. OK. We'll be potentially prepared for that for Tuesday, staff members. Thank
you. Thank you for your question, Secretary.
Any other questions or comments for Mr. Davies specifically in regards to any proposed governance
topics, Government Relations topics? OK. Perfect. All right. Well, thank you very much, Mr. Davies. We
appreciate the report. Appreciate all your work on that.
So moving on, as kind of alluded to, we're now moving on to our agenda review for the April Board
meeting. And again, considering the updates that we've gotten from Mr. Davies and in regards specifically
with SB-161, I think it is more than appropriate for us to have an additional recommended action to the
Board meeting agenda for the Board to review its position on SB-25-161.
This will give the opportunity for the Board to amend something previously adopted. Our current amend
position on the bill would remain in effect unless we act next week to change our overall position, modify
any previous requested amendments, and/or request additional new amendments to the bills, to the bill
itself.
Are there any members who would object to this item being added to our agenda? Again, it would just be
for us to look at 161 again and actually have that discussion. Are there any members who are against
this?
OK. So seeing none, is there a motion to approve the Board meeting agenda, as amended, for our
meeting on Tuesday, April 29?
PATRICK O'KEEFE: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right, Director O'Keefe. Is there a second?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Second.
JULIEN BOUQUET: And Nicholson. Excellent.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I think Troy got in before me.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: That was a weak effort by Director Whitmore.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. I'll give it to O'Keefe and Whitmore. Is there any further discussion in
regards to the Board meeting agenda? Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. I just will communicate from the Board Office, assuming you
approve the agenda, as amended, that this item has been added and request Directors share any
potential amendments with the Board Office by close of business on Monday.

While Directors are certainly able to propose amendments from the floor when this item is introduced, it is
always best to have a clear understanding of what some of the ideas are out there. And come close of
business on Monday, we will distribute what we have first thing Tuesday morning.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair O'Keefe.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Mr. Chairman, just for a second. On the 161, when it comes up on Tuesday, and I
expect it'll be a long, painful, and drawn out discussion, and I apologize in advance for talking to you
about doing this, I think it is the only way that we are going to get to a point where there is a agreed upon
position, not unanimous position, but agreed upon position.
And I would hope that all members of the Executive Committee can convey that we put this to the Board.
We could have taken this action here, but we wanted the discussion there. And one of the chief premise-well, there's two. One, the governor is interested in the Northwest corridor rail and he has made no secret
that this is part of that discussion.
The other piece is that the apparent function of the Board and how we operate as a Board of Directors
and not a state legislature. And I have had specifically raised with me the fact that we have an official
position on this legislation and probably a half dozen independent Director lobbyists looking for an
alternative to that position. And that is reinforcing the, I think, unfair, but the contention that we are
dysfunctional.
So I'm hopeful that we all agree that we have spent hours on this already. And the position is the position
of RTD, and we move on from there. And I'm going to give a version of this, if you'll allow me, on
Tuesday, Mr. Chair, that this is it. We are at the end of the bill. There's no separate lobbying. There's no, I
want to get something else in.
I would like to change this in a couple ways. I am not raising that. So I'm hopeful that as an Executive
Committee, we postpone this discussion so the Board can have its say on everything and then we have a
unified RTD position. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. Yeah, just on those notes, I think it is very crucial, important. I think,
one, the updates that were included in the weekly update from yesterday kind of shows where the bill is
at, and that's going to be a pretty hearty conversation with the whole Board. But again, kind of going on
the theme that the First Vice Chair is getting at is if we have the discussion and we agree upon as a
Board and we vote to either change any amendments, if we vote to stick where we're at with our
amendments, if we vote to say we're going to oppose this bill, if we're going to vote to say we approve this
bill, that's the conversation for Tuesday.
And again, we need to do our due diligence as a Board of Directors, and each of us as individuals, to say,
this is what we have decided as a Board, even if we're in the minority vote, and we say, hey, we want to
take this position-- or I, as an individual Director, want to take this position on the bill. And if you are in the
minority vote when it comes to Tuesday, and let's say, there's some disagreement with that, that's the end
of the conversation as we as a Board.

This is the stance that the Board has taken. I think we're being more than diligent, more than fair for us to
bring this back forward to our Board, specifically with what has changed with SB-161, because it impacts
us so drastically.
So that would be my advice for Directors after we have this conversation on Tuesday. The conversation
that we have with legislators or any stakeholders interested is, this is what the Board's position is. This is
what I'm standing behind.
Yes, Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, I actually just have a question about the agenda, the Board agenda. Given
the actions we've taken today-- and this is a question for Mr. Kroll-- am I right in understanding that we
have all-- what's the right word-- consent items, plus one discussion item, which is the thing that we're
talking about now, or I guess this would be a recommended action. Like, my understanding is everything
so far. Because there's nothing on the existing agenda that is under recommended actions for Tuesday.
And so I think this, that we're talking about right now, the 161 discussion, that would be a recommended
action. And then there's nothing coming from either of the other committees. So am I right to think that
everything else is unanimous consent?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Secretary Nicholson. And thank you, Chair Bouquet, for the recognition. You are
correct. However, I will state that the only thing that keeps anything on the consent agenda is 15 Directors
consenting that it stays there. If a single director wishes to pull an item off of the consent agenda, they
simply notify the Chair prior to the approval of the consent agenda and it would come off. And the practice
is, as we move things down from consent agenda to recommended action at the request of Directors, that
those recommended actions, any recommended action listed on the agenda gets bumped down to
accommodate first the conversation on the unanimous consent item being moved.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Got it.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Does that clarify?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: What you're saying is we could be out of here by like 7:30, if everything-- or 6:30, if
everything goes well.
PATRICK O'KEEFE: Take the over.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. But at any point, I mean, it's a good point. Other Directors have raised this
before. Just because it is in unanimous consent, at any time-- and it is part of my job to ask if there's
anything that would want to be pulled from unanimous consent. Because again, there's plenty of times
where Directors might pass it in committee and then want it as a full Board discussion.

So at any time, obviously, if it's unanimous consent, it can be pulled and we'll have a discussion on it as a
Board. So great topic.
OK. Any other further conversations regarding the agenda?
Just one thing I would recommend for Directors who are present or anyone who is going to be watching
this meeting later on or looking at the transcript. I would highly recommend looking at where our proposed
amendments were with 161 and what has changed. Again, this will be the interest of discussion on
Tuesday. And I highly recommend, as Mr. Kroll said, of if you're going to propose any future
amendments, give us the due diligence and give us the time with it.
But I would highly recommend looking at where we're at, specifically with the accountability committee.
Obviously, as Mr. Davies hit on the returning, or the former Board Director, which is excellent to see, I
think that's going to provide a lot of knowledge to the accountability committee. That is one thing we're
lobbying for. And now it is something that the governor would be appointed.
Also want to state that there would be a current Board Director who would be appointed by the governor,
and there would also be a current Board Director appointed by we, as the Board, onto this accountability
committee as well. The one that, again, is interest and the one that, from my understanding-- and Mr.
Davies, feel free to correct me-- that is kind of off the table, we did recommend going forward when it
came to eliminating any language with write-in candidates for the Board of Directors, and that seems like
it is not on the table for negotiation. So that was the one I think was mainly rejected regarding our
amendments. Mr. Davies, is that correct?
MICHAEL DAVIES: Yeah. Thank you, Chair. Yeah, I would say this. The bill sponsors did not seem
interested in taking RTD's request and recommendation with regards to that amendment point.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Perfect. Thank you very much, sir. Just wanted to highlight those ones specifically,
because if you haven't caught on to the common theme, 161 has a lot to do with us, as a Board of
Directors. Secretary.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: For the non-voting member of the committee that is appointed, as you said, by the
Board, is that going to be, in practice, appointed by you?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK. Just checking.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yep. Good question. Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I just want to remind you all again of the bounds of your conversation here. I don't believe
you have taken a vote yet to approve the agenda. Maybe I missed that.
JULIEN BOUQUET: We haven't taken it yet.

JACK KROLL: And you want to avoid having a conversation about the merits of SB 161 when you're
simply discussing whether you want to add it to the agenda for next week or not. Some of those other
conversations may be better suited for Other Matters.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Excellent. Thank you for the suggestion.
All right. In regards to actually voting upon the agenda itself, are there any no votes to approve the Board
meeting agenda, as amended, for our meeting on Tuesday, April 29? OK. Seeing none, it will pass fivezero.
And that gets to our next point. And that is Other Matters. Are there any further matters that we'd would
like to discuss?
OK. Well, seeing none, our next meeting is scheduled for May 22 at 11:15 AM. At the meeting, we are
slated to hold discussions on the following. Director expense and reimbursement policy, the Board Office
budget, Board Office record retention, and Board collaboration tools. Additionally, as always, we will have
our Government Relations report from Mr. Davies.
Do I have a motion to adjourn?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: All right. I got Secretary Nicholson as the mover on that. We are adjourned as of
12:31 PM. Thank you all for your work.

