1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, June 11, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Chair of the Board

Present

7:58 PM

Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly

Director, District H
Director, District N

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:59 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

7:59 PM
7:57 PM

Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District J
Chair

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:50 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:53 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Absent

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:58 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:56 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

7:57 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:54 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Mathew Cross, Lee Cryer,
Chuck Culig, John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry
Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Anthony Menendez, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Brian
Welch

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Sara Castellanos, Michael Del-Giudice, Leonard Dinegar,
Melissa Dubinsky, Joni Goheen, Stan Gronek, Bill Mosher, Skip
Spensley, Joe Triplette, Gary Van Dorn, Hugh K Wilson

B. Recommended Actions

• Easement for Brainard Drive Relocation Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
execute all documents necessary to convey a non-exclusive drainage
easement over 10,881 square feet (0.249 acres), more or less in Section
28, Township 1 South, Range 69 West, City and County of Broomfield,
State of Colorado.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the June 25th, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes stated that this project is being done jointly by the
City/County of Broomfield, Colorado Department of
Transportation and the Burlington Northern Railroad in order to
alleviate two railroad crossings within the City of Broomfield
and that they have agreed to relocate a siding. This will be in
the area US36 and 96 and in the area of RTD’s Flatirons Parkn-Ride. Brainard Drive was built by the City/County as part of
the original deal with RTD. They had the option to acquire the
property where the parking lot was built, but at the time they
lacked sufficient funds. The easement is for drainage. It is a
ditch alongside the relocation of Brainard Drive. The roadway
will have to be relocated to accommodate the new siding and
it will allow better access, elevation wise, to the remainder of
the property. The offering was $2 per square foot, based on

the evaluation done by Douglas P. Agne, MAI of Pinnacle and
also 90% of the fee value for the easement.
Director Walker asked who will maintain the drainage. Susan
Altes stated that the City of Broomfield will do the
maintenance.
Director James asked for clarification of the percentage of the
fee. Susan Altes stated that it is 90% of the fee, which is
very high.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED to the Unanimous
Consent.

C. Updates

• Projected vs. Actual Rail Ridership
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning stated that when they
open new rail lines there is a lot interest on how the actual ridership
compares to the projected ridership. He reviewed the factors affecting
opening day light rail ridership. He stated that it takes a minimum of six to
twelve months for travel patterns to establish themselves, which is why the
Federal Transit Administration asks for reports and results two years after
opening to see how we are doing compared to the projected ridership two
years out. They provide the monthly report on ridership for both bus and
rail. The West line opened at end of school year and there is low ridership in
vacation months such as summer and December. They anticipate rapid
growth in all rail lines as there are also increased transfer/access options as
the FasTracks system is build out.
He reviewed the LRT average Weekday ridership comparison of opening year
vs the actual ridership when the lines opened. This is a total system
ridership expectation. The reason they present it this way is, as the system
grows there are multiple lines going through Broadway-I25 and Downtown
and it’s hard to attribute the ridership to either corridor.
On the West Corridor, six weeks into service the projection was 18,300
riders per day and they are averaging 14,000 riders per day as we enter the

summer season and school break. Ridership continues to grow; this is a
preliminary observation and counts on the West Corridor. GM Washington
stated that it is not just one line, when we open the East line we can
assume the West line ridership will increase because people will be able to
get on in the West and go all the way to the Airport. That is why they show
it as system ridership as it is impacted by the connectivity that is associated
with all the lines.
Director James requested staff to provide an additional column with the
current ridership. Bill Van Meter stated that they can provide additional
information on the ridership by line. Director James asked if the numbers
are progressively increasing because the rail is becoming more popular. Bill
Van Meter stated that it is a combination of factors, as we build out the
system there are more opportunities to go to destinations other than those
served by a single line. Additionally, growth in employment and population
has helped to feed that.
Director Bagley stated that he wants to see the current activity system
wide.
Director Anderson stated that she understands the chart and the reason for
the focus on the whole system. However having worked on lines with MIS
and EIS, it would be important to know how we measure up to the
projections that those studies established. Bill Van Meter stated that it is
possible. He stated that for Southwest corridor they had projected 8,400
average daily riders about two years later we were carrying 17,000. On the
Southeast Corridor, they projected 33,800 and the E-F and H lines combined
were carrying 41,400. Staff will provide the information requested.
Director Deadwyler agrees with having more real time information. She
asked if they are adding all the columns, because the West Line shows
84,000. Bill Van Meter stated that the 84,600 is the projected amount of
ridership in the whole system, including existing lines plus the West line.
Director Deadwyler asked for clarification on the amount showed for the
Central line in 1994. Bill Van Meter stated that the original projection was
13,000 and 3 years later they were carrying 16,000. There were some
constraints, there was not enough parking and not enough light rail vehicles
and they added bus service to help with the demand.
Director Hoy stated that it looks like we are on the way to fulfill our
expectations. Perhaps we made a mistake by completing the line 8 months
earlier, because if we would have opened on time they would have had all
those school kids. GM Washington stated that we didn’t make a mistake by
managing the program very well.

Director Walker stated that as impressive as this numbers are, he needs to
remind himself that this is a long term proposition and things change. He
discussed the ridership situation with Mr. Howerter and how even though
the city is growing, the system ridership is going down in some areas. It is
because people are changing, things are changing; they either work were
they live or are taking their bikes but they are doing other things than
anticipated when we started 20 years ago. This is encouraging and
hopefully the system will continue to grow.
Director Folska stated that she is not able to see the chart and asked if the
numbers accelerating exponentially. Bill Van Meter stated that each of the
openings has consistently exceeded our forecast and ridership continues to
grow system wide. Director Folska stated that it looks like a weighted
average acceleration because when more lines open there is greater
connectivity. Bill Van Meter stated that those synergies are starting to
happen and they have seen them, and we could anticipate that. Our models
do not project that sort of behavior but as more opportunities for connection
to more activities centers occur with reliable bus and transit services we see
that happening and it is reflected in these numbers.
Director Lubow stated that it seems like the projections have been
consistently low in terms of what the ultimate ridership would be. Bill Van
Meter stated that it is correct, although consistently less low each time, in
other words they are getting better. Director Lubow stated that it is good,
because she wonders if it may impact how much parking we provide and
that type of things. Bill Van Meter stated that it is a valid concern, because
particularly for the Central and Southwest Corridors where the numbers
were startling off the actuals, we did not provide enough parking and in the
case of the Central Corridor not enough rail vehicles. They have taken the
lessons learned to improve the ridership forecasting tools. The tools have
been refined based on actual experience. Director Lubow thinks the models
have a lot of impact in terms of getting grants and other things. Bill Van
Meter stated that they do, and that the FTA regularly goes into RTD’s and
DRCOG’s modeling process to make sure that we are incorporating the best
practices and that our models are calibrated and validated appropriately.
Our forecast has gotten better because they have provided technical
oversight assistance to make sure they fund projects that are going to
succeed. Director Lubow stated that it seems like it is good to be bias low
but not bias two low. Bill Van Meter stated that it’s darn if you are off too
high or too low, because one way or another you will have issues.
GM Washington stated that we have not talked about the Transit Oriented
Development (TOD) on the stations. All of the residential development will
impact the ridership. As the culture changes in the region, it will be huge in
the next couple of years.

Director James mentioned that another term that goes with TOD is TOC
(Transit Oriented Culture) which is coming along.
Director Walker mentioned that an article in Atlantic City talking about Is
Transit even Necessary for TOD? They looked at several different
developments in cities and found that when they control transit absence or
absence parking successful neighborhoods such as Cherry Creek or South
Platte, as we build those TOD developments there is going to be so much
right there that people won’t have to travel and transit will just become a
play thing instead of the major means to work for a lot of neighborhoods and
people.
Director James stated that there are isolated locations where parking is a big
challenge and transit is too big too much for a location like that.
Director Bagley asked for an update about the Alameda Station TOD.

D. Other Matters
Director Lasater stated that in a discussion with one employee that lives in his
district, we have people that live outside of the district but work for RTD and they
are being charge for parking at RTD park-n-ride if they take bus or rail. There is not
a policy to give them a parking sticker so they can commute into work without
having to pay to come to work. He would like to provide them with parking
stickers because he thinks it is inequitable.
Director Folska asked how those employees are different from other employees that
live outside of the district and commute. Director Lasater stated that the difference
is that they work at RTD.
Director Deadwyler stated that we do need to look at that, because most
organizations give certain perks to their employees, whether it is Comcast or Kaiser
Permanente and other organizations, if you work for them you get something. She
thinks parking is very small compared to the perks other organizations give to their
employees. She agrees with Director Lasater on this issue.
Director Folska stated that this is an issue with another Board she is on as well. If
we give these employees who live outside of the district that benefit how is that
fair and equitable to the employees that live in the district and don’t get it or the
equivalent?
Director Bagley moved to adjourn the meeting and take the conversation offline.
Director James asked for the conversation to be taken offline and to maybe have
the staff request if that is a request to be made.

Director James stated that he just returned from Toronto. He attended the Urban
Exploration Trip with the Downtown Denver Partnership. This was a very
productive trip. Toronto has about 6 million people with a very strong transit
system and very different form of governmental organization. They acknowledge
RTD and he encourages the other Directors to participate in the trip, which is very
educational and transit systems are at the center of the conversations. Seattle has
been mentioned for next year and even Copenhagen. The number of people
attending has grown and it’s very focused on what we do.
GM Washington informed the Board that staff is pursuing two grants for the North
Metro. One is CDOT grant program. We have moved to the next stage and it’s for
$50 million. The other is the Tiger Grant. He met with the FTA administrator at
the Rail Conference about the Tiger Grant and we made a very good case and he as
very receptive. Bill Van Meter and John Elias are in the front line and we think we
stand a very good chance.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 2, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 8:31p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

