April 14, 2020
RTD Finance & Administration
SHELLY COOK: And I'll go ahead and call to order the meeting of the Financial Administration
and Audit Committee. It is 10:11 PM. And I first wanted to ask a question of our council. We
evidently will not have an executive session in this committee meeting tonight. And I wondered if
we need to amend the agenda to reflect that, or if we simply just do not go into that session.
JENNIFER ROSS-AMATO: This is Jennifer Ross-Amato, acting general counsel. I would
recommend that you just don't move to go into the executive session.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thanks. Thank you very much. OK. We have one recommended action.
And I'll quickly read it. This was initiated by the executive committee. So it's recommended by
the executive committee that the Board adopt a ministerial change to the format of committee
meeting agendas to include a section for informational items not intended for discussion during
meetings, unless expressly requested by one or more directors. The recommended action supports
the following general manager's goals, core goal number two, strong and ethical leadership, and
core goal number five, effective communications and community outreach. And I guess I would
first ask if Barbara McManus or any staff member have anything to add to the staff report.
PEGGY CATLIN: Don't we need a motion first?
SHELLY COOK: Oh, thank you. Got it in backwards order. OK. Do we have a motion for this
before we get the staff report?
PEGGY CATLIN: I so move.
SHELLY COOK: Second by Director Williams. Director Catlin moved and Director Williams
seconded. OK. So first, turning it over to staff to see if they have anything they'd like to recap on
this or add. Hello?
BARBARA MCMANUS: Are you hearing me?
SHELLY COOK: No.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Barbara McManus, can you hear me?
SHELLY COOK: Now I can. Thank you.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Oh, OK. Sorry. So over the last couple of months with the Board and
in executive committee, we talked about trying to put together some changes in the meeting
management to try to shorten the meetings. And one of the things that I brought forward to the
executive committee was taking all of the recurring information items that we would normally
speak out on in the update section and moving them to an information section, with the idea that

any questions on those particular items that would not be discussed in the committee meeting, all
questions would come to the Board Office. And we would just address those questions in the
information section that was brought forward by Board members as updates that they wanted to
add.
Otherwise, it would be assumed that the directors would just be reviewing that information,
working with staff if they had questions, and making sure that they were in the meeting agenda
just for the public to review for transparency, but not discussed in meetings under updates any
longer.
SHELLY COOK: OK. So what I'd like to do right now is go around quickly and ask if anybody
has any questions. I'll start with Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I think it's worth trying to see if it helps reduce the length of our meetings. That's
my only comment.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you, director. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thanks for this, Barbara McManus. Great idea. I
think it should help us get through committee meetings maybe a little quicker than tonight. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Exactly.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No comment.
SHELLY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it's a good idea. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I would actually-- I'm here. I would actually, there's some language that I was
quite concerned about. But I would prefer-- I would have a preference that we don't limit the
amount of information that we share. And I know the meetings can be long and they can take a toll
on many of us. But I think it's important for us to remember that these meetings aren't just for us,
but for the general public. And I think some folks really look forward, as silly as that might sound,
to hearing those updates and getting a better understanding of RTD. And I think it lends itself to
us being seen as more transparent. Those are my comments.
SHELLY COOK: OK. If they were comments, I won't ask for a response from staff, unless you'd
like to hear it. But anyway, I'll move on. And then we'll go to Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I just wanted to know what some examples are of items that would
be collected like this.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So, we did provide a sample agenda in the packet that moved some
items. For instance, some of the metrics that we go through for finance and also for operations, a
lot of times how they're treated is that this information was in the packet and, are there any
questions. And a lot of these items are not discussed as a general rule unless there are questions on
it. So those are two examples.
And if you could take a peek at the sample that we put in the packet where we moved some items
down from updates to information, you can see a sampling of what they are.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thanks. Anything more, Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: No, thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK, sure. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: No comment or question.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: No. I say, just give it a try.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. It's phrased as a ministerial change. And
I hear a number of directors indicating they're happy to try it for a while. And I think that's very
appropriate, because I think it is a good change and I like the idea. I just want to note that we're
not pursuant to this, as it is stated, making a change to the bylaws. The bylaws would still control.
But it is a procedural policy that the Board is adopting. And I state that because it only needs eight
affirmative votes if it's a procedural policy, as opposed to a bylaw change. And I think it's
understood that way. It's an excellent idea and should go forward. Thank you very much.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. I think it looks good. I think it's a good idea, sets some different
expectations, and I think more realistic expectations. That's it.
SHELLY COOK: OK, thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Looks like it's worth giving it a shot. So, fine with me.
SHELLY COOK: OK. And Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: So I just want to be clear that it's the same information that's presented in the
packet that's available now. It just doesn't allow for Directors to comment on it like we did tonight,
all around the horn, unless somebody specifies when they get their packet that they have some
very specific questions or comments, question mark?
BARBARA MCMANUS: That's a correct statement.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Then I'm all for it. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. And for myself, several people said, well, let's give it a try. And in that
spirit, I think that's wise. Let's look, let's consider whether or not we think that some information
would be better brought forward. But let's give this a try and I'll support it.
So let's go ahead and go for the vote, if we could. It was motioned by Director Catlin and seconded
by Director Williams. And I'll go ahead and run through a roll call right quick, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, wait a minute. Chair, I wasn't able to speak. You didn't call
on me.
SHELLY COOK: I didn't? Oh, you're right. Because it said chairs, and I was thinking of myself
as the Chair. Forgive me. So yes, Director Rivera-Malpiede, forgive me. Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would just like to say, I think this is
a good idea to go ahead and move forward. The other thing I would just like to share is, looking at
all of the meetings that we go to as elected officials, I think it's really important to realize that even
all of our subcommittees are very, very important for all of us to be a part of because we are, in
fact, representing our community members that we were elected to represent. So I'm in favor of
this. Thank you so much.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. And again, I'm sorry. But with that, we'll go to the vote if it's OK.
Director Catlin with the motion and Director Williams as movement, yeah. And Barbara McManus
just sent me a nice message. Let's just see if anybody has any concern or wants to vote in
opposition, since we had so many people verbalize support. Anybody opposed? OK. It looks like
it passes unanimously, then. So that's it for our action item.
Let's go to the next item on the agenda, which is an update from Leeds. And I want to first extend
apologies and tell the folks from Leeds that I'm so sorry we ended up taking this long and that you
waited the entire night. It's such an important topic, and I know we all are still interested in hearing
it. So I'll go ahead and turn it over to staff to introduce them.
DOUG MACLEOD: Good evening. This is Doug MacLeod. I'm here with Heather McKillop. And
normally, at this time of year, we would have Leeds do their semi-annual update with their report
sales and use tax forecasts that we would use in the amended budget. But we've asked them to
come and just give an economic update a delayed forecast for an additional month, just because of
all the uncertainty that's in the economy right now. So tonight, we have Rich Wobbekind, Brian
Lewandowski, Myles Light, and Robert McNown. And they will step through these slides quickly.

I don't think they're going to go through every one. But save time to answer the Board's questions.
And I believe Robert's going to do the presentation. So please, go ahead.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Thanks, Doug. This is Brian Lewandowski. I'm actually going to kick
us off. And unfortunately, Rich Wobbekind had to step off for tonight. He was on the call for the
first few hours. But then he had to leave. And Myles Light is also not here with us.
But yes, thank you very much for having us on the agenda this evening, despite the current
circumstances. It's really a hard economic discussion to have. And we are calling this a COVID
economic discussion as we reflect on things we know now and some of the things that we expect
to see over the coming months. And also want to convey to you as Board members how we are
incorporating information into our modeling for the RTD forecast.
We have been modeling for you for the last 10 years. We started this in 2011, so this is our 10th
year. And as we're looking at this unprecedented downturn, it truly is unprecedented in any of our
lifetimes, we are just starting to observe the data that is showing the economic consequences.
Because so much of the data lag, and that's a little bit what I will share with you this evening.
So in your packet, we provided a series of 22 slides. I will not run through these slide by slide, but
I'll give you a brief overview. And then we'll open it up to Q&A.
On the overview slide, I think this is really one of the main takeaways. We have noted, as all of
you have seen, that there have been exponential growth in domestic COVID-19 cases. This is true
nationally and in Colorado. Colorado was an early entrant to the COVID crisis. And part of this is
because of the international and national draw that we have, especially to our tourism areas within
the state.
But leading up to this, the US economy and the Colorado economy were really on a strong footing
prior to the COVID-19 crisis. And I describe this as very few cracks within the overall economy.
We were walking into this with stable GDP growth. We were showing pretty strong employment
growth. Unemployment rates that really dated back to 1969. The labor utilization rate or the U6
unemployment rate was at the lowest level in its series that goes back to 1994. We started to see
some pretty strong wage growth. Home prices were up. We were seeing strong asset growth in the
stock market, growth of wealth.
And so as we package all of that up and take a look at the collective economy, that's what leads us
to say that the economy was on a pretty strong footing heading into this. I mentioned that the data
does lag. So we can point to a little bit of evidence within the economy. But we know anecdotally
that it's there. And I'll talk about some of the steep expectations that we are viewing over the next
couple of months.
Federal policies will mitigate some of the negative impacts. We also view the federal stimulus as
helping us recover faster. And we can chat about that in a moment. We see that certain industries,
especially the tourism industry, hotels, ski resorts, restaurants, and the retail sector has been really
on the front line of the economic crisis. And that's unfortunate for an entity like RTD that's heavily
dependent on retail sales taxes.

Also heading into this, we note that Colorado was on a much stronger footing than even the
national economy. So heading into this year, the story that the Leeds School has been saying is
that the Colorado economy is growing, but it's slowing. And so we were heading into this saying
that we do expect a little slower growth out of the Colorado economy in 2020. But we would still
be a leading state nationally. And so we were really expecting a slower economy compared to
ourselves, but still being a good performer compared to other states.
And of course, our expectations have changed dramatically over the past eight weeks. We are
overexposed in some areas to the downturn, especially when you think about our tourism industry
where we have an outsized concentration of tourism offerings and tourism employment and
tourism revenue. But we're also well positioned in some other areas. We have a high tech economy.
We have a lot of professional and business services, software engineers, RND. And a lot of these
jobs appear to be a little bit safer. We're not seeing as much unemployment within those sectors at
the immediate time.
So skipping forward a few slides in my deck, if you take a look at the real GDP growth slide, what
that really illustrates is how the economy really walked off a cliff in mid-March. And it's different
from the Great Recession in that we walked into that one a little bit more gradually. We're going
from a period where we had over 2% GDP growth to a period for Q2 where we're expecting a drop
of 25% or 30% on an annualized basis.
And I want to make this point here. Because you're going to see this headline a lot over the coming
months, minus 25% growth or minus 30% growth. I was looking at the National Association of
Business Economists flash survey this morning. And that showed that the consensus among 46
forecasters was for minus 25% growth. But the range was between minus 1% and minus 50%.
And when we talk about minus 25%, just remember, that is looking at one quarter of growth and
grossing it up for an entire year. So that would be to say, if we had that same drop off that lasted
four quarters, that would equate to minus 25% in the US economy.
Rather, if we take a look at year over year growth, so comparing Q2 of 2020 to the second quarter
of 2019, the level of drop that we expect for the US economy is more in the range of 7%. So just
keep that in mind, the two different ways of looking at those declines.
The estimates for Q3 vary pretty widely. Some economists are pointing to economic loss in the
third quarter, while others are showing the start of a rebound that quarter. So that's one of those
scenarios where we have to wait and see. There is so much uncertainty out there right now without
a lot of data to rely on to create those projections. Some of this is really an educated guess by
economists.
But while there is a lack of recorded data showing the economic pain that's out there right now,
there are a couple of metrics that we can latch onto. National Employment, it wasn't updated in
your slide because the number came out after I provided those numbers to the slide deck to staff.
But we went from having average job growth over the last 12 months of 196,000 jobs per month
to March, where we lost 700,000 jobs in that single month.

And I stress that because it's very reminiscent of the Great Recession, where we had a couple of
individual months where we lost almost 800,000 jobs per month. But if you studied that National
Employment slide, you can see how gradual it was as we walked into that recession and we lost
jobs at a faster and faster pace. But it took many months before we reached that trough. Whereas
we're seeing this swing happen in a single month, and that's why to us, it feels like the economy
walked off a cliff.
Of course, we're looking at many scenarios. And this is important for the RTD revenue forecast.
Because not only do we look at a baseline outlook for the national economy, but we also rely on
Moody's Analytics for some alternative scenarios. We look at more optimistic scenarios and more
pessimistic scenarios. And that allows us to provide RTD staff with revenue projections based on
alternative economies. So if the economy performs a little bit better, that has that guidance. Or if
things perform worse, they have that guidance in their revenue outlook.
Jobless claims is another one those early indicators that we have been able to see. So while National
Employment is a lagging indicator, initial jobless claims tend to be a leading indicator. Because
almost real time, as people lose their jobs, one of the first things that they do is they take action to
go and receive unemployment benefits, the way of stabilizing their household during those down
times.
And so what we saw in almost very real time is the US initial jobless claims go from a 50 year low
to a record high. It went from about 300,000 initial jobless claims to 3.3 million initial jobless
claims. So we've never had that kind of spike in jobless claims. It again doubled the week later and
then stabilized a little bit last week. But I think it is notable that we've never had a spike like that.
And we have never had levels of initial jobless claims like we are seeing right now. So this is truly
unprecedented.
And you can even see from the initial jobless claims slide that we have to rescale these slides as
we're talking about the economy. And we expect to see many records broken during this event as
we're describing what has happened.
I think it's important to talk about which industries are being impacted. Many of us can guess
which industries they are because we have experienced it with restaurants being closed, hotels
being shut down, retail being closed. And that's really where we've seen the initial job losses.
But aside from that, I think there's a couple of interesting ones that we are watching. Health care
and social assistance is recording the second highest number of job losses nationally. And that's
really because, while we have health care on the frontline of the crisis helping patients, we also
have a lot of health care that has been furloughed where general practitioners, orthodontists,
dentists are really out of work right now. So this type of information will help us understand and
allocate which industries are being impacted the most. And it'll help guide some of our modeling
going forward.
The expectations from Moody's Analytics for the coming year for all of 2020 are again, that hotels,
restaurants, and retail will face the greatest job loss. We'll also see it in manufacturing and
transportation. Transportation, of course, including entities like yours but also notably, the airlines.

If we translate this instead to percent loss, we expect to see the greatest job losses in transportation
and hotels and restaurants, as well as entertainment sectors like ski resorts and professional ball
sports.
Skipping ahead a little bit further, we have looked at the CARES Act pretty closely. I think there's
some optimism as we read about the CARES Act. One, I think that it's a positive signal that the
federal government is stepping in as quickly as they can to deploy funds and try and shore up the
economy or prepare the economy for some sort of recovery. They're sending out checks to
households, especially noting that households on the lower income range are receiving the most
money with the tapering off for higher income households.
I think there's some good signals in there for small business. The question is, will it go far enough
to help save small business. The paycheck assistance I think is pretty brilliant, because one thing
that we note is, as people are laid off, when a business goes to reopen, they have to reinterview,
rehire, and retrain workers. And that's really a source of a lot of labor friction. So having the
paycheck program will help employers retain their employees and avoid having to go through all
of those steps. And that really sets them up to flip the switch on their business once the economy
starts to open up again. So I think that's a pretty positive signal. And it's also a good conduit for
deploying unemployment benefits to people in a different sort of way. It gets the money to people
very quickly, and perhaps more efficiently.
But you know, the interesting thing when we take a look at the checks that have gone out, we have
discussed this being a demand side shock and a supply side shock. And I just want to describe that
for a moment. When this all started in China and we saw the city of Wuhan shut down, we were
really concerned as economists looking at this, because we were viewing it as a demand side shock
to the US economy, where US manufacturers and retailers-- I'm sorry, a supply side shock where
US retailers and manufacturers waiting on parts from China were going to be disrupted because
they wouldn't have those inputs to their own production in time. And they were going to have to
shut down themselves.
Really, as this evolved from being isolated to China to being a pandemic, that's when it really
switched to become a demand side shock. And that's what's really interesting watching this impact
different industries from manufacturing to retail to wholesale trade.
I'm going to wrap up by talking a little bit about the Colorado economy. I have updated some of
these slides. And I will share them with staff, because you may be interested in seeing some of
these updated slides. Again, the Colorado economy has performed better than the US economy
and better than most states coming out of the last recession. So really, over the past 10 years. And
just today, I pulled up the new personal income numbers that were released for a full year 2019.
And Colorado had the highest percentage increase in personal income and the third highest
increase in GDP.
So when we take a look at GDP growth, employment growth, population, personal income, low
foreclosure rates, high home price appreciation, labor force participation, really this entire basket
of economic metrics, the Colorado economy has been one of the best performing states nationally.
And the optimism there is, perhaps we are set up foundationally a little bit stronger to not weather

this event well, but hopefully weather this event better than some other states because of these
strong underlying fundamentals. But we are overexposed on the tourism side.
Our jobless claims shot up very similarly to the national jobless claims. We're talking
unprecedented levels here, where our own unemployment offices have been overwhelmed with
calls. And the state office is now providing data by county. So when we do our full report for RTD
over the coming month, we'll be able to isolate jobless claims, even for the seven county district
for you.
Colorado job growth, when we were walking into 2020, we described Colorado job growth as
being-- we were expecting the slowest job growth since the recession, both in percentage terms
and absolute growth. We were looking at about 40,000 jobs this year. Now that has swung to the
negative side and we have revised our number down even further. Right now, our initial
expectation is for a loss of 160,000 jobs in 2020. This will be worse, we expect, than the jobs lost
in 2009. But we also expect a faster recovery than the Great Recession at this point. I mean, that's
based on what we know now.
Of course, the uncertainty wrapped around that is, when will the US economy and the Colorado
economy start to open back up. And once we start to open back up, what does human behavior
look like? Are people comfortable going out to restaurants again? Are people comfortable going
out to the grocery stores again? Are people comfortable going to Red Rocks and standing side by
side next to thousands of strangers at concerts?
And then what happens this fall and next winter? Do we see a V shaped recovery? Do we see a U
shaped recovery? Do we see a hockey stick recovery or a W shaped recovery? And those are all
really describing almost in parallel to what we may expect when it comes to how the virus performs
and how vaccines are developed over time.
But to provide a little bit of perspective, our average wages in Colorado are relatively high. They're
about $61,000 per job in the state. So what that means is, as we lose every 16,000 jobs, that equates
to about $1 billion in wage loss in the state. So think about what that means for consumption
potential in the state, let alone the humanitarian impact of it.
But note that I did mention that our tourism sector, our retail sector has been on the frontline of
the economic crisis. And those jobs, while they represent a large number of jobs in the state, they
also happen to be our lowest paying jobs in the state. And they also tend to be our most vulnerable
workers in the state, even when it comes to things like savings.
But on the side of that, I guess, just trying to put some optimism in here, we do have a high wage,
high skilled, highly educated economic base. And a lot of those jobs are amenable to working at
home. So we haven't seen the massive layoffs in a lot of those higher wage sectors like we have
seen in hotels, retail, restaurants, et cetera.
So the three most vulnerable sectors on the frontline, retail, leisure and hospitality, and also natural
resources and mining, which has been overlooked a little bit in the discussion, not entirely. But oil
and gas is under immense pressure right now. We've seen very low oil prices. That's been caused

both by the price war between Russia and the rest of OPEC, as well as the evaporation of demand
for oil globally. And you can kind of see that as you drive around and see the lack of cars and
congestion on the roads.
But I think that the secondary impact that we need to be really cognizant of is the impact on health
care, which I already mentioned. But the impact on government. As we see a steep drop in public
revenue, we're also seeing layoffs happen in almost real time. Boulder announced furloughs of
over 700 today. Broomfield announced layoffs. And we're going to see more and more of that in
the short term.
Last week-HEATHER MCKILLOP: This is Heather.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: --retail sales. Yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Can we wrap it up so we have a few minutes for questions?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Sure. Last point I want to make is that, we have a slide in there that
shows retail sales over the last couple of cycles. And just to provide a little bit of perspective, state
collections of retail during the 2000-2001 recession fell 6.5% percent. Use taxes fell 18%. During
the Great Recession, and we saw sales taxes fall 13% and use taxes fall 24%.
And right leading up to this, we were seeing pretty strong growth in state retail sales collections.
And we expect that this event will have a more detrimental impact on retail sales from peak to
trough than what we saw in the past. And lastly, that's just the state collections of sales and use
taxes. I want to remind you that local jurisdictions in Colorado, given our disaggregated tax
structure, local jurisdictions make up about 60% of sales and use taxes.
So Robert and I are here to answer your questions for you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you very much for packing a lot of information, albeit really hard
to take. So I'll go ahead and work around the Board starting from Director Broom. Any questions?
BOB BROOM: No, I don't have any questions at this point. More to come, I guess.
SHELLY COOK: Yes. Thank you. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for the thorough report. But I have no questions. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for the report. It was discouraging, but not unexpected. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Director Folska?

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you so much for that thorough report. It
was riveting but devastating, and I think it was expected. And more to come. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. This was really interesting. On page 50 of the packet
is the National Employment month over month change. If I'm reading this right, it looks like the
trough doesn't hit as low as in 2008, 2009, which surprises me. And it looks like it's projected to
go back up soon. Am I reading that right?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yeah. I think what's interesting about that is, as we've progressed into
this, expectations have deteriorated, too. So we have even seen a revision downward in those
employment expectations. And the one month of data that we just received about a week ago, the
minus 700,000 jobs in the single month, that's telling of more to come. So when I send a revised
packet out, you will see more negative numbers.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. The sales and use tax, the way you phrased it, you said
you thought there'd be a bigger change from in the trough or in the difference, I'm not sure. From
the sales tax of 6.9% plus down to the bottom. Is that what you mean?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Right. Right. And so we're actively working on our modeling right
now and we'll have an update for staff in a few weeks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. And the state and local split, can you explain that a little more to
please?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Sure. Since the state rate for sales taxes is 2.9%, we know that the
average rate across most communities in Colorado are more like 6% or 7% plus. And that's because
cities across Colorado end up making up the majority of the overall sales tax rate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yep.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: And that's how they're primarily funded. So that's what I mean by that
is, the state only represents about 40% of total sales tax collections in Colorado.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you very much.
SHELLY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you so much for the presentation. It was very thorough. I
just have one question. I think a number of folks have thrown around different terminology. So
some folks have talked about heading into a recession and some folks have talked about heading
into a depression. I'm just curious if your presentation might change if we were heading into a
depression. And if so, how?

BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yeah. So we view this as heading into recession right now. And I
mean, our expectations really have been changing rapidly just as we latch onto little bits of data
that are released. And I think what we were envisioning right now is a recession that ends up being
shorter than the Great Recession. But that can certainly change based on expectations about some
sort of double dip into this virus.
But we're not projecting some sort of second depression right now. We're expecting this to be a
steep and deep recession with a fairly reasonably quick recovery. And part of that speedy recovery
is, we've compared this to a natural disaster coming through. And like a hurricane coming through,
an entire economy gets shut down and gets shut down quickly. But unlike a hurricane coming
through, we still have all of the infrastructure in place after the storm passes.
That's why we're optimistic in part that we can see a more speedy recovery, really even than we
saw from the Great Recession that lasted six quarters officially, but took six plus years to recover
job losses nationally.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Let me just add a little to that. This is Robert McNown.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks, Robert.
ROBERT MCNOWN: I think Brian mentioned that we look at several alternative scenarios
[INAUDIBLE] the economy in driving our forecasts. And one of those certainly allows for the
possibility that the downturn is much more protracted. And we will present the forecasts of RTD
revenues based on that scenario, as well as the more V-shaped recession and recovery that Brian
was describing.
So as he said repeatedly, we face a lot of uncertainty right now. And so we want to convey to the
staff and to the Board a number of different possibilities.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I do appreciate that. Do you have any idea or inclination of what
sectors might be most impacted?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: We do, and-SHONTEL LEWIS: --probably all guesses at this point.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Yeah. So there are industries that are listed in your packet. But those
have even changed from that update to my current one. So when I send out the new packet, I will
certainly point that out to you. But the greatest job losses are in retail sector, hotels, and
entertainment sectors and restaurants.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I don't have any other questions. Thank you for this
presentation.

SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director Lewis. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Thank you for the presentation. And I very much appreciated the last
bit of the discussion where you talked about the uncertainty and therefore, we're going to be seeing
a variety of potential outcomes. Because this is uncharted territory. So we have to be prepared for
it all. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. So, as I was looking through this presentation and I'm looking at the
packet only, the attachment. So the page number on this is page nine and it's called National Jobs
Added by Industry in 2020. And government is the only one sitting with job gains. All other sectors
have tremendous hits. And that's a very depressing slide to look at for me. It's very painful with
the job losses.
My question has to do with, what other, as an example, governments do you know of that are
looking at furloughs? And I look at an article today that came out, I think just roughly eight hours
ago, that the city of Boulder will be furloughing over 700 employees. And there is potential to
minimize those impacts to public employees, too. As an example, furlough three days a month,
something like that.
Do you know of any other governments besides this example, let's say, in Boulder, within Colorado
who are using that tactic to minimize some of the expenses? Because that's the other side of the
equation.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: We did hear that Broomfield took a similar measure to lay off some
workers, especially on the business services side. So if rec centers and golf courses, et cetera are
not currently open, I think those are the jobs that are more slated for furloughs in the short term.
But I won't be surprised if we see more of that. And in fact, that slide that shows government job
growth in 2020 has now turned to even declines in the government sector in 2020 because of the
impact on state and local governments nationally.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So some are appropriately reacting by reducing expenditures is the
way I would view that. That's the way I would view that. I won't ask you to agree to that. But all
right. And I'm sorry. You said, when would we be getting an updated slide set? Next-BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I can send out this updated slide deck tomorrow that just has these
slides updated with new numbers. We will provide the updated sales and use tax forecast report to
RTD over the next month.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you very much. That's all the questions I had.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing from me, Madam Chair.

SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, my thanks to all of you and
my best wishes to Richard. And sorry he couldn't stick around with us. Please send him our thanks
for his patience. Truly, your last line on your last slide is the bottom line, that we're going to need
this additional economic modeling because it is very difficult for us to do any kind of planning.
And I have great empathy for Heather and her staff in trying to address all of that. That's all. And
I thank you again.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Extremely interesting. Nobody knows what's going to happen. I'm not
sure. I don't even know how good modeling will be, because all of this is so uncertain because our
economy is so dependent upon the economies of others. But I appreciate the effort that's gone into
this in the attempt, at least, to make some sense and give some direction and some level of
expectation. That's it.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No comments. Thank you for a great presentation.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Ditto.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. You know, I kind of want to reiterate
exactly what Director Lewis was asking about. I've been sitting on a committee with other local
officials in my district. And three of them are from the state legislature. And they're sharing with
me some pretty astronomical numbers of deficiencies in what they're going to have to cut from the
state budget.
And so for me, as a grandmother and as a mother and as a resident in my community, I'm hearing
words like Great Recession, like this is going to be worse than the Great Recession. And so when
I look at what you were saying in your presentation, which was really outstanding, I'm wondering,
because we are on such uncharted waters, to be realistic about how we move forward and how
we're navigating this as an agency, and now that folks are saying, we're not only going to be
sheltered in place through April, but maybe through May and June, do you think that's going to
change your projections?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I do think that-- oh. Go ahead, Robert.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Yeah. Well, yeah. This is Robert again. I think that just to reinforce what
I'd said before, that by presenting these alternative scenarios, the more pessimistic one is certainly
going to encompass the possibility of a really protracted sequestration of people staying in their

homes and businesses closing, along with some of the more optimistic statements that other
officials have made.
So we're prepared to incorporate that kind of prolonged downturn in some of the forecasts that
we'll provide to the staff and to the Board.
SHELLY COOK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: You good there, Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Madam Chair. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK, sure. Just one quick question. I think a lot of retail, whatever retail spending
remains, and I talked with Heather McKillop about this briefly. But just to get a sense for how
much has shifted to online purchasing because of the delivery options and so forth. And Heather
were saying that at least Amazon collects sales tax. It sounds like we pretty much get our full share.
But in general, for online sales, do you know what percentage we're actually collecting? Or is there
a general number that we know of where they are collecting sales tax or a percentage of retail sales
online?
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I don't have that figure. I don't know if maybe Heather does.
SHELLY COOK: I meant just generally. But yeah. That kind of worries me, especially if that's a
longstanding trend that people shift more and more of their purchases online.
BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: I agree. And we've been talking about this as being-- it's really
perpetuating that shift from bricks and mortar to e-commerce. If we glance at the national numbers,
bricks and mortar retail has grown at maybe 4%, maybe 5% year over year for the last few years.
While e-commerce has grown 15%, 16%, 17%. So e-commerce is still a minority of overall retail
activity. But is gobbling up more and more market share. And this event is making that shift happen
even faster, because we don't know how some of these retailers will be able to survive this sort of
event and be there on the other side.
But I think one other thing that we noted for the Colorado collections is that the state shifted from
a point of sale tax to a destination tax for e-commerce, meaning that if a good is shipped from
Denver to Boulder, then Boulder should receive that tax and vise-versa.
And I'm wondering if we're seeing some faster retail sales tax growth within the Denver metro
region because of the shift in that destination-based taxation. And that's something that we're
looking at. But we have seen stronger growth in metro taxes leading up to this.
SHELLY COOK: Great, thank you. Well, I think that's what we have right now. But I [? want to
?] echo the thanks that others have said for a great presentation, and also for waiting patiently so
that we could still hear from you.

BRIAN LEWANDOWSKI: Thanks for having us.
ROBERT MCNOWN: Very welcome. We appreciate the work of the Board. And we're happy to
serve.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you very much.
OK. Next, Heather McKillop, I show we have a verbal update on our funding status for 2020.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I'll be very brief. I just wanted to give you a long line of what they
were talking about. I think I've been on a lot of webinars lately describing a lot of what they went
through this evening.
Just real quickly, we've done some of our own forecasting just looking at our top 25 industries.
Bad news is, restaurants and car sales and things are at the very top of money generators. Good
news is, the worst I'm estimating that we'll probably see an increase in online shopping as well as
retail marijuana and liquor stores. The other good thing is, we get a sales tax on toilet paper. So
we should see some of those numbers go up.
But the news is pretty bleak. And again, this is just a really preliminary. We will not even see
March numbers now, particularly maybe till June. Because the state has delayed the filing of sales
taxes until April. So that puts us another month without having any numbers, potentially for
knowing where we were, even with sales tax in March.
So right now, I'm estimating between best and worst case to somewhere between $227 million and
$275 million lost for 2020. And that's just 2020. And that really makes it, as we said previously,
makes a big difference just as to whether the stay at home orders are lifted in April or May or June.
And then, how quickly we recover. I've seen estimates anywhere from nine months to a year to
three years for a recovery phase. So we'll see how that plays out over the next several months.
As they mentioned, we'll get their forecast in the next month. And some of the hardest hits we're
facing right now is fare box, with no fare box income for April. We are looking at our cost
assumptions. We're working on projects and programs where we can free up funds. I'm hopefully
going to have that information here in the next week.
We already talked about contracted services. We'll see slight savings there, but not a whole lot.
We will see quite a bit of savings in overtime, assuming the April 19 run Board goes out several
months. And right at this time, we're looking at all expenditures, we have made no assumptions
currently about furloughs or layoffs. But that is always something that we may have to consider,
depending on how far this goes out.
As you probably know, we did get an appropriation of $232 million in federal funds, which is huge
and unheard of. And we have been working with FTA over the last week on how we will bill for
that money again. We have to spend the money first, and then we get reimbursed over time. So
our goal is to bill as quickly as possible so that money is in our hands instead of the Feds in case
they change their mind. I just say that anecdotally. We're all still shocked that we worked so hard

for small amounts of money, and then we get this amount of money. So we want to just bill it as
quickly as possible.
And we'll continue to keep you posted. We'll have an update next month, as soon as we start seeing
their forecasted numbers and how they compare to ours. And we'll see where we go from there. It
is going to be an interesting time as we put together the amended budget in the next month. We'll
have to make a lot of assumptions that we may have to update as the year goes on. That's all I have.
SHELLY COOK: Heather, can you, right quickly before we go around, talk about the scheduling
now. What's our schedule for the amended 2020 budget, the mid-term financial plan, and the long
term financial planning? How is that affected by this?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, it's just a lot of uncertainty, right? So right now, we're going to
focus on the 2020 amended budget. We expect to bring that to you in June for approval, even
though we may not have a lot of information. I need to get the federal money budgeted. And we
need to reduce both sales and use tax and fare box revenue, as well as the expenditures where we're
taking money away from. We want to get that done in the June time frame.
So that will come in front of you in June. And then shortly thereafter, using the Leeds forecast,
we'll start working on updating the '21 through '26 numbers that we showed you last month for
what the expectation might be there.
SHELLY COOK: OK. I'll go ahead and go around and see if folks have questions first. So Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: I don't have any questions. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Nothing. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. No questions.
SHELLY COOK: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: No thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Director Lewis?

SHONTEL LEWIS: I just have one question for Heather. You mentioned the CARES Act. And
one of the questions I had for you. I know the last time you came, you talked about figuring out
how to prioritize that funding and what bucket you all would be creating. And I'm curious as to
where you all are in that process and if you identified the priorities? Or maybe [INAUDIBLE]?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes. So we worked on that this week already. What is today? I don't
know what today is, Tuesday. So yesterday, we spent some time working through that. Our largest
source of expenditures are salaries. So we'll be looking at billing those first.
Then we'll be looking at other contracted services such as our contracted services that we use for
bus services. We'll also be looking at contracted services that we pay out, money we pay out to
DTP. Another large category is salaries for allied, so our GSOs, our security officers. And then
looking at things like fuel and utilities.
So we started with the highest amount of expenditures that we have and we worked our way down.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. That's really helpful. With the salary discussion, have you all had any
discussion about hazard pay to be included in that for staff?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, we have not. If we ended up paying hazard pay, that would increase
the shortfall that we have. As I mentioned, that CARES Act is not expected to cover our losses at
this time. And so that would just add to the amount of additional money we would have to find
someplace else. And what I've been trying to do right now is figure out how to do this without
decimating our reserves. Because we'll need those reserves in 2021.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No. That makes sense. It was mostly a question, just the question of curiosity.
I've seen other transit agencies do something similar, maybe like a combination of hazard pay or
I've seen hero pay where it's a one-time bonus. But I'd be in support of something of that nature
for operators. And so that's what my curiosity was. Thank you so much, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. I think just to follow up on that, what we've been trying to avoid
is laying people off. Because as was mentioned previously, I think by Leeds, the amount of cost it
takes to retrain employees, even if they're only laid off for a few weeks here, we would have to
send them all the way through training again. So our goal is to diminish those costs by avoiding
that if at all possible. It may not be possible. And so by paying that extra pay, that means we would
just have to lay off potentially more people or furlough more people. So that's kind of a yin and
yang we're dealing with right now, is how to work that all out, especially not knowing how bad
this could get.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. That makes sense with the predictions. I do appreciate that, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Uh-huh.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Lubow?

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Heather, I think you answered this indirectly. But I was going to ask
you, are we operating in our reserves yet or pulling them down yet?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, we're not at this time. Our goal is to try to build a [INAUDIBLE]
as quickly as we spend the money so we don't have to touch those reserves till sometime later in
the year, if we have to touch them. Our goal would be to make cost reductions so we wouldn't have
to touch those reserves. Because as I mentioned, we will most likely need some of those reserves
in 2021.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. And that brings up another question that I have, which is that, I assume as
we amend the 2020 budget, that there will be some cuts expected. And I'm wondering, have we
been looking at things in addition to cutting services? There are other things like salaries, like
contracts, I don't know what else. I'm just wondering, yes.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, as I mentioned previously, we're looking up at all projects and
programs. We're looking at the current level of spending for contracted services, because we will
see some savings there. We will see some definite savings on overtime starting April 19th. And
we are scouring the budget for anything else that we can reduce.
What's happened, though, is some of our contracted stuff that we were going to use to buy certain
things for regular operations, those contracts have been now diverted to buy PPE equipment. So
we're seeing increased costs there. And so I'm looking at ways of offsetting that cost first.
The other thing is, that's one of the last things that we'll probably bill for is PPE. Because we're
hoping, I'm hoping that we'll be able to access FEMA money or other money. And usually, that
money is reserved for things very specifically tied to the issue at hand, which would be closer to
the PPE stuff, where we can't get reimbursed for salaries and other things there.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Hello.
SHELLY COOK: Yeah. Go ahead, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I wanted to just go to one comment that you had, Heather. And you
stated that if we had furlough, and the example you used was four weeks, we would have to go
and retrain people. What would require that?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So any time when you have a CDL driver or we have FRA requirements
or even light rail, if they've been off the job for any period of time that you have to do refresher
training. So we do that now if they're on workman's comp or stuff like that and they're out for any
period of time, we have to do that retraining. So we would expect to have to do that retraining on
anybody that we put in that position as far as furloughs.

And so that gets expensive. And so we'd rather not-- we'd rather spend the money on just paying
them a salary. The other thing that I think was mentioned also is, whenever you lay them off, your
unemployment rates go up significantly over time. And so that will come back to bite us in the
future, too. So as much as we can use this money to keep people employed, because that was the
goal, and FTA has made that clear to us. The goal is to keep as many people employed as possible
with the money that they're providing to us. That will be our goal.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So I'm focused on a set of days for furlough. And in the example
I used with Leeds was let's say two or three, maybe four days scattered throughout a month, that
would not require any retraining, correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'd have to defer to-- I'd have to check on that to see, just to give you an
order of magnitude. I've run some numbers. So in order to save like $10 million, we would have
to probably do somewhere upwards of 10 to 14 furlough days. And that's across the board for
everyone, represented and non-represented employees.
And so I've just run some of those numbers. So if you're down to the eight furlough days, then
you're saving about $5 million. And so what we have to weigh is, what are the costs to furlough
those individuals for that amount of time. And does it save us enough money that it's worth doing
that. And then also, we run into implications about being able to use that CARES money. Because
the idea behind that is to keep people employed, just like the small business loan program. They're
supposed to use that to bring their employees back or they have to pay the money back.
So that's a similar philosophy. Although they're not telling us we have to pay the money back, it's
a very similar philosophy of trying to keep as many people employed as possible to prop up the
economy right now. But I can check on the specifics for you and we'll get that out to the Board.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. Outside of the government kind of cave, spreading, let's say it's 14
days and you're spreading that over five months, that's a really small, really small sacrifice
compared to what many are facing. So that is why I'm interested in looking at that.
I mean, for some, you kind of kidded about the tax on toilet paper. I don't even know why we're
charging sales tax on toilet paper. I would consider that an essential item. But I would be interested
in knowing what are the specifics on the retraining issue. And if we did do a furlough, let's say 14
days spread over four months for each and every employee, would that affect CARES Act? But
you can just let me know when you might find some information on that. Thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah. We'll get that back to you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, director. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Nothing from me, Madam Chair. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: I have nothing at this time. Thank you very much.

SHELLY COOK: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Nothing from me. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing more from me. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a question. Heather, the CARES Act
is on a reimbursable basis. So you have to spend the money and then submit the expense and then
it's reimbursable, is that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you for that clarification. That's all I have.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just need a point of clarification. On
the CARE Act, I know that New York asked for $4 billion. And I think LA asked for something
like $1.8 billion. And we got $232 million dollars, which seems like a lot of money. But in
comparison, since we're the 16th largest transit agency in the country, how do they determine how
much money goes to each agency?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is based on our regular formula allocation. And your formula
allocation is based on the number of miles that you operate, the kind of service, so fixed guideway
versus non-fixed guideway, and other things like that. So it's all based on the National Transit
Database's information. Those systems are quite old and quite large. And so they tend to get more
state of good repair money and other things through their formula allocation. And they run quite a
bit more service.
The other thing to keep in mind, too, in those larger organizations is, a lot of our infrastructure is
"newer," quote unquote. So as I pointed out last month when I went through it, that workshop,
we're just going to start getting state of good repair money for FasTrack in 2021. So we have to
wait so many years after we implement a new system before we qualify even for some of these
federal funds. Some of those systems have infrastructure that's been around forever.
So if it was three years from now, we'd receive a higher allocation than we're getting now. But this
is about 2.6 times our normal allocation. So just keep that in mind, that is huge. And yes, it probably
won't be quite enough. But compared to what the cities and counties are getting from this stimulus
package, transit and transportation did quite well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
SHELLY COOK: OK. So just to echo a couple of points, Director Lubow, Director Menten, maybe
some others. Things are still in flux. We don't know exactly where we'll be. But at some point,
you've previously said something like $50 million we might be short for 2020 compared to-- I
mean, even taking into account what we'll get from the federal government.
And then presumably, there may be some ongoing effects. And there will be decisions that we
make. And I'm just wanting to say, to the extent there are trade offs between furloughing somebody
on a 80% basis for some period of time I think similar to what Director Menten was talking about,
versus retaining some fuller level of employment or going to contracts or looking at some service
curtailment, those in their core are policy matters. They're sort of laden with the value judgments
that I think are what the Board needs to be involved in, especially as we get into long term effects.
So what I'm hoping not to see is a set of recommendations that you bring forward with the values
you bring to it and that you assume and that we've carried through in our goals. Instead, having a
chance as a Board to weigh in with some guidance or some first principles about that sort of thing,
looking at the different tools that you might have, being able to weigh the trade offs, especially if
we're looking at long term shifts, long term restructuring.
So I don't know how we do that. And I'd like to talk to you about it. But I just want to echo a couple
of the points and add that piece.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis. Director Cook, I just want to tell you, thank you for
saying that. I absolutely agree.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. All righty. Boy, not an easy thing to talk about, I'll tell you.
So the next item is the promotional fares pilot program update. And I show that is Bill Van Meter.
Are you with us, Bill?
BILL VAN METER: Yes, I am. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning.
I'll take you through this very quickly. You'll recall in February that staff came back to the Board
and provided an update on the promotional fare pilot program and informed the Board that our
discussions with the federal Transit Administration indicated some opportunities to explore, some
other approaches to the promotional fare pilot program beyond just doing the six month N Line [?
pilot. ?]
Those options are presented in this package and in this update tonight. You had a chance to see it
in advance. Staff looked at option two, which is expanding the extent of the program beyond the
N Line by extending the fare boundary for local fares from 9 1/2 miles to 12 1/2 miles per rail or
bus and rail.
And we looked at the projected ridership impact based on our elasticities of demand, ridership and
fare revenue forecast impact, provide a number of other considerations for the board's benefit. And
then we provide a staff recommendation. And our recommendation is to move forward with the

originally specified and laid out promotional fare pilot program, given a whole number of
considerations, including our projections that extending the fare boundary would have a negative
financial impact on our budget in the range on an annualized basis, $4 million to $6 1/2 million
additional hit to our budget.
And given all the information you just heard from the Leeds school and from our CFO as well as
the fact that sticking with the original N Line only will still give us valuable insights on the fare
elasticity, the demand response, and fulfill that mission, give the Board and staff some really good
insights to make decisions on. Regardless, staff's recommendation is to stay the course. But we
wanted to lay these options out for you and hear whether the Board has any feedback this evening.
That concludes my attempt at a quick recap.
SHELLY COOK: OK. And I would like to add here that they're seeking a head nod from us about
which option we'd like to continue forward with. So as you go around, or as I go around, feel free
to ask questions. But if you already know, please indicate which of the options you'd prefer. So
Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: I would support option number one. And I don't have any questions.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. Really unfortunate that option 2A, I think, in another
time would have been pretty interesting to take a harder look at. But based on our financial situation
now, I think option one, the already approved option is the only way to go. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I definitely preferred option two. But under our current
circumstances, I think we just have to fall back to option one.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, I concur. Option one. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree. Option one in our situation. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I actually, before I tell you which option, I had a few
questions for the staff. And I'll keep it brief. The first question I have this, we've talked about
projections quite a bit. And I'm curious as to how those projections change during the pandemic.

BILL VAN METER: There, if I may, this Bill Van Meter, AGM planning. Yeah. These projections
were made pre-COVID-19 impacts. And we really have made no adjustments. It would be nigh on
impossible for the same reasons that we heard earlier, that it's very difficult to predict sales and
use tax and other economic impacts to understand or forecast what these impacts would be. So this
is presuming a case where we're somewhere back near normal. Again, made before and preCOVID-19. No adjustments made for COVID-19.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That makes sense. Thank you that response. I just wonder if it makes sense
for us to be considering this at this time, considering that what we might [AUDIO OUT], there
aren't any updated projections attached to this proposal. And that we haven't considered what this
means in the face of COVID and if it makes the most sense for us to be having this discussion at
all. It might just be a moot point right now. Because we wouldn't have projections for during
COVID.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, if I may, this is Bill Van Meter.
SHELLY COOK: Yeah, please go ahead.
BILL VAN METER: AGM Planning. Yeah. So the intent would be for this program-- obviously,
the direction from the Board is for this program to go into effect for the N Line only, option one.
And that is what we're working towards when the N Line opens so that the whole quarter will be
a local fare, COVID-19 or no COVID-19.
And although ridership quite possibly and probably will be lower when we open the N Line later
this year, it will be commensurately lower throughout the system. And one could expect that the
relative impacts, financial and ridership, will still be in the ballpark of what we are looking at here,
even with or without COVID-19.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Is that fair to say? So if we look at package page 74, the ridership and revenue
impact is everywhere. I'm having a hard time with it. Is it fair to say that we shouldn't expect to
have impacts to ridership, particularly after the presentation we've just seen from the Leeds folks?
I don't know. It just seems like if there's fare revenue impacts, the ridership impacts, it may be in
our best interest to re-run those projections, at least based on the declines we've seen in ridership.
It just doesn't feel like a report or a recommendation or something we should move forward during
current times because the circumstances aren't the same. And we haven't even-- and I may be
missing this. But it doesn't feel like that was taken into account in the proposal and presentation of
this.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So this is Heather. If I can.
SHELLY COOK: Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Maybe you try to address or restate what Bill said. So we did talk about
what that impact might look at. What he's referring to is, when we start coming back, we're going
to need as much revenue as possible. And what we're saying in our recommendation is that this is

not the best time to be giving up additional revenue in other lines, potentially as we come back
into service from a financial standpoint.
So it would just compound the problem if we go with another option other than just looking at the
original option, which was the N Line and its impacts of before and after ridership. I don't know if
that helped or not, but that was the discussion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sorry, Heather. No, it does help. It does help. But it does beg the question, if
those statements are true, and that's a concern of ours, why would we be doing this right-- an
additional option, we have a fourth option, which would be to not consider this promotional fare
on any line at this point if revenue is a concern for us. I guess that's what I'm trying to say. And
maybe I'm not being clear.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. That's a true statement, what you just said. We just didn't believe
that was an option that the Board would support at this time.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Gotcha. I-- sorry about that.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No problem.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So my answer, sorry, Heather. I just wanted to be very clear. And it's late and
I'm going to let you all go. My response is option, let's not do this right now. That's not on this
paper and I recognize that. It just doesn't seem like the right time.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. Option one for me. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Some people call this NOTA, which stands for none of the above.
SHELLY COOK: So are you with Director Lewis on kind of option zero?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yep.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah. I would confirm that the litany of the results from option one to be less
than ideal. I mean, it's going to be the case going forward. But with the extenuating circumstances,
I'd say option one but with the caveat that I don't know that we're going to learn as much as we
would have liked to.
SHELLY COOK: Yeah. Thank you. Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Knowing that Bill Van Meter was on the Dr. Cobb
call with us at 8:30 this morning along with a number of other Directors, of course, I do applaud
his endurance and dedication. That said, I would have to say option one for now is sort of
compelled upon us. But we do have, I will just note for the record, we have the ability to revisit
this all in the future a year from now or whenever to look at something like option 2A or 2B since
the FTA has given us the green light to do that.
So I think that's something that we ought to be able to communicate to our constituents for the
future. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. I'm of the mindset that we shouldn't be doing this at all right now, given
our financial situation for a couple of reasons. Number one, the money. Number two, I don't think
we're going to find out the information that we expected to find out because the jobs are going to
be different and the housing starts are going to be different and the development patterns, I expect
that those will be different for some time to come. So whatever information we hope to gain, I
don't know if we'll be able to because the situation has changed so much, as has been stated already.
But I think if we were going to do something, that we should do something that has the biggest
impact for the most people, which would be 2A. And I know that's a big hit for this agency, but
this agency is to support the local economy. And I think that expanding the local fare does reach
that end, or at least reaches toward that end of supporting the local economy. Budgets mean nothing
anymore. So I'd be for option two.
SHELLY COOK: OK.
JEFF WALKER: Of these three. Long term, I don't even think we should be doing it, doing any of
these. But if we're going to do something, let's do 2A. That's my-- That's it. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes. I'll stick with option one. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm inclined to be with Director Walker and the others. I mean, I don't see
that we have any place to be making any of these changes based on the fact that the world has
changed. And any projections that we had in the past are immaterial at the moment. And right now,
we are fare free everywhere. So it seems a little ridiculous to me.
But I would be inclined to agree that we should be with 2A. If we were going to do something,
which I don't think we're going to do anything right now, that we should do it for all. So that's all
I have to say.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you. Thank you. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have to agree with Director Williams.
That would be 2A. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: And for my part, I would sort of like to weigh in there as well. But what I think
I'd like to do is say I agree with Director Tisdale. So one, for the near term. But as we head into a
recovery, I presume we're going to have to coax people back into our vehicles and our trains and
things like that.
And that, plus the fact that many will be unemployed we hear, incomes will have gone down. This
would be a chance to help the region in that way, maybe attract more people and get a better sense
for the elasticity that we have in a changed time.
So I guess I'd go along with Director Tisdale and say number one would be my choice. And I think
just eyeballing it, that most people, the majority of people favored that. But keep this in our back
pocket for a possible strategy coming out of the pandemic. Does that work for you all?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hi, this is Director Lewis.
BILL VAN METER: Chair, this is Bill Van Meter. That's great.
SHELLY COOK: Who was weighing in there? Was that Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Yes, Chair.
SHELLY COOK: OK. You want to recap or go ahead? Go right ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, if I could. I just have a question about process. I just want to know, if
we're giving a head nod, I know some directors have supported option A, or the first option, the
second option or 2A. And I guess, what are the next steps towards that? I just want to make sure I
understand [? it. ?]
SHELLY COOK: Sure. Go ahead, Bill.
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. So was hoping to hear some
relatively clear direction. I believe I did. And so unless I hear otherwise, the direction that I
understood from what we just went through this evening is that a strong feel of the Board is to stay
the course with the original promotional fares pilot program trial on the N Line as originally
approved by this Board back in November of last year. And not to expand or modify it in some
other way.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I just have to-- thank you so much, Bill, Mr. Van Meter. I really
appreciate it. I'll just have to share my confusion. It seems like this is-- I know you all have
presented this as a head nod. But this feels like something that-- it feels like a vote. I know that's
not the way in which it's been presented. And I assume-- [AUDIO OUT].
BILL VAN METER: Not--

SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm sorry?
BILL VAN METER: Yeah. I'm sorry. This is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Not intended that
way at all. And we would be certainly happy and capable of bringing back a structured action for
consideration, as we noted at the May Financial Administration and Audit committee, if that is
also the direction or interest of the Board and of the Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I'll just speak for one director and that is myself.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me. This is Director Catlin.
SHELLY COOK: Let's start-- let's go in order. So I heard Director Catlin, Director Broom, or
Director Buzek. Do either of you have a question or want to comment on that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Hey. This is Director Lewis. I wasn't quite finished. So do you mind if I just
finish up here?
SHELLY COOK: Oh, sorry. Go right ahead. Yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I will only speak for myself. I'm just one director and I
only have one to work with for myself. But it would make me much more comfortable if this were
presented as a recommended action with potentially even the additional, you don't do nothing for
right now during this uncertainty, I would be comfortable with that. And that's all I have for you,
Chair. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. And Director Catlin, you were wanting to weigh in there.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree with Director Lewis. And my preference was for option two. But given
the economic circumstances, I was saying that I would support option one. But I'm very concerned
about proceeding with this. And so I would yield to staffs judgment as to whether or not we need
to even proceed with this, given that we're not even collecting fares right now. Because I think that
the data would be meaningless.
SHELLY COOK: So if I can weigh in there, I think it's helpful. Bill, correct me if I'm wrong. But
we probably need to proceed or not pretty quickly because of timing issues with the N Line. And
for my part, I feel like we made a commitment there. Especially if we stick with option one, we're
minimizing the impact, especially with the point that Director Lewis made, that ridership is likely
to be lower than we've seen otherwise. So anybody else have any comments they want to weigh in
on that?
BOB BROOM: Madam Chair?
SHELLY COOK: Yes, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: When is the N Line going to open?

KATE WILLIAMS: That would be the question.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, this is Paul Ballard, General Manager, CEO. I could weigh in on that.
SHELLY COOK: Yes, please do.
PAUL BALLARD: Well, we're making very good progress on the N Line. We are signing off on
the agreements with the Denver Transit Partnership that we need to co-occupy the tracks at Union
Station to have our dispatching. There were some insurance questions. So there are three
agreements. The most challenging one was signed off on Friday. We expect the other two to follow
very quickly.
As far as construction, we're doing very well. We fully expect to take over and do final acceptance
of the right of way the first week of May. There'll still be some cleanup, some landscaping, a few
issues. We have a parking garage that we're still making some adjustments on. Training is going
on, so at this point in time, we're working towards a start up of service consistent with when we
do our fall service change, whether that's in late August or in September. We're still working on
those dates. So everything is looking good for August or September.
BOB BROOM: Well, it seems to me like we ought to keep our commitment to the people along
the N Line. I mean, we agreed we were going to try this fare program. And just to constantly
bounce back and forth between, do something and not do something, if you look at the numbers,
even if only half as many people rode, it's a very small amount of lost revenue that you're talking
about in six months. It's not even a rounding error in our budget.
I think our words should be worth more than a rounding error. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Thank you, Director Broom. Anybody else want to weigh in or just allow this
to move forward as we-VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. Director Buzek.
SHELLY COOK: Director Buzek. Go right ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. Yeah, I agree with Director Broom. This was kind of a hard fought
battle. And everyone in the north end is anticipating this, notwithstanding the current situation. To
go back on our word once again would really defeat any potential gain that you would get from
not doing the program financially. And I think it's foolhardy to even think like that. Thanks.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Anybody else want to weigh in?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, this is Lynn.
SHELLY COOK: Go ahead.

LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree with that. And I also think that, to echo what you had said earlier,
that as we start to figure out where we're cutting, we need to have some guiding principles and
look at things. This was a decision by the Board that's moving forward. So to pull it out and get
rid of it before we look at all our other programs and everything else seems inappropriate to me.
And I say, let's move forward.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you. Anybody else?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. This is Judy.
SHELLY COOK: Go ahead, Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I've been having some mixed feelings because of the concern with
the data and how clear it would be given the changes that we're going through economically. But
it seems to me that it's incredibly important to keep our word about moving forward with this thing.
And that's worth more than the problems, I think, with the data. So I would urge going forward.
Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: Anybody else want to weigh in?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, Madam Chair. I would, too.
SHELLY COOK: Go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I think that this has been a very long evening for all of us. But
when I go back and think about taking all of the mayors on that tour of the N Line on Valentine's
Day, which seems like nine years ago, we really worked very hard to extend our hand in
collaboration and in our words. And you know, the whole night's been like this. But I really do
believe we need to stick to what we agreed to do in the spirit of collaboration and inclusion.
And so I absolutely agree. We need to keep moving forward with what we committed to as a
Board. Thank you.
SHELLY COOK: OK. I agree. And with everyone's permission, I would like to move off of this
item. Are we good on that? Anybody have any overriding real concern about doing that? Or else
we're just going to move on with that as the direction.
BOB BROOM: Move on. Move on.
SHONTEL LEWIS: When you say move on with that, are you saying-- hi, this is Director Lewis.
When you say move on, are you saying move on with option one?
SHELLY COOK: Yeah. It seems like the great number of people, the greater number of people-I don't have an exact count because it wasn't a vote. But I did kind of eyeball it. And looked to me
like there was a substantial majority who favored that and then some who strongly favor

maintaining our commitment. So given that, given those things, I feel like the sense of the Board
is that we should proceed with option one.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I will just say for the sake of the record that I'm most comfortable with
option 2A. I'm concerned about doing it on the N Line only. And not necessarily that I'm not in
support of the N Line. It's been a long time coming, but I think it would be beneficial for us to
have a true comparison with having bus and rail being a part of that promotional fare and being
able to collect that data. So I'll just state that for the sake of the record. And I'm comfortable with
moving on.
SHELLY COOK: OK. Thank you very much, Director Lewis. All righty. So we-BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLY COOK: Yes. Go ahead.
BARBARA MCMANUS: It's Barbara McManus. The tally was 11 for option one.
SHELLY COOK: Oh, thank you. Thank you very much. Then we have two items left, the February
2020 monthly financial status report and the LiVE program update. I'm just going to ask if we can
let that be sort of de facto update item tonight or information item tonight. And if we have
questions, bring them to the staff or if it needs to be brought back to another agenda, we could do
that. But we're really close to midnight. I'd like to go ahead and see the meeting adjourned.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook, this is Shontel Lewis.
SHELLY COOK: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I respect that. I do have a quick question for Heather because I've emailed a
few times about the LiVE program. And it would be really helpful because I've been waiting for a
while.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah. We've all been waiting for a while. Director Cook, this is Director
Folska. Madam Chair, excuse me. It is late and I highly respect your thought of adjourning the
meeting. And if anyone has information they need on these other information items, they should
email it to the Board and get their answers that way. But this is ridiculously long.
SHONTEL LEWIS: With all-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Yep.
SHELLY COOK: --an option, Director Lewis. Let's do that and then that way, we can all decide.
We can all think about it. And then send those in. They get circulate to us with the answers and
comments.

So I will go ahead and do that. And I'd like entertain the motion to adjourn.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Cook, this is Shontel Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll move to adjourn.
NATALIE MENTEN: Wait, wait, wait. Hey.
SHELLY COOK: We're going to go with that. I don't mean to overrule you, but we've got a little
process here that will allow us all to move forward but still get the information. So who moved?
NATALIE MENTEN: Menten.
SHELLY COOK: Director Malpiede. OK. And seconded Rivera-Malpiede. Everybody in favor
please aye.
NATALIE MENTEN: Director Cook.
SHELLY COOK: Yes?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would just like an answer for why we didn't have the executive session.
We didn't get that information at the beginning. And I'm wondering with such an important matter
as the state auditor, what does that mean?
SHELLY COOK: He bailed, that's all. He just bailed. It sounds like it was just too late.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HEATHER MCKILLOP: --and they would like to do it next week.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
SHELLY COOK: I want to complete the vote. Anybody opposed to the motion to adjourn?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I am. Director Lewis.
SHELLY COOK: OK. One person opposed. Director Lewis, thank you very much for letting us
know. So we've got 14 in favor and one opposed, that being Director Lewis. And with respect, I'm
so sorry, I'm going to go ahead and adjourn the meeting. Thank you all.

