Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

December 16, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on
December 16, 2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Pro Tem Tayer, Secretary Malpiede, and
Treasurer Bagley,
Other Board Members
Present:
Directors Daly, Hoy
Subject:

I.

Board Member Absent:
Others Present:

Cohen and Kemp
Paula Perdue, Assistant General Manager
Genova for General Manager Washington, Ron
Bibeau, Sherry Ellebracht, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois,
Jennifer Brandeberry, Julie McKenna

Call to Order:

Chair Pro Tem Tayer called the meeting to order
at 12:05 p.m.

Discussion of Proposed Legislative Bill
Director Daly introduced this item. Sherry Ellebracht provided some
amended language drafted by general counsel to section 32-9-119.9 of the
RTD ACT pertaining to the provision of parking facilities by third parties at or
near RTD mass transit stations. Sherry also distributed talking points to this
issue.
Director Daly shared he had been in contact with the Directors pertaining to
proposed bill. Eleven of the Board members did not have a problem with the
bill. Director O’Boyle would like to see the change in the language.
Jennifer Brandeberry explained this is not an action item for the Board
members to vote on but they wanted some general direction from the Board
on if they should seek sponsorship for this particular legislation.
Bill Sirois explained the possible scenarios where this change may be
beneficial: This could enhance the use of the RTD facilities especially where
it is already an RTD designated parking property or where RTD currently has
a parking surface and the city or county may want to enhance it with a
structure (i.e. Arvada). In these cases, this would not impact on some of
the concerns expressed around eminent domain where RTD would take
property and use portions of the property for this purpose. Dave Genova
stated that with this bill, it could help test the waters for a recommendation

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 7
on parking management charge that came out of the fiscal sustainability
committee.
Chair Pro Tem Tayer expressed some concern around how the language was
worded and Jennifer Brandeberry indicated she will talk to Marla Lien
regarding the revision of the language. Director Bagley inquired how this
might affect property acquired by federal funds. Bill Sirois responded he
does not anticipate that it will as long as the focus is on making the use of
the property/land more efficient and not for acquiring property to be used for
this purpose.
Jennifer Brandeberry indicated there were a couple of other bills they
wanted to bring to the Board’s attention. Chair Pro Tem Tayer indicated a
discomfort with the full Board not able to hear or at least be notified that a
legislative report/action was brought before the Executive Committee.
Sherry Ellebracht will look to getting a meeting scheduled in January or at
the January study session for discussion of these other items.
II.

Recommended Action
Local Government Liaison Services
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No. 11DX-001 for Local Government Liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc.
(CRL) for one-year (January 1, 2012 through December 31, 2012), at a
cost of $90,000, and for four (4) additional one-year options to renew at
prices specified in the Contract, each option period contingent upon
approval by the Board of Directors pursuant to the Contract Award
agreement.
Ron Bibeau, purchasing agent, shared information on the process used
for this RFP. 37 RFP’s were sent out and they received 8 responses.
The list was shortlisted to three very good proposals. These three
participated in oral interviews and CRL came out on top in their
knowledge base and approach. This was a unanimous decision by the
evaluation panel.
Sherry Ellebracht added this used to be a small component of the PI
contract. However, it has been pulled from FasTracks and will allow a
more focused, targeted effort to make RTD visible on a local level. Roger
Sherman and Kim Kucera with CRL will be managing this effort. With
this contract, there will be a developed work plan that will help RTD to
better track and evaluate the effort.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
move the Local Government Liaison
Services to the full Board for approval on
December 20, 2011.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Vote on the

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 7
Motion:
III.

The Motion PASSED.

December Board Meeting Agenda review
Assistant General Manager Genova introduced this item. There were no
questions pertaining to this agenda.
Motion:
Director Bagley made the motion to
approve moving the December Board
Meeting Agenda to the full Board for
approval.
Director Malpiede seconded the motion.
Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

Assistant General Manager Genova requested if we would prepare for an
overflow to the December 20 Board meeting in anticipation of a large
number of public guests. Director Tayer spoke to trying to have a more
structured approach for recognizing retirees in the event a large number of
them show.


Unanimous Consent


FasTracks Citizen Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the Nominating Committee for the FasTracks
Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint three members of
the Committee to an additional three-year term and appoint three new
members to the Committee to a three-year term.



Property Acquisition for Eagle P3
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution
certifying certain additional properties as necessary for construction
of the Eagle P3 Commuter Rail Project and the associated Commuter
Rail Maintenance Facility and authorizing staff to proceed with all
requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.



Recommendation for the approval of the five (5) year option and
additional fee request for Insurance Brokerage and Administrative
Service
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager approve the
option to extend the period of performance of the contract for five (5)
years and to add an additional $500,000.00 to the option price to
Marsh USA to provide Professional Services for Insurance Brokerage

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 7
and Administrative Services on the Rolling Owner Controlled
Insurance Program (ROCIP). Funding for this contract in 2012 is
included in the 2012 Adopted expense budget for the FasTracks
program, and funding for this contract in future years is included in
the FasTracks financial plan.


Extension of Street Improvement Contract with Manion Construction
It is recommended by the Planning & Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to award a contract
amendment to initiate the third and final year of a three-year option
contract for the annual Street Improvements & Shelter Installation
contract with Manion Construction, Inc. for $334,834.00. Funding
for this contract amendment is provided in the 2012 Adopted Capital
Budget in the Street Improvements and Bus Shelters projects.



Parking Easement – 6,206 sq. ft. of land below the Light Rail Bridge
structure and appurtenances in the West Corridor at West 6 th
Avenue, approximately 685 feet west of Quail Street, in Lakewood,
adjacent to the former Kacey Fine Furniture
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to grant a 6,206 sq. ft.
parking easement for customer and employee parking below the light
rail bridge structure and appurtenances on the West Corridor at West
6th Avenue, approximately 685 feet west of Quail Street, in
Lakewood, Colorado to KMH Investments, LLC. RTD would receive
$42,000.00 as consideration for the easement.



Termination of Lease Agreement between Fiddler’s Business
Improvement District and the Regional Transportation District
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to execute all documents necessary to terminate the Lease between
the Fiddler’s Business Improvement District and RTD for additional
public parking spaces for RTD transit customers in the vicinity of the
RTD Arapahoe Light Rail Station on the west side of I-25.



Approval of 2012 Contract Award to Virtegic Group Incorporated for
the FasTrack Public Information, Communications and Public
Outreach Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve a one-year contract award with four one-year options,
negotiated annually between RTD and Consultant Staff, and awarded
annually by the RTD Board of Directors at the discretion of RTD, to
Virtegic Group Incorporated, to serve as the FasTracks Public
Information, Communications and Public Outreach Consultant, for
an amount not to exceed $451,459.20 for the year 2012. Funds

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 7
for the award are contained in the 2012 FasTracks Budget.


Recommendation for Amendment to Intergovernmental Agreements
with the City and County of Denver for the Eagle Project
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to negotiate and
amend the existing Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City
and County of Denver (City) for the East Corridor for RTD to, as part
of the Eagle Project, (a) add sufficient additional track to facilitate one
additional station, such station to be paid for by an entity other than
RTD; (b) amend the design of the structures along Peña Boulevard to
allow an additional track and a second additional station to be added
in the future with both of these future elements to be paid by an
entity other than RTD; and (c) grade separate Tower Road and Green
Valley Ranch Boulevard (also known as 48 th Avenue). The agreement
shall also include provisions that require the City to make certain
drainage improvements in the area of 31 st and 36th Streets, and to
provide fiber optic connections from each grade crossing on the Eagle
Project within the City and County of Denver to the City and County
of Denver control center, all at no cost to RTD. Furthermore, the IGA
will address funding of the described improvements.
It is further recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to negotiate and amend the existing
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) with the City and County of
Denver on behalf of its Department of Aviation for the East
Corridor/Denver International Airport that responsibility for
construction of certain areas at Denver International Airport (DIA) be
submitted to binding arbitration if the parties cannot agree on that
responsibility.



Approval of 2012 Internal Audit Schedule
It is recommended by the Finance, Administration and Audit
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve the proposed
schedule of internal audits to be performed in 2012.



Parking Management
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
to modify the 2008 Parking Management Program to eliminate the
provisions for 50% demand management discounts for low demand
facilities and to retain all other provisions.



Award of “Group 23” Contracted Fixed-route Services
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the provision of
“Group 23” contracted fixed-route transit services with First Transit,
Inc. This contract is for three years for an amount not to exceed

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 7
$60,745,747 with two (2) one-year options in the amount of
$21,417,815 (option year 1) and $21,855,925 (option year 2), for a
total five year amount not to exceed $104,019,487. In addition, RTD
will reimburse the contractor’s direct fuel costs in an amount
estimated to be approximately $12,195,466 for the initial three year
contract term, $4,328,399 for option year 1, $4,444,350 for option
year 2, for a total of $20,968,215 for the five year period. This
results in a total contract amount not to exceed $72,941,213 for the
initial three year contract period and $124,987,702 for the five year
period. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible
proposal received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 11-DH028, to provide “Group 23” Public Transportation Services. The
contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective with
implementation of the May, 2012, service changes on May13, 2012.


Recommended Action
 Denver Union Station Historic Building Re-Use Developer Negotiations
The Financial Administration & Audit Committee recommends support
of the Staff recommendation, which is consistent with the
recommendation of the evaluation panel, for the DUS Historic
Building RFP and requests that the RTD Board authorize the General
Manager and/or his designee to begin negotiations with the Union
Station Alliance (USA) team for purposes of establishing a contract
for the re-use of historic Denver Union Station. Upon successful
completion of negotiations with USA, the General Manager and/or his
designee will bring those terms to the RTD Board of Directors for
approval. If negotiations are not successful, the General Manager
and/or his designee will inform the Board and provide alternatives for
proceeding forward with the re-use of the historic DUS building at
that time. As a part of the negotiation process, the General Manager
wants to acknowledge to the Board that he will be seeking to hire
outside legal counsel to assist with the negotiation process at a not
to exceed limit of $200,000. This amount is within the General
Manager’s budgetary authority as authorized by the RTD Board of
Directors.
 Award of Local Government Liaison Service
It is recommended by the Executive Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into Contract No.
11-DX-001 for Local Government Liaison services with CRL
Associates, Inc. (CRL) for one-year (January 1, 2012 through
December 31, 2012), at a cost of $90,000, and for four (4)
additional one-year options to renew at prices specified in the
Contract, each option period contingent upon approval by the Board
of Directors pursuant to the Contract Award agreement.

IV.

Next Steps on General Manager’s Evaluation

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on December 15, 2011,
at 12:00 p.m.
Page 7 of 7
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee
Chair Bagley spoke to the next steps. The Board will enter into an
executive session at the December 20 meeting to talk about personnel
matters, general manager’s evaluation review. The Board will have a
chance to speak to the General Manager related to their assessment. The
Board will come out of executive session and have a public vote on the
resolution pertaining to the General Manager’s performance. All of this is
in accordance with the General Manager contract and recommendations
from the state audit. Chair Pro Tem Tayer added this is a good process
and just makes good business sense. Director Daly added this is a 300%
improvement. Director Malpiede complimented Director Bagley on his
leadership on this committee. Director Bagley commented this is a good
team who made all of this happen.

V.

Re-districting Status Update
Director Hoy, Chair of the ad hoc Re-Districting committee, provided an
update on the process and timeline. He shared that the re-districting has
to be completed before March 15, 2012 and the committee is well on
track. Based on the recent census, the committee is targeting a
population range +- 169K-187K for each district.
The next steps involve the committee completing their work and providing
a recommendation by January 3rd. This will be socialized with the
respective Board members from January 4 through January 31 to allow
chance for input or changes. He and Director McMullen will head these
sessions. Alternatives will be presented at the January 31 study session
with recommendation before committee on February 7. The target date
for final board approval is February 21, 2012.
Director Hoy will send a copy of the process and timeline to the full
Board.

VI.

Other Matters
 Director Hoy shared that a new director for District K has been
appointed-Kathi Williams, a former Board member.

VII.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 1:05 p.m.

