Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Monday, December 10, 2007
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

December 10, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Monday,
December 10, 2007 at 5:00 pm.
***

Board Members
Present:

John Tayer, Vice Chair; Directors; Busck, Kinton, and McMullen. Director
Yamrick via phone

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Phil Washington, Joe Smith, Robert Merriman, Teresa
Sedmak, Paula Perdue, Jim Sutton, Pam Ferguson

Others Present:

Jim Jennings, Steve Fischer, Kevin Flynn – Rocky Mountain News

Call to Order:

Vice-Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:05 PM.

1.

ERP Update
Phil Washington, Assistant General Manger of Administration, and his team
provided an update on the ERP implementation with particular emphasis on the 1.5
maintenance and parts inventory module. In general some challenges have been
encountered in the maintenance and parts inventory associated primarily with the
Planners Workbench interface but they are optimistic that short-term and long term
plans are in place to mitigate overall service degradation risks.
Phil Washington indicated the next big milestone will be the rollout of the 2.0,
salary payroll module the first week in January. The current plan is to run parallel
with the existing system and to perform a statistical comparison on the results.
Phil Washington and his team will check for abnormalities before making the
important go/no go decision with 2.0.
Phil Washington indicated the team would brief F&A on a quarterly basis.
Director Tayer requested a quick update in January on the payroll implementation.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Monday, December 10, 2007
Page 2

2.

October Financial Status Report
Robert Merriman, Manger of Budget and Finance Analysis, reviewed the
highlights of the October Financial Status Report.








October 2007 had 23 weekdays as opposed to 22 weekdays in Oct
2006.
Total October 2007 revenue bus service boardings were estimated to be
10.7% higher then October 2006.
Total revenue service boardings were estimated to be 20.7% higher in
October 2007 then in October 2006.
Revenue bus service boardings were estimated to have increased 6.8%
year-to-date October 2007 over the same period in 2006, while total
revenue service boardings increased 17.3% when comparing the same
two periods.
2007 year-to-date combined sales and use Tax up 4% over 2006 yearto-date and 1.6% lower than planned
Farebox revenue is 16.9% higher than year-to-date October 2006 and
10.5% higher year-to-date than planned

Robert also indicated that October 2006 sales tax was unusually low.
3.

Regional Sales Tax Model
Joe Smith indicated that RTD will be going back to review the current model and to
look at other methodology to see what the market has to offer in sales tax forecast
models. They plan to issue a RFP and hope to get back to the Board in the
February/March timeframe.
Director Busck queried about what emergency funding allowance RTD has.
Cal Marsella responded generally they use a 5% operational budget as well as
maintain a mandatory Tabor.

4.

Annual Review of RTD Investment Policy
Teresa Sedmak, Manager of Debt and Investments, indicated that this is an annual
review of the investment policy. She also indicated that they are in process of
bringing in an outside manager investment. The contract should be effective in
January 2008. She anticipates that when the manager is on board they will come
back with recommended changes such as separate portfolio into separate parts
short, medium and longer term and having a benchmark appropriate to each
duration adjusted mixes.
The total dollar amount of the contract was within the General Manager’s signing
authority and therefore did not come to board for approval.

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Monday, December 10, 2007
Page 3
5.

Annual Review - Interest Rate Swap Policy
Teresa Sedmak went over this discussion item with the Financial/Administration
Committee and indicated that: Currently, the District is counterparty to three
interest rate swap transactions. The swaps, in the notional amount of $200 million
each ($600 million total notional), were executed on December 3, 2006 with USB
AG, The Royal Bank of Canada and J.P. Morgan Chase Bank, N.A. for the purpose
of locking in attractive borrowing rates on the District’s anticipated 2010
FasTracks borrowing, thereby mitigating a portion of the interest rate exposure
inherent in the FasTracks financial plan.

6.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

7.

Next Meeting
The next Financial/Administration Committee meeting will be in January, 2008.

8.

Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Vice-Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting 5:55 pm.

