Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on January 13, 2009
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 13, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee Meeting held on
January 13, 2009 in Rooms R, T and D
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Director Busck

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Bill Porter, Phil Washington, Scott Reed, Dave
Genova, Terry Howerter, Bill Van Meter, Carolyn Conover, Ron
Dodsworth, Tony McCaulay, Brian Matthews, Daria Serna, John Tarbert,
Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Cal Shankster

Others Present:

Eric Biga (Veolia), Bruce Behncke (Veolia), Jim Wolf (Veolia), Lydia
Evanson (Veolia), Pierre Dehnecke (Veolia), Kevin Flynn (The Rocky
Mountain News)

Call to Order:
I.

Chair Bruce Daly, Director Bagley, Director Brohl, Director Christopher,
Director Chacon, Director Cohen, Director James, Director Kemp,
Director Martinez, Director McMullen, Director O’Boyle, Director Pulliam,
Director Tayer, Director Tobiassen

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 7:10 p.m.

Recommended Actions
a. May 2009 Service Changes - Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager,
Customer and Contracted Services introduced this action and stressed that
these are not normal times for the District in terms of Service Changes.
Given the economic climate, staff is recommending service cuts that go
beyond the normal adjustments staff would recommend on a quarterly basis.
Bill Porter, Manager Service Planning/Scheduling, gave the overview of the
proposed changes. Staff is in the process of scheduling twelve public hearings
for the first week of February for public input on the proposed changes.

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 2 of 3
Director Kemp asked if the District was to receive money from the stimulus
could some of these changes be revisited. Mr. Abel said that as the “voice of
gloom” this would probably not be the first round of service cuts. If money was
received, the changes would be revisited in the August 2009 Service Changes.
Director Kemp asked a question for Director Busck (who was absent) about the
criteria that staff follows for service cuts. Are the criteria pretty aggressive or
is it standard and something other agencies use in considering their service
changes?
Mr. Porter said the District’s service standards are a bit more advanced than
other properties. The figures used are boarding per in service vehicle hour and
then subsidy per boarding and then it is broken down by categories of service as
there are different standards for urban, suburban, regional, express, and call-nRide.
Director Kemp asked if RTD is very aggressive in its cuts or is it more status
quo.
Mr. Marsella said that there isn’t really an absolute answer to that. Every
system ranks their routes from the top to the low producers. Usually every
agency starts at the bottom when it comes to cuts.
Director Brohl asked about the service change summaries and requested that the
Districts that are affected could be listed with each Route.
Mr. Porter
responded that this could be done.
Director O’Boyle spoke about Parker being highly affected by these service
changes and that he was very concerned and is already getting some feedback
from the public in opposition to these cuts.
Director Christopher asked about the District’s agreement with Denver Public
Schools. Mr. Abel responded that the original target was to be revenue neutral
and the District is very close to this. Director Christopher asked for a cost
analysis on this program.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve moving the proposed May 3, 2009 Service Changes
on to public review and comment.

Motion:

Director Martinez
made a motion for
full approval before
the Board at the

Summary of the Operations/Customer Service Committee meeting held on December 9,
2008
Page 3 of 3
January 20, 2009
Board Meeting.
Second:

Vote
On Motion:

II.

Director Chacon
seconded the
motion.

The motion passed
unanimously.

Other Matters – Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager Security, Safety and Facilities
gave a brief update on the Parking Management Plan. Implementation will begin on
February 4, 2009 at four park-n-Rides: Stapleton, Wagon Rd, Thornton, and 40th/Airport.
During the first thirty days; employees from Central Parking will be on site for peak
periods (7 a.m. – noon). The focus will be on encouraging patrons to set up an
automated account where they will receive a 15% discount. Phase 2 of the Parking
Management Plan will launch in March, Phase 3 in April, and Phase 4 in May. Staff is
hoping by March to have a payment kiosk that will accept both cash and credit cards.
Director Martinez asked that the parking management program brochures be presented at
the public meetings for the May 2009 service changes.

III.

Next Meeting Date - This next meeting of the Operations/Customer Service
Committee will be February 10, 2009.

IV.

Adjournment - Hearing no objection, Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 8:07 p.m.

