2023-04-12
Performance Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Hello, everybody. First of all, apologies for the delay. This is Erik Davidson. The
Wednesday, April 12th Performance Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 9:03 AM
Mountain Daylight Time. I'd respectfully ask everyone attending to please mute your phone unless you
are asked to speak, or your computer audio.
Thanks for joining us this morning. Please note that this committee meeting, like the others, are being
held remotely via Zoom and they'll be audio and video recorded. Those recordings-LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: --can be accessed on the RTD Board of Directors website. And again, please if, yeah,
everyone can mute. Thank you.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during today's
proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call upon you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can raise their hands, by doing so, by
pressing star 9, and to toggle your mute settings, star 6. I think at this point we all know the virtual drill.
I'm going to go ahead now call for the roll of the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell. Director Guissinger. We saw Director Guissinger, I'll mark as here.
Director Guzman. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And Davidson, I am here. So we have five present, two currently absent. If the two join
us later, I will note that for the record.
We'll go into the public comment section. If there are any hands raised, I'll go ahead and call on those, as
well as note whether any comments have been submitted in writing. May I go ahead and ask staff? I'm
not seeing any hands, but do we have any comments that were submitted in writing?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No, there were no emails.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much. We will close out our public comment period.
We're going to go to right to discussion items. There is one discussion item today. This is with regards to
the 2023 General Manager and CEO performance review planning.

So I'll go ahead and cue up the discussion here and make a brief presentation. I think throughout the
discussion here, we'll call on multiple Directors. I think as a heads up, I'd also like to get some input
throughout the discussion here from our General Manager and CEO, Ms. Johnson. And probably no
surprise, Ms. Snyder, I may check in with you from time to time as we clarify some of those items in the
contract that you and I did have a chance to discuss. So thank you, everybody.
So as you'll recall from the last Performance Committee meeting, what we discussed, I think it was
unanimous among committee members, that there was an opportunity and a need to improve our
performance review process of both the agency and of the CEO and General Manager, Debra Johnson.
We talked a little bit about what some of the ideas were from current committee members, things
individuals would like to see improve. There were a number of common threads throughout that
discussion related to improving the quality and reliability of the subjective feedback that's given to Ms.
Johnson, as well as revisiting some of the objective criteria we use to measure agency and CEO
performance.
At the end of that meeting, we discussed that all committee members prior to this meeting would review
three things. We would review the strategic plan as adopted by the RTD Board of Directors, first adopted
on August 10, 2021. We agreed that we would review the General Manager and CEO employment
agreement entered into first on September 29 2020, but most recently amended in its fourth amendment
on October 26, 2022. And finally, that we would review the compensation study report that was completed
by Gallagher Benefit Services Incorporated which was dated November 18, 2022. I would note that that
study is actually referenced as something that will occur in the General Manager's agreement and is
referred to as the compensation analysis.
Then we said we'd get back together here and have a discussion about some of our key takeaways. I
know I have a number of them. And I just will lay out what we put in the discussion item today, just to help
guide this discussion, is that there's really three things I think we should walk away with from today.
One, discuss among the committee members what our key takeaways were from reviewing the strategic
plan, the General Manager agreement, and the compensation analysis. Also, two, start discussing and
identifying opportunities to improve the analysis of the agency and the performance of our General
Manager and CEO. And finally, I think the way to frame those first two bullets is really to leave here with
some specific tasks and questions that we need to address to pursue performance analysis
improvements. And that will actually help set our future meeting cadence-- or I'm sorry, I should say
topics-- for our May and June meetings.
So I have a number of things that I'm certainly willing to offer to the group in terms of takeaways, in terms
of some next steps that we can discuss. But I'm going to go ahead and yield the floor for other committee
members and start the discussion. So let's go ahead and focus first on what were some of those key
takeaways, perhaps framing from where there were potential gaps from our actual performance,
opportunities for improvement. And I'll start capturing how those might inform future tasks and future
topics.
So I'll go ahead and open the floor right now. Please go ahead and raise your hand if you would like to
speak and highlight anything that you had learned or refreshed on from those three particular documents.
Anybody have anything?
OK. Well, I'll go ahead and throw a few things out there then. So here are some things that I saw in this.
So first and foremost, in the strategic plan, we very clearly articulate our success outcomes and we have

numbers with our net promoter score improvements, that we intend to make on those. And thus far, we've
anchored our performance assessment of agency and General Manager based on those success
outcomes.
Underneath those success outcomes, we quickly get to tactics that are used by staff that is used to drive
the activities that ultimately fuel or feed into those success outcomes. And there are, throughout the
strategic plan, a number of performance scorecards that are used on a quarterly basis and/or on a
functional basis for the various functions within the agency.
Recognizing that those do change, one thing that occurred to me is we did hear a common theme last
time we got together that perhaps our success outcomes were not properly giving us the metrics that are
accurately identifying how well we think this agency is doing. To me, if there's a mismatch between what
Board members think is going well for the agency or with our General Manager, and we're not seeing that
in the numbers, one of those is wrong, our expectations or the numbers we're using.
So one thing that had occurred to me was that when we look at objective ways to measure the agency, it
would be useful to look a little bit deeper. I did notice also in the contract that we have not just the phrase
weighted success outcomes, but there's actually the term goals in the existing contract with the General
Manager as to how we might evaluate her.
So I was curious, and I will say, I had a one-on-one discussion with the General Manager about how she
is using goals with the team, how she is measuring her team. I thought having a discussion around that
might be useful for informing future revisiting of our objective criteria. I'm actually not going to pause
there, because that's just one of my key takeaways. And I think that might even be in a meeting unto
itself.
Another takeaway that I had was that we very clearly have two concepts for evaluating the General
Manager and CEO. One is that objective that we suspected is not working well, and also one is the
subjective. We might call this quantitative and qualitative analysis. But in the agreement, it is referred to
as objective and subjective. It seems to me that we need to address both. So again, perhaps meeting
topics all onto their own, I think we need to address both objective and subjective.
I think another key takeaway that I particularly had was I don't think-- and I'll admit my ignorance to this-- I
had fully appreciated that the Gallagher report was what the compensation analysis in the General
Manager's contract and that our 2023 and go forward plan for her compensation increases-- I'm sorry, for
her performance increases, both in base salary and incentives, would be tied to a compensation increase
that we would determine based on the Gallagher report for the compensation analysis.
So that is a very clear thing we need to do is agree on what the compensation increase would be so that
we can use the formula that's in exhibit B to drive the performance improvement process and ultimately
set the compensation increase for Ms. Johnson.
Finally, I also really walked away with the idea that we need to have some collective collaboration with the
General Manager to ensure, going back to that subjective piece, that we design a process for
performance improvement on those organizational values which are more subjective or qualitative to
ensure that A, the Board is giving feedback that we believe will help her performance improve, or B,
adequately assessed, and likewise hear from the General Manager what type of feedback she is seeking.

So with all those takeaways, I arrived at the following next steps. I thought we needed to very clearly
establish a compensation philosophy for our role of the CEO, forgetting about who are our current CEO
is. Clearly we need to have a compensation philosophy. And I thank Ms. Polege and Ms. Snyder for their
conversations with me about where some of the gaps are in our documents right now.
I think if we set that compensation philosophy, we can then set the compensation increase that's referred
to in the General manager's contract, make any adjustments to the overall compensation package. And
then at that point, I think we need to establish an improved organizational values performance
assessment process for 2023 that helps the CEO and General Manager's feedback from us be more
reliable, more actionable, and more direct in its delivery.
And then finally that we should be discussing improved methods for measuring objective performance at
the agency for 2024. In reading these agreements, I thought a good timeline for that would be that by
September, 2023, this committee and the General Manager have come up with an idea about how we
might better measure objective metrics for agency performance, so that in October we can run this by the
Board, so that in November General Manager Johnson can bring us her proposal that we are then
supposed to ratify and bring to the Board in December.
So those were very high level. I know this is a lot of information that's not written down. These are
examples of my takeaways. I'm happy to rewind back up through these and walk through them if
members don't have others. But those are the types of things I started to take away. I'll go ahead and
open the floor to any Directors who, if that stimulated any thoughts you have. And first of all, I see Ms.
Johnson, your hand is raised. So please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Davidson. For a point of clarification, I was somewhat
confused by the timeline in which you outlined , when you were talking about a proposal that would come
forward in September that the Board then can act on in December. And so was that more or less referring
to the performance appraisal in and of itself?
ERIK DAVIDSON: No, sorry, that I wasn't very clear in that. I'm trying not to take up too much time and I
probably skipped through some important pieces. So thanks for the clarification.
Within the agreement we have-- and I'm just looking for the exact wording here, I believe I pulled it out-that beginning on November 1, 2022 and each November 1st thereafter, for the remainder of the
agreement, Ms. Johnson shall propose any suggested adjustments to the weighted success outcomes,
organizational values, or goals, and the proposed distribution between base salary and incentive
compensation or the compensation increase for the Board's consideration.
So what my comments were, and my timeline may not be exactly right, dependent upon how we need to
engage committee and Board, but given that ultimately, I think based on our feedback from last
committee, it sounds like we want to make improvements to all of those things, I think it would be a good
idea for us-- I don't see any reason for us to change or throw away or amend the construct of having that
proposal from you in November, by November 1, I should say.
But since we're looking to potentially change this, I think it'd be good to dialogue and have some ideas of
where we're going, so that if we're going to make any dramatic adjustments to, say, the success
outcomes or objectives or goals that we're using to measure the agency, you have a good idea of what
you might propose to us by November 1, because there's not much time to get Board approval in
December to sign off on this. So I thought that if in September and October we're framing up what would

look good for 2024, you'd have adequate time to bring us a proposal in November 1. And it wouldn't be
the first time, Board members are seeing changes, so that the ratification or authorization would happen
rather quickly and smoothly, as it needs to, to get to December.
Does that clarify my point a little bit?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, it does. So we're talking about going forward for 2024. I was taken aback,
because I made an assumption relative to 2023, recognizing the comments that you made prefacing the
discussion. And so OK, I'll yield the floor to Directors. But I do have comments holistically in light of what
you've stated and what we might do relative to overarching performance, because I do think it's a missed
opportunity. And this was discussed previously, looking at the core functions that I should be adhering to
relative to my responsibilities of GM and CEO, and those performance responsibilities can be tied into
values with specific goals aligned to what this position is required to do for the betterment of the agency.
So I'll just leave that there. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, and thanks, Ms. Johnson. One clarification I'll bring before calling on Director of
Buzek.
I know I'm saying a lot here. But it really screamed it to me that the contracts, that we have the objective
and the subjective piece. And I think the subjective piece is something we absolutely can and must
correct for this year. So if we can get better organizational value and subjective feedback to the General
Manager this year, that should absolutely be doable within the construct of our existing contract.
We don't have to change anything with the contract. That's a process change. That's this group, I think
again, that's probably its own meeting of discussing what's possible from a performance review
standpoint on those subjective metrics. The November timeline I was referencing as more for the
objective piece, which I don't think, looking at the contract, there's really much we can do for 2023. I think
all improvements we'd be discussing would be on a 2024 basis, just in order to adhere to the contract and
what we already have in flight.
I also don't think it'd be fair to anyone to be trying to shift around metrics throughout the year here. We're
already past a quarter end. So that was the other thing I wanted to clarify for everybody here is I think
subjective we could tackle this year, objective perhaps something we tackle for next year.
Director Buzek, you had your hand up. Please go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, thanks. I agree with-- to me, the objective portion of the evaluation takes care of
itself once we set the appropriate metrics. Once we set what the compensation philosophy is, clearly
identified what strategic plan goals are-ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek, sorry to interrupt. Would you mind, yeah, coming a little closer to the
microphone or yeah-VINCE BUZEK: Sorry. I'll talk really loud, OK?

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Stating of the objective criteria, I believe, kind of take care of themselves once we
establish the metrics-- hang on. Let me to try to adjust my microphone. Somebody else can else can start
if they want too..
LYNN GUISSINGER: Those last words were-ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Yeah. OK, it looks like Director Buzek is adjusting a microphone. Did
other committee members have other thoughts while Director Buzek gets adjusted there? Yeah, Director
Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I apologize. I was in transit and I'm dealing with another problem and I couldn't
catch all of what you said. But I think months ago, I mentioned with Ms. Johnson that I agree, I didn't think
the subjective process that we went through was as helpful as it could be to her and gave us the
opportunity to really, really talk about the goals and how we met them.
So I like-- it's just an initial comment, but I like looking at that together.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Can you hear me now?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Much better. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. So what I was saying is that once we establish the metrics for the objective analysis,
the comp philosophy and goals and how they align strategically, I think those things kind of take care of
themselves, how we measure those.
I think the most important thing is the subjective side of things and the fact that we really don't have a
good way to get subjective comments to our General Manager. I remember last year, we had comments
that we had to go back out to Directors for clarification, because, what does it mean? So I think that's
really important, how Directors feel about what the General Manager is doing I believe would be important
for the General Manager to have a clear understanding. And if our tool to get the detail from us to her is
not working well, which it apparently isn't, that's something I would really like to see a strong focus on.
Thanks.
Oh, wait, a couple more things. When you talk about the compensation philosophy, are you referring to
the Gallagher Report's reference to competitive and the highly competitive areas? Is that right? Yeah?
OK.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, I am. And also, just to answer that question further, there's other things, too. I
think even just thinking about the role itself and what's needed for any given time. So for example, how
we might, taking Ms. Johnson out of the role for a moment and thinking about the role, how we would
view compensating a turnaround CEO, for example, or a heavily operationally oriented CEO, for example.
So it might be, our compensation philosophy might be we want to be leading the market, but given the
needs of the agency we want to lead the market all in. So we might heavily weight-- and I'm just using this

as example, not actually suggesting we do this-- but that the incentive compensation or bonus
compensation over and above base might be a higher percentage of overall compensation if we were
trying to lead the market and attract a CEO that's more motivated by meeting those goals and hitting
those incentives.
So what I mean there is, yes, what the Gallagher report is fundamentally posing the question to us of
where do we want to sit from a competitive standpoint, but also setting a policy of what this Board's
compensation philosophy is for its current CEO, which may need to change. That policy we could put in
place of are we leaders, where are we, we might shift the exact wording of that policy every couple of
years based on the type of CEO we need for that given time.
So that's what I'm referring to. And I actually would go one step further to say we probably need a
meeting just on that, and we may be able to benefit from some internal expertise. I don't want to volunteer
anyone quite yet, but I have some thoughts about how we might be able to have a discussion internally to
set that policy.
So that's just to answer your question there, Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you. And I see Ms. Polege has joined as well. Thank you very much.
Other comments from Directors? Yeah, Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: All right. So next steps and next meetings. If we're trying to clarify, rectify, fix the
subjective component of the evaluation this year, we might want to start focusing on that sooner rather
than later. That's just a thought. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yep. I think that's a great point. Other Directors?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree with-ERIK DAVIDSON: [INAUDIBLE].
LYNN GUISSINGER: I agree with that. And I'm sorry, what was it you were suggesting that we do in
September? I mean, are we going to start the subjective discussion sooner?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think, yeah, the subjective-- so just again to recap, I think we have subjective criteria.
We have objective criteria. Unless others disagree with my characterization of our last discussion-- and
again, I'm going to open to General Manager here in a moment. But unless anyone disagrees with me, I
think both have issues. But we can't fix objective in 2023, because we're already into the year. So the
September to October to November time frame is to start framing up how we might better measure
objective performance for 2024.
In terms of subjective performance, the organizational values, for example, there's no reason, I think to
Director Buzek's point, we should start that as soon as possible, so we start talking about what a better
review process might look like. I know things that have been suggested by a number of people have been
360 reviews. Director Sloan, you had a great idea about structuring a really good Executive Session
around this. I know a lot of ideas have been floated.

But subjective we can tackle right away. The September, October, November time frame I was
suggesting is if we want to adjust anything about objective measurement in '24, we have to start pretty
soon because it's going to come up quickly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So not seeing other hands up, I want to open the floor to General Manager, because I
know we've said a lot. This is about your role, largely. I mean, there is the agency component. There's the
General Manager component. But given that you own the performance of the agency, most of this falls on
your shoulders. So I'd love to hear your feedback, your thoughts about any number of these topics as it
relates to the agreement, the strategic plan, the Gallagher report.
And I had mentioned prior, referenced our conversation about how do you measure your team. So
anything you'd like to comment on, please go ahead and take whatever time you'd like.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Director Davidson.
I appreciate your framing of the issue that we have at hand and comments that have been made. I do
think there is an opportunity, as we look at 2023, recognizing that in the first year of my employment, we
had three contract amendments, I don't want us to be limited. I really think it's incumbent upon you all as
the Board to provide me with vital feedback. Separating myself from the equation, as you outlined, it's
whomever is sitting in this role. Basically doing this role in absentia without any solid feedback makes it a
challenging environment.
So I would implore you to lean into the discussion and be more robust in having dialogue around it. I will
not be offended. I am one that has been in this space and managed employees for decades, and in doing
so, it's imperative that there's two-way dialogue, because managing expectations are paramount on both
sides of the fence.
And so as we talk about looking at what might be due in 2023, time is going to elapse quickly, recognizing
that this fiscal year for this agency coincides with the calendar year, which limits our ability to do a myriad
of things. And so recognizing that there is subjective and objective criteria, we can have discussions
around that, and I will make myself available to lean into that discussion. I think it's for the betterment of
the organization holistically.
More specifically, as we talk about what needs to happen going forward, I would implore you also to
understand that on a quarterly basis we can establish check-ins with mini goals per quarter. Those things
can be interwoven into the values of the organization which better give you an understanding of the things
of which I'm performing. While a lot of this is outwardly facing, there's a myriad of things that happen
internal to the organization, of which you all often don't know anything about, that absorbs an inordinate
amount of time. Because anybody that's managed people recognize that 70% of the job is about the
management of people.
So I would welcome an opportunity to have a further discussion, perhaps with you and the Chair and the
Vice Chair of the committee, so we can start talking about this sooner rather than later. Because we have
another meeting that's before us May 3, and that's just in three weeks. And I don't necessarily know what
milestones we have in place to ensure that this comes to fruition. Because before you know it, we will be
at the midpoint of our review performance review period, which would be in June.
So that's what I have at this juncture. Thank you for the opportunity to opine.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for all that. Time is tight if we want to make
improvements. And I think we may need to we have to ultimately decide what we're going to get done
right away and what will take some time.
You mentioned the May meeting. Again, just to recap, the draft I had put together of some things we need
to decide upon here is the establishment of a compensation philosophy for the role of CEO, setting the
compensation increase against that philosophy. Because as it stands right now. That's undefined. And
then establish the improved process for subjective evaluation in 2023. And then finally, start framing up
what we do for 2024, which I think, Director Buzek, if I've adequately captured your comments, it's, let's
get that subjective and objective may start to take care of itself.
I think, yeah, duly noted on all of your comments, Ms. Johnson. And thanks for the willingness to have
additional conversations offline.
Ms. Johnson, please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just thought of one thing, Mr. Chair. So thank you for indulging me. Perhaps what
may be advantageous, and I know you and I had spoke about this during a one-on-one conversation to
formulate the discussion for said committee that we're participating in now, I would be amenable to
putting forward some suggestions of which the Board can react to, working in tandem with experiences
that I've had assisting in this capacity in different roles. And Ms. Polege, who serves as our Chief People
Officer, may be able to lend support as well. So I offer that up for your consideration. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate that. I think we need to be open to a number of different
suggestions. And I know, just to-- yeah, Ms. Guissinger, or I'm sorry, Director Guissinger, please go
ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I just had a couple quick questions. When are the objective surveys being done?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Pursuant to the Board acting on the scope of work that came before you last
month, that is being solicited right now. We anticipate getting requests-- sorry, we anticipate getting
proposals back and that would be leveraged in September. It's done in September intentionally, due to
the fact that people are returning to school. It's seasonal uptick in ridership.
Something else that we may take in consideration as well, as we talk about community feedback, is a 360
in the sense of engaging with those entities with whom I interact. That could be agencies such as
DRCOG, different jurisdictions, and things of the like. So that's what I wanted to provide to you all for
consideration as we talk about this holistically. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. And then Erik, you were talking about the meeting next month and
you said setting a compensation philosophy and then setting a compensation increase based on that
philosophy. What do you have in mind? I mean, a number or-ERIK DAVIDSON: I think what I would suggest is actually that committee members spend some time just
focusing on that piece of compensation philosophy and that part of the agreement. The terms I'm using
are from the agreement. So there was, the agreement with the CEO refers to the need to do a
compensation analysis and then references a compensation increase. That compensation increase is
then used in the math in Exhibit B.

And Exhibit B has a formula for the 2023 adjusted base salary and incentive compensation eligible. That
formula has a compensation increase plus a cost of living adjustment, or COLA. And 25% of the
compensation increase is to be based on objective criteria, 25% of the compensation increase is set to be
based on subjective criteria, and 50% of the compensation increase goes into the incentive
compensation. And that is on the weighted success outcomes and goals, or objectives.
So the term I'm using is from the agreement. And unless we're going to amend and change, we need to
make sure we have the numbers for that formula. So that would be getting the philosophy, have the
number, and then be able to set that, unless we're going to adjust the agreement.
And I'm just going to pause there to ask Ms. Snyder if my understanding and my characterization of that
was accurate.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Chair Davidson, that's accurate. I think the idea, or the understanding at the
time that the parties added that language to the contract, would be that you'd have a third party come in,
that was Gallagher, do external benchmarking, take a look at the role. And then the compensation
philosophy that Director Davidson is talking about is, again, focused on the role itself and determining,
does RTD, when you think about attracting and retaining a GM and CEO, where is the philosophy? Are
you thinking you want to be at market or are you thinking you want to be leading the market, far leading
the market, below market? And then coming up, in theory, with your budget.
And I'm just going to throw out the idea of having the compensation increase, I think was thought of in
terms of a potential percentage. So you might say, OK, over the next five years, this is where we want the
compensation to be. And in year one, it might be an eligibility for X percentage increase, and in year two,
it might be eligibility for Y percent increase. It's not to say that you have to execute on your compensation
philosophy like in one year.
And I will let Charlene Polege weigh in. She's a lawyer. She's the one that really can probably articulate
this a little bit more clearly, when you're talking about-DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Davidson and Ms. Snyder. That's why my hand was up,
because I just wanted Charlene to frame this, because I know this is a new concept for a lot of you that
have not been in this space. And it's a common terminology, and we, as a agency, are working on our
compensation philosophy. So Ms. Polege, please, if you could go ahead and help educate and inform the
Board relative to the actual meaning relative to our compensation philosophy, that would be helpful.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. So I'm going to speak in general terms, from just a pure compensation
perspective, and not with specificity to the language in the CEO/GM contract.
In simplest terms, and I think we all probably get this on its basic level, the compensation philosophy is
designed around what's the compensation, how are you going to drive performance. So it actually starts
with what is critically, what does success look like for the agency, the agency as a whole? And then
determining your compensation as to how are you going to entice and/or motivate people to get there
within your agency.
So it will include whether you're going to be market based, if you're going to be market based, are you
going to be a market leader, going to be a market lagger. Are you going to drive and entice people
predominantly through your culture and not necessarily with being a top payer, or are you going to be a
top payer? And yeah, we get it, we're going to have some turnover.

So it's really figuring out, it truly starts with what does success look like for the agency. That's the first
point. And then looking at market, looking at base pay, looking at variable pay. And then the other holistic
intrinsic components of compensation-- your base pay is just an extrinsic piece. So it's that holistic view.
And for us right now in the agency, we're actually looking at that. We've gone market based and we want
to be market competitive, but we need to determine what that looks like. What is market competitiveness?
And is it midpoint or are we going to lead? And if we're not going to lead in compensation, then what are
the other components of total compensation that we are going to consider in order to attract motivate and
ultimately inspire employees, not just the GM, but all employees to meet the goals of the agency?
And the last thing that I would say, it's critically important, this work, for the Board in establishing the
overarching compensation structure philosophy, because that then ties in. So it should be a cascading
piece through. So i.e., you wouldn't want to have a leading compensation philosophy for your staff but
have a counter philosophy for your GM and CEO, and nor would you want the reverse, generally
speaking.
So happy to provide any background material or any other stuff that could be helpful. I'm happy to do that
legwork to help where I can. I've already extended that to Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And thank you for commenting on that, Ms. Polege. Very much appreciated. And
thanks for the offer to assist with that.
One quick follow-up question to what you were just going through. Do we have documentation internally
on, you referenced making some adjustments to our philosophy as an agency and made reference to
market and wanting to get to market competitive, are there documents that at this point-- and I recognize
this may be premature, given your reference to change-- that could be shared with this committee?
CHARLENE POLEGE: So to be shared, the only document that we would have right now would just be
our general compensation handbook, which references, we are going to be a market-based, we have a
market-based compensation philosophy. What I would direct you to that is helpful is, and I don't have it
open in front of me, but from my recollection the Gallagher Report that was done did a competitive scan
on the GM/ CEO compensation.
That's actually really helpful, in particular the pieces with respect to areas where the compensation was
deemed to be-- so thinking total compensation, not just base comp-- where there were gaps. That
actually is really-- I don't have the page, I don't have it in front of me again. But that's really helpful, and
that will direct. Because it's not just-- your compensation philosophy, again, takes in all of the components
of compensation.
And so there was, on that page, I recall, a very detailed summary that showed where RTD was
competitive and where it was lagging. So that would be a very important reference point. For us internally,
we're developing all of the internal communication pieces. Right now, it just says we're market-based, and
we're still doing that work to determine where exactly in the market we wish to be.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you. Thank you for that. I appreciate it.
Given that we're going through that change right now, and as you mentioned, cascading would be
important, I think it'd be great to align the efforts of this Board with what we're doing in the agency. And
thanks for being willing to help on that. And I'd be happy to reach out to you offline so we can continue the

discussion about maybe even framing a topic, a discussion item for a future committee meeting here in
the near future. Thank you.
Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I would just like to recap what you have indicated is this committee's job
and the timeline for doing it. And as I see it, we are talking about deciding the compensation, or working
on the compensation philosophy at our next meeting. And of course, we can use all the expertise we can
get from staff and from the Gallagher Report, and then perhaps taking it through the Executive Committee
and Board cycle for the end of May to propose a compensation philosophy at the Board meeting.
Am I correct about, you're saying that is our first job and the timeline for it?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I think setting that, yes, we need to do that as soon as possible. I mean, that's lacking
right now. So yes, I think there's a couple things we need to tackle, and definitely I think that's a key one.
MARJORIE SLOAN: OK, the initial one. Because Miss Polege has said everything flows from that and
this committee, and then the full Board needs to be aware of everything that goes into setting the
compensation philosophy. So that I see is like our May job.
June is to work on not only the subjective questions but also the process for getting through the
subjective component of the evaluation, because it might include a lot more than just responding to
questions that are proposed. And that could go through June.
The third component is the objective part of the evaluation. And we are, as you indicated, we are
obligated by the contract to have that prepared by December. So even though that might have different
issues to tackle, this committee really needs to do that if we want a change for 2024 in the objective part
of the evaluation.
So that should come, you mentioned September. I'm thinking maybe it should start in July, because there
won't be activity during our August pause. So I'm throwing this out there for committee reaction on do we
have three parts of our job, and that is the philosophy, subjective component, and then the objective
component? Or am I missing something? And how do we fit that into our meeting timeline?
So thanks, everybody, for listening to that. And I would appreciate to see if I'm getting our job correct.
Because I know we want to do our job and work particularly with the General Manager, but as well as
staff to get a good product. We were not content with the process last year. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Director Sloan, for characterizing that in a more structured way.
What I heard you say is May, we would go through compensation philosophy, possibly June, be
discussing subjective evaluation adjustments in terms of how we better get feedback to the General
Manager. And then starting the discussion in July around objective.
The only thing I might suggest in reaction, and curious to get your thoughts on this, Director Sloan, is
maybe in May we start the discussion around both subjective and around compensation philosophy, just
given the timeline that we have right now to get through this. But did I capture your time frame
suggestions? And what are your thoughts on the meeting?

MARJORIE SLOAN: I think all is great. When Ms. Polege was talking about a compensation philosophy, it
seemed kind of complex. And it might be difficult to deal with both the subjective component and the
philosophy in one meeting. But this group is able and willing and we could go for it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thanks for the comments. And I see Ms. Johnson, your hand came up. So
perhaps you have a comment related to this.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and thank you, Vice Chair Sloan, for your
comments.
My comment was directed to the subjective and objective. When I previously made comments, I said I
was willing to put forward some elements for your consideration. And that could be a discussion item that
you guys could take and digest and perhaps react to and have it formally agendized in whatever fashion
as we go forward in June.
But I think with the compressed schedule, I believe it's a missed opportunity. And I would be remiss not to
say, I have a deep feeling that we'll end up in the same place we were last year with the calendar
elapsing, or time elapsing very quickly. So that's what I wanted to offer up. And recognizing August, we
take a pause. We're still working. We still have meetings. So if there needed to be a session in which to
do this, I would make myself available.
So just putting that out there. Because I think it's critically important, to the words that Ms. Polege shared
relative to a compensation philosophy, I know there's a lot of staff listening in on this conversation,
because it is a hindrance when we talk about what it is that we're trying to do to be a competitive market
leader, and then when we talk about compression with those in the leadership ranks, this is something
that we have to be careful with. And I've made it known to members of my staff, I do not want it to appear
as if I'm doing things that are self-serving to benefit me in my role as the General Manager and CEO.
So all of this is basically intertwined. So I wanted to share that so you guys garner a better understanding.
And I think with Ms. Polege's presentation, or help with you all in May, this would provide some better
understanding and context as to the critical components of this as we move forward, as we try to attract
and retain talent from a full lifecycle vantage point. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thanks, Ms. Johnson. Just a reaction to what you said there. I mean, the term
that Ms. Polege used is cascading. And quite frankly, I mean, and I agree that the timeline being
compressed is a risk here. But where we're at here, this just shouldn't be this difficult, because things
should be able to cascade.
And this is where, when we come to the objective piece, I think it's actually critically important that we
tackle that. Because if we agree on what agency success is that this Board is measured on, because the
Board owns agency success, then we delegate what needs to be accomplished to the General Manager.
If she delivers on those things but the agency doesn't succeed, that's the Board's fault, right, for not giving
the right criteria. Likewise, if General Manager Johnson then cascades down, these are the things that
are necessary, I want to increase return on investment on fare box recovery-- just as a way of an
example, if she's then delegated to her team and they all succeed in those areas but those weren't the
right things to move the ball, then clearly Ms. Johnson has failed, et cetera. The success and the failure
should cascade.

So I think where I'm struggling right now is we have a complicated agreement. I'm just going to say it. And
we've amended this. We've got these formulas. It's clear that there's just so many different concepts here.
And at the risk of making a mess in a compressed timeline, we have to make this easier. Ms. Johnson
should be able to take the criteria she's using to measure her team, take a subset of that, communicate to
the Board, we use a subset of that to measure her performance.
Right now, it's clear from the way this happened last year, we're scrambling and so forth, it's just, it's
messy. So I guess I'll just offer that. I recognize we've got a compressed timeline here. But I think we can
at least make some improvements to start making this easier.
I'm sorry. Thanks for entertaining my comments there. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thanks for that summary, that analysis. I think that's helpful. And I also appreciate
Director Sloan's.
Charlene, I just had one question. You were talking about the compensation philosophy, if you're a
market leader, or at market, and that that shouldn't be different from our CEO than from the rest of the
staff. So does that mean that whatever we decide for the CEO would apply to the rest of the staff?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Great question. No. So for clarity, when you're looking at the compensation
philosophy, why I say it's connected and you shouldn't have two disparate views is because it takes into
the type of organization, the size of the organization, the fiscal responsibility. So it's the whole picture of
the organization and then comparing that through to market and the complexity.
So that general overarching compensation philosophy should be for the agency. Now how it's applied,
you could have a different executive-- like so GM/CEO compensation structure-- that would be different
from the leadership team and potentially different from the rest of the agency.
But the philosophy behind it, so whether you're going to be leading or lagging, what I wanted to highlight
there is you wouldn't want to, because it would be a demotivator for whichever group, you wouldn't want
to have a compensation philosophy for the agency, excluding the GM and CEO, that is we're going to be
at-- I'll use compensation terms-- but we're going to be at P75. So we're going to want to be at the top
75th percentile in the market, and then make your GM/CEO, by contrast, at P40, so we're going to pay at
40%. The reason being is because you'll slowly have disparate actions, and then it'll impact the amount of
effort and the quality of candidates you can attract.
So hopefully that clarify-- it should be the general philosophy, based on the organization, its competitive
set, where it draws its talent from-- and that's why it could be different for your GM/CEO in certain
perspectives-- but whether you're going to be a market leader or a market lagger, that would-- and I'm
being very generalized here-- you would want that to be for the whole agency.
That would be your compensation philosophy, and the construct of what you include for total
compensation. So pensions, benefits, and any other additional benefit offerings, variable pay, you would
want that to have consistency. But there can then also be variability depending on the position in your
organization. Does that help?
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's helpful. I'm still a little confused. I mean, obviously we'll want to work
together with you on this. But if you're working on that for the agency, if that's what I understood, and
we're trying to set it, I guess I'm not clear, do we make this decision for the agency?

CHARLENE POLEGE: So the agency right now is already based on a-- the compensation philosophy for
the agency today is based on market.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So it is a market-based. And that's what internally has been shifted and that's
what would be reflective in the report that you got from Gallagher, as they were going out and getting your
market comparators. So it is a market-based compensation philosophy.
What is maybe set and maybe not is what components of the current compensation do we have, or that
we don't have that we think we should have, and where should they be. So it sounds really complex.
Once you break it down into, we're going to be market based, which is what I believe we have today,
unless the Board chose, we're not going to be market based. That would be different. And then you're
going to be where in the market. So do you want to lead the market? Do you want to be mid of the
market? Do you want to lag the market? It's as simple as that.
And then it's what are the total compensation components that we wish to add. And those should have
consistency generally throughout the organization.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I'll just mention that, as Ms. Polege, you were referring to, around page 8 and 9 is
where there's the market review practices. And there's some comparison as it relates to the General
Manager in terms of those percentiles.
And just, if I may, a follow-up to Director Guissinger's point, while we're on this topic, Ms. Polege. And I'll
admit my blind spots here. I've spent my time in the private sector, and CEO are both Board roles. But my
understanding is the mix could be different. So if we say we want to be 75th percentile, a CEO, that's
certainly what I'm used to, would be more weighted towards incentive compensation, depending on the
needs of the agency or the organization, and perhaps as thus with that additional risk perhaps able to go
above the percentile but also be underneath.
So let's say we said we wanted to be 75th percentile to increase retention and attracting of employees, if
we were to make a decision like that, it might be that the CEO can run anywhere from 55% to 85%
because there's such a heavy weighting on incentive compensation that perhaps a different role wouldn't
bear that risk, that another role in a lower risk position might be 75%. Is that an appropriate way-- and I
know we can discuss this at a compensation philosophy meeting-- but is that a reasonable way to think
about what might be possible for RTD as well?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Correct. That is spot on. That's why I said the general philosophy would be market
based, but then the constructs could be different, the weighting, what's included and what is not would be
different as well. And again, thank you for grabbing those, for telling those pages. You'll notice things-again, don't have it in front of me-- but it's not uncommon for GMs and CEOs, or senior executives, to
have access to some form of executive health plans. You would not offer that throughout the
organization. So there will be different pieces.
But yes. And again, that ties back to what does success look like and how does the agency wish to drive
that success. And so that goes by the weighting. If you really want to keep people long term and you
might want to have a higher base compensation and less variable pay. If you're really looking to make
change and to push specific deliverables, you may change that mix where you have, as you said, 55% to

75%, whatever base pay, but you could really push the total compensation through variable pay, and that
drives performance.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for the follow-up on that. And thanks, Director Guissinger, for the
clarification on that. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair.
And Charlene, I really appreciate that you circled back to the what does success look like. And I kind of
wanted to punctuate that point. Because we can have an overarching philosophy, but at the end of the
day, we need to really take a look at what drives the success for the agency.
It seems to me, Chair Davidson, that May's meeting is going to be pretty involved. And if we're talking
about the compensation philosophy and then maybe even looking at some of the subjective items, I
would suggest that we might reserve ample time for that discussion, which I think could take a while.
That's all I have. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Duly noted. Thank you. That makes sense. I think starting to get some ideas I could
propose at the end here, of meeting topics. Director Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And I'll try to be brief. I guess I have some concern about the Board setting the
compensation philosophy for the entire agency and not just the GM/CEO. I believe that our responsibility
is to hire, retain, and evaluate the GM/CEO, and whatever she decides the compensation philosophy is
for the rest of her staff really should be her decision. Ultimately, that could impact their performance. But
when we cross that line and start telling the GM/CEO, here's where your employees need to be, here's
what we think you need to do regarding your staff. Now we're, I think, we're blurring the lines of our rights
and roles and responsibilities. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Director Buzek. Appreciate it. I'm wondering if, Ms. Polege, if you have
any comments on that.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, Director Buzek, thank you again for that clarity. The Board, in this essence,
would be setting the compensation philosophy for the GM/CEO. The agency then, under the direction of
the GM/CEO, we would then model the compensation philosophy off of that, meaning, again, just to make
sure that there's alignment. Because we wouldn't want to be offering something that was significantly
counter to the general premise or direction that the Board was looking for compensation.
And again, I'll keep it just in the simplest lagging, mid-point, or leading. If the Board had set lagging
because we had fiscal restraints and we needed to be very conservative in our overall compensation, that
would be potentially difficult then for the agency to follow suit with a leading compensation philosophy.
Because then it would be, well, we have one employee that we're going to have as lagging because we
need to be fiscally prudent, but we're going to take the other 3,000 and we're going to pay them leading
market. That's what I mean.
So it is clear you would set it only for the GM/CEO, and then it would serve as a benchmark that we
would use after that.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I get that. But I want to be very clear, that's not our job. And if a GM/CEO says
everybody else is a minimum wage employee, that's on the GM/CEO. And I understand it should act as a

benchmark but doesn't necessarily have to. I hope it does. But I just want to make a clear distinction of
our role and what was involved. Thanks for that clarification.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Understood. And if I could just say, this is the HR person looking to have
consistency through an organization. So that's where my brain goes. But understood, your point is well
made and you are correct.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek and Ms. Polege. Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much. And thank you, Director Buzek, for your comments. And
that is most certainly true in reference to my day-to-day responsibility as it relates to employees
overarchingly. And that is why we embarked upon looking at a compensation philosophy.
So I just wanted to acknowledge your comments and say I support that the Board should not be setting
that. The framework in which Ms. Polege has outlined and which she of I have talked about is ensuring
that we are competitive, recognizing where we are in the transportation market. With us only being the
only intermodal transit agency in the entire state, it's incumbent upon us to have a very clear
compensation philosophy.
So I just want to acknowledge those comments and rest assured that we're in alignment with your
thoughts. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I just didn't want any unintended consequence where we're tying your hands
inadvertently. I didn't want that to happen. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thanks, Director Buzek, for the clarification, and Ms. Johnson and Ms. Polege. I
mean, one thing that this would give us, though, if we had the philosophy here, is it gives us the
vocabulary to be able to then ask Ms. Johnson, what is the agency compensation philosophy? Or if
there's a particular area where we're having problems with retention, something we could look at.
So I do think that, yeah, great comment, Director Buzek. Not something we'd set. It'd be, if this Board
were to decide that a policy priority or an annual goal had anything to do with retention, it would give us
the right vocabulary to be able to say, well, what's the compensation philosophy in a given position, much
the same way we're concerned with whether or not we retain our CEO.
Thank you. Not seeing other hands currently up, I'm going to make a pitch proposal here. And thank you
for going over. I think we needed to set the next one for an hour and a half. But a proposal would be to
get together in May, hear everybody loud and clear, that we have a big topic here, to talk about
compensation philosophy, look back at Gallagher, really get into the details of that. We can do that in
May.
June, I believe Ms. Johnson suggested that she might be able to come forward with some ideas about
holistic and overall assessment. June could perhaps be a discussion around subjective assessment, as
well as hearing ideas from the General Manager. And then I do think from what I'm hearing in here, we
would like to have a July meeting. I think this Performance Committee needs to meet while we get this
ironed out.
So if that were to sound good, I'm going to just ask you a question, Ms. Polege, whether you'd be-- I know
there's a lot going on at the agency right now, particularly as it relates to personnel-- but looking at that
May 3 meeting, would you be willing, comfortable? Is it enough time to be able to come to this group and

present as a discussion item around compensation philosophy, give some additional background? We
could have some discussion and start making some decisions. Is that something you'd be comfortable
with?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. So that would be May. That would be hearing from Ms. Polege on a
presentation, this group dialoguing with the background that this group really picks through that Gallagher
Report. And then in June, we could get back together, talk about the subjective performance, have a
better dialogue about what worked and didn't work, and hear some suggestions from Ms. Johnson. Again,
Ms. Johnson, cognizant that there's a lot going on in the agency. Did I hear you correctly that you were
offering that? And does that give you sufficient time to come forward with some ideas to propose to this
group in June?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, that's ample time. I've been working on it already. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Perfect. Thank you very much.
And then I'll suggest that at the May meeting, we have a discussion, since we're over the time that was
allotted here, about future meetings and setting July and whether we would work in August. Director
Buzek, please.
VINCE BUZEK: No, I hate to say this, but we can meet more than once in a month. It's only an hour.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, we can. Thank you for pointing that out. I'm trying to see what we can get done
here to avoid a high concentration of meetings, but it may very much be needed. Yeah, Ms. Johnson,
please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Just keeping in mind that another agenda item that will come forward in June, it
goes back to the question in which Chair Guissinger had asked relative to the community and customer
surveys, recognizing how this is structured, you all would have to look at staff's recommendation as it
related to leveraging a contract and delegating authority to me in which to do so. And we foresee that
coming forward to this body in June.
So I just wanted to ensure that that was on your radar, recognizing we're setting agendas and trying to
discuss time in more than one meeting. So I just wanted to put that out there. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Thank you for that. Appreciate it.
I'm just going to ask real quick here, if I can get a thumbs down or any no votes on making the next
meeting, actually all future meetings of the Performance Committee for the time being, an hour and a half.
Does that conflict for anybody, maybe looking most at May 3? Yeah, Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just, not to make it about me, but I probably won't be here May 3. I'm going to try,
but I probably won't be able to attend.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: I'll be out of town, an island off the coast of Scotland, so I don't I'll be there May 3.

ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. I missed some of that audio, but you're going to be out of town, you said, Director
Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Right.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right. I will take this offline to work with Board staff to see what we can do here to
make sure that we're-- and we don't want to be changing meeting times, but I think it's pretty important to
get this committee together. And at this point, we don't have everybody today. It's an important topic for
the Board. So I will work with Board staff and my colleagues here to try to find a way to get a time that we
can all be together. So thank you.
As it stands right now, the next meeting of this committee would be May 3. Ms. Snyder, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you, Director Davidson. So just one other thing for you all to keep in the
back of your mind, we have, the bylaws do, of course, say that this committee is not only going to focus
on the GM and CEO's performance but also monitoring the metrics of the agency's strategic plan
performance. So that might be something to think about when you think about the cadence of your
meetings and when this committee wants to hear from staff about those updates.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right. Yeah, thank you for pointing that out, Ms. Snyder. I think absolutely, something
that we've been going through the strategic plan, we need to get a little bit more clarity on how we're
measuring agency performance.
Ms. Johnson, please. And then we'll call on Director Catlin. Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, General Counsel Snyder, for broaching that. I did have a
conversation with Chair Davidson some time ago as it relates to that. And just for everybody's edification,
we, as a leadership team and including the management team, are having an offsite as we talk about
strategic plans and scorecards. So in reference to managing everyone's expectations, there's a couple of
elements in which we're changing, recognizing that the strategic plan is evergreen and things change
over the course of the year.
So most definitely, that would be forthcoming. And I appreciate the reminder that General Counsel had
put forward. Was going to broach that at the May meeting as we go forward, because I'd have a better
understanding of where we are after we have our strategic planning session with the management team
collectively. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks for that, Ms. Johnson, Ms. Snyder. Yeah, I would think, again, this should be
easy. It shouldn't be complicated. So if there's performance criteria that you're using to measure your
team and that gets a little bit more solidified, those are things that from an agency perspective, just as you
do to frame your updates to us every meeting at the Board meeting around those success outcomes, we
can hear updates on how we're doing as an agency.
Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Mr. Chair. And I just wanted to say that I appreciate you being willing to work
with Board staff to schedule this. It looks like we have potentially two Directors who will not be able to
attend in May, and I think this is going to be a really critical meeting. And since we have a few committee
members who were not able to attend today, there might be a need to catch them up prior to the next
meeting.

So I just think that this is an important meeting and we probably need to take a careful look at
rescheduling so that we have optimal attendance. And I do support an hour and a half going forward.
Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you. Yeah, if I may be so forward, I know my schedule is tough. I know
many of our Directors' schedules are tough. But I think we need to insist on our committee members
being together for this discussion.
Ms. Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you. And I appreciate Director Catlin's comments relative to scheduling,
recognizing that it would be advantageous to look at regular meeting cadence. Because quite naturally,
as well, I, as the General Manager and CEO, and Ms. Polege and Ms. Snyder, have recurring meetings
as well. So we'll have to adjust our schedules, recognizing that during the course of the day there's typical
meetings that are already been scheduled. And while this is very important, we want to balance out our
commitments with external entities and things of the like, as we try to go about the day-to-day operation
of the agency.
So I just felt that I needed to say that, as well. Recognizing that people may have vacations and things of
the like, we want to work in earnest and accommodate meetings to the best of our ability. So while we
work with Board staff, and they're on so they can hear this as well, it's imperative that I am in attendance,
Ms. Polege and Ms. Snyder, I would say, [? chiefly, ?] as well. Because oftentimes, I think-- I just don't
want that to be missed, that you guys are here and we're not. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for that comment. Absolutely. I think the committee
being together and key members of staff being together and making sure we pick times that work for
everybody and are realistic is important. So thanks for noting that. And if we can get something that's
predictable on the schedule, that would be great.
OK. Thank you for going over, everybody, on the hour that we had scheduled here. Is there any other
discussion we want to bring up, or are we OK with the next meeting being focused-- I'll ask it this way, as
long as we're OK with the next meeting being focused on compensation philosophy, I think we have our
immediate next step. I'll work with Board staff to get something scheduled that works for staff and Board.
Any other points on this topic, this discussion item here today?
All right. Great. Any other matters to come before this committee? I just want to take the moment to say
thank you to everybody. I know that I threw a lot out there. I know we're mixing things up a little bit. But
when I hear that there's a dissatisfaction of the Board and staff on measuring performance, I hear that
that's probably one of the most important and fundamental things this Board does. So we've got to fix it.
We've got to make it work.
So thank you for the patience today and for being willing to make a little bit of a mess here. So the next
meeting date is May 3, 2023 at 9:00 AM Mountain Daylight Time. Again, that may change. Please stay
tuned.
Seeing no other discussions, this meeting will be adjourned at 10:18 Mountain Daylight Time. Thank you
very much, everybody. Have a good day.

