1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, March 8, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 6:57 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

6:54 PM
7:02 PM
6:58 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present
Present

7:04 PM
6:53 PM
6:51 PM

Larry Hoy

Committee Chair

Present

6:53 PM

Bill James

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

6:54 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

6:55 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Present

6:54 PM
6:51 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

6:54 PM
6:50 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

6:53 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

6:51 PM

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Garrett Christnacht, Heather Copp,
Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, Lou Cripps, Lee Cryer, Nate Currey, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Doug Gragg, Cory
Granrud, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Adrian Mabry, Doug
MacLeod, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Andy Mutz, Scott
Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Stan Szabelak, John Tarbert,
Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Jyotsna Vishwakarma,
Brian Welch

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Robert Ferrin, Eugene Howard, Sheryl Machado,
Sean Makin, Julie McKenna, Chris Nevitt, Cindy Patton, Josh Retzkl,
Joe Triplett, Megan Wagner

B. Recommended Actions

• Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, Operations and Maintenance – North
Metro Rail Line
It is recommended that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution
authorizing the General Manager to procure and/or execute any necessary
work orders, change orders and amendments with Denver Transit Partners
(DTP) or its subsidiaries/subcontractors for the operation and maintenance
and any additional capital requirements for the North Metro Rail Line in
accord with the Board approved annual budget up to the start of revenue
passenger service of the North Metro Rail Line.
Motion:

Director Anderson made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 29, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Folska seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager of
Capital Programs, reminded the Board that staff reviewed this
item at last month’s FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Meeting. He explained that staff is asking for the ability to
enter into a contract with Denver Transit Partners for the
operation and maintenance of the North Metro Line between
now and when revenue service begins. He stated that staff
has not made a recommendation on an operator for the
corridor when it opens. Staff is planning to come back to the
Board later this year to begin discussing operations.

Director Lubow asked for further information as to what
additional capital requirements might be required for the North
Metro Line. Henry Stopplecamp said this could be something
along the lines of needing additional equipment at the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility or putting in an additional
switch to speed up train movements. He indicated that staff
does not see there being any major capital costs but they
want to maintain flexibility. Director Lubow wondered if the
same thing had been done on other corridors. Henry
Stopplecamp stated it was also done for the Eagle P3 Project.
The Board would approve any capital costs through the Annual
Program Evaluation (APE) and the Approved Budget; however,
staff would not need to bring the concessionaire agreement
for approval for every change.
Director Francone inquired if her understanding was correct
that the Interim General Manager’s authority would be limited
to the dollar value approved by the Board of $250,000.
Interim General Manager Genova explained for the North Metro
Line his authority would cover any agreements, contracts, etc.
that fell within the total project budget as previously approved
by the Board.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [13 TO 1]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
SECONDER: Claudia Folska, Director, District E
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Judy Lubow
AWAY:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, North Metro Project Property Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying
properties as necessary for construction of the North Metro Project and
authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state
eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 29, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real Property, noted this is
the fourth request for acquisition authority on the North Metro
Rail Line since the project has been done in phases. She
stated the properties needed are very small in size and
number. All of the properties have been included within the
FasTracks budget.
Director Bagley shared his sense was that the net area of
these parcels was very small. Susan Altes stated that was
correct.
Committee Chair Hoy pointed out that these parcels were for
items that would typically have very small footprints such as
landing pads for staircases.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

• Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, Southeast Rail Extension Project Property
Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying
properties as necessary for construction of the Southeast Rail Extension
Project and authorize staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under
state eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the March 29, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Bagley seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Susan Altes, Senior Manager of Real Property, explained that
these properties are for the alignment of the Southeast Rail
Extension. She said the properties are necessary to fill in little
spaces along the alignment but are very small in total net
acreage.

Director Lasater indicated RTD would be taking small slivers of
parcels that were developed already knowing where the
extension ran.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [14 TO 1]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Kent Bagley, Director, District H
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Francone, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates
There were no updates presented.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 05, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 7:11 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

