Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 8, 2009
Page 1 of 2

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

September 8, 2009

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 8, 2009
at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board
Members Present:

Board
Members Absent:

Chair Chacon, Vice-Chair Martinez, Director Bagley, Director Brohl,
Director Busck, Director Christopher, Director Cohen, Director Daly,
Director James, Director Kemp, Director McMullen, Director Pulliam,
Director Tobiassen
Director O’Boyle, Director Tayer

Staff Present:

Terry Howerter, Dave Genova, Phil Washington, Cal Shankster, Kenn
Hardin, Martha Hecox, Carol Duecker, Pauletta Tonilas, John Tarbert,
Bill Porter, Scott Reed, Paula Perdue, Bruce Abel, Trent Ratcliff, Stan
Szabelak, Marla Lien, Carolyn Conover, Susan Wood, Mike Gil, Bill
Sirois, George Hovey, John Shonsey, Caitlin Magee

Others present:

Jeff Leib, Ty Perry
****

Call to Order

Chair Chacon called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

Director Chacon began the meeting by speaking about an article in The Denver Post about
riding the Route 0 and how much she liked it. She requested an article be distributed to all the
Directors in their Friday packet.
I.

West Corridor Pre-Construction Closeout Report - Kenn Hardin introduced this item and
referenced the report given to the Board in the Friday packet. The report shows how
detailed the District’s monitoring system of the DBE program really is. West corridor
has achieved a 21% DBE participation versus the contract goal of 13%. The report
shows how closely each project is monitored.

II.

Balfour Beatty Full NTP – Kenn Hardin addressed this item. Staff is very excited about
this team on the West Corridor. They have a tremendous mentor/protégé program and
they have been paying their subs within 10 days regardless of when they receive
payment from RTD. They are helping their subs with training and financial management
classes. Balfour Beatty’s projections are that they will exceed their 18% DBE goal.

III.

Self-Insured Program Update – The program is up and running on the West Corridor.

Summary of the DBE Committee meeting held on Tuesday, September 8, 2009
Page 2 of 2

Five subcontractors are enrolled in the program with another two to be approved this
week. Mr. Hardin showed the brochure that explains the program to the Committee.
IV.

Other Matters – Phil Washington spoke about how the small business participation is
key to the FasTracks program. Ninety percent of these small business contracts are
local. This is economic development. Kenn Hardin said we have awarded $175 million
to small businesses. Information on the small business/DBE program has been added to
the FasTracks presentation given to the public and stakeholders.
Director Martinez spoke about his appreciation that payments have gotten better to the
subs and how that helps the economy when the payments are prompt.
Chair Chacon spoke about how this program is a huge asset to the FasTracks program
and how we need to promote it more.
Director McMullen wanted to know about a worst-case scenario on payments. Are
there any stories of problems? Mr. Hardin said since the payment process has been
improved by training of both primes and subs there really aren’t any problems. In the
past there have been cases of 90 days out.
Chair Chacon said that we have to do this corridor right and set an example as there
are five more coming behind it. She expressed her appreciation for the job the Small
Business Opportunity office is doing with the program.

V.

Adjourn to Planning and Development Committee – Hearing no objection, Chair Chacon
adjourned the DBE Committee at 5:40 p.m.

