2020-11-04 Ad Hoc Safety and Security 2
ROBERT GRADO: --don't have a call screen a lot of times, it's just overwhelming. We can take
some time and help people out on most days, not all days. Again, you know, we always hear
about fair and equitable application. That is our goal. You know, we want to be very transparent
as well. But our goal is to do a lot of what I've been hearing in these board meetings, concerns.
We have the same goals. We're very aligned with that. And we're open to suggestions or any way
we can improve.
The other part I wanted to hit on that's really important, our police officers attend an average of
100 hours of training each year. And I'll say that's very recent. POST, the Peace Officer
Standards and Training, requires officers to do 40 hours and then perishable skills. We're about
100. So we're really doubling that training. And a lot of it this year's been implicit bias policing
and [INAUDIBLE] bias policing, and things that are more geared towards community service on
top of the stuff-You know, I always say, you guys, we're very friendly, but our goal is to really know how to also
be police officers when we need to be obviously. Feel free to interrupt, you guys, too. I'm just
going to pop through this.
So here's another point of confusion a lot of times. RTD has full authority in all eight counties.
We're governed by state statute. Our authority comes from the state of Colorado. All of our
peace officers are POST-certified. I mentioned the robust training program. We are governed by
Senate Bill 2217, which I call it the accountability bill, which is a good thing we have that
ability. I briefly hit on it last week. We have the ability to really drill down and make sure our
police officers are accountable to the agency and to the state.
Currently we have 13-- I think, 14, now-- police officers. There's one in process right now that's
coming out into training. We're authorized to have up to 21 police officers at this time. But we
have not hit that number. And it's a very long, tedious process to take on a police officer.
Not to go down a rabbit hole here, but we are very thorough in our background investigations
and psychological evaluations, and the physical part, and the whole thing. We go above and
beyond what's required to make sure we're getting good people.
And it takes time. I refuse to bring somebody in here that has a question mark over them. We
want to make sure we're getting good people here.
Within the past three, four years now, we have a 911-certified dispatching program. You guys
will know we have two dispatch centers that are currently up and running.
And I threw this in here, just because it's going to be part of the discussion, we have reallocated
funding for mental health and then internal expansions. As you know, we're approved right now
to bring on three additional mental health technicians next year.

So secondary employment-- they're required to follow all the same processes that we do for an
internal police officer. They are transit police officers, just as a secondary employment program.
Currently we have IGAs. It's not a contract, it's actually an IGA that the city councils vote on and
approve. So we're a little different than some agencies.
And this really brings them into the fold with RTD in a government application. It's not like
Coors Field or somebody that's contracting for the officers. So again, Denver, Aurora,
Lakewood, Arvada, and Thornton city council just approved their agreement.
Important part here I wanted to hit on-- when these police officers come on duty, we dispatch
them. They're not taking calls for their city in between. They're not doing traffic stops, and
things, and writing tickets for their cities. They are 100% focused on our operation.
I'm going to briefly read, make sure I'm not missing anything. OK, any questions from you guys
on the-- as far as the police officers go? Does that all makes sense to everybody? Steve, is there
anything you want to throw in? Did I miss anything?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: No, Chief, I'm sorry if I didn't hear it. But when they come on duty
for us for Denver and Aurora, they actually take one of our RTD cars so that the public realizes
that they're actually working for RTD. It's very visible, based off of our markings, so that there's
an understanding that they're working in a capacity for RTD when they're on shift.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, and I'll throw in, that was a goal of ours too. I've been the Chief here
for a little over three years. And Steve and I both agreed that we need to be more visible. We
were driving unmarked cars. And sometimes people were wearing uniforms, sometimes they
weren't. It was really "lax-a-daisy." And we were like, you know, if we're going to be a police
department, we need to be a police department. So we made a lot of changes there. And one of
them was to put Denver and Aurora in our cars, because they had the most public-facing
application there.
So transit security officers, Allied Universal, they have the contract now. And we'll see what
happens in the future with that. But for right now, that's where we're at. And I always say this is
the part that is good and bad I guess. I'll say they're the face of RTD security because there's so
many out there. That's mostly who comes in contact with the public.
And I highlighted in black there, like many public-facing positions, that they're sometimes
unfairly judged and we place them into situations that require a professional police presence.
And we really-- this is one of those things that I mentioned-- I really think we need to look at
changing that. Sounds like-- does someone have a question there? OK.
But yeah, that's an issue. And I think it could be a potential issue for RTD. I think what's
happened is we've grown so big. When I started with RTD, I think we had 70 transit security
officers. Now there's over 300. It's just become an enormous program. We have more security
officers than most police departments have police officers. We're bigger than Lakewood. It's
quite the operation. We'll talk a little bit later on how we got there.

I will say that our TSOs-- I know we've had bad press. But every day I hear of great things that
these TSOs are doing, life-saving events. Just as I mentioned there, last week, we had a person
that went into full cardiac arrest on the platform. And a couple TSOs did CPR on him. They got
an AED. They shocked him. And by the time the paramedics got there he was up and talking. So
I mean, that's just one example. It's on a daily basis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Hey Bob?
ROBERT GRADO: Yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Director Williams here. I just was talking to Paulette about the fact that we
need to publish more of that kind of information. That needed to go right straight to the
newspaper. And we have a Communications Department. You could just give them that
information and let them turn it into an article. Because I'm tired of reading negative stuff about
RTD, and I want to read more positive stuff.
ROBERT GRADO: I couldn't agree more. [CHUCKLES] So that's the part that's really
frustrating to us. Because we put our heart and soul into this. And so do 99.5% or whatever of
these TSOs. They have the same goals that we have. And they're wonderful.
Somebody took a picture of a TSA and helping a handicapped guy out the other day and texted
that to me. So we get those on a regular basis.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, well, we need to get them out more. So let's work on that.
ROBERT GRADO: I appreciate that. So one thing, because this is a little gray area, you know,
RTD contracts this service. And we have to be pretty hands-off because it is a service that we
pay for. And Marisela could probably talk a little more to that if we need to. But we set the tone,
if you will, and kind of steer the log. But we had to be very careful. Because if we don't, then
we're assuming some liability. So we tell them what we expect of the service. And usually,
generally, you know, again, 99% of the time, we're getting what we're paying for.
So yeah, number one on my checklist, it's a turnkey product. And the reason why we went to this
model way back when is, quite honestly, it's less expensive. It's more expensive to have a
professional police officer in uniform and out there on the street. So it's a less expensive thing.
And because we're so big, it works. It has worked fairly well.
So I'll say, this is a point of confusion. They're not peace officers. They're citizens. And they
only have citizen-arrest powers, per state statute. They can, as any citizen can-- anybody on this
phone can arrest somebody if they see a crime committed in their presence and they have the
knowledge that that is a crime.
SALLY: Pardon me. Can I interject on that?
ROBERT GRADO: You bet.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you introduce yourself, please.
SALLY: I'm sorry?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Can you introduce yourself?
SALLY: I'm just a citizen, Sally.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry. This is-- I'm sorry-SALLY: My blood pressure is rising exponentially at that comment. That doesn't fly.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm sorry-SALLY: You are not following citizen arrest laws.
ROBERT GRADO: Up to you, chair, if we want to get into this discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: I don't know, do we have public comment in this meeting?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, we don't have public comment today.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. Thank you.
ROBERT GRADO: OK, so I'll continue. They are authorized to issue tickets for fair
enforcement. And that is per state statute that RTD can appoint anybody into a fair enforcement
role, whether it be an employee or a contractor. They are licensed by the Denver Excise and Tax
Bureau. We do not license them. They have their own standards that they put forth. And the
officers have to go through their program of training before-- and become licensed with a valid
ID, before they can work on our account.
They are not POST-certified. They are not regulated by Senate Bill 2217. That is for sworn law
enforcement. It does not apply to security officers.
We currently use TSOs as emergency responders. Because, again, they are the majority that is
out there at any given time. Throughout the district, if you look at our CAD system, we always
have between 50 and 75 transit security officers and/or police officers on duty at any given time.
So what that does is it creates a situation to where we do use them as first responders in a lot of
cases.
And sometimes, like the situation down at Union Station, they're there. And they jump in and
take that scene until we can get law enforcement there or EMS.
So the primary function of security officers, obviously, is observe and report. Again, if there's
crimes being committed in their presence, they do have the right to act. Or if there's a safety
situation they will intervene and stand by for assistance.

One big piece of their role, obviously, is the ambassador and the visual deterrent. That's a huge
part of-- before we started this process, I did some research through TRB. Transit Research
Board, I think that is what that stands for. And a lot of their studies-- I have one on my desktop
that's 700 pages. So I have gone through that, and I have a summary that I pulled out of it that I'll
share at a later meeting. So but yeah, a big part of the security program is the visual deterrent.
And I'll say they've been vital to our security operations.
Any questions on the TSOs?
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is Director Lewis.
ROBERT GRADO: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh it looks like Lynn has her hand up. So I'll go after Lynn.
ROBERT GRADO: Oh, I'm sorry, I didn't see that. Director Guissinger. Director Guissinger, did
you have a question?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Sorry, I forgot to unmute.
ROBERT GRADO: [CHUCKLES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: So thanks, Shontel. I'm okay either way. But I guess you mentioned at
the beginning that you thought this is an area where we need to look. And I think we-- at least I
would agree with that. And I think others-- we've cut service 40%. Have we been able to cut our
security and our work with Allied Security by a significant amount in that process?
ROBERT GRADO: Well, here's the thing-- and I'll have Steve talk to that-- we have cut back.
It's really tough to get into details on a public meeting, but we have cut back on that security
program. And we can share that with you individually, just because it's SSI. We can talk to some
of that. But to fund these programs, we are scaling back. You know, obviously RTD doesn't have
additional funding right now. I can say, this coming year, we've got a $6 million cut right now.
So there are going to be some cutbacks.
At the same time, we're not rolling up sidewalks. The infrastructures the same. We're not closing
things off. And as Mike shared last week, the crime-- personal crime, I'll say, is up. So we're still
very busy. The call load is still very high. There's a high demand for service.
But Steve, did you want to talk about that?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Well, yeah, and you know, going back to it, in the future here, based
off of budget, we will have to make some cuts. But there's been a lot of redirection of them as
well. So for example, commuter rail has gone to more of a weekend type schedule. But then, [?
Alotti, ?] we've experienced a whole bunch of graffiti on our trains that have been in the yard just
because they're not being moved as much. So we've had to direct some of those security officers

that might have been on a commuter rail train to now stand at the [? Alotti ?] yard to look over
our trains to make sure someone doesn't come in and cause thousands worth of damage.
So realistically, there has been some reductions even during the COVID times and all. There was
some money that was not spent based off of the contract and need. But like Chief was saying, our
calls on other areas, end-of-the-line issues-- we had tons of end-of-the-line issues in Lone Tree
and in Littleton. And so we had to redirect security officers to stand at the end of the lines for
months. Otherwise the trains couldn't go into the tail track to come back to the opposite
direction.
So we've had to make a lot of adjustments and changes just based off what's been happening to
our ridership.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, just I'll ask one more question. I think, on the N line, we started
using TSOs as fare checkers that are not armed. Is that right?
ROBERT GRADO: Yes, and that's actually my next bullet point here that's coming up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll let you finish. I'll turn it over to Shontel. And then I'll probably-- may
have some more questions after you finish then. Thanks.
ROBERT GRADO: OK. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I had a few questions. Actually, Director Guissinger asked a question
about the reduction in service and if that equated to a reduction in security personnel. And I
know I've asked that question a few times. And it's good to hear that Director Guissinger is going
to get some answers in that regard. And I'd love for her to share that information with me once
she does. Because I've been very curious of that.
You listed in here, for the transit security officers-- let me take a step back. The last time we had
a conversation, we discussed that you all would be bringing us data, as you've mentioned a
number of times that you've seen individual personal crimes go up on our services. But we still
don't have the data to qualify or quantify any of that. And so these are kind of just statements. So
that's the first piece.
The second piece is here, actually, you landed on it in this presentation, like many public-facing
positions, TSOs are sometimes unfairly judged harshly, and often placed in situations that
require professional police presence. This is an area we believe should be improved upon. I don't
know what that means. And I don't know what's informing that statement. But I know you've
bolded it because you wanted it to stick out and maybe to have some conversation around it. I
mean, so if you could unpack that for me personally-- maybe other directors understand what
that is-- I'd appreciate it.
ROBERT GRADO: Sure. First of all, I think Mike Meader did-- he sent out data last week I
thought. Did I not see that? Ms. McManus, is that not--

BARBARA MCMANUS: I thought he did. I'm going to go back and check.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think I got some stuff from Mike about this.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, and I think he had it compiled from January till now, just showing the
differences. OK, yeah, I did highlight that because I do want to talk about it. And that's a big part
of this. Again, open-- I'm a "what you see is what you get" kind of guy.
And I will say, these TSOs are fantastic for-- most always, we have great experiences with these
TSOs. But I think that, in some cases, we're putting them in a situation that they're not trained
for. Again, the Transit Research Board says that transit security officers should be a visual
presence in facilities and platforms, and where there's large congregations of people. It's a great
tool to have someone there that's uniformed and is a point of contact for the public.
Where I think we are overstepping at times-- and I'm not saying this is happening on a daily
basis-- but we also have TSOs that are in marked patrol vehicles that are responding to calls. And
sometimes these calls are more serious offenses that require a police officer to respond. We
always have police following up.
But I do personally-- I get a little nervous, if you will, when we have a TSO that shows up ahead
of the police because I think we're putting them in a bad situation at that point. Because they may
encounter something, again, that they don't have the training to handle.
So that is just-- it's something we want to talk about. And you'll see, as we go through this over
the next few weeks, we're going to recommend reducing the level of security presence and
increasing professional police presence. But it's going to be a process. If the Board as a whole
approves this that they like this idea, it's going to take us time to do that. So we'll get into that in
later discussions. Did that answer your question, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Not exactly, but I'm willing to continue to have the discussion as it pertains
to the data the information that Mr. Meader sent around was not actual-- he addresses that there's
a change in assault, harassment, robbery, threats, weapon offenses, trespassing, but it doesn't say
what-- it just says there's a 32% change. It doesn't say how often that's occur, where that's
occurring. The data that's being sent around doesn't really support the things that you all have
been telling us on this call and the calls previously.
So I'm concerned that we're not starting from the right place because we don't have the data to be
able to grapple with to determine what our next step should be. It sounds like you all are telling
us what the next steps are without having the data to inform them. And so I'm concerned about
that.
ROBERT GRADO: OK, yeah. That's not an issue. We can get you the data. It's just it's a lot.
We're taking in 5,000 calls, on average, each month. So it's just a lot of data. So what that is is-we don't have a crime analyst. That's a position that we've been pushing for. And we've never
been approved for it. I would love to have that luxury.

Right now we have one of our cost-control people. He's a numbers cruncher. And we tasked him
with this. And he has been doing it for us to the best of his ability.
So, OK, I will-BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. I'm going to put my hand down right away so I don't forget. So I'm
running a travel training program now that works in the immigrant and refugee population. And
it's been very interesting for me to listen to the two sides of what we're talking about here.
Because there are people who are afraid when they see somebody in a uniform. And there are
people who are really, really grateful to somebody in a uniform, on the same platform at the
same day.
So I think, when we start to look at it, we need to remember that there are two outlooks on this,
and maybe we need to work around that. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief, before we go any further, I'd like to just confirm who's on
the line with this. Who has the last four digits of 1272? If your last four digits are 1272, can you
please identify yourself? 5424?
KAREN YOUNG: That would be me, Karen Young. I'm with Facilities. Hi, Chief Grado.
ROBERT GRADO: Hey there, Karen.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 0595.
LINDSEY ALARCON: Lindsey Alarcon with RTD.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 2480. 2480. 6687. And 7700. OK, Chief, go ahead.
ROBERT GRADO: OK, any more questions on TSOs? Are we OK there? Just really quick,
before we move ahead, as far as the firearms go, they do attend firearms training four times a
year, which is twice the amount that's required by the city licensing. They all wear the same
uniforms, same weapons systems, same gear. Anything that they carry on their belt has to be
contractually approved. That is part of it.
I don't want to go-- I went past this, and I'm sorry. Use-of-force incidents. They are required,
anytime there's a use of force, it has to be documented and it has to be investigated. They have a
software platform that they use to monitor these. If a TSO is getting-- let's say they notice that
there's more than one or two or whatever use-of-force incidents, they flag that person. And again,
they investigate it, they report back to us, and then that TSO has to be disciplined, retrained, or
removed from the account. So that's one thing we've improved upon in this latest contract.
Steve, is there anything you want to chime in as far as the IA portion goes?

STEVEN MARTINGANO: No, I'd just like to say is, one of the things we improved as well-and I don't know if that's a later topic. So I apologize. But before this latest contract, there was no
real mechanisms to see who got training or maybe a memo sent out, or something throughout the
year. We would send it to the project manager of the contract. Then they would have to go, and
send it out, and individually touch each TSO and tell them, "hey, RTD wants this to be done this
way now" type stuff.
We made, as part of the contract, they all have to have email addresses, and they all have to be
part of this system, which is called Power DMS. But it's a system that could shoot out training.
And it verifies who actually did see it, who hasn't. Then they can follow up on those that haven't
yet and get them updated. So we've made some pretty good changes in regards to making sure
every security officer that wears the RTD insignia gets everything that we ask updated
immediately.
ROBERT GRADO: And another important point, a use of force for a TSO is-- it can be just not
even touching a person. If they pull out a set of handcuffs and don't even apply them, or they
unsnap a holster or anything like that, that is all use of force.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Oh, Chief, I'll go back to the picture that was sent to us where two
TSOs were helping an individual that just went through surgery and he had a walker, he actually
fell to the pavement on our platform. So two TSOs walked over, lifted him up, and walked him
to a bench. They had to do a use-of-force report because they put their hands on this individual to
help him walk over to a bench so he could sit down properly.
So they have a really stringent-- anytime they touch somebody, they have to actually do a report,
even if it's in a positive manner. So just wanted to explain some of the processes that they have
to do internally as well.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I'm glad you brought that up, Steve. Because sometimes I see these
reports, I'm like, wow, there was 25 use-of-force incidents this month. And you start reading
through them, and a lot of it is just exactly what Steve's talking about.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. That's the information that would be helpful.
When we talk about data, that's helpful data for us to be able to look at to determine what the
next steps are.
So I think you all have presented next steps about increasing the police force, but that's based on
data that maybe you all have had the opportunity to grapple with, but it's not based on the data
that we, as Board members, have had the opportunity to look at.
So use of force, the number of folks who are evading fares, the number of tickets that we might
be giving out, those are all helpful for us to know as we move forward. Because I think public
perception, while you all may have positive interactions with your TSO folks, there are members

of the public who don't share that positivity and interactions. And I think it's something worth
addressing.
ROBERT GRADO: Absolutely.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And I know this conversation is difficult. But we should have it still.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I totally agree. We'll get that. So that's not a problem. Actually just-we had a core request just a couple weeks ago for all the use of force, 2018 till now. And we
released it publicly. So that is available. We can for sure get it to you.
It does not address tickets. That's something we'll have to get separately. Yes, go ahead. Sorry.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So Chief, I'm sorry, Director Williams has a question next. But
Director Lewis, are you done with your questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I am. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: The only thing that I would add before I call on Director
Williams is that I think that I did not realize, if a TSO touched a person helping them, that they
have to do an incident report. And I agree with Director Lewis, there's a lot of information out
there that we don't know.
So anything that can help us understand what those mean, the perception is really our reality.
And we just need to make sure that, as we move forward, that we keep it to the point
understanding that the rest of us don't know the internal goings of what that stuff means. Director
Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Chief Grado, where do we define or who defines
that we need to be reported publicly as a use of force? Can we add another category? You know,
personal interaction or something? Because-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
KATE WILLIAMS: --spot on. That information, not only the board doesn't get, necessarily, the
background, but if somebody did a CORA request for that information, and they said, 25 reports
of use of force, ack, you know, that's going to be on Kyle Clark first thing.
ROBERT GRADO: I agree. I saw it, and I thought, at first glance, this looks terrible. I totally
agree.
KATE WILLIAMS: Are we required by law to file those under that name, or could we rename
the whole category?
ROBERT GRADO: You know, I've had conversations with Allied about it. And Steve, maybe I
see you're chiming in here. Do you have something to say about that, Steve?

STEVEN MARTINGANO: Yeah, well, it's not required by law. It's actually required by their
internal organization. So they need a lot of these tracking mechanisms for just their internal
numbers, I guess, through the company. I mean, they're obviously a very large company. And
they have this process through all the accounts. So whether someone's working in a hospital, or
for RTD, or they're working at an office building, they keep a standard for the same exact use-offorce tabulations.
Now, obviously, our account is a little bit different. So we have tried several times to try to
reclassify them to certain levels. Maybe level 1 is if they actually made contact in a different
manner, and level 3 is if they helped an individual to cross the platform.
But the issue on a lot of that is that they can't break it down because of their-- realistically, the
use-of-force data is for them internally. And they're the ones that keep those records and
numbers. So we just didn't want it looking like a visual thing where they're now changing some
of their use-of-force numbers to try to maybe benefit something. And we just allow them to do it
as is. And if we have to read through them, we do.
So and like you said, core requests, in the past, we're able to associate a lot of the use-of-forces
to the actual reports that are written. And we can make a determination if it was something that-or even internally when we check them, if it was something that, hey, we need to relook at this
one, and let's get better investigation on this one. But yeah, it's just something that we struggle
with. But it's just their corporate policy.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah. Thank you for sharing that. And that was the issue, is, for lack of a
better term, they didn't want to appear to be cooking the books. They want everything out there.
Any they touch somebody, anytime they unholster, any time they pull out a pepper spray and not
even deploy it, everything goes into the same pot.
I agree. I wish there was a way that we could make this a little clearer for people. Because at first
glance, it looks bad. So we'll have another conversation about that, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, because I have-- yeah. OK, I can wait. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, I see your hand is still up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, I don't-- yeah, I don't have any questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right.
ROBERT GRADO: All right. Well, thank you for watching the hands, because I'm not good at
that. I'm focusing on this thing over here.
So I'm going to move on, just for the sake of time. So our TSA program, that's the Transit Safety
Ambassadors, so I think all transit agencies across the country use conductors on commuter
trains. And many use them also on light rail. So we thought, in light of what's going on in the
world today, maybe we should try this program instead of having armed security on the trains.

Because quite honestly, that's a big number of-- a lot of these TSOs are assigned to trains and
fare enforcement, just overall safety.
So we thought, you know, what a perfect place to try out a TSA program, which we kind of
modeled it after a train conductor. Because we're under a time crunch, Allied, made sense to use
them to put these people in place.
So they're unarmed crew members. They're actually a second crew member. They don't even talk
on the transit police radios. They talk to Operations Control. They are authorized to check fare.
They do not write tickets. They're not authorized to write tickets. So if we have somebody
currently on the line that hasn't paid fare, they just educate them and then advise them that they
are now riding at their risk of being cited if a police officer boards the train.
Example, this last week, we noticed there was an uptick of people riding the N Line that weren't
paying. This week, they're going to have some company out there. We're going to have some
police officers doing random checks to help alleviate that.
I did put a bullet point in here. This was interesting. We didn't even want them to be licensed
security officers. We wanted to stay a million miles away from that. But the city of Denver said,
no, they have to be-- any of employee of Allied Universal has to be licensed as a security officer.
So they went through the Unarmed Security Officer Licensing Program.
Again, we don't know what's going to happen with this. It's a pilot. There's conversations
happening, as we all know, of [AUDIO OUT] this internal and having a conductor program. But
for now, it was a good option to get some people out there on a line that kind of sits off by itself,
to give it a good try. And so far it's been successful.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis, I see your hand up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I just have a quick comment. Chief Grado, you mentioned earlier, in
our earlier conversations, that you believed that there were things that we weren't going to be
able to arrest our way out of. And I want to hold you to that. Because I think it's important. I
think you and I share that.
But what you just said about the N line, and folks writing for free, what would be helpful is if we
had that data and we made decisions based on that data that was not typical policing.
ROBERT GRADO: Sure.
SHONTEL LEWIS: This is an opportunity for us to really dig into the root causes of the issues
that are coming up on our transit systems. So if folks are evading fare, why might that be? Are
they just doing it because it's fun to do, or are folks struggling during a global pandemic where
many folks have lost their jobs? And is that an opportunity for us to, instead of providing them
with a ticket, to connect them with the individuals that are working within our LiVE program, to
have them access discounted fares? That might be a solution.

And so that's why I keep coming back to this data piece. Because we can't come up with those
creative solutions if we don't have the data to tell us what the themes of what's happening on our
services.
ROBERT GRADO: Agreed. Kimberly is on. I see she popped on here. That may be something,
Kimberly, that we add to our list for what we're working on, because it kind of fits. But yeah, we
are collecting that data. And we're happy to share it and see.
I am hopeful that this will be a successful program. We're going into this wanting it to be
successful. We have to find a balance though. Obviously we have to provide security and make
sure everybody's safe on our trains and platforms. But I am 100% on board with doing something
different. We're in agreement on probably more than you would think.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. As I understand it-- or I'm just trying to understand it. If we
have armed security as the second person on the train, they can write tickets. But if we go to an
unarmed security officer, they can't? Is the difference the arming, the training? What's the
difference?
ROBERT GRADO: No, actually it was our decision. They could write tickets. We currently
have one-- you know, RTD had a conductor program, years back. And it was a represented
position. But it phased out once we went to this other model, before my time, where we had the
armed security officers took over the fare.
So what they did was they let people kind of retire out, or transfer, or-- we still have one RTD
fare inspector. And that is an unarmed position. You don't need to be armed to check fare.
There's no reason to be armed to check fare. It was the existing model that was expanded, if you
will. I don't know what the reason was. Maybe it was an easy solution. I don't know.
But we are not against having unarmed fare inspections on our trains.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Chief, if I could just-- and directors-- also, this was a very, very
quick transition. We only had a couple of weeks to get the TSAs involved as part of the N line
and training, checking fare, learning our fare media system, learning the use of our iPhone
device. There's a lot of hours to take into account for that to make sure, obviously, people know
zones and proper discounts.
We just also didn't have the time to get everyone set up for the N Line in time for that. And then
we also didn't have a secondary measure because we just didn't know what kind of ridership it
was going to be for them to maybe start writing fare, being unarmed, being something different.
Even the one fare inspector that isn't armed for RTD, he does a great job out there. But he also
has a lot of support on-- he only works on the commuter route, because he's actually part of the--

I'm sorry, the light rail. Because he's part of the Light Rail division. But he has a lot of support
out there. So if he calls for something, we have our TSOs, we have the off-duty officers.
It took us a while to get the contract signed by Thornton. So we also made a decision, just for the
TSAs' safety, especially with everything being a local fare for an amount of time, we just
figured, let's just send him out there, see how this program works, and try to get a basis on how
many people aren't going to be paying for fare based off of them not having, right now, a
deterrence or an actual penalty.
And going back to Director Lewis's point, is we're really trying to capture the data, see if it's
starting to increase. So we are doing that. I would be happy to put together numbers for you
whenever we get to a point where you need numbers in regards to fare checks. They're usually in
all the Board reports as well. But with the N Line, it's something that we're just tabulating now
just because of how new it is.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Chief, if I could just ask, I know that this is a pilot, how long are
you anticipating this Transit Ambassador to be in the pilot phase before you evaluate it and
maybe move to a more robust program like that?
ROBERT GRADO: Well, I think we initially thought it could be a year. But we work for you. So
we can move any direction that you think. But we just want to make sure.
You know, my thing is always, if we're going to have TSAs or conductors out there, I just want
to make sure that we have a good response system if there's an issue-- no, when there's an issue.
Because I mean, let's face it, not everybody is a model citizen. Sometimes we get people aboard
trains that are very intoxicated and not very friendly. And we don't want these people to engage
them. We want them to step back, observe the situation, and call on the radio.
But we have to be able to respond. That's my thing. I would say I am for this program. I want to
go this direction. That's where-- I want to go this direction. I think it's a good thing for
everybody. Me, as the Chief of Police, I feel better about having less liability, if you will. I mean,
there's just a smaller chance of engaging somebody in a bad way if we have this type of program
in place.
But I really need to make sure that the Board is supporting us. Again, this is not-- as Director
Lewis said, we're not just asking to expand the police department. I'm asking, if we go this
direction, that we have a proper response program.
And I'll share some information. We're required to have a good response program, the agency is.
So that's the big thing. I'm repeating myself. I support this. I like this idea. I'm actually-- if you're
asking Bob Grado, I think this is the way we should go.
Again, repeating, repeating, repeating, we have to be able to respond to situations, though,
quickly. Because also the issue is, right now, when we have a TSO on the train, if we have
somebody on board that's causing a disturbance, that train is stopped for-- I see Dave Jensen here
with his hand up-- that train is stopped for two or three minutes. If we don't have a good response

program, we could be holding trains for 20, 30 minutes. And if you're calling the district cars,
like if you just called Denver PD or Aurora, God bless them, we love them, and they're great
partners. But you could wait an hour or more for-- because that would be a low-priority call.
Can I call on Dave? Is that OK, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
ROBERT GRADO: I see his hand up.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. Go ahead, Mr. Jensen.
DAVE JENSEN: Yes, if I may. Thanks for your patience. I just wanted to kind of reiterate what
Chief Grado was saying, is that, in Rail Operations, we are moving full steam ahead on this path.
And there are some internal things we have to work through, things like what does the contract
with the Allied really require? If we're going to be hiring our own employees, are they rail
employees? So there's budgetary issues. Does that come out of Mike Meader's budget? Does that
come out of my budget?
But we do have job descriptions that we're developing. We are working with the FRA, because
there's certain requirements necessary. So we're working through all those regulations.
So we just want to make sure that we do it right. I thought the question that you asked was a
great one, though, what is our time period for the pilot? And I don't have an answer for that other
than, on the N Line, I would anticipate, by the end of the year or early first quarter next year, we
should have some definitive ideas about when we can be officially moving to conductors as
opposed to TSAs. And so I don't, at this point, see any hindrances that would prevent that from
happening. We just want to make sure that we have crossed all the t's, dotted all the i's, and that
we've considered all the unintended consequences before rolling this out officially.
So it is moving. And we are on that path.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. All right.
ROBERT GRADO: I'm going to add to that, we believe we have the budget, within our budget,
because we're already paying for these people, the TSOs, which is not a cheap proposition to
have a TSO out there. So I think we can move money around and reallocate funds to make this
all fit. And I think it's going to solve a lot of problems. It's going to reduce liability. I think it's a
win-win situation at the end of the day. OK, so are we good on the TSAs?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just a quick question. This is Director Lewis. I thought it was less expensive
to have unarmed security than it was to have armed security. Its that not correct?
ROBERT GRADO: That is correct. Yeah, I probably didn't do a good job saying that. But that's
what I was trying to say. We're paying-- Steve, is it $37 an hour, I think? I'm shooting from the
hip here-- for TSOs. But the TSA are less expensive because it's an unarmed position and there's

less training, less-- it's expensive to provide body armor, and firearms, and all the gear that
comes with a TSO. So we do have a cost savings.
All right, are we good to move on, you guys?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
ROBERT GRADO: This has been great. Thank you for bearing with me through all this. All
right, so I'm going to kind of hand off-- I know Danielle's here, but I just want to talk quickly
about our mental health condition program. I give Steve credit for this. He brought this to the
table. We do have a grant that pays half of the cost to have that mental health clinician here.
Danielle has been fantastic. It's a very successful program. And it's a great tool-- because let's
face, police officers, security officers, this is not our area of expertise. And because of that, it has
created issues nationwide, not just here at RTD. So it's great having that tool in your toolbox.
But one thing that Danielle I have had conversations about-- and I'll let her take over-- but I think
it's important that, when we have these mental health clinicians out there engaging with people,
that they do have law enforcement with them, just to give them the ability to focus on what's
needed and make sure they're safe during the process.
So Danielle, I'm handing off to you.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: Hello. My name is Danielle Johnson, RTD Mental Health Clinician.
ROBERT GRADO: We can barely hear you, Danielle.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Danielle, we can't hear you.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: Can you hear me now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Barely.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah it's not great. [CHUCKLES]
DANIELLE JOHNSON: Oh, no. OK. I don't know, I'm on my phone.
ROBERT GRADO: You're a little better now.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: Is it better?
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: OK, I'll just hold the phone. So in regards to following up with what
Chief Grado was saying, I think it is important to have a police officer present with me. There
are situations, obviously, that don't call for a police officer presence. And I think that's just
assessed at the time of the call. Because some individuals are triggered by police officers. And

then when I show up with them, I think sometimes it is triggering in itself. And they don't look at
me necessarily as the clinician, but one of the officers.
And so I think, with that, it's just kind of building that rapport with the individuals, and letting
them know what I'm there for, and then just going forward-- like if a cop is there, I've had great
connections with the cops in letting them know if I feel safe or if I don't. And then they'll just
back up and watch from a distance.
I think this program looks different right now with RTD as it does with Denver police or some of
the other surrounding counties that have co-responder program as well. I respond, because of
COVID, by myself. And I wait for an officer to get there. Whereas typically you're partnered
with a police officer and you go to these calls together. And so I think that's the only difference,
is right now, depending on the call, I'll either wait for an officer to get there or there's always
going to be a TSO present.
I think this is just new for a lot of the agencies across the nation. It's a huge cry that people
would like mental health clinicians to be present on some of these calls. And me, personally, I do
agree with that. Because a lot of these are mental health issues. But the safety component
changes so quick in these situations that a clinician having the officer there, it's more for a safety
concern. Because you never know what can happen in a mental health crisis.
And I think that's why this program has been so successful with Denver Police, is how it utilized.
We respond to mental health crises. And then, when we get there, we kind of assess the situation
for what needs to happen further, whether that's providing somebody with resources to the
shelter, providing them with information on where they can go to be reunited with families out of
state. If they're in services with Mental Health Center of Denver already, I will connect them
with a motel if we have them available, and so that they have access to be able to meet with their
case managers or therapist. And sometimes it's just having a conversation. Somebody's in crisis
because something happened that day. And it's just having a casual conversation with them that
sometimes officers don't have the time because they're always going to different calls. Whereas
as a clinician, I can sit and have that conversation, calm them down, and kind of get them on
their way.
So I think it's utilized to help in situations that officers don't necessarily have the training or time
to actually sit and talk to that person for an hour. And so I think, in my role, it's just de-escalating
the situation, determining if they do need to be placed on a hold, and kind of just assessing it for
their well-being, and figure out what resources are available and what can be given to them.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Hey, Danielle, it's Steve Martingano, just to touch on that as well,
there is a big difference too that hasn't been illustrated here, is Danielle does a lot of contacts on
her own. So outside police agencies that have this program, like Denver, usually this call is
coming in on a 9-1-1 call. The dispatch is getting tons of information, realizing what is needed, if
the mental health condition needs to be sent out based off of what they're receiving.
Danielle walks through our Union Station. She walks through our Civic Center. She'll show up at
our Broadway and walk to platforms and the park-and-rides. So she really makes a lot of

contacts, without anyone actually calling in, just from visual. So that's really going back to the
safety aspect, and why we need an officer with her at times, is just because we she'll walk up to a
situation and not have any knowledge of what is actually happening, which really that's the way
our public transportation world works, based off of a lot of our facilities.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I'll say COVID has definitely changed things. I don't like that. I prefer
Danielle to have a police officer with her like we did before COVID. And her dad's a Denver
Sergeant, so I think he'd prefer that too. But she's been a trooper. And she's out there every day
helping us out.
So Steve, did you want to talk about the expansion of this program, what the plans are with that?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Yeah. And I don't know if I touched on it last week as well. But it
looks like everything has been signed. We're just waiting for a final signature to move ahead.
Realistically, the budget doesn't start till January. But MHCD has asked if we could try to get
them a verification now because it takes about a month or so to get someone hired and to buy the
necessary equipment for them to go out there and work for us starting January 1.
But we're going to have four. It's been allocated in the budget. And we will have two clinicians
working different ends of the week, where they'll be in a vehicle with an officer. Hopefully, by
that time, our safety division will allow two people to drive together. So they'll be in vehicles,
out there, hitting the outside-- the city and county Denver is actually-- we all know how large it
is. And then we will have two clinicians dedicated, both ends of the week, just to the downtown
area so that they'll be a lot more visible and a lot more accessible to Union, Civic, 16th Street
Mall, and realistically just the triangle of the Downtown Denver area.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, we have a couple of questions in from Directors. But if I
might start, Danielle, how long have you been in this position for RTD?
DANIELLE JOHNSON: I've been in this position since the beginning of May. I think my start
date was May 4.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: 2019.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: 2020.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, 2020. OK.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: Yes. Another individual from MHCD was in this position prior to me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then, just logistically, when you get a call with
someone who's having some kind of an issue, do you take them off the train, bus, commuter rail
to work with them? Or do you stop the train and work with them in there?
DANIELLE JOHNSON: It can be both. Usually, when I get called and they're on the train, the
goal, if they're not wanting to go anywhere else, is to get them off. But for me, it can be hard.

Because obviously you don't want to hold it up. But to get them off would be more like, as I'm
hearing today, more of a use of force. And so it's kind of this trying to figure out what is best in
all situations. And that's just something I try to assess when I get there. How long has the train
been holding? What is the best way to get them off?
Because I mean, some people, if it's fare, I have-- MHCD provides me with bus tickets. So if it's
something with fare, I'll just ask TSO if I could give them a bus ticket to get everything on the
way. Or if they're more in, like, a crisis, and they're willing to get off, that's kind of what I try to
convince the individuals to do, is get off the train.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So what would you say the percentage is of getting them to get
off? And then how many times do you think there is a delay in service?
DANIELLE JOHNSON: I would say-- I don't really have too many calls on the train. I think,
since May, I've actually only had like three calls. And one, because she became aggressive and
started throwing items around the train, it ended up being more of a use of force to get her off.
Another time, it was an individual-- I just talked to him and let him know we can talk outside.
We can find him where he needs to go. And he was willing to get off. But typically I don't really
have many that, when I get to the scene, they are actually still on the train.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then just one last thing before I turn it over to you,
Director Lewis, is then, I don't know if it's-- Mr Jensen, so when that occurs, do you do a bus
bridge or something to get the other passengers off?
DAVE JENSEN: So the situation, if I'm understanding the question, would depend. Yes, we
could do a bus bridge. But then we'd have to make sure that it's safe to actually get to the
passengers. I'm not sure I'm following the question. Can you repeat it, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So it would be like if there is an issue where they're having a
violent act happening. Somebody is having a really difficult time. Do you, then, as part of the
process, deboard all the other passengers onto, like, a bus bridge or something so that they can
keep going on to their destination as opposed to holding up the whole train, for instance, while
they work with this patron?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. So that's exactly right. So if a train was going to be holding position,
normally, by the time security gets there and takes care of the situation, that's quicker than us
getting a bus bridge established. But if it looks like it's going to be long term, we start the bus
bridge plans immediately. So that's what we would do.
We do instruct our train operators not to engage and not to place themselves in harm's way. So
clearing the train of other passengers becomes a challenge. So they would allow the passengers
to deboard. And then we try and coordinate them to a safe spot on the station and then get a bus
bridge going if that's what the situation required, yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. I have Director Lewis and then Director Walker.
Director Lewis, you have the floor.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The first one is, again, I'll ask for the data of how
often that is occurring. Because I think there's some dangers in making decisions from anecdotal
data and not actual data. And so that's one piece.
You mentioned that there had been budget allocated to expand to have additional clinicians. But
you also mentioned that there was a grant. And so I just wanted to clarify that they are being
funded from our general budget, or that there's a grant that is supporting the expansion of the
clinicians.
DAVE JENSEN: Yeah, Director Lewis, it's actually not-- I mean, it's not technically a grant.
Medicaid pays for half of the salaries and costs for the clinician. And we have to pay the other
half. So we have, within our IGA with the MHCD, they give us a projected amount that it's going
to cost, just based off of whatever they use on their data. They give us a cost. We then write, in
the IGA, a do-not-exceed amount. So whatever the amount is is the most RTD is going to pay.
The rest of it they get from the funding through Medicaid and other sources. And then if there is
actually a less amount, then they don't bill us the full amount by the end of the year. Does that
hopefully answer your question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: It does. And that would be true for the expanded clinicians as well, not just
Danielle?
DAVE JENSEN: Yes. And in regards to like-- the initial cost is usually our higher costs, because
we have to buy the uniforms, sometimes computers, based off of what MHCD requires for their
clinicians to have. Then, the second year, we don't have to buy them a new computer. Usually
computers last more than one year. So the initial first-year cost is a little bit higher than when we
do the IGA for the next year. All those costs come out. So it actually becomes less money for
RTD.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you. Appreciate that.
ROBERT GRADO: I'll add that this was funded through reallocation of our division's funds. We
worked with the COVID Fiscal Task Force and got it worked into the budget that you guys
already saw.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Thank you for that explanation, Danielle. I am wondering how
many clinicians do you think are needed? Or that might be a question for Chief Grado or Mr.
Jensen. But how many are needed from what you see?
DANIELLE JOHNSON: Well, I currently work Monday through Thursday, 9:00 to 7:00. And so
I think it would be great to have a clinician on the days that I am not working. Right now,
through MHCD, because of our supervision and everything, we can't go overnight. And I do
know that kind of there is a need for overnight.

But just looking at how to fill in on the weekends and potentially staying later-- with Denver
police, my clinicians stay till 10 o'clock. They do three 12's. And so it's just kind of figuring out
what is the best option. And we're hitting the times that are needed. Before, when I first started, I
did 12's. And then I went to 7:00 to 5:00. And now I'm on 9:00 to 7:00. So it's just kind of
figuring out what works best.
And then I do know for sure at least one more clinician doing what I do is definitely needed. And
then it's just kind of going forward from there. Because I know they say the ridership is down. So
I don't know what it looks like-- I don't know what it looks like, through COVID, to kind of say ,
yeah, we need four more clinicians or something like that. So just trying to figure everything out
during COVID, it's kind of hard to kind of grasp everything right now.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Director Walker-- I'm sorry, I don't mean to interrupt. I just want to
give a little bit more. I work with Daniel's bosses in regards to who makes these decisions at
MHCD. We looked at a lot of the data, a lot of the contacts made. And four was actually-- they
had recommended, I think, three. And we were able to push it to four just based off of the budget
reallocations. But we will have four at RTD. And I think the city and county of Denver-Danielle, if you're able to tell me if I'm wrong, but I think they only have like eight for their
whole entire city and divisions. We have four for RTD, which is pretty substantial.
DANIELLE JOHNSON: They did expand it out because of the need. They did realize there is a
lot of need for the clinicians. So I think, as of the end of October, we have a total of 16 clinicians
with DPD. So it doubled. We just hired a clinician for the Sheriff's Department. We're looking at
hiring of clinicians for the Fire Department And then the STAR then is looking to hire one. But
then they're also looking to expand the STAR, then, to all districts within Denver.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: And just to re-emphasize on that, they actually won a tax initiative
last year on their vote. So they got a tax initiative for the city and county of Denver to hire these
clinicians. So it's actually coming from a tax base, separate. So that's why their expansion's going
so high.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
JEFF WALKER: So your perfect world, money no object, you'd only need four or five?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: You know, sir, if money was no object, like Daniel was saying,
another two, to go up to six, would be great so that we could extend it to coverage during the
nighttime a little bit more. We just-- it was a struggle to get the four through the budget. We just
weren't able to get the extra two.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. And the reason I'm asking is because Danielle mentioned earlier that the
officers often can't stick around because they're needed someplace else. I think, at least my
understanding what I heard-- and I could be wrong-- is that a lot of the calls that the officers get
aren't-- a lot of them are for mental health services, or drug misuse, or something like that. So I'm

just wondering if it's enough. Like, what do we really need, which is different than what we can
actually get.
One other question, and then-- I have a bunch more, but I'll let it go after this one-- are clinicians
allowed to work in all jurisdictions, or are there any jurisdictional limitations?
STEVEN MARTINGANO: They're only allowed in the city and county of Denver. If there is a
necessity to get outside to JeffCo, or Arapahoe, or something like that, where it's a pressing need,
we have been allowed to send Danielle there if necessary. But it is the Mental Health Center of
Denver. So they prefer her to stay within Denver. So kind of limited to there.
We have been reaching out to Boulder and some of the other counties to find out, if we were
going to expand, to try to go to those agencies. They just don't have as robust a plan as MHCD
does to try to bring those onto RTD.
JEFF WALKER: So if Danielle is on a train that starts a Union Station, somehow she needs to
get on a train at Union Station with somebody who needs her assistance, and that goes out to
Lakewood, she can stay on the train till Lakewood to make sure that the situation is resolved.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Correct.
JEFF WALKER: She would have to get off. OK. All right. At that's probably a little more
paperwork, working with the two jurisdictions.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Well, and the positive-- and Danielle touched it earlier-- is she's able
to reach out to all those different counties. So based off of when she contacts somebody, if she
finds out that they're part of a Jefferson County program or an Arapahoe County program, she's
able to reach out to those programs and tell them that, hey, we've got John Smith over here at
Union Station. And she can work logistics to get that person to the proper care they need. So
that's also a huge plus of the program.
JEFF WALKER: OK. OK, thanks. I missed that earlier. OK, that's it. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Chief, we're running out of time. So I'm wondering-thank you, Danielle-- if we can go to Kimberly.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, we'll hit that next. And I was going to say, a lot of Kimberly kind of
touches Danielle's world too because our task force and the people that she's brought in.
I'll just start by saying, you guys already had a briefing on the homeless outreach program, kind
of what we're doing. But I wanted Kimberly to come on here and talk to see if there's any
specific questions.
And I'll start just by saying this has been incredible for us. And I think this type of program
could work for other issues too. For instance, what Director Lewis was talking about last week,

with things in the area that she represents. Maybe that can be a part of this, or a little sidebar if
you will, just to have some discussion that might be more lengthy.
But I am and I'll let you jump in here, Kimberly, and take over. The floor is yours.
KIMBERLY FORD: Great. Thank you. Yeah, thank you all. And thank you for having me here.
I'm happy to answer any more questions in depth, but don't want to repeat anything that has been
said.
I think, overall, with the homeless outreach coordination, in conjunction with some of the transit
police trainings that we've been doing-- it's kind of been mentioned on this call already, but
police officers and also, I would say, TSOs, TSAs, they are not trained to be homeless outreach
specialists. And it is an expertise and it is a skill set that is specific to, I feel like, those particular
vulnerable communities.
And so, overall, I think some of the biggest learnings are just understanding the scope of or the
in-depth knowledge around homelessness in the region, but then also trying to understand how
are we partners in resolving some of those kind of root issues. I think Director Lewis was
speaking to that in terms of, if people are struggling-- and I do echo, I think data is really
important to better understand some of these pieces which I think our work with the Homeless
Task Force has really helped us understand, that a lot of individuals experiencing homelessness
happen to have large histories of trauma and repeated trauma. How do we approach individuals
with those circumstances?
And so some of the trainings-- I'll just touch on this, and then open to any questions-- but we did
an implicit bias training with some local trainers, I guess, in the area that particularly worked not
only on implicit bias with police officers and community, but they've done-- more specifically,
they've worked on things with Cops and Kids. And I think that that was successful from the first
training.
And then, actually, today, we are talking about microaggressions and relating it to homelessness
in itself, and how there are maybe-- well, there are sensitivities that, differing on people's
experiences, we have to be aware of those microaggressions. Because really, although the term,
microaggressions, is used as a way to say these small things that affect us, we know that they're
actually very macro in the influence that they have.
So yeah, that would be a summary. I'm happy to hear any questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Lewis-ROBERT GRADO: Can I just say, really quick-- and do you mind if I add to that-- the big deal
for me, you guys, was, with Kimberly-- it started out with Michael Washington, but Kimberly
really has been running this thing-- was the connections. In life, everything is about
relationships. And Kimberly has-- through this process, we've created these great relationships
with all kinds of agencies and people out there that can help us do better at taking care of these
people.

So I just wanted to throw that. Kimberly-- she's been great for us. And I can't give enough credit
to what she's done to help our agency.
Lastly, really quick, the painful part of this whole thing is we want to bring these programs out
further, as far as the internal training, to the security side. But we're limited in what we can do.
Because again, we pay for that service. So that's another pain point for us right now. But we're
doing the best we can.
OK, I'm sorry to interrupt. I'll stop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's OK. I just have a couple of questions. I don't see any
other hands up right now. Kimberly, do how many-- or Chief, do how many other transit
agencies across the country have a Homeless Outreach Coordinator?
ROBERT GRADO: Steve, you want to-KIMBERLY FORD: In terms of-ROBERT GRADO: Oh, go ahead, Kimberly. No, no, no, please.
KIMBERLY FORD: Well, I was going to say, in terms of an actual coordinator, that, I'm not
sure. However, we've done, through the Homeless Task Force, extensive research on other
agencies and best practices. And they absolutely have several programs that have been
coordinated with outside agencies to ensure that they have the best response to homelessness. I
think we studied SEPTA, in terms of they actually kind of recreated, in a bus terminal, they had
space to almost have like a homeless outreach, almost like a day-center type of service. And then
also LA Metro has homeless outreach teams that are specified to LA Metro. Obviously it's a
bigger service or bigger agency. But in terms of the actual coordinator piece, I'm not quite sure.
But Steve could also speak to the Hope Grant that is helping with the actual funding of the
coordinator position. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Steve.
STEVEN MARTINGANO: Yeah, we actually-- if you guys don't mind, I'll forward it to you
here. I'll forward it to Barbara, and she can send it out.
So there was a study done by UCLA. And we just got the results back. I think they did 115-- I
don't how many total agencies, but 115 or 120 participants took part in it. And it really
documents homelessness, what everyone's seeing, as well as some of the things they're doing.
There really isn't a whole lot of combinations of what we have with the clinicians as well as the
outreach coordinator. A lot of these agencies rely on the police agencies within their jurisdiction
to assist them with a lot. But nobody really has it in-house like RTD is going to have moving
forward.
And since that UCLA study went out, just a couple of days ago, when it came back, we've
already had about four agencies reach out to us and ask us how we were able to get what we

have. Because everyone seems to be going in this direction. And by getting this grant-- and I
think I mentioned it last week, but the grant was more so for transit-related-- for individuals that
are experiencing homelessness or income-based. And we were able to write this grant up to say
that we're experiencing it in a different manner. We don't have those outlying areas that our
buses don't go to, that we need a bus to go out there and pick people up. We experienced it more
just from our everyday ridership.
So it was written really well. We want it. And this coordinator is going to come in, not only to
work with the homeless population that we see, but also to really work with these outside
agencies and try to shape RTD's route system to make sure that we're accommodating
individuals that need our transportation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you. And then my other question is, in terms of your
implicit bias training and stuff, who performs that for us? Like what organization? Can you tell
me a little bit about the staffing for that?
KIMBERLY FORD: Yeah, I can actually speak to that. It was two consultants. I'm forgetting the
name. It might be Mindful Consulting. The individuals is Mike Acua. He's a local, like I said,
individual that has done work with the Cops and Kids, kind of bridging the connection. Because
what we see a lot of times, I think, is there is a historical mistrust, with authority and sometimes
police figures, within different communities, and to recognize that. And particularly communities
of color, there are narratives around distrust.
And as you said, Chair Malpiede, that perception is reality. And so that's one of the trainers. And
then the other trainer is Giannina Horton. And she's a consultant that also does these types of
implicit-bias trainings as well in the community.
And then I think what the learning I personally had from the process is that we, in the future,
need to scope out the work a bit more so that we can fully have a well-rounded kind of
consecutive training that's embedded, I would say, into an annual training. But then also it would
have to go through a procurement process and things like that.
And so that's what we've done to really better understand what's possible and if this is beneficial.
And we've received great responses, and had really, I would say, intense conversations around
racialization and just better understanding what those dynamics are, and being open to trauma,
specifically, for individuals experiencing homelessness. So yeah. And then today will be those
two trainers. But like I said, they're going to be talking about microaggression specifically today.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you so much. I think that answers all my questions.
Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Kim, for that information. I appreciate it and appreciate the
work you do. But actually have a question for you, Chair, at the beginning of this-- and because I
have to hop off. I have another meeting. At the beginning of this call, I know we had some folks
who were interested in providing public comment. And I wanted to just hold space for that and
also request of this committee that we actually do provide space for our constituents to weigh in

on this topic. I know I've said it a few times. And I'm sure you all are tired of hearing it. But I'll
say it again.
I do think, while I respect the makeup of this committee, I do think there are folks who are
missing from the conversation that we most certainly want to hear about their experiences as we
are determining what we need to do to move forward, providing space for our constituents to
provide some input, I think, would do us great justice as a committee.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, I think Director Lewis should have her constituents speak to her. We
all have-- I have 200,000 constituents. And so I don't know how far we would get at this meeting
if we had open public comment. But I don't have a problem with this being public. I just think
that we're trying to work through something and put it into place. So perhaps it would be better if
Director Lewis collected her constituents' input, and I'll collect mine, and Chair, you can collect
yours, Director Guissinger can collect hers. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, that's not-- no. Thank you. Thank you so much, Director
Williams, for that comment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't know if you heard, at the beginning of the call, that there was
someone who called in who wanted to provide public comment. And so I was, one,
acknowledging that person had woke up early to participate in our call, which is kind of them,
but also that there needs to be space where folks who experience the police differently than
maybe you, Director Lewis, as a white woman. And so I just wanted to provide that space for our
constituents to be able to provide us with public comment and feedback. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, Chief, budget and investment.
ROBERT GRADO: Yeah, I'll try and wrap up here because I know we're a couple minutes past.
But just really quickly, I want to just say that we have been pretty successful-- I used the word,
pioneers-- national leaders as far as our model goes. But I do believe we need to take a look at
making some changes, a lot we've already discussed.
This is a great opportunity. I'm excited. I always say that transit police is different than anything
I've done in my past careers. I was always on the defense, if you will, in law enforcement. And
we have an opportunity to be on the offense.
But really quickly, I just want to say that this is-- I did this for Mr. Ballard when he was coming
in, just took a look at a few agencies and what they were spending, cost-per-rider. And MARTA
and Dallas are two sister agencies that we talk with a lot and compare notes. So of the two, we're
investing the least amount of money. Dallas, if you look at their ridership, they're investing a lot
of money.

So that's something maybe in the future-- I know now's not the time-- but perhaps we look at that
and see if there's something we can do different there and make the improvements we're talking
about. So that's all I have. I can wrap up here, you guys. I really appreciate everyone's time. I
know you're all busy. And this is amazing, to me, to be able to sit and talk through all this stuff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you, Chief. Director Lewis, your hand is still up.
Do you have another comment.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't. Sorry. I'll lower my hand.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, it is now 9:33. And I would like to adjourn
this ad-hoc committee. Do I have approval?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. If I hear no objections. OK, we're adjourned at 9:34. Thank
you, everyone.
ROBERT GRADO: Thank you all.
UNKNOWN: Thank you.
UNKNOWN: Thank you all. Take care.

