Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, February 9, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Deadwyler called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Director, District L
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

5:21 PM
5:19 PM
4:54 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Committee Chair
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Absent
Present

5:13 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:28 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:46 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present

5:24 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:29 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

5:30 PM

5:30 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:15 PM

Directors Folska, Lasater and Lubow were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Heather Deckard,
Martell Dyles, Phil Eberl, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina
Gibson, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Doug Monroe, Brenden Morgan, Mike
Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Jennifer Ross-Amato, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mindy Swaney, John Tarbert, Monika Treipl-Harnke,
Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Gary Forbes, Sherman Hamilton, Wendy Londa, Dan McKeehan,
Brenda Mosby, Tom Peters, Susan Spry, Larry Tenenholz, Leslie
Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Greg Yates

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Committee- 2015 Annual Report
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, indicated that she would be
highlighting the accomplishments for 2015 as well as the goals of the Civil
Rights Department for 2016. She reminded the Board that Civil Rights
produces an annual report that will be sent to the Board in the next several
days. She reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that is
available in the February 9, 2016 Civil Rights Committee Agenda Packet.
Zamy Silva provided the following summary of the 2015 highlights:
 WIN program received grant funding from the FTA for the Innovative
Workforce Development Program
 WIN increased its total placements for 2015 by 30% over previous
years’ average placement rate
 ADA finalized over 50 plan and design reviews for ADA compliance
 ADA established and implemented ADA/FTA compliance measures
such as Title II Grievance procedure, Reasonable Modification Policy,
etc.
 To date, $941,450,122 has been committed to DBEs/SEBs on
FasTracks projects
 Currently, $71,546,616 is committed to DBEs/SBEs on active Base
Systems contracts
 Hosted National Transit Institute for the DBE Program Training
Certification





Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Program Plan submitted to the
FTA and has been selected as the model program for other agencies
to reference
EEO implemented new electronic complaint filing software for the
District

Zamy Silva outlined the goals for the Civil Rights Department in 2016 as
follows:
 Create and implement Standard Operating Procedures
 Small Business Office (SBO) will collaborate with the City and County
of Denver and CDOT to increase SBE participation in RTD projects
 Complete the Triennial DBE Goal Methodology for the Small Business
Office
 Revise the DBE Program Plan and associated documents
 Assist with planning and sponsoring the 2016 National ADA
Symposium in Denver
 Work with customer care to coordinate and implement a formal ADA
complaint process
 Collaborate with HR to outreach to minority and women organizations
on job opportunities
 Complete and submit all EEO reports on-time
 Execute an Intergovernmental Agreement and Memorandum of
Understanding with Colorado Community College and the Urban
League of Metro Denver for further support in the community with
the award of the FTA grant for WIN
 Report to the FTA on the WIN Innovative Workforce Development
team
Director Francone remembers there being an Internal Audit conducted last
year on the WIN program. She wondered if a copy of that had been
provided to the Board. Interim General Manager Genova explained that he
was not sure where that was in the audit process, but he would follow up
with staff. He said he would make sure the Board had a copy if it was
complete.
Director Francone wondered if there were any plans to outreach to other
communities, not just the City and County of Denver. Zamy Silva stated
that for the WIN program, Martell Dyles, WIN Program Manager, would be
doing outreach to various communities, not just the City and County of
Denver and Urban Metro League of Denver. She shared that the City and
County of Denver and CDOT are charged with certifying all DBEs, so
collaboration with these two entities is critical to reach more DBEs within
the Metro region.

Director Menten asked for a list of all positions at RTD that do not require
100% use of physical abilities such as walking, hearing, etc. Interim
General Manager Genova explained that he would have to work with HR to
provide that information as it would be necessary to manually review every
job description. Marla Lien, General Counsel, pointed out that at the request
for Director Folska, HR has been reviewing RTD’s job descriptions every time
a job is posted to see if some of the requirements that were previously
considered boilerplate, like being able to lift 25 lbs., are really necessary.
Director Sisk indicated he was sorry to see in the newspaper that former
RTD Senior Manager of Civil Rights Kenn Hardin had been found guilty of
three counts of bribery. He asked for further information as he feels this
casts RTD in a bad light even though he was not doing anything in his
official capacity at RTD. Marla Lien stated that at no point was there any
implication that RTD had acted improperly in the way we conducted
business. She stressed there was no evidence he effectuated any decisions
nor were there any awards of contracts made because he received a bribe.
While Kenn Hardin was charged criminally, there was neither investigation of
RTD nor any allegation of any inappropriate activity on the part of RTD.
Director Sisk stated that he was not suggesting RTD did anything wrong;
however, there are people that jump to certain conclusions because Kenn
Hardin was an employee of RTD. He hopes the RTD Board and staff are
reminded how their own personal actions can be perceived.
Committee Chair Deadwyler inquired if the application process for the WIN
program was the same for people with disabilities. Interim General Manager
Genova stated that the application process is the same for anyone applying
to RTD, including the WIN program. Zamy Silva shared that staff has meet
with the ADA community to talk about the WIN program and how it can be
made more accessible. She said that information had been created in braille
and large print but it had not yet been distributed. She stated that the WIN
program plans to develop more outreach efforts but have not implemented
anything at this time.
Committee Chair Deadwyler wondered why the goal for 2016 for the EEO
department to collaborate with HR to outreach to minority and women
organizations about job opportunities did not also include ADA organizations.
Zamy Silva explained that RTD is required to do workforce utilization
analysis looking at various job categories, as defined by the federal
government, to determine if we are deficient in hiring women and minorities.
The FTA does not require RTD to determine if we are deficient in hiring
people from the ADA community because RTD cannot force people to report
if they have a disability. She said that RTD is deficient in several areas
which is why EEO will be working with HR to address the deficiencies. She

noted that outside of that requirement, it is the goal of Civil Rights to do
more outreach with our ADA community as well.
Committee Chair Deadwyler expressed that she is available to work with
Civil Rights in any capacity they feel she can be of service to hopefully
recruit more of our ADA community.
Director Solano suggested establishing an emphasis on ethics. He thinks
that sometimes people forget their focus on the common good. Marla Lien
explained that as part of RTD’s required training, all employees are required
to take an ethics class. Employees must also receive and sign the Code of
Ethics.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - April 12, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Deadwyler adjourned the meeting at 5:54 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

