1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, April 9, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 6:20 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
6:16 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:19 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Absent
Present

6:17 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:16 PM
6:17 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:17 PM
6:16 PM
6:21 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Remote

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

6:18 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:17 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

6:19 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

6:19 PM
6:16 PM

Director Menten participated in the meeting via phone. Director Daly was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Larry Buter, Carolyn Conover, John Elias, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Kenn Hardin, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh, Jr.,
Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Robert Medina, Paula Perdue,
Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Beverly Scott, Jim Stadler, Walt
Stringer, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Martell Dyles, Helga Grunerad, Sherman Hamilton, Dan Pearsall, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Martin C. Willie

B. Recommended Actions

• Adoption of 2014 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt the attached 2014 Performance
Measures for Goals 1-7. There are 22 performance measures in total.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board Meeting on April 26,
2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter explained that the Board Report provided in the
April 2, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Packet highlights the proposed changes under the discussion
items. He stated that Jannette Scarpino was present to
answer any questions.
Jannette Scarpino explained that the Performance Measures
are set early in 2013 because staff incorporates them into our
2014 Adopted Budget. She stated that the first change is
average facilities maintenance complaints per month. This will
increase to < 14.0 from < 12.0 per month to reflect full year
revenue service on the West Line and actual experience with
West Line maintenance incidents to date. Jannette Scarpino
also stated that the second change is the customer complaints
per boardings. This will increase to .0004 from .0003 due to
a static higher level of complaints reached over the last 2-3
years from the strollers/wheelchairs policy, fare enforcement

campaign, TIC availability, the introduction of SmartCards, and
the new West Line which will bring with it additional
complaints.
Director Menten noted a 30% Operating Cost Recovery Ratio
in 2010 while just 20% is the proposed goal for 2014. She
asked if this was to meet a statute or because in the past we
were trying to put more money in the coffers. Jannette
Scarpino explained that the 2010 number is the actual
Recovery Ratio while the goal of 20% is set by a statute.
Director Menten stated that we subsidize ridership a lot. She
is trying to determine how much we are actually getting from
riders who use the system. She is trying to understand why
we are going from 30% to 20%. Terry Howerter said that the
goal is being set based on the legislature; from there it is
strictly a calculation based on financial information and results.
He stated this is based on certain revenues; it excludes grants
and some of the variable revenues and brings in the operating
expenses. Terry Howerter explained that this Cost Recovery
Ratio does not impact any funds left over but it could reflect
that based on purely operating calculations.
Director Menten noted that in 2013 we have a goal of 0% for
an increase in EcoPass revenue and that the 2014 is not yet
available. She asked how many government bodies were
subsidizing the EcoPass versus private companies. Jannette
Scarpino explained that the EcoPass revenue has shown flat
growth so staff is not forecasting any growth for 2013 and
probably will not for 2014 either. Terry Howerter said that
staff does not have a breakdown of government riders versus
private riders immediately available but they will get Director
Menten the information.
Director Menten said she would be interested in that because
on the West Corridor she is facing regular riders who have not
been given much information on the schedule changes and
eliminated routes. She believes we would have a good way to
communicate with these people based on them having
EcoPasses.
Director Lasater highlighted that these Performance Measures
are for the entire District. He has recommended a subset for
the Measures that would be broken down by geographical
areas, route areas, etc. because it could be that we have 12

complaints but all 12 of those complaints are from the
Southwest line. Director Lasater shared that this happened in
his own District but now staff is working on it. He feels the
Board needs to see this in a geographical breakdown to get a
better handle on where the complaints are coming from.
Jannette Scarpino said that staff discussed his suggestion at
the Senior Leadership Team level. She stated that staff can
report numbers that Director Lasater might be looking for
offline but these Key Performance Indicators are for the Board
to measure District wide performance. At this time staff is
recommending that the Performance Measurers stay at that
level.
Director Folska stated that under Goal 6.2, Increase Ridership,
the proposed goal is still to be determined. She asked what
would need to happen for the goal to be set. Director Folska
noted that the Board is being asked to vote on this item
tonight only they do not have all the information. Jannette
Scarpino explained that the goal is derived from our 2014
Adopted Budget; the 2014 goal is just a placeholder at this
point. She said that once an appropriate goal is determined
staff will inform the Board. Terry Howerter said there are 4 or
5 goals that are determined as part of the 2014 Adopted
Budget. Staff is asking for this item to be sent to the full
Board meeting for approval so that the other goals can be
incorporated into the Budget. Terry Howerter stated that any
goals that would come out of the Budget would be presented
to the Board once they were determined.
General Manager Washington believes this particular goal is
unique because it is a strategic objective that came out of the
Advance. General Manager shared that at the April Study
Session he will be presenting to the Board the tactical plan to
reach the strategic goal of increased ridership. He explained
that staff is asking for approval or the overall Performance
Measures because it is very important that we get this passed
to move forward with the Budget. This is just a placeholder
and staff will come back to the board later in the year once
the remaining goals are determined.
Director Deadwyler asked if this would be brought back to the
Board for approval once the remaining numbers were
determined. General Manager Washington stated that this
would not come back for Board approval. He explained that
the idea is that staff will come back to the Board to discuss

the ridership goal but the overall Performance Measures will
have already been approved by the Board.
Director Deadwyler highlighted that the increase in fare
revenue, the EcoPass revenue, and total operating revenue had
not yet been figured out. She is concerned when we talk
about increasing the fare revenue and EcoPass revenue.
Director Deadwyler knows many people whose companies
subsidize the EcoPass but they still pay a tremendous amount
of money. She feels there is nothing in the Board Report that
provides the Board with any indication what was the increase
in fare/EcoPass revenue would be. Terry Howerter explained
that Board approval would be required to change fares.
Director Deadwyler said that she is very concerned about the
stroller and wheelchair policy. This policy has not worked
since it was put into place. She is wondering what the plan is
to improve this area so that we do not need to increase our
Complaint per Boardings goal. General Manager Washington
stated that there is a reality factor that goes with opening a
new corridor; that reality factor is that we will likely have more
complaints on both the facility and customer side. He
explained that staff is proposing a slight increase in this area
because we are opening a new line; staff is not saying that we
are not going to strive to improve in this area. General
Manager said that we had the same experience with opening
T-Rex.
Director Lubow expressed concern over two of the goal 6
objectives: maintaining cost recovery ratios and improving
route efficiency. She noted that when Senior Leadership and
the Board had the advance Board priorities were identified, the
first of which was innovative and fiscally sustainable service
delivery. She had also asked for equitable but people felt that
was included in innovative. Director Lubow worries that if we
are only concerned with cost recovery ratios and improving
route efficiency that is not the same as tempering that with
being concerned about vulnerable populations. She asked how
these Performance Measures relates to the identified Board
priorities. Jannette Scarpino shared that the Board priorities
are addressed in the development of the 2014 Budget.
General Manager Washington explained that these
Performance Measures are in addition to the Board priorities.
Terry Howerter believes the goals more align with RTD’s

Mission Statement and this is a way for us to measure our
customer satisfaction.
Chair Anderson asked what would happen if the Board did not
approve the Performance Measures. She wondered if staff
would need to present new Performance Measures to the
Board. Chair Anderson also commented that Goal 6.3 is
incorporating the increase in service that we think we will get
when the West Line opens; this is not from a fare increase but
an increase in fare revenue from increased ridership. Terry
Howerter stated that if the Performance Measures were not
approved staff would take the Board’s recommendations on
changes and present the Measures for approval at another
time. He also confirmed that the increase in fare revenue
would be from increased ridership unless the Board wanted to
increase fares. General Manager Washington stated that
increasing fares was not a staff recommendation.
Director Folska said that she is stuck on having goals listed as
“to be determined” in the Performance Measures the Board is
being asked to approve. She really wishes there was some
number in those categories. Director Folska noted that the
West Rail is opening April 26, 2013 and that these
Performance Measures are for 2014. She asked if staff really
anticipated an increase in customer complaints that long after
the line opened. Terry Howerter explained that they will look
at ridership numbers for 2013 and use that to extrapolate
ridership for 2014. Director Folska thinks this is a very
passive process. She believes if we develop an aggressive
campaign to increase ridership then we could say were going
to invest X amount of dollars to get Y amount of riders. Terry
Howerter said that this will be information presented by
General Manager Washington and Scott Reed during the April
Study Session. General Manager Washington stated that in
regards to complaints from the West Rail Line the answer is
yes that we will still be getting complaints a year from now.
Our history and experience with opening lines is that there are
going to be some things planned now that need to change; the
original condition will create complaints and then our fixes will
generate complaints.
Director James stated that what is being planned is an
increase of the goals to accommodate what we have
experienced the in past. He believes goals need to be
attainable otherwise they do not make any sense. He feels

this is a good way of managing these goals. If the
performance is unsatisfactory then the Board will be asked to
approve other variables to continue to pursue the goals in the
future. General Manager Washington added that staff updates
the Board quarterly on how RTD is doing in meeting the
Performance Measures. This allows us to look at a goal that is
not being met and focus on improving that area. General
Manager said that if we know we have an on time
performance issue and we know the where, then we can send
more supervisors to that area.
Director Sisk expressed that part of his concern with this is
that when there are goals he wants a way to measure the
goals. He said that as other Directors have accurately noted,
we do not have some goal numbers. He asked staff to look at
this differently going forward. He feels that these
Performance Measures are being looked at with some
trepidation because not all the goals are available. Terry
Howerter said that staff can take out the goals that are not
available next time and approve everything else.
Director Menten asked for numbers on people that were
moved from eliminated bus routes to light rail service. She
wants this information to be considered when we discuss
increased ridership. Terry Howerter explained that if someone
was moved from a bus to light rail service we would not see a
change in ridership; there may be a decrease in bus ridership
and an increase in light rail ridership. He said that it may be
difficult to obtain numbers on people riding the light rail
because their bus route was eliminated. There are many
factors that determine if someone begins riding the light rail.
Terry Howerter thought staff might be able to address this as
we move forward with smart media.
Director Solano stated that he supports this Recommended
Action. This is an exercise in probability. As you go into any
new venture there is going to be a margin of error. He
explained that as you narrow your margins, look at your
variables, and recalculate your probability then you can refine
your goals.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1] WITH 1 AWAY
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Natalie Menten
ABSENT:
Bruce Daly
AWAY:
Paul Solano
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Review of 2014-2019 SBP Development Process and 2014 Budget
Assumptions
Terry Howerter explained that this is an information item that is being
presented tonight.
Jannette Scarpino reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
can be found in the April 9, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Hoy noted that sales tax revenues were up 2.8% in January but
that does not appear to be the way things are holding. He is wondering if
we are off on our projections for this year already. Terry Howerter stated
that February receipts just came in. He said that we are up 1.7% over last
February but Director Hoy is correct that January to February is down.

• February 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod handed out the most recent Sales Tax Report to the Board
that can be found in the April 9, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet.
Doug MacLeod noted that on the Dashboard there are some red categories.
He stated that ridership is down 4.4% versus February of last year and
down 2.9% for year-to-date. Doug MacLeod explained that there was one
less day in February this year due to Leap Year. Also, New Year’s Day fell
on a Tuesday whereas it fell on a Saturday and Sunday the previous years.
He believes these factors contributed to our decrease in ridership.
Doug MacLeod stated that fare revenue was up 0.5% for the month and
down 0.1% year-to-date. He said that with ridership being down the

percentage it was that would indicate about $550 thousand loss so we were
able to offset the loss with some additional revenues.
Doug MacLeod shared that for Sales and Use Tax we were up 2.8% for
January and 1.6% for February. He explained that year-to-date that
averages out to 2.2% so we are right around what CU Leeds forecasted.
Doug MacLeod pointed out that the cash on hand has decreased by $118
million. He explained that on an annual basis we make a payment to Denver
Transit Partners for the Eagle P3 Project. He stated that payment went out
in January. He said that staff is keeping a close eye on cash but do not
expect any problems.
Doug MacLeod highlighted the line item that was added for the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA) under the net position section. This is
where any dollars that are set aside from the Risk Allocation Matric (RAM)
for the FISA will be tracked.
Doug MacLeod said that $3 million has been added to the Board
appropriated and capital replacement fund.
Director Bagley stated that the increases in our actual Sales and Use Tax
collections could drop because of the Sequestration at the Federal level. He
noted that Sequestration really relates to Federal monies but it flows through
the entire economy. Director Bagley asked if this was taken into
consideration by CU Leeds when doing their forecasts. Doug MacLeod said
this was one of the factors they considered. At the time the forecast was
done there was an assumption that there would be an initial drop-off at the
beginning of the year.
Director Deadwyler noted that for operating expenses Doug MacLeod said
we were operating at 90 days cash. She asked where this information was
in the report for FasTracks because the Board approval of the RAM changed
this to 60 days. Doug MacLeod explained that FasTracks is different from
Base System because their operating costs are such a small proportion of
overall costs. He said that the operating expense balance is shown in the
net position section under the FISA line. That is the portion of cash that
cannot be spent so it stays there as a reserve. Terry Howerter explained
that next month when staff begins reporting on the FISA one month will be
moved from that line up to the FISA line.
Director Deadwyler asked about reducing the FasTracks Base System
funding by 1%. Terry Howerter stated that does not take effect until
January of 2014. At that time there will be a FISA amount growing on the
Base and a FISA amount growing on the FasTracks. He explained that there

were certain items like our one time land sales that were identified to go into
Base and FasTracks. He offered to talk through this offline with Director
Deadwyler.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Washington informed the Board that Bill Holmes will be retiring.
He said that we are currently in the process of recruiting someone to fill his
positions. General Manager said that he does not think it will impact our audit
calendar but he will keep the Board informed.

E. Next Meeting Date - May 21, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:36 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee meeting.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

