1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Doug Tisdale, District H
First Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Claudia Folska, Ph.D., District E
Treasurer – Judy Lubow, District I
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Peggy Catlin, District N
Larry Hoy, District J

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Jeff Walker, District D
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
April 17, 2018 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tisdale called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Tisdale stated that the Board was privileged to be joined by Girl Scouts from Troop
66512 located in Jefferson County in District L to lead the pledge of allegiance, He
introduced
 Emma Martin
 Jaycee Thomas
 Alyrah Thomas
 Kyael Voye
 Ayda Voye
 Eleanor Lucier
 Madeline Woolworth
Chair Tisdale asked everyone to stand and join him in the Pledge of Allegiance. After the
pledge, he thanked the scouts, Eryn Grover, Administrative Assistant for North Metro, and
parents for taking the time to lead the Board in the pledge.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Attendee Name

Title

Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson

Director, District L

Remote

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

Bob Broom
Peggy Catlin

Director, District F
Director, District N

Absent
Absent

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present

5:23 PM
3:44 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:30 PM

5:04 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

5:31 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:34 PM

Ken Mihalik

Director, District G

Present

5:30 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:31 PM

Paul Solano
Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District K
Director, District H
Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:21 PM
5:30 PM
5:15 PM

Barbara McManus called roll. There were 12 Board members present at roll call. Directors
Broom and Catlin were absent. Director Anderson participated via phone.

IV.

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Susan Cohen, Lou Cripps, Sherry
Ellebracht, Steve Eubanks, Jill Fontaine, Michael Ford, Anthony
Forrester, David Genova, Bob Grado, Eryn Grover, Dave Jensen,
Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Robin McIntosh, Barbara McManus,
Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Scott Reed, Richard Rost, Ruth Seleske,
Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna
Vishwakarma, Luke Westlund

Others Present:

We Bux, Megan Byrd, Deborah Byrne, Myong Chang, Shelly Cook,
Jenee Elise Donelson, Joel Fontaine, William Gross, Lynn Guissiniger,
Meo Han, Anne Herzenberg, Hony Hongao, JianLu Hu, Jen Jo,
Jacquie Koewler, Jonathan Lovato, Steven Meyer, Kristen Seidel,
Paolo Solorzado, Dan Stitt, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Joann
Trudel, Gary Van Dorn, Xiao Wang, XV Wang, Bing Wen, Bob Wilson

Retiree Awards
Chair Tisdale noted there were three retirees this month with one in attendance:
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, introduced Gary Fontaine, Sign
Maintainer, and stated that he was retiring after 25 years of service to RTD in the sign
shop as well as a number of other positions with the district. He added that his wife, an
RTD dispatcher, was in attendance. Mr. Abel thanked Mr. Fontaine for his service to RTD
and the community.
Mr. Fontaine thanked RTD for all the great years and for providing for his family.
Chair Tisdale announced that Gary Schear, Capital Programs Construction Inspector, was
not able to attend, however, Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital
Programs, would say a few words on Mr. Schear’s behalf.

Mr. Stopplecamp stated that Mr. Schear had worked in the construction group for past 17
years and that his role as an inspector was very valuable to ensure that the district was
being provided the best possible construction and exactly what was required for a project.
He added that Mr. Schear was visible and volunteered for many investigations during the
night to ensure proper operations and regulations. Mr. Stopplecamp thanked Mr. Schear for
his dedication.
Chair Tisdale recognized Jim Sutton for his 27 years of exemplary service to RTD as the
Manager of Asset Management.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Tisdale stated that the public participation period was open to anyone who wanted
to speak. He explained that elected officials were invited to speak first, and others would
be called in the order they signed up, and then additional speakers would be invited at the
end of the list. He reminded the audience that each speaker was allowed three minutes
and to approach the lectern when called and state their name and address. Chair Tisdale
asked that if any speaker had documentation or reference materials for the Board to give
those materials to the Board staff prior to speaking.
Steven Meyer, Denver, stated that the residents of Sunset Park Apartments object to the
removal of Bus Stop Number 17750 that was proposed to be eliminated for the May 20,
2018 Service Changes. He added that the bus stop was valuable to RTD ridership and
accommodates the senior, disabled, severely disabled and non-English speaking residents
at Sunset Park. Mr. Meyers explained that the residents were a mix of seniors from varied
backgrounds and needs who depended on the close proximity of the bus stop to allow
routes 9, 38, and 52 that transport the residents to shopping, work, doctors, and other
important destinations, because 99% of the residents did not drive cars. He asked the
Board to reconsider the decision to eliminate the bus stop that currently served the 270
residents and asked for RTD to provide a presentation to inform the residents of RTD
services in order to improve ridership at that location.
Joann Trudell, Denver, on behalf of the people that unable to attend from the Sunset Park
Apartments, stated that the residents needed the bus stop directly outside the apartments
and asked RTD not to not eliminate the stop.
Jacquie Koewler, Denver, Board Member of The Gathering Place, encouraged the Board to
accept the recommendations of the Pass Program Working Group (PPWG) to implement a
low-income bus pass program and to keep the 50% discount for non-profits organizations
that maximized the number of passes that would be provided to those in need. She added
that many people relied on the bus as a lifeline to work, education, shelters, and affordable

housing. Ms. Koewler asked the Board to take into consideration the population that really
needed the bus in order to survive.
Reagan Bird, Denver, a former RTD candidate, asked the Board to consider the public
outcry regarding service changes and providing a low-income pass. She urged the Board to
take affordability and access seriously. Ms. Byrd asked that RTD develop a forum so that
citizens did not have to continue to come to the Board to express concerns. She added
that she advocated for the PPWG recommendations for a low-income pass. Ms. Byrd
stated that she was surprised about the bill at the state level that would limit RTD’s ability
to implement a low-income pass. She asked that RTD, the Board, and the community be
involved in strategizing how to do better.
Will Anderson, Denver, stated that there were many people in the district that needed an
income based bus pass because they cannot afford a bus pass increase and relied on RTD
buses. He urged RTD to keep an income-based pass and make sure the State Senate does
not take that power away from RTD.
Jenee Elise Donelson, 9to5, and Rocky Mountain Bus Riders Union, stated that in July
2016, before the PPWG was created, the RTD senior staff and Board discussed raising
fares by 10%. She added that the message presented by the staff regarding the income
based pass was damaging and false. Ms. Donelson stated that the discounts discussed
were not handouts and should not become an excuse to raise fares. She added that RTD
money woes were not the fault of the public that depend on RTD service. Ms. Donelson
stated that during Director Anderson’s town hall Heather McKillop, Chief Financial Officer,
discussed that a fare increase was to be discussed in the near future. She added that a
fare increase should not be imposed without public input. Ms. Donelson stated that cutting
service and adding more light rail lines that do not service neighborhoods was a civil rights
issue. She asked that RTD hold a diversity training meeting for staff and to find other
ways to increase revenue than to reduce service and increase fares to the people that rely
on transit and keep the city running.
Kristen Siedel, Denver, on behalf of Woman’s Collaborative for Colorado (WCC), stated
that many clients used the current discount fares provided by RTD. She added that the
fare programs were essential to WCC work and how the groups assisted clients to get to
work, school, and other programs. Ms. Siedel stated that WCC supported the incomebased pass presented by the PPWG at a 50% discount. She stated that had brought
several stories from the Delores Project that provided shelter to homeless women and
children. She explained that these women were unable to attend do to the curfew at the
shelter. Ms. Siedel shared a written statement that said that being homeless was difficult
enough and the bus passes that were issued from the Delores project had helped women
get their lives back together. She added that the RTD daily pass allowed women to board

a safe bus and return to a shelter. Ms. Siedel shared a second testament that stated that
RTD service was needed especially by mobility-impaired patrons, seniors on fixed incomes,
and other disadvantaged groups. She stated that these groups needed an income-based
pass to continue to work towards ways to better their lives. Ms. Siedel stated that she
wanted to remind the Board members that it was an election year and that they were all
elected officials and should act like it.

VI.

Committee Reports
Chair Tisdale stated that the committee minutes were included in the board packet and
asked if there were any other questions.
Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee – Chaired by Director Lubow
Executive Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Solano
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Chair Tisdale
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Mihalik
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Walker

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Chair Tisdale asked Committee Chair Walker if he had any comments regarding the
General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee.
Director Walker stated the Directors had received a draft schedule and would receive the
updated draft schedule that incorporated comments. He added that a survey would be
distributed the following week.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of March 27, 2018
Motion:

Director Archuleta made the motion to approve
the Board Meeting minutes of March 27, 2018.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker) and 0
against. Directors Broom and Catlin were
absent. Director Williams was away. Director
Anderson could not participate in the vote via
phone.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
EXCUSED:
AWAY:

ACCEPTED [11 TO 0]
Ernest Archuleta, Director, District C
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker
Bob Broom, Peggy Catlin
Lorraine Anderson
Kate Williams

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report
Chair Tisdale stated he would share a summary of the most pertinent events on the
horizon, as well as other items the Board members should be made aware. He highlighted
the following events:
 On March 28, 2018, RTD received a favorable ruling from the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission (CPUC) regarding the operations of the commuter rail system
and General Manager Genova would provide an update. Chair Tisdale stated that
ruling was exciting news for the commuter rail system and a significant step toward
the opening of the G Line.
 Friday, May 19th, 2018, several board members would attend the Conference of
Minority Transportation Officials (COMTO) Colorado annual scholarship banquet.
Chair Tisdale explained that COMTO Colorado awards nearly $30,000 annually in
local scholarships to minority high school graduates that pursue higher education in
the transportation industry. He thanked all of the Directors that would attend the
event.
 Monday, April 30, 2018, Director Deadwyler’s telephone town hall would conclude
the series for the year. Chair Tisdale added that the events yielded some critical
feedback from constituents and thanked CRL Associates, particularly, Roger
Sherman, and to the RTD communications team for making the events successful
and informative.
 May 6-9, 2018, Director Williams would attend the American Public Transportation
Association (APTA) Bus & Paratransit Conference in Tampa, Florida. Chair Tisdale
wished the best of luck to the RTD participants in the bus Roadeo, which would
take place that same week. He added that RTD was the grand champion at last
year’s Roadeo competition.
 On April 15, 2018, Director Menten held an in-person town hall. Chair Tisdale added
that in honor of Cinco de Mayo, Director Menten would conduct an RTD ride-n-dine
on May 5th.
 A number of directors attended the employee appreciation BBQ’s held on April 5th
and 6th, which was greatly appreciated by our staff.




Director Solano and Chair Tisdale met with Senator Tim Neville and Representative
Faith Winter to respond to questions about the PPWG.
Wednesday, April 25, 2018 several Directors would attend the (DRCOG) annual
awards banquet.

Director Menten explained that on Saturday, May 5, 2018, she would accompany
constituents from her district to downtown on RTD bus routes. She added that all
participants were responsible for their fares and lunch.

X.

General Manager's Report
Chair Tisdale asked General Manager Genova to share his report.
General Manager Genova stated that the written report was included in the Board packet
and highlighted the following activities:
 The Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) received certification from the
Federal Transit Administration (FTA) for the State System Oversight Program that
would meet all new regulatory requirements for fixed guideways operations (light
rail, commuter rail, and heavy rail). General Manager Genova explained that the FTA
had set a deadline for all states to be certified by April 2019. He added that states
did not meet the deadline would lose all federal funding and that Colorado was one
of eight states that had completed the certification process.
 The North Carolina Department of Transportation, Deputy Secretary, David Howard
visited RTD and toured the Denver Union Station. General Manger Genova
discussed RTD financial models to complete the Eagle Project, Denver Union
Station, and how RTD organized the buildout of FasTracks. He added that North
Carolina was looking to start similar projects.
 Wednesday, April 25 staff would attend the Mobility Choice Board Meeting and
that RTD had a small section on that agenda to discuss RTD mobility strategy and
about transportation transformation. General Manager Genova stated that staff
would also update the Board on the Request for Information (RFI) RTD issued
regarding different mobility issues and how RTD would work with local jurisdiction
transportation staff to have a regional mobility dialog.
 The CPUC approval on the grade crossing design was a huge milestone but the
written orders have not been received. General Manger Genova stated that staff
continued to move forward and to work closely with the Commission staff and the
FRA to address all the remaining items toward removal of grade crossing
attendants, the opening of the G Line, and establishing quiet zones.
 General Manager Genova commented that due to the recent high winds there have
been service alerts and issues with crossing gates across the system.
 The Pass Program Working Group recommendation and then Tactical Plan
presentation would be the topic at the Study Session the following week.

XI.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Tisdale stated that there were three items on the consent agenda and suggested that
if there were any questions or need for discussion of an agenda item, a Director should
request it be removed from the unanimous consent agenda for discussion under
Recommended Action.
Director Menten requested that item C be removed from unanimous consent to
recommended actions in order for her to abstain from the vote.
Motion:

Director Folska, Ph.D., made the motion to
approve items A and B on the unanimous
consent agenda.
Director Lubow seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 12 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams)
and 0 against. Directors Broom and Catlin were
absent. Director Anderson could note participate
in the vote via phone.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
EXCUSED:

PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Menten, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano,
Tisdale, Walker, Williams
Bob Broom, Peggy Catlin
Lorraine Anderson

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
A.
RTD Director District Precinct Assignment
It is recommended by the Planning, Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the revised Director District boundary between Director District
E and Director District G so that all of Arapahoe County Precinct Number 234 falls within
Director District E, which has a lower population than District G.

This recommendation addresses General Manager 2018 Core Goal #3: Strong Financial
Management: Oversees operating and FasTracks budgets, ensures compliance with local,
state, and federal reporting, and development of financing plans for future projects.
B.
Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH), Contract
16 FO-017 - Contract Amendment #2
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to amend Contract 16 FO-017 with SEH
to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in the amount of
$2,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed Contract amount of $2,603,096.91. Work is
administered on an as-needed, work order basis. Funding for this Contract will be included
in the individual approved project budgets.
This Recommended Action supports two of the General Manager’s 2018 goals. 1- Core
Goal #1 - Successful Delivery of Transit Services. 2 - Task Goal #3 – Asset
Management/State of Good Repair.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.
Construction Award for IFB 37-DE 001. East Metro HVAC and Building Automation
Controls Upgrade Project
It is recommended by Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to award a contract to JCOR
Mechanical Inc. in the amount of $2,840,224 for the East Metro HVAC and Building
Automation Controls Upgrade Project. It is further recommended that the General Manager
or his designee be authorized to transfer $551,222 from the Base System Contingency
funds to the East Metro HVAC and Building Automation Controls Upgrade Project. Funding
for the contract and the transfer are included in the 2018 budget.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goal - Task Goal #3 –
Asset Management/State of Good Repair.
Motion:

Director Williams made the motion to approve
the Construction Award for IFB 37-DE 001, the
East Metro HVAC and Building Automation
Controls Upgrade Project.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams), 0 against,

and 1 abstention (Menten). Directors Broom and
Catlin were absent. Director Anderson could not
participate in the vote via phone.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:
EXCUSED:

PASSED [11 TO 0 WITH 1 ABSTENTION]
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Bob Broom, Peggy Catlin
Lorraine Anderson

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.
D.
Acquisition of Additional Property Rights (Permanent Easement) – North Metro
Commuter Rail Project
It is recommended by the Planning/Capital Programs & FasTracks Committee that the
Board of Directors pass the attached Property Acquisition Resolution certifying property as
necessary for the construction of the North Metro Commuter Rail Project and authorize
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law. Funding
of this acquisition is included in the 2018 Adopted Budget for the North Metro Project.
This Recommended Action supports the General Manager’s 2018 goals - Core Goal #1 –
Successful Delivery of Transit Services
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve the
Acquisition of Additional Property Rights
(Permanent Easement) – North Metro Commuter
Rail Project.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Mihalik stated that he was not opposed to the
property agreement and he was interested in reaching an
agreement. He added that he would like to see staff attempt
to reach an agreement and then use eminent domain.
Director Sisk stated that the threat of eminent domain had
some favorable tax treatment.

Director Walker stated that eminent domain was typically the
last resort.
Director Hoy stated that it was his understanding that the
improvements proposed would actually benefit the landowner.
General Counsel Rolf Asphaug stated that RTD followed the
Uniform Acquisition Act, and those processes were followed
in order to reach the agreement.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) with 1 against
(Menten). Directors Broom and Catlin were
absent. Director Anderson could not participate
in the vote via phone.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
EXCUSED:

PASSED [11 TO 1]
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Bob Broom, Peggy Catlin
Lorraine Anderson

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.
E.

Approval of NewPush Contract for Hosting Services

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract for “Infrastructure as a Service to Host Smart Media
Technology and Ticket Vending Machine Systems in a Payment Card Industry Secure
Environment” with The NewPush, LLC (NewPush) (Contract Number 17DH041) for an
amount not to exceed $4,000,000. The contract is for two base years with three one-year
options to extend the contract.
GENERAL MANAGER’S GOALS
Core Goal #3: Strong Financial Management
Task Goal #3: Asset Management/State of Good Repair

Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve
the NewPush Contract for Hosting Services.
Director Williams seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska, Ph.D., stated that she received an email that
stated that many of the Smart Card readers had not been
working across the district and asked if NewPush was the
company that would make the readers work.
General Manager Genova explained that NewPush was not the
same company and that they have nothing to do with the
Smart Card readers. He added that the readers were
continuously checked and monitored and that staff would look
into the issue.
Director Menten stated the price of the IT contracts were
shocking. She asked about the price differences between the
other bidders for the contract and specifically about how RTD
procurement made the selection of the company.
General Manager Genova explained that RTD had two specific
procurement processes: a Request for Proposal (RFP) and an
Invitation for Bid (IFB). He stated that the contract was issued
as an RFP where RTD used best value procurement to evaluate
the bidders. General Manager Genova explained that the RFP
included other requirements, in addition to the cost, to meet
the contract requirements. He added that the evaluation team
was made up of a both technical and contract staff. He stated
that the evaluation team would examine all these pieces prior
to the knowing the cost of the bid. General Manager Genova
stated that the scoring was divided by percentage and
considered a best value procurement system.
Director Menten stated that she had asked previously for
references for NewPush.
General Manager Genova stated that he had issued a memo
sent on Friday, April 13, 2018, that included additional
information regarding the contractor. He added that there were

ten to twelve references that were supplied by NewPush, but
as part of the company’s security client information was not
to be published.
Vote on
The Motion: The motion passed with 11 in favor (Archuleta,
Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk,
Solano, Tisdale, Walker, Williams) and 1 against
(Menten). Directors Broom and Catlin were
absent. Director Anderson could not participate
in the vote via phone.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
EXCUSED:

PASSED [11 TO 1]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Kate Williams, Director, District A
Archuleta, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, Lubow, Mihalik, Sisk, Solano, Tisdale,
Walker, Williams
Natalie Menten
Bob Broom, Peggy Catlin
Lorraine Anderson

Chair Tisdale declared the motion PASSED.

XIII.

Executive Session
There was no executive session.

XIV. Old Business
There was no old business.

XV.

New Business
There was no new business.

XVI. Adjourn
Chair Tisdale adjourned the meeting at 6:38 p.m.
Prepared and Transcribed by:

__________________________________________________________________
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

