Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 13, 2007
Page 1 of 4
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

November 13, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, November 13, 2007 at 4:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board
Conference Room
****

Committee
Members Present:

Wally Pulliam, Chair; Bill Elfenbein, Vice-Chair; Noel Busck, Bruce
Daly, Lee Kemp, Daryl Kinton, Bill McMullen, Dave Ruchman,
Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Scott Reed, Sherry Ellebracht, Bill Sirois,
John Shonsey, Mike Turner, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Jenifer Brandeberry, Julie McKenna, Mike Dino, Kevin Flynn
****
Chair Pulliam called the meeting to order at 4:04 p.m.

Call to Order:

I. Federal Update - Mike Dino of Patton Boggs gave this update. President Bush has said
he will veto every appropriations bill with the exception of defense and military
construction. The President does not like the Transportation, Housing and Urban
Development (THUD) bill that has been conferenced. The rest of the funding for TREX ($51.5 million) and monies for the West Corridor ($40 million) are in the
conference report. The president will most likely veto this bill as it is $3 billion over
what he wants to be.
It is unclear when a resolution will be reached on any appropriations bills.
Continuing Resolutions (CR), the process may go on until February 2008.

With

Amtrak was reauthorized by the Senate. It has not been taken up by the House. The
Amtrak bill has a state capital grant program for capital costs for new/improved
intercity passenger rail service which may have implications for Denver Union Station
and some different pots of money that may be available to the District.
Director McMullen asked about Diana DeGette’s money for Denver Union Station.
Marla Lien said that CDOT reports that it has been shrunk back from $50 million to
$42.5 million. The first few years of the authorization were subject to reduction
under the federal budget bill’s continuing funding appropriation at a percentage of the
previous year’s budget. This grant comes through FHWA not FTA. The District

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 13, 2007
Page 2 of 4
should go after this same pot of money during the next reauthorization in 2009.
Sherry Ellebracht and Marla Lien will follow up on this.
Wally Pulliam noting that Director Daly had requested looking at the defense budget
for military handicapped dollars for access-a-Ride and asked if that was feasible. Mike
Dino said he would look into it.
There was a discussion about how the new ethics rules for lobbyists could affect the
Washington, D.C. Trip. Bruce Daly spoke about the annual trip to D.C. and the new
ethics rules that have been signed by the President. Mike Dino said that lobbyists
cannot do anything to host a member of Congress or congressional staff. It is a
criminal charge.
Bill McMullen asked about the value of directors going to Washington, D.C. Mike
Dino responded that it depends on how much interaction a director has with their
representatives during the year. Mike Dino also said it is important for the directors to
make a trip to Washington and get some face-to-face time with the Congressional
delegation and staffers.
Recommended Action
a. Federal Liaison Services –The original contract was a one-year contract with four
one-year options. This is the third option year.
It is recommended by the Legislative Committee that the Board of Directors authorize
the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for federal liaison services) with
Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year option (February 1, 2008 through January
31, 2009) to extend Contract No. 14-DX-101, at a cost of $240,000. Funding for
this contract is included in the 2008 budget.
Motion:

Director Busck made a
motion for approval
before the full Board at
the November 20, 2007.

Second:

Director McMullen
seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

II.

The motion passed
unanimously.

State Update – Jenifer Brandeberry from Brandeberry-McKenna gave the overview.
 Potential 2008 State Legislation to be introduced by RTD
o Increase RTD Board of Directors salaries – This is for an increase in
the Board’s salary similar to the bill in 2001 that passed by the
legislature and was vetoed by Governor Owens. Jenifer Brandeberry
suggested modeling the new bill after the 2001 bill since there was
good bi-partisan support for it. Senator Veiga has offered to carry
the bill in the Senate. The bill would include the salary amount in the
title so that the amount could not be changed via amendments.
Directors elected in the 2008 general election or any general election

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 13, 2007
Page 3 of 4
thereafter would receive the raise.


Potential 2008 Legislation to be introduced by other entities
o Authorization of residential and other uses at RTD transfer facilities –
Denver Metro Chamber may sponsor. This is in regards to TOD. Chair
Pulliam said another entity should introduce it but if there is a
problem, RTD will sponsor.
o

Expansion of urban renewal purposes – The Colorado Municipal
League (CML) is working on this issue, adding a new section for
definitions of community development projects. RTD may add some
language to the community development piece. The language would
be to allow transit projects to be part of community development.
The counties may fight this bill.
Director Busck asked why we are getting into the TOD issue. Cal
Marsella responded that the District does not want to, but does not
want TOD to be excluded. This language would help the District.
There is no preclusion against commercial development.
Director Busck asked how would this work with the local entities. Cal
Marsella said that residential development would be allowed, but it
would still have to comply with local municipalities’ zoning approval.


o

o

Potential 2008 State Legislation to be introduced by RTD continued
Issue regarding status of abandoned railroad right-of-way – Jenifer
Brandeberry gave the topic over to Marla Lien, General Counsel. This bill
would state that railroad right-of-way sold to RTD for passenger rail
services would continue to be designated as a public highway under the
Colorado Constitution Article XV section 4. This will allow some acquired
railroad right-of-way to be designated as “abandoned” by the federal
Surface Transportation Board so as to preclude additional freight service in
the future, while also preventing reversion to municipalities of right-of-way
acquired by RTD and designated “abandoned.”
Grade separation language revision – Marla Lien said that the RTD Act
requires that on any fixed guideway mass transit system that has a
crossing at a roadway with 20,000 vehicles a day RTD install a grade
separation, unless otherwise agreed by the municipality or county where
the crossing is located. The statute was written about twenty years ago.
Traffic volumes have changed since then and grade separations cost
millions of dollars. Planning and Development staff has suggested
changing the language to 10,000 cars per lane per day which would
mandate grade separation.
Both of these bills require buy-in from the municipalities.
Director Kemp asked if this would affect quiet zones. John Shonsey and
Cal Marsella responded that quiet zones are being applied for on all

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, November 13, 2007
Page 4 of 4
corridors.
The Committee directed the lobbyists to work on the Board salary increase
and work with the Denver Metro Chamber on the TOD bill and explore
Urban renewal issue. The lobbyists are to discuss the railroad right of way
and grade separation issues with CML and Colorado Counties Inc. (CCI).
Bill McMullen spoke with Rep. Andrew Romanoff about why the legislature
controls RTD. Is it something we should ponder to get RTD out from under
the control of the Legislature? Chair Pulliam said that is not something the
District should propose, but if Romanoff wants to introduce it, it should
come from the legislature.
Director Busck asked what would be the pros and cons of doing this?
Marla Lien said that special entities are normally directed by the legislature
or the courts, otherwise they are mostly directed by the people and subject
to initiative and referendum. Right now, the District is protected from
initiative and referendum except on the state level which is a very high bar.
Director Elfenbein stated that it sounds good, but the legislature gives the
District some cover for when things get difficult.
Cal Marsella said that the District has had a pretty good relationship with
the legislature and the district has not been adversely impacted by the
legislature.
Director Elfenbein said that public perception may not be very positive.
Director Ruchman suggested starting a conversation with Norma Anderson
about what could be the pros and cons—see what kind of response we get
from floating the idea.


III.

Proposed State Initiative #31 – Nondiscrimination by the State – This is a
citizen initiative, constitutional amendment that may be on the ballot. It is
anti-affirmative action and will not affect the District’s DBE program since
DBE is a federal program. The SBE program could be affected. If it is on the
ballot, the Board can take a position. It would exclude SBE goals and could
be seen as discrimination.

Adjournment - Chair Pulliam adjourned the meeting at 4:59 p.m.

