1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, December 10, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede called the meeting to order at 6:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Absent

Arrived

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:01 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Committee Co-Chair

Present
Absent

6:53 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:54 PM
6:56 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

6:50 PM
6:54 PM
6:56 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

6:54 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Committee Co-Chair

Present

6:50 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

6:54 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

6:50 PM
6:54 PM

Chair Anderson and Directors Deadwyler and Solano were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Will Adams, Martha Bembry, Shirley Bennett, Jessie
Carter, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Martel Dyles,
Heather Ellerbrock, John Elias, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Kenn Hardin, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien,
Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Robin McIntosh, Doug MacLeod,
Brenden Morgan, Amanda Murray, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Richard
Rost, Jannette Scarpino, Dean Shaklee, Zamy Silva, Cherie Sprague,
Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Bill Van
Meter, Phil Washington, Julia Yugel

Others Present:

Adrina Gibson, Gary Forbes, Sherman Hamilton, Rita Kahn, Rita Ho,
Stu Livensparger, Mica Maniece, Nicholas Moller, Ron Murphy,
Thomas Peterson, Dan Pearsall, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett,
Christen Villalobos, Doris Vincent, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• Civil Rights Division 2013 Annual Report
Mr. Kenn Hardin presented the 2013 Annual Report and stated the full
Annual Report is included in the December 10, 2013 Civil Rights Committee
Board Packet and contains a wealth of information.
Kenn Hardin shared that this was the Civil Rights Division’s first Annual
Report to the Board as the Division was just approved last year, and the
Board approved the Civil Rights Committee this year. Mr. Hardin noted that
he will be introducing a couple of the Civil Rights Champions at the end of
the presentation.
Kenn Hardin stated that it was a great vision of our General Manager Phil
Washington to create the Civil Rights Division and the need for staff to
switch from the DBE Committee to the Civil Rights Committee. Staff is
better able to get an idea of the areas and functions that come underneath
the Civil Rights Division. Mr. Hardin extended his thanks and appreciation to
the two co-chairs; Director Rivera-Malpiede and Director Deadwyler for their
support throughout the entire past year.
Kenn Hardin reviewed a few of the 2013 highlights. The Civil Rights

Committee was established; the ADA program was approved; and the WIN
program was very robust. Mr. Hardin reported that the Program Director
was invited to speak at the Utah Transit Authority (UTA). Other agencies
were also interested in the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) Program. The
Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority (MBTA) came to Denver as part
of their interest in RTD’s wonderful Capital Program; they also wanted to
take a look at the WIN Program.
Mr. Hardin shared often times small businesses say all they do is
subcontract. However, many of the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise
(DBE) and Small Business Enterprise (SBE) firms do move into Prime
Contract awards.
RTD has enjoyed watching several such entities grow into Prime Contractors
such as Sky Blue Builders, Rose Electric and Rodriguez Construction. The
Equal Opportunity Office provided educational training to over half of RTD
employees. Mr. Hardin reported that Mowa Haile, President and CEO of
Sky Blue Builders, is here tonight to comment on that experience a little later
in the presentation.
Mr. Hardin stated that 2014 Goals include taking the program on the road to
RTD District; educating internal and external constituents and customers
about what staff does in the Civil Rights Division and how staff supports our
organization so there is greater understanding about the Civil Rights service
functions.
The WIN program plans to introduce several new programs such as the
Ambassador Program and getting more young people involved in the
industry. The Civil Rights Transit Tech Institute will be another exciting
piece of the WIN program. As we move forward, staff will also engage in
fund raising activities to keep the WIN program active and alive.
The SBO is creating partnerships and training for business development
assistant programs. Staff wants to provide more programs like mentor
protégé programs, helping small businesses become more engaged and
having a greater understanding about building capacity in their business; and
offering far more capacity building orientation workshops.
Mr. Hardin commented that staff will also introduce Sensing Sessions within
the organization; helping different departments to become more engaged and
to increase morale; enabling staff to understand more about EEO and how
important EEO is within the RTD Organization.

Director Folska commented that the Civil Rights Division has put together a
really ambitious program. She inquired about the human capital available to
enable the Civil Rights Division to be successful on delivering their goals.
Mr. Hardin replied that when he first started many years ago, it was just
himself. Currently the Civil Rights Division has a very robust staff of 22
staff. Director Folska advised it would be really helpful if the documents
prepared for the Committee Meeting Board Packets could be made available
for screen readers. Director Folska observed all other divisions have been
able to make documents legible for screen readers. Kenn Hardin committed
to address that issue.
Mr. Hardin introduced the small business team: Adrina Gibson, Mica
Maniece, Amanda Murray, Martel Dyles and Dan Pearsall; the entire team
worked on this presentation.
Director Daly complimented the team and the quality paper product the Civil
Rights Division prepared. Director Daly also appreciated the ability to put
faces to names.
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede shared that it has been her distinct
pleasure to work with this amazing staff. Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede
commented that tonight was her last night to be overseeing and co-chairing
the Civil Rights Committee; that this is the best staff in the country sitting in
front of the Board.
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede stated that when she first started
attending the DBE quarterly meetings, they were not well attended; now it is
standing room only. Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede commented that this
Division has brought every diverse community into the equation to be part of
the process that we call FasTracks, WIN; and for creating opportunities for
folks to learn how to grow their business and learn. Committee Chair
Rivera-Malpiede thanked Kenn Hardin and his staff for their hard work.

 Civil Rights Champions Presented
Kenn Hardin introduced Zami Silva, Small Business Manager who introduced
a couple of the Civil Rights Highlighters for 2013. The first Champion is
Mowa Haile, President and CEO of Sky Blue Builders. He is one of the Prime
Contractors on the On-Call contract, where we have 3 DBE’s as Primes.
Sky Blue Builders is also on the I225 project where they just won a
maintenance facility contract. It is amazing to see the DBE’s growing from
Sub to Prime Contractors, which is the goal of the program. Ms. Silva
introduced Mr. Haile to say a few words about the experience.

Mowa Haile thanked the Board for the opportunity and for everything RTD
has done for Sky Blue Builders. Sky Blue Builders have been in business for
7 years and have 3 lines of business: Infrastructure - which is RTD type of
work along with CDOT as well as a lot of DOD paving contracts; a building
division which is tenant finish type of work such as maintenance on
buildings; and their 3rd line of business is land development.
Mr. Haile noted it is interesting that RTD Civil Rights Division state that the
DBE’s are their champions. RTD is certainly Sky Blue Builder’s Champion,
not only for the opportunity to work on RTD contracts, but also for helping
Blue Sky Builders to grow and become a Prime Contractor, which is the
spirit of the Civil Rights program.
Hopefully, 4-5 years from now, you will see Sky Blue Builders bidding on a
large contract. Sky Blue Builders acquired a full time WIN person in
accounting who is responsible for doing certified payroll, not only for our
RTD work, but also for the private sector, Federal and City work; Sky Blue
Builders are growing.
Rodriguez Construction - DUS, I225, Eagle P3 and West Corridor. Manny
Rodriguez, Rodriguez Construction greeted the Board and stated that
Rodriquez Construction was fortunate enough to get a contract at DUS 3
years ago. Work has snowballed into bigger projects and additional work.
Rodriguez Construction has been doubling its volume for the past 3 years. A
lot of Rodriquez Construction’s success is attributable to the RTD Projects.
Director Walker pointed out that the Civil Rights Champions are present
tonight because they’ve worked for it, they’ve earned it. They represent the
best. Director Walker thanked the Champions for the hard work they have
put in for RTD, and Director Walker expounded that the Champions are
helping to build the RTD agency into a great success where RTD can help
others in the industry, in the nation and the economy.
Director Bagley thanked Sky Blue Builders and Rodriquez Construction
for sharing their two wonderful stories. Director Bagley commented he
appreciated the Champions for coming down and sharing the stories
of their success with RTD and hearing about their opportunities to launch
into larger business.
Manny Rodriguez reported that Rodriguez Construction is also a Hub zone
contractor, a lot of the WIN participants fall right in. In order to stay
certified, Rodriguez Construction have to keep a certain percentage inside of
a hub zone, which helps on the federal side. Mr. Rodriguez informed that
about 40% of contracted dollars make it out in labor costs and this filters
out into the community.
Director Bagley thanked the Champions, advising it was very beneficial to
hear their stories.

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - February 11, 2014
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Rivera-Malpiede adjourned the meeting at 7:14 p.m. to the
Operations and Customer Service Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

