2021-02-09
Board of Directors - Study Session
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: --the study session for Tuesday, February 9, 2021. We are convened as of
5:33 PM. And I would respectfully ask everyone in the meeting to ensure that you are on mute unless you
have been recognized to speak.
I see that most of the Directors have joined the meeting. And before we proceed, is there any other Directors
who have joined us, particularly Director Broom and Director Rosenthal. I will come back.
At RTD, safety is our core value, and I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. According to
a recent article in the Denver Post, Colorado now ranks 13th in COVID-19 vaccine doses administered and
has the 8th fewest new COVID-19 cases in the United States. That said, this is not the time to let down
your guard. We must all continue to follow established health guidelines to keep ourselves and our loved
ones safe.
Continue to practice physical distancing-- six feet is the maximum. Wear a mask at all times in public
spaces. Get tested if you are experiencing symptoms or if you have been in contact was someone with the
virus. Using your smartphone, you can also use the Colorado exposure notification tool. By opting in, your
Android or iPhone device will share anonymous tokens with others in your immediate vicinity via your phone
Bluetooth connection. If another user you've been near tests positive for COVID-19 within a 14-day period,
the service will notify you if you test positive. You can easily and anonymously notify others to stop the
spread of COVID-19. These services do not collect personal information or location data.
That brings us to our topic this evening, the Northwest Rail discussion. Let me begin this discussion by
saying thank you to all of you who have joined us this evening for the study session and particularly those
guests we've invited to join in our conversation. We appreciate that our partners are here to engage in our
ongoing dialogue that really impacts the entire region and to share their thoughts with us about the region's
transit system and in particular the FasTracks program and the Northwest Rail.
Suffice to say, there's been a great deal of interest lately regarding the Northwest Rail. As such, we did
decide to convene this study session to lay out the history of FasTracks project, and specifically the
Northwest Rail, with the hopes of coming to a mutual understanding of how we have come to this point of
the project.
Keep in mind that since 2004 to 2021, the Board has changed six times. We've gone through several
General Managers. And with the recent election last November and five new Board members that were
sworn in in January, we felt-- and a new General Manager-- we felt it was imperative to bring everybody
together with a fresh look at what has happened, what was planned, and what we need to do to move
forward.
This evening, the RTD staff will be presenting a deep dive look at the following elements: the history of
FasTracks, the current status of FasTracks and key unfinished elements, the Northwest Rail, the 2019
Unfinished Corridors Report, and the federal funding and other items.
Following this presentation, the Board will engage in an open discussion focused on the topic of the
Northwest Rail project with some of the agency's key partners and stakeholders. One of those partners,
Governor Polis, will be joining us this evening. It's our understanding that he'll be calling in somewhere

around 7:00 PM. And we are so pleased that the governor will be joining us this evening for such an
important discussion that impacts our entire region. We really look forward in partnering with the governor
and with Congressman Neguse's office in partnership and collaboration as we move forward this very, very
important commitment that has been made to the community.
With that, I'd like to invite our CEO and General Manager Debra A. Johnson to say a few words and to
introduce the staff members who will present this evening. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and good evening to you, Board members and
to all who are assembled. I am Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO of RTD. And this evening's
study session, as you described, is focused on the Northwest Rail corridor.
I see this session as being the first of many conversations in which there is open and earnest dialogue
about how we create a path forward for the Northwest corridor. I clearly understand that this project is
significantly important to many in our community, as evidenced by the more than 90 comments received
within the past few days, the media inquiries, as well as letters from the governor and other elected officials.
I am here in the spirit of collaboration as we collectively identify solutions.
I am joined by Bill Van Meter, RTD's Assistant General Manager of Planning, as well as Henry
Stopplecamp, RTD's Assistant General Manager of Capital Construction. Mr. Van Meter will give a
presentation to help aid in the discussion this evening. I want to thank them both, and their respective
teams, for the hard work put forth in developing the presentation, as well as to you, the Board, for supporting
this initiative to come forward and having this open dialogue.
I do ask you this evening if you could hold off on your questions until after Mr Van Meter's presentation as
to enable a more robust and engaged dialogue. The presentation should take approximately 40 minutes.
Thank you for your cooperation. And without further ado, I will yield the virtual floor to Mr. Van Meter.
BILL VAN METER: Thank you, General Manager Johnson and the Board. I am now entering that awkward
part where I attempt to start my screen share. And I am told by Zoom that I cannot start screen share while
another-- so Nikki, hopefully you can quit sharing so I can start sharing.
Can someone confirm, one, that you can hear me and, two, that you can see the presentation?
KATE WILLIAMS: We can hear you, Bill. We do not see the presentation
BILL VAN METER: OK. Halfway there. Let me re-click Share Screen.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Now we see it.
BILL VAN METER: Awesome.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I see it.
BILL VAN METER: All right. Wonderful. Again, thank you, everyone, for your attention.
As Chair Rivera-Malpiede identified, the outline for tonight's presentation includes a brief recap of the
FasTracks history, a current FasTracks status, and a look at the key unfinished elements of FasTracks, a
deep dive on the Northwest Rail, a report on the 2019 Unfinished Corridors Report, and look at federal
funding and other relevant items.
Wanted to let everyone know that at the end of this presentation, there are links available on the RTD
website to the key documents that are referenced as this presentation proceeds.
So FasTracks history, some key points. The program faced challenges from early on as a result of rapid
cost escalation, the Great Recession, scope changes, due to federal requirements, technology changes,
and local requirements. And RTD had a comprehensive response that included internal and external
oversight and response and pursuit of a number of public-private partnerships.

This is a recap of the plan as adopted in 2004. A key item on this slide is the last bullet, and I'll draw your
attention to it, because it is part of some of the key decisions that were made by RTD's Board of Directors
through the years. And that is, the original plan assumed a 1% per year increase in base system bus service
hours through 2020 and 1.5% a year starting this year through 2025. Those increases in bus hours were
to be funded through the FasTracks 0.4% sales and use tax increase.
So in 2004, DRCOG reviewed and approved the plan, the method of financing, and the capital costs
pursuant to Senate Bill 208-- that's 90-208, Colorado state legislature passed in 1990-- requiring DRCOG's
review and approval before the RTD can proceed with construction of any fixed guideway projects or
corridors.
A couple of years later, as RTD had initiated design and environmental clearances for the corridors,
following a crash with a passenger rail vehicle in California, the freight railroads mandated to RTD that we
operate passenger rail vehicles that are FRA compliant-- Federal Railroad Administration compliant-- in
any of their rights of ways shared with freight railroads. That led us to change the technology for the Gold
Line from light rail, as it was identified in the original plan, to commuter rail.
In 2007, RTD also completed a life cycle cost analysis of commuter rail technologies. The assumption for
commuter rail technologies in the 2004 adopted plan was locomotive hauled coaches, passenger coaches
hauled by locomotives. This life cycle cost analysis looked at the additional upfront costs of electric multiple
units which are partially offset, and in the case of the East, North Metro, and Gold Line corridor, totally offset
by lower projected operating and life cycle costs. So the technology switched from diesel to electric multiple
units on those corridors.
However, the cost savings on an annual O&M, operating and maintenance cost, perspective, from that
perspective for the Northwest corridor did not pencil out and RTD stuck with diesel multiple unit. But this
added significant upfront capital costs to the program which would be offset by lower operating and
maintenance costs over time.
In 2007 is when what we termed at the time the perfect storm started hitting RTD. Commodities prices
jumped, significantly increasing program costs by about $1.2 billion. In response to that. the Metro Mayors
Caucus formed a FasTracks Task Force to provide the mayors and the caucus a better understanding of
RTD's financial challenges at the time. That task force met for about five years on a very regular basis to
provide input to the RTD Board of Directors and a level of oversight in the decision making and
understanding of the decision making process moving forward.
Following that commodity price spike, the Great Recession impacted RTD's sales and use tax receipts and
receipts plummeted. At the same time, the Federal Railroad Administration mandated that all passenger
railroads install positive train control, or PTC systems, which also added additional capital costs to RTD's
commuter rail corridors. And at that time, RTD concluded that FasTracks could not be completed without a
significant capital funding cost, or funding infusion, or by extending the schedule.
To give you an idea of the impact sales and use tax, on the left you can see, in blue, the base system and,
in red, the FasTracks' systems projected sales and use tax revenues over the period from 2005 through
2017, that was projected on the left. And the actuals on the right. So you can see the impact that both the
RTD base system and FasTracks system sustained as a result of the Great Recession in 2008 through
2017.
This is a fairly dramatic looking graph. It shows in purple on the bottom the original FasTracks forecasts for
a basket of commodities, diesel, concrete, steel and copper, and our assumptions regarding how costs

would increase over time through the delivery years, the 12-year delivery of the FasTracks program. And
then you can see the actual cost escalation, the spikes in 2007 and beyond in those key materials needed
for the construction of bus rapid transit, light rail, and commuter rail corridors.
In response to that funding gap, the RTD Board and staff and stakeholders embarked on a number of
different internal and external exercises. The Board and staff instituted an annual program evaluation,
looking at a detailed capital cost, operating cost, and budget analyses, financial forecasts on an annual
basis to update all of our projections and update our Board and stakeholders as to where we were on the
program. We conducted extensive outreach, public outreach, presenting different program delivery options
given the funding constraints that we looked at.
The RTD Board also convened a Fiscal Sustainability Task Force which delivered their recommendations
for operating efficiencies and revenue enhancements to ensure RTD's long-term fiscal sustainability in
2011. Recognizing the challenges with RTD's internal sales and use tax forecasts, we convened a group
of state and local economic and financial advisors who recommended that we contract with a third party.
We selected the Leeds School of Business to prepare future sales and use tax revenues for the District.
We looked at a number of other actions, potential critical adjustments to the plan and the project definitions.
We developed a risk allocation matrix. And annually, we submit a report to DRCOG, an annual Senate Bill
208 report, which was part of the conditions of their approval of the original plan in 2004, updating the
Denver Regional Council of Governments on the plan and the financial and capital cost and progress on it.
Picking the timeline back up, in 2009 through 2011, RTD explored, a number of years in a row, the
opportunity of seeking a tax increase to fill the funding gap. And the Board of Directors opted not to, after
soliciting public input and not getting strong positive feedback regarding the possibility for that.
So then, RTD turned to the private sector seeking ideas for public-private partnerships, or P3s. We held an
industry forum in 2011, the Transformation Through Transportation forum, seeking innovations for
completing FasTracks. It brought 200 people from a large cross-section of large and small firms in the
engineering, construction, and financial sectors.
In 2012, the RTD Board also took a significant action and made a significant commitment to righting the
ship for FasTracks by establishing the FasTracks Internal Savings Account, also called the FISA. A number
of different actions were identified, financial actions, to help fund this FISA account. The primary intent was
to support completion of the unfinished projects and unfinished commitments in the FasTracks plan.
A key one, the first bullet, and a key source of the revenues that have accumulated to $124 million in the
current FISA balance was capping that 1% per year, increasing to 1.5% per year, FasTracks contribution
to the bass system, or core RTD bus service increases that was part and parcel of the approved FasTracks
plan.
When I talk about the base system, I'm talking about kind of the pre-existing system, the bus and rail system
that was existing or committed to prior to the FasTracks vote and that substantially supported by the then
existing, and still currently existing, 0.6% of a sales and use tax. So FasTracks had a funding commitment.
The Board action to establish FISA capped future increases to the rate of inflation.
We had a lot of success with the public-private partnerships that we pursued. A highlight of that was the
delivery of the Eagle P3 project, the East and Gold Line corridors, and the first segment of the B Line, which
is the subject of tonight's study session, the Northwest Rail corridor, also known as the B Line, under the
auspices of the Federal Transit Administration's public private partnership pilot program, or Penta-P
program, with a $1.03 billion award for that project.

RTD also received unsolicited proposals for construction of the I-225 and North Metro corridors, which
spurred us into competitive procurements and led to the construction of those projects, the full I-225 corridor
and North Metro to 124th. We had a public public-private partnership on the Southeast corridor, in that the
local stakeholders contributed significant sums of local match towards a federal grant for the Southeast
corridor extension, which takes us to today and the current status of FasTracks and the key unfinished
corridors.
Some key points to think about. We have made substantial progress delivering the program. There are four
projects that are unfinished and unfunded. The capital cost to complete those four projects in 2018
uninflated dollars is north of $2 billion. And that FISA action that I've described is diverting funds that were
originally intended from FasTracks base system service.
To date, you can see the map on the right, in purple, completed projects as part of the FasTracks program.
And the dashed lines, the completion of North Metro, the C line, or the central corridor extension, the
Southwest corridor extension, Northwest Rail, in dotted green as the unfinished or unfunded corridors.
Central corridor extension, 0.8 miles from 30th and Downing to 38th and Blake. North Metro completion,
from 124th to State Highway 7, 5.5 miles. The Northwest Rail, or B Line, from its current terminus,
Westminster, to Boulder, and extending to Longmont, 35.3 miles. And the extension of the Southwest
corridor from Mineral to C-470 and Lucent, 2.5 miles.
Here are the specific cost estimates that total to that $2.09 to $2.35 billion estimate in 2018 dollars for
completion of those capital projects that are unfinished in FasTracks.
A little bit more regarding that diversion of FasTracks dollars intended for base system services to help
support the FISA balance. Between 2006 and 2013, RTD did provide that 1% per year increase in bus
system support from FasTracks to the base bus system, sorry. And that totaled about almost $74 million in
support for base system bus services. That action in 2012, the FISA, the cap post 2013 increases to the
rate of inflation. It did not remove the support that had happened to that date but capped the future increases
to the rate of inflation, not the 1% compounding and 1.5% in the future.
We estimate that about $166 million over the 2014 to 2025 time period will be diverted from base system
bus service to the FISA. If you look at the 2025 impact, that's about $21.7 million. That represents 185,000
revenue service hours and is equivalent to all the local service that we currently provide, pre pandemic, that
is, in Boulder County on an annual basis.
This chart depicts total FasTracks capital cost expenditures through the end of last year. $5.6 billion have
been invested throughout the region as part of the FasTracks program. This chart depicts the four
unfinished corridors, their miles, forecast ridership, capital cost estimates, and another important piece, the
annual operating and maintenance costs, also in 2018 dollars, cost estimates for each one of those
corridors and projects.
Which takes us to the Northwest Rail and the deeper dive on how we got to where we are today, the
progress that's made, and the current status of the Northwest Rail corridor. A couple of few key points here.
BNSF has been a good partner in our discussion, starting in 2003 through the present. We've had a number
of studies and initiatives over the past dozen years that have concluded, and since the start, actually, of the
FasTracks programs, that have analyzed opportunities and the constraints on finishing the Northwest Rail
corridor.

These studies have confirmed capital improvement need and cost estimates. And as General Manager
Johnson identified, there is continued strong stakeholder support for the corridor. And there's also strong
stakeholder interest in the peak service plan. More on that to come.
This graphic depicts the original plan, alignment, station locations, and cost estimate for the Northwest Rail
corridor as contained in the 2004 adopted FasTracks plan. Estimated completion date was 2015. The
capital cost was $565 million. It assumed a double track corridor from Denver to Boulder and a single track
corridor from Boulder to Longmont. As I noted earlier, the assumed technology was locomotive-hauled
coaches.
A little bit more background on the Northwest Rail corridor, to set some context. It's the only FasTracks
corridor where our RTD is not able to secure the right of way. Rather, the BNSF railroad will continue to
operate freight traffic on the corridor. Currently, it's a single track operation. Full corridor build-out requires
double track. Passenger service will also require crashworthy, Federal Railroad Administration compliant
vehicles, such as DMUs, signalization, and positive train control, and the establishment of quiet zones at
at-grade crossings.
So RTD embarked, from the start of the program through 2010, on the Northwest Environmental Evaluation,
evaluating environmental impacts in the corridor, completing preliminary engineering, and updating our cost
estimates. The assumption contained in the Environmental Evaluation was DMU technology. The cost
estimate in 2010 was approximately $1 billion in year of expenditure dollars. Confirmed double track
requirements, as I've discussed, for the entire corridor, not just the Denver to Boulder segment, but also
the Boulder to Longmont segment, would be required.
It also identified a 30-minute maximum frequency, given system constraints at the DUS throat. So the
resulting assumption was that in peak periods, that's the AM peak commute, weekday peak commute, and
PM weekday commute, the proposed frequencies for the corridor would be every 30 minutes. And during
the off-peak periods, outside of the AM and PM weekday commute periods, one-hour, bi-directional peak
service, 55 trains per day.
Now I've talked about the DUS throat without fully describing it. The throat is that place where the University
of Colorado A Line, the G Line, the North Metro Line, the B Line, and Amtrak services all come together to
access Denver Union Station and the platforms at Denver Union Station. There's a number of switches and
switching tracks in that DUS throat. It's somewhat constrained in terms of its capacity. And given those
constraints, that is how we were able to determine a 30-minute maximum frequency.
Another key finding of the Environmental Evaluation was finalizing the station locations. In consultation with
the local jurisdictions, we identified that list of station locations to be included in the Northwest Rail corridor.
Also identified four additional stations that were not included as part of the capital costing or operating
assumptions for the corridor that would need to be paid for by others. And they're listed on this slide as
well.
I mentioned that we have had good, strong coordination and discussions and support from the BNSF, sorry,
railroad since early on in the program. In fact, in 2003, prior to adoption of the FasTracks plan, RTD and
BNSF initiated formal discussions regarding track sharing and regarding our shared alignments in the
FasTracks plan through a letter of understanding.
In 2009, we had a memorandum of understanding that we executed with the BNSF, which led us to a
contract agreement that allowed for the construction of the G Line and the current B Line to Westminster
Station. That $95 million funded right-of-way access, relocations of BNSF infrastructure and track between

Union Station and Pecos, and also access between Pecos and Westminster for RTD's B Line and G Lines.
And following that, we entered into a planning and support agreement with the BNSF to prepare 30% design
for the full segment from Westminster to Longmont, for the full Northwest Rail corridor.
Delving a little bit more into the 2011 BNSF planning and support agreement, BNSF looked at two
scenarios, one a peak-only scenario. That was 18 trains per day with bi-directional service, 20-minute peak
period service, AM weekday, PM weekday service, no off-peak service, and then the full FasTracks level
of plan service, 55 trains per day. BNSF provided RTD costs, the upfront costs for purchasing operating
time slots in perpetuity, and their costs for capital improvements, key piece of which is double tracking the
entire corridor to allow RTD passenger rail services in the corridor. Their costs did not include annual
operating and maintenance costs for their infrastructure.
For that peak-only service, 18 trains a day, their cost was $410 million, in 2011 dollars; for the full service,
$535 million. On top of that, RTD requires capital improvements to be able to provide passenger rail service
in the corridor. Our estimate, in 2011 dollars, as part of this agreement for those corridor improvements,
positive train control, quiet zones, at-grade crossing improvements and related infrastructure, $314 million,
stations, Park-n-Rides, $129 million, and the vehicles and a maintenance facility in which to maintain them
and store them, $57 million. So in the Annual Program Evaluation, the APE, in 2012, we estimated a total
cost, very consistent with the Environmental Evaluation, of just over $1 billion.
Recognizing the 2011-2012 timeframe that we did not have the capacity, the financial capacity and
wherewithal to move forward on the Northwest Rail corridor in a timely fashion, RTD collaboratively entered
into a process with Northwest stakeholders, local jurisdictions, Colorado Department of Transportation, and
DRCOG to conduct the Northwest Area Mobility Study that was completed in 2014. The scope, as it relates
to the Northwest Rail, looked at the opportunities to construct the Northwest Rail in segments, to reach
Boulder via another alternative alignment, to reach Longmont via another alternative alignment. It also
validated our cost estimates for the Northwest Rail corridor.
So findings from NAMS, Northwest Area Mobility Study, related to Northwest Rail. It is feasible to construct
rail in segments extending from its current terminus of the B Line in Westminster, but it would require
passing tracks to allow for end of line freight train storage and significant level of investment to even build
in an incremental fashion, or segmented fashion.
Looking at a North Metro corridor extension to Boulder via the UP Boulder Branch, which RTD purchased
from the UP to facilitate construction of the North Metro corridor, our right-of-way purchase included the
right-of-way all the way north from the N Line, North Metro Line's current terminus, into Weld County and
then east through Boulder County to East Boulder. We looked at using that alignment to either access
Boulder or Longmont. Neither really panned out, partly because some of that alignment extends through
portions that are outside of the RTD district, and also because it bypasses many of the Northwest Rail
communities, Westminster, Broomfield, and Louisville.
NAMS also determined that in the interim, prior to completion of the Northwest Rail corridor, a bus rapid
transit network could provide considerable mobility benefits at a lower price than rail. This chart depicts the
segment results, ridership by segment, and then for the full corridor, capital cost estimates for each of the
segments, and building from, for example, Westminster to Broomfield, Broomfield to Louisville, and on,
annual costs per trip operating and capital costs, and travel times from DUS to those terminuses.
In April 2014, the stakeholders approved a consensus statement of prioritized improvements for the NAMS
study and presented that to the RTD Board of Directors. Number one priority was the completion of the

then-remaining US-36 or Flatiron Flyer commitments, advancing arterial BRT- State Highway 119, which
the RTD Board has worked collaboratively with local jurisdictions and with the Colorado Department of
Transportation on moving forward and has reserved money in future years to support that. I-25 reverse
commute solutions to benefit both North 25 and Flatiron Flyer services accessing into and out of Denver
Union Station. Fourth priority, Northwest Rail completion. And fifth priority, that remaining arterial BRT
network that you see depicted on this graphic.
So takes us to where we are today. Definition and key facts and stats about the Northwest Rail full service.
Build out of the B Line from its current terminus at Westminster Station to Longmont. 55 trains per day with
bi-directional service, 30-minute peak and 60-minute off-peak service. Stations as identified in the blue. A
capital cost, in 2018 uninflated dollars, of about $1.5 billion, and forecast ridership, and a key piece to keep
in mind, the annual O&M cost of $20.6 million in 2018 dollars.
I highlight the annual O&M costs because once the corridor is completed, you need to keep it operating in
a state of good repair. And those costs need to be expended every year from that point on.
Between 2017 and the present, we have had a number of discussions with stakeholders on the Northwest
Rail corridor, looking at what we have called a peak service scenario. This is a summary of the peak service
scenario. Stakeholders reached out to RTD and ask that we look at it. Their intent, and our intent, is to
significantly reduce the capital and operating and maintenance costs, to accelerate the potential for
investment in the corridor. The proposal to extend the corridor for the full extent, from Westminster through
Boulder to Longmont, but, as I said, to minimize investments with generally a single track configuration with
passing tracks for freight service.
You can see the stations that we've identified in discussions with stakeholders, forecast daily ridership, the
capital cost estimate, just north of $700 million in 2018 dollars, and the annual operating and maintenance
costs in the $12 to $15 million range.
What would that service look like? It would be providing three one-way trips from Longmont to Denver in
the morning peak, one way in the morning peak, three trains leaving Longmont and arriving Denver each
weekday morning during the weekday peak periods, and three one-way trains from Denver to Longmont
returning in the afternoon peak. The service frequency of about 30 minutes. That tight operating window
and one directional service really minimizes the operational impacts and costs to the BNSF freight
operation. Still, there are significant infrastructure investments that would be required, FRA compliant DMU
vehicles, signalization and PTC, positive train control, quiet zones at grade crossings and at-grade crossing
improvements, vehicles, and a new DMU, or diesel multiple unit, maintenance facility.
Collaboratively, working to progress our understanding of the peak period service, the BNSF met with RTD
and representatives from local jurisdiction stakeholders to discuss this plan about one year ago today.
Topics discussed are listed here, and the overarching discussion was how could we advance our
understanding of the peak period service with BNSF. BNSF's model indicates that passenger service can
work in the corridor. However, they note that RTD would be responsible for capital improvement costs to
mitigate impacts to freight. And of course, we would be responsible for constructing station platforms,
pedestrian crossings, and the other items identified in the previous slides.
Takes me to the 2019 Unfinished Corridors report that was distributed to the RTD Board last Friday. Some
key points. In 2019, the Board passed a resolution confirming their commitment to complete FasTracks and
directing staff to test funding scenarios. I'm going to summarize and briefly run through what those scenarios

concluded regarding RTD's capacities, opportunities, and constraints. And final key point, there are severe
constraints on the RTD FasTracks budget absent new funding sources.
That resolution was passed on April 16, 2019, as I said, reaffirming the RTD Board's commitment to
completing FasTracks. And it directed staff to look at various funding scenarios based on Board direction.
Those scenarios used the then most recent Leeds School of Business sales and use tax forecasts. They
are, of course, subject change.
We were not able to update them last year because of the changing and shifting financial challenges related
to COVID-19. However, these are long-term forecasts and the general findings and directions and time
frames identified, we believe are still defensible and valid today. These scenarios do assume not just the
capital cost, but also the ongoing operations, maintenance, and vehicle replacement costs.
A couple quick other notes, other quick notes. No Base System funds are projected to be able to be
available to support the unfinished corridors. There is no capacity forecast for Base System bus or rail
service increases over the coming decades. In fact, the projected Base System unrestricted fund balance
under all scenarios that we presented to the Board in 2019 was negative between this year and 2049.
These are the driving assumptions regarding capital costs and annual O&M costs, consistent with what I
presented earlier. And you can see that we tested both a Northwest Rail peak service plan as well as the
full service for Northwest Rail. The scenarios are presented in much more detail in that 2019 report. In
terms of sequencing options, there were 10 scenarios that were analyzed, three core scenarios. One
assuming no new bonding authority or funding authority or funding sources for FasTracks, one that
assumed a TABOR election to afford the FasTracks program additional bonding capacity, and a third set
of scenarios looking at a TABOR election with both bonding and a sales and use tax increase.
Key note in terms of timing, as well, is that that TABOR election was assumed to happen in November of
this year, with the bonding and sales tax increase being implemented in 2022. Again, the scenarios that we
tested looked at various corridor sequencing. And reference the full report for full details.
As pertains to the Northwest Rail corridor, without additional sales tax but with additional TABOR bonding
authority, the earliest that the peak service plan could be financed under current financial scenarios, or
then-current financial scenarios, is 2042 for peak service and 2046 for full service. Were there TABOR
authorization for bonding, as well as a 1/10 or a 0.15% sales and use tax increase, November of this year,
could accelerate peak service on the Northwest corridor as early as 2026 and full service as early as 2032.
That's a summary of the findings as pertains to the Northwest Rail corridor. A lot more detail on the 10
scenarios in that report.
One final quick thought regarding FasTracks cash flow. The RTD Board adopted a two-year financial plan,
2021 and 2022 midterm financial plan, just last fall. But looking at the cash flow over the six-year period,
2021 to 2026, as pertains to FasTracks, that forecast forecasts that reserves, FasTracks reserves, will be
necessary to support the programming in five of the next six years. In 2021, FasTracks expenditures are
projected to exceed revenues by about $42 million. That deficit will be covered with reserves, based on the
Board's action.
Our annual debt service for FasTracks represents between 65% and 70% of our annual sales and use tax
revenue. And over that full six-year period, there's about an $18.5 million FasTracks program deficit after
using reserves. The options that we've identified to date to cover that projected deficit include use of either
the FISA, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account funds, or Base System funds.

Quick wrap up here. Federal funding and other items. People have asked a number of times through the
years, Board members and stakeholders, whether any of the remaining FasTracks corridors could be
competitive for Federal Transit Administration New Starts or Small Starts grant funding. Short answer is no,
none of the unfunded corridors are currently competitive under the current FTA rule [AUDIO OUT].
And to leave with a glass half full opportunity, I want to talk, or a perspective, I would look at partnership
opportunities as well. So we've updated the Board in 2016, and a couple times subsequently, regarding
New Starts and Small Starts. That's the FTA, Federal Transit Administration's primary funding source for
major capital projects, such as the FasTracks corridors. It's a national competitive grant program that
provides matching funds support for these sorts of investments.
In the original FasTracks plan, RTD assumed that those three corridors, the A Line, the W Line, and the G
Line, would be successful in receiving New Starts funding in the amount totaling about $815 million. Indeed,
RTD was successful for those three corridors, as well as the Southeast corridor. And we've received, to
date, just over $1.4 billion in federal funding support through the New Starts and Small Starts funding
programs, both FTA competitive grant programs to support the FasTracks plan.
In 2016, we analyzed the unfinished corridors for the potential to receive similar FTA grant funding. Now
FTA uses a 5-point scale, Low, Medium Low, Medium, Medium High, and High, to rate projects on a number
of criteria, project justification, as well as financial commitment and the financial plan for a project. Project
must have at least a Medium rating for both project justification and local financial commitment to qualify.
Based on current FTA criteria, only the Central Corridor potentially would meet project justification criteria
with a Medium rating. Both the North Metro completion and Northwest rail? Would receive low? Ratings for
project / the Southwest Extension would receive, in our assessment, under current FTA criteria for these
programs, a Medium Low project justification rating. However, all corridors would receive a Low rating for
financial commitment due to the FasTracks budget constraints that I've identified through this program.
I briefed the Board in December regarding the Southwest Chief & Front Range Passenger Rail Commission,
one key piece of which is to facilitate the development of Front Range passenger rail service. The
Commission, in concert and partnership with CDOT, recently completed the Front Range Passenger Rail
Study, looking at a service development plan, pre-NEPA planning, policy and governance structure. And it
includes extensive public and stakeholder outreach.
And as a result of that, the Commission and CDOT have narrowed potential alignments for Front Range
passenger rail, as depicted in the graphic on the left. There is one alignment that uses the 470 alignment
and accesses Denver International Airport and then heads north through the Denver metro area. And then
there are two alignments of interest here heading north from Denver Union Station to Fort Collins. One
leaves Denver Union Station and shares the North Metro alignment and continues north. The other is the
Northwest Rail alignment. And that's the one I would focus on for this evening's purposes.
First, the Northwest Rail alignment has some of the strongest-- has the strongest ridership, I should say,
the strongest ridership of those alternatives that have been looked at to date. It also has the strongest,
frankly, policy, citizen, and stakeholder support. And so the opportunities for RTD to partner with the state,
CDOT and the Commission moving forward and to collaboratively advancing our shared interests on the
Northwest Rail alignment, or North Metro alignment, I would assert, are very strong.
Finally, Amtrak. Amtrak is proposing a network modernization program as part of the Federal Transportation
Reauthorization. They made this proposal last year. They propose to, under this new program, to fund up
to 100% of capital and initial operating costs for new rail corridors nationally. They have identified our Front

Range corridor, Pueblo to Fort Collins as a very strong, one of their top candidates. At times they've been
quoted as saying, it's potentially their top candidate for this new program were it to receive funding under
transportation reauthorization.
Their proposal would be to operate three round trips daily on that corridor. And it would share the Northwest
Rail alignment. Another partnership opportunity, an opportunity to continue to monitor and pursue and
support as Amtrak moves forward.
In summary, I'd like to note that in the early years, FasTracks was impacted by cost escalation, scope
changes in the Great Recession. Current capital cost estimate to complete the four unfinished corridors,
just north of $2 billion. The Northwest Rail presents some unique opportunities and challenges. Unique
constraints in terms of our partnership with the BNSF and strong support, as evidenced by the interest
tonight, from stakeholders and local jurisdictions for moving that project forward.
The FasTracks financial constraints, however, are severe. Absent new funding, the earliest we could open
Northwest Rail is in the 2040s. As I noted, the Northwest Rail is not eligible for FTA funding. There are
always partnership opportunities that RTD is interested in looking at and pursuing, as evidenced by your
appointment of me to the Southwest Chief Front Range Passenger Rail Commission and the Amtrak
opportunities. We will continue to monitor all of those.
And I will note that your presentation also provides links, as I've noted, to support documents for much of
the information that was presented in this discussion tonight.
And that, Madam Chair, General Manager Johnson, completes my presentation.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Van Meter, I cannot begin to thank you and Mr. Stopplecamp and all of
your teams who worked so diligently on this excellent presentation.
Madam General Manager, I'm going to turn it over to you for comments.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. And I, too, want to echo your sentiments as relates
to Mr. Van Meter and Mr. Stopplecamp. As I said before, their teams have worked diligently on this. And
you can clearly see that this was, more or less, Northwest Rail especially for me being new to the area, like
101. So I really appreciate the background to enable us to all have the same information so we can engage
with dialogue.
So at this juncture, I just want to yield the floor back to you, as the Board. We're happy to entertain any
questions and put forth any suggestions or recommendations you'd like to hear from staff. So thank you
very much, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, General Manager. We will be asking Board members to raise your
virtual hands if you have a comment or a question.
The other thing that I would share with all of you is that this will be the first of probably several meetings
that we will be having on this issue. So don't feel like you need to ask all the questions tonight, because
we'll have plenty of time to discuss it.
But what I'd like to do right now is turn it over to our First Vice Chair, Director Guissinger. You're muted,
Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you so much to General
Manager Johnson and to Bill Van Meter and Henry Stopplecamp and your teams. And thank you also for
your generous time in answering questions for Director Davidson and me.
I have just a couple of questions that I think I kind of know the answer on but it's information I'd like to bring
out. And then I thought I'd make a few comments as we start. And then I may have some questions later.

One of the questions, I think we've talked about some, but with regard to the peak period rail and the full
build out, what's your level of confidence in the cost projections? Maybe a question for Henry. I'm not sure.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, I will go ahead and take this. Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General
Manager of Capital Programs. The numbers were done back in 2018. We've had numbers in 2004, 2011,
2013. The big question is has the scope stayed the same. So this gets into the desire for the corridor, noise
and vibration impacts, wetlands, things around our facilities.
So I would say the numbers are pretty good, to give you what was promised at those time frames. But we
would have to dust off the environmental documents, make sure that we're still building what is needed for
the community, and then do another cost estimate.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And what about the cost estimates for peak period rail?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Those cost estimates were done in 2018-2019. And if you're looking at the three
trips in and three trips out, you're probably pretty close. But we still have to make sure that everybody is on
the same sheet of music, as far as what everybody will see at the end of the day. We did have a lot of
involvement with the local communities, but we did not have numbers from the BNSF at this time, or that
time. So they were pretty much best guessed numbers based on the plans that, they were put together in
2011 and the numbers they had in 2013.
So I'd like to readdress those and sit down with BNSF. And I have talked with the BNSF and they are willing
to sit down with us. So I'm not going to guarantee any number at this time that's a couple years old. Rightof-ways, costs gone up, inflation, that kind of stuff.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. And then the ridership numbers, I guess we don't have anything
early for peak period to compare to. But I look at the ones for the full buildout. And the projections have
dropped by about half from 2004. And that's troublesome to me. I think that the fact that-- well, certainly
there's been a lot of development in that time. Flatiron Flyer has been built and is going well, but that was
projected to have happened.
And I think there are other things that maybe haven't been included there. Like cell phone studies has
shown that 30% of the traffic coming down 119 comes from Larimer and Weld counties, people who might
be captured via train might get on the train. I don't believe those have been included in the ridership
numbers. So am I right on that, that some of those things need to be revisited as well?
BILL VAN METER: Director Guissinger, yeah. So the Denver Regional Council of Government, DRCOG's
travel demand model is what RTD uses to prepare all of our ridership forecasts. And the DRCOG model
does include the communities in Southwest Weld County. It does not include all of Weld County nor Larimer
County.
So that's an accurate statement. The numbers have changed over time. One we have seen that the success
and competitiveness of the Flatiron Flyer services, actually I think stronger than we projected back in 2003
and 2004. Those limitations regarding peak levels of service to 30-minute service for the train service also
is something that has impacted ridership.
And DRCOG is always updating their land use and socioeconomic forecasts. And so we're using their
model. That's what the current forecasts are based on, and the ones presented in this program. But as we
move forward and assumptions regarding the competitiveness of the different modes and new findings and
new projections of development, and as DRCOG finishes work on its 2050 plan that's happening right now,
revisiting those ridership forecasts certainly makes sense.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And then I guess one for you, General Manager Johnson. You finished
your comments by inviting us to ask your recommendations. Do you have those at this point? Are you
wanting to hear the rest of the discussion?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, First Vice Chair Guissinger. I think it would be best that I hear
all the dialogue from the Board members. So I will refrain until the conclusion of y'all's dialogue. So thank
you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I represent-- for those who don't know me-- I represent western Boulder County,
which includes Boulder, Louisville, Superior, a small piece of Longmont, Lyons, Nederland, and
unincorporated western Boulder County. So the Northwest corridor, that part of the Northwest corridor.
FasTracks would not have passed without Boulder County's significant support. And I think you've seen the
letters that we received and have heard over the years and the recent press, the voters are very frustrated.
And that's an important piece for us for several reasons. And I'll get into that.
The Northwest mayors and commissioners works by consensus, and they've asked that RTD consider the
peak period rail, which we have not really done the analysis on at this point. This is the right moment to do
this work. And the reason is that, as Mr. Van Meter went through what our options are for funding this work,
there are a lot of different steps. But right now, we have potential partners. Amtrak is seeking funding at the
federal level. This would be an opportunity for us to be part of a national level rail system. Front Range
Passenger Rail is moving forward with their planning processes.
If we sit on the sidelines, we won't have a voice in these decisions. If we offer them a partner who's willing
to put some skin in the game for Northwest Rail, we have an opportunity to really change and enhance
these important conversations. And I think that's really important. Obviously, I represent my constituents
and am pushing for us to move forward on some of these studies in their behalf.
But like all of you, I'm very aware of and committed to our fiscal responsibilities to the District as a whole. I
think Board members, all of us, we wear two hats, just like legislators, that we represent our constituents
and have an obligation to this District as a whole. And I think that we've been making a lot of really good
steps to rebuild trust and credibility in RTD. With our new leadership, where Ms. Johnson is attending all
the meetings of the Accountability Committee and I feel like we're working really well with them.
The Board is in the process of approving a new equitable TOD plan that helps us even more in supporting
the region's affordable housing goals. We share the state's critical climate action goals and want to be
helping with those. And Ms. Johnson is in conversation with CDPHE how we might help with some COVID19 vaccinations.
We're doing some good things. But I think this is an important step for the District in rebuilding trust. In
doing the work, I also think for rebuilding that trust and for the voters who have been waiting a long time,
we need to bring everyone together to the table. We need to answer unanswered questions. We need cost
and ridership numbers that aren't questioned by our constituents.
And there's a cost in not doing something. Because if we don't do it now when we have potential partners,
when will we do it? Our shared mission is to provide transit services and to move people. So I believe this
is something that we've been talking about. And I will propose that we ask staff-- that we urge Amtrak-- that
we to bring us a proposal in the next 60 days or so to complete the design update work, funding it from
FISA.
And I also would take a position, would urge us to take a position as a Board, that we urge Amtrak or Front
Range Passenger Rail to focus on the Northwest Rail corridor. And Mr. Van Meter has been doing a great

job of representing us on the Northwest-- on the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission. And I would like
to see us ask him to represent us to show that RTD is a willing partner and can help lead these projects.
I think we owe this to our elected officials who urged us to move forward with Northwest Rail. And more
importantly, we owe this to our voters. And we really need their support as we move forward on this and all
the other impactful projects that we want to be doing. We don't know what we can and can't do until we do
this work.
And I'm excited for the opportunity. And thank you, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to speak.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, First Vice Chair. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes. Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'll echo the thank yous to CEO and General
Manager Johnson and to Mr. Stopplecamp, Mr. Van Meter for the thorough presentation.
I do have some questions, but I'm going to hold those and open the floor to others. I'd actually like to make
some comments, and many of them are along the lines of Director Guissinger, who I think put this very well
that we do wear two hats. We represent our constituents and we represent the sustainability of the District
And I just would like to ask three fundamental things for staff and the Board to keep in mind as we have
these discussions and as we chart the path forward. One, I ask that we continually recognize that the B
Line runs along many cities that includes 550,000 Coloradans within the Regional Transportation District,
and that we have a crisis of credibility with those Coloradans.
Two, I ask that we complete a design study for the peak service plan that was contemplated in 2019 that
this Board resolved to pursue. It is the logical next step in the direction of progress. Three, I ask that we
work to position RTD as a leader of any potential partnerships that could accelerate rail development in our
region. I just would like to expand briefly on those three statements to actually put some meat on that.
On my first point, I'll add that the B Line affects Westminster, Arvada, Broomfield, Superior, Louisville,
Lafayette, Boulder, and Longmont. This is a big part of RTD. These communities passed FasTracks tax
increases in a large way. Those communities have since contributed over $400 million to the FasTracks
program alone. Additionally, some of the communities have completed and planned local projects in
expectation of rail, including actual expenditures.
16 years of these delays without resolution has absolutely destroyed the trust that voters in these cities
have in RTD. That is something that Director Guissinger and I live on a daily basis with. And when we look
to the future, with other things that we might want to achieve, it's a big problem that voters who passed
FasTracks do not trust us. That's why we need to work with the cities, rather than on their behalf, to identify
a solution.
On my second point, I do want to highlight that the estimate of the $708.2 million price tag to complete the
peak rail service was noted in the 2019 Unfinished Corridors Report to be conservative. More than half of
that estimate included the BNSF costs that we cannot know without completing a comprehensive design
study. Furthermore, in the Unfinished Corridors Report, the contemplated peak service plan from the North
Area Mobility Study was noted as substantially different than the then-current peak service plan. And it was
further noted that we had more experience to inform our estimates using the Eagle and North Metro
projects.
In 2019, this Board resolved to, and I quote, "explore, analyze, fund, and facilitate operation of the peak
service plan, including obtaining plan pricing information from Burlington Northern Santa Fe Railroad as
expeditiously as possible." It is time and this loops back to trust. If we resolve to do this, we need to follow
through and go study that peak service plan.

Finally, on that third point, I would like to note that there is a new administration in the White House leading
the federal government, and there is talk of rail. We heard earlier that Amtrak could consider developing a
corridor from Pueblo to Fort Collins, and they would need operational partners who would put skin in the
game. We heard that the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail Commission is exploring
options for a similar project.
I realize that talk and planning is cheap. But if talk turns to action, only the creative and the most focused
will be the ones who benefit. We owe it to ourselves and to this region to be the most creative and the most
focused leaders in preparation.
The first step we can take is actually quite simple. We can take an immediate stance as a Board and as
staff and insist that any rail development partner that comes to our region selects the Northwest Rail
alignment. By way of example, with regards to the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission, at the latest
update at the January 22 second briefing, the Commission reported that a preferred alignment had not
been selected. Let's weigh in on that.
From there, let's use our time very well and be the agency with the information and the ideas to make a
vision no matter how long it may be, no matter how big it may be, a reality. I know, from communicating
with our community members and our citizens here, no one is expecting us to break ground on the B Line
tomorrow. But they are asking us to take credible and material next steps and to honor our commitments
and to engage with them. They're asking us to lead.
We need to get a better vantage point here to see our path forward. So we need to communicate with the
community, we need to open up partnership opportunities by becoming the expert, and we need to know
what we don't know about the peak service plan.
Thank you to all of you for keeping that in mind as we have the discussions tonight. I will hold some of my
specific questions until we hear from some others. And thank you very much for the time, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I'll start by saying that I would concur with the comments of
Directors Davidson and Guissinger. I also want to thank you, Madam Chair, and General Manager Johnson
for putting this study session together for us and for all of the stakeholders to get a better understanding of
FasTracks generally and Northwest Rail specifically.
I remember distinctly interviewing Debra Johnson, and she rose to the top of the candidates for me because
she was one of the only ones who expressed a commitment to fulfill the promises we made in the FasTracks
legislation to complete the Northwest Rail. And she has continued that commitment since she's arrived here
as well.
I also want to thank Mr. Van Meter and Mr. Stopplecamp for your work on this very concise and informative
report. I remember in 2004, when FasTracks passed, being a member of Broomfield's City Council. I
remember RTD talking to us and telling us the benefits of FasTracks and how Broomfield would be serviced
by the Northwest Rail. I also remember a year later approving a subarea master plan around the Broomfield
train stop.
It is 13 years later. And that's [AUDIO OUT] not one piece of [AUDIO OUT] and that includes Federal
Heights, Northglenn, Westminster, western Thornton, and bits of Adams and Jefferson counties. So I have
two major highways that go through my district, I-25 and US-36. And my district, other than Union Station,
has the only stop on the B Line currently in existence, at the Westminster station. So I am very committed
and very interested in seeing this get resolved.

I have to say that I think completing the design update and using FISA funds to do that as the logical next
step is very important and something that we should move off the mark on immediately. If that does contain
a process of updating ridership numbers, great. If not, I think we need to do that, and whatever else we
can, to review the studies that have been done in the past to see how we can improve our standing for any
federal funding.
I also want to thank Governor Polis and Congressman Neguse and other stakeholders and all of the others
who have written letters expressing their desire to have this Northwest Rail addressed and taken care of.
And it's been a long time coming. And I agree. And I look forward to working with those stakeholders, and
the governor and Congressman Neguse and others, in partnering and collaborating on working together
and coming up with ideas to make this happen.
Just one thing I'll throw out there, and I know it's been-- it was expressed once a long time ago, and I'll
express again-- as part of this process, I think we should consider conducting a charrette where we invite
national and international transit professionals to take a look at the problem, give them a heads up, identify
the problem, identify what the discussion will be, and have a charrette that we can seek out the most
advanced and current ideas on topics like this.
So that's all my comments. I'll turn it over to you, Madam Chair. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Secretary Buzek. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And wow, so much to really absorb and consider. So first
of all, thank you, Madam Chair, for helping to coordinate this. And lots of thank you's to General Manager
Johnson and Bill Van Meter and Henry Stopplecamp for putting together that excellent presentation.
And to double down on what was mentioned earlier, I certainly also very much and strongly support
Directors Guissinger and Davidson and some of the comments that they made about our obligations
towards this line. And also backing up Director Buzek and some of his thoughts on how do we do a lot more
outreach and building coalitions and getting partnerships, particularly with the Governor's office and our
entire congressional delegation.
Because this is regional. This is not just, oh, Denver or Front Range. This really affects the entire state of
Colorado, and to some extent, our neighboring states too. Because my understanding of some interest from
maybe Wyoming or New Mexico to possibly even connect with Fort Collins and Pueblo. So this is something
we can engage people regionally as well.
But definitely piping in about the design study. I think this is something we should fund through the FISA
account. And that's something that obviously we will be considering at a next meeting.
So for a question, probably for Mr. Van Meter, perhaps, in terms of the peak service proposal, is this
something that would be a precursor to the Amtrak possible plan and/or could it actually run coincidentally
with it? So if Amtrak only runs possibly three times a day, North-South and South to North, then would we
also have on the peak service possibility on the Northwest Line, so that we could have sort of the best of
both worlds. And would that logistically be possible?
BILL VAN METER: Haven't had enough discussions. It hasn't progressed far enough for me to give a
definitive answer. But I think either project could be a precursor to the other. And I think the opportunity also
exists to, if Amtrak's funding were to come to fruition, for us to explore with Amtrak, as well with the state,
CDOT and the Commission, joint opportunities to progress all projects simultaneously.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that your answer your question, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It does. And thank you very much. Appreciate it.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Appreciate it. And thank you so much to General Manager
and CEO Johnson, Mr. Van Meter, Stopplecamp and your teams for preparing this presentation and what
looks like a study every other year, so to speak, for lack, on how we get this done.
I also want to thank Mr. Zerrin and his team, as well as the team at CDOT, whom I met with earlier this
week, or last week, along with those who are here from Representative Neguse's office.
A few comments and a couple questions. On the comment front, I want to be clear and sort of level set
when we say, well, I represent the taxpayers of x. It's a sales tax. It's not a property tax. And so I think we
all really need to act regionally in that vein. Because I've actually taken the time to go to everyone's district
and make a purchase that qualifies for sales and use tax. So I am your constituents as a taxpayer in those
districts, in the same way that you would be if you came and made a purchase in my district.
So again, we really all do need to be thinking regionally when it comes to that. As someone who commuted
from South Denver up to Boulder, I would have loved nothing more than to be able to ride a train to and
from. That being said, the light rail and the Flatiron Flyer did a great job. So I sort of leave that as a framing.
And the other sort of general comment is, we can only do so much to cut costs. At a certain point, we need
to be looking at how do we increase revenues. The fiscal sustainability study that was referenced in 2014,
I think there are some unexplored areas there. I think if we look at our enabling legislation, there are some
unexplored opportunities to increase funding. Because frankly, as we all know, you can only cut costs. At
a certain point, you need to be able to raise that total funding.
I'll say on the record that I'm wholly opposed to making an expenditure that would come at the cost of our
existing riders, of our transit-dependent riders. And on that note, it would be great to see in future studies
an equity analysis. How much of the Northwest Rail community or those along that corridor would qualify
for our Live pass program, would be in those marginalized communities? I think there's a misperception
that exists around who lives along the Northwest corridor, as well as the unfinished corridors. And it would
be great to see that equity analysis included in what comes forward, and I think would really help us in our
decision making process.
It would be great to see from staff-- and I know, I can't remember if this was in an orientation or a Board
meeting-- but we've seen before the subsidy per ride. And it would be great to see sort of the Northwest
Rail unfinished corridors plotted on that graph, so that while we're making our decisions it's really easy for
everyone to see, well, how much are we subsidizing each ride?
It would also-- and this might just be a misinterpretation on my end-- on why we provide conservative
estimates, which, to me, implies we're going on the lower end, which sets us up for cost overruns, as
opposed to going with a liberal cost estimate, allowing us to come in under.
And I guess I'll sort of ask those questions, and I have just one or two follow-ups.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Did you want an answer to those questions this evening?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, it can be afterwards on the liberal versus conservative, along with the chart.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Unless either Mr. Van Meter or Mr Stopplecamp want to answer tonight quickly.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill. I can tell you that finding cost per rider and those sorts of information and
calculating those and presenting them will take a little bit of time to provide.

When we were using the word conservative, we meant conservative such that it was less likely that we
would exceed them. So in your interpretation then, it would be a liberal cost estimate, making sure that we
had a high degree of confidence that we would not exceed those cost estimates was the intent.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And I just want to conclude by commenting that suburb to suburb BRT, along
with the rest of our BRT network, was also a part of the FasTracks plan. And that includes substantial
portions of Jefferson County and other areas. BRT, as we know, is less expensive. And so I don't want that
to get left behind in this broader discussion.
Thank you all so much. And I look forward to hearing from others what they have to say and on working
together collaboratively how RTD can position itself to be a strong partner.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Dishell. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Oh, let me turn on my video too. Thank you.
So I had a couple of quick questions, just to clarify. And one that the chart that Bill Van Meter showed very
dramatically how the materials costs escalated. And at the bottom, sort of close to the baseline, when you
saw the expected costs and then you saw the great increases in various materials. But what I recalled, and
I just wanted to verify this, we had based that escalator on our actual cost increases over prior projects. Is
that correct, Bill Van Meter?
BILL VAN METER: Actually, I'd like Henry to attempt to answer that one.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So-- Henry Stopplecamp. Yes, we looked at the costs associated with the
Southwest Rail corridor that was finished in 2000. We had just awarded the contract for the T-Rex Southeast
Rail corridor. So we looked at those numbers. We looked at right-of-way numbers. And we put those figures
together on the original assumptions with escalation through our Finance department and then worked with
DRCOG and their team to look at that model and see if our projections were correct.
I mean, you can't tell if they're correct until after the fact. But best guess on the projections. But the numbers
were updated in 2004 based on actual costs we were seeing at that point. And shortly afterwards is when
we started seeing that spike.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah. And a couple of us had met with Susan Cohen before she left, is she's left, I don't
know. And she said that after that initial meet with DRCOG that we had actually backed off of the expected
increases, in other words, become more conservative. So I thought that chart might suggest that we were
just wildly unreasonable or unrealistic about the cost increases, but, in fact, we had taken a pretty hard look
and tried to be very conservative and had based it on past experience.
On the second question-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Vice Chair Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I might, if I might interrupt, I want to welcome Governor Polis to our meeting
this evening. And Governor, we know how busy you are. We're pleased that you accepted our invitation to
join us regarding the Northwest Rail Study Session. The floor is yours, sir.
JARED POLIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. And I'm excited that the Board is doing a deep dive into how
RTD can meet this commitment made to voters in 2004.
Good evening. I want to congratulate RTD on the new Executive Director and thank Debra Johnson for the
invitation to join you. And of course, thank you for spending time and effort on building a partnership with
the state, with local stakeholders. It's very important that we have an open and honest dialogue that really
addresses the challenges that RTD is having in meeting the FasTracks initiative promises.

And I certainly appreciate RTD's willingness to take a hard look at its operations and how to best and most
quickly complete the FasTracks program in exchange for the 4.4% sales tax and the Northwest Rail. And
of course, we can always say the glass is half full or the glass is half empty, but of course, glass is half full.
Congratulations on completing most of the FasTracks initiative projects. I think over 80%, so
congratulations. It's really that final 20% and the Northwest Rail that remains to be done. That's the glass
is half empty piece that brings us all here today.
Certainly, I agree that our area residents deserve a dynamic 21st century transit agency that can move
riders efficiently, effectively, at low cost and across our entire system. And I know that we all have that,
share that goal. And that's why many of you ran to be Directors.
As you also know, back in 2004 Colorado voters approved the FasTracks plan, which included a Northwest
rail line. The Northwest rail is a vital link for the entire system. And of course, we have to finish it before we
can reap its benefits. And it's really essential, of course, that we uphold the will of the voters, find a way to
move forward before looking at other projects, which you, as individual directors, may feel you want more.
But this is about fulfilling the existing promises made to taxpayers in 2004 before we can really look at new
horizons.
Projections are, of course, showing an increase in rail ridership, which demonstrates the need for the line
extension. I think the math has only gotten better since it was proposed and passed. The more rail riders
we have, the better our state can be, the better we can achieve our climate goals, the more quickly that we
can reduce traffic. And of course, for many years, Coloradans have been looking for a link from Union
Station to Longmont, people commuting or visiting both ways. And RTD, of course, today is discussing how
you can get this done in an expeditious way.
Particularly as the District evaluates how to spend the significant additional dollars that have been
unexpectedly provided RTD by the federal government via the federal stimulus payments, I strongly urge
RTD to put those dollars towards meeting the Northwest Rail commitments and the existing commitments
rather than making new ones, along with, of course, the $173 million that has been designated as savings
towards the delivery of Northwest Rail.
You have the opportunity to begin the planning process now for finished construction of the corridor. I, in
my letter, articulated we would love to have that by 2025. I know some of the dates coming back to us have
been 2040, 2042. But it's a start of a dialogue. If it's not-- first of all, I think that the voters, people understand
a few years delay. Nobody can understand 2042. But we understand if it's not 2025, is it 2026, is it 2027?
What is it that needs to be done to be able to complete the FasTracks initiative, the 0.4% sales tax promise
and get it done?
So you know, we're happy to figure out and work with you on that. We want to collaborate with you to make
that a reality for Coloradans across our state. And we certainly look forward to doing anything the state can
to partner with RTD to meet the promises of the FasTracks initiative, which is, of course, only part of a
much larger discussion about how we can build a truly dynamic 21st century transit system and, of course,
the role that the transit agency plays in that.
I don't know if there's a chat that I can drop things in here. I'm having-- I don't see a chat here. But I was
going to just put into the record a editorial today from Quentin Young over at Colorado Newsline, and I'll
submit that subsequently, which I think sort of sums up a lot of the sentiment around this very well, probably
he's even more diplomatic than I would be in speaking with candor about the Northwest Rail project.

I'll just quote it, in part. First of all, it talks about some of the history and the original cost of the program
costing more. And then he goes on to say, things have only gotten worse. The funding gaps have grown
so large that RTD Board members and staff feel emboldened to suggest scrapping the Northwest Rail Line
outright. The General Manager Johnson is backed by some of the agency's policy members. Goes on to
quote some things.
And then he says, you'll forgive me if I need a moment to recover from the breathtaking insolence of that
message. Let's get something straight. Residents of the Northwest Metro region have been paying taxes
since 2005, not as a charitable offering but for a rail line. They've already invested about a quarter of a
billion for the project. And any politician who flaunts such a bait and switch risks constituent backlash that
reverberates through every government coffer in sight. The point that politicians fail to grasp is that flagrantly
violate taxpayer trust in any particular thing, they erode taxpayer trust in funding anything. Think it's OK to
hoodwink them on a train today, good luck asking them to fund education tomorrow, or social services or
roads or buses. End quote. So those are his words, not mine.
But the point being, as a progressive who feels that we need to deliver when we ask taxpayers for money,
our initiative for full-day kindergarten passed last fall with 67% of the vote. We were so thrilled. We are now
in the position of having to deliver on full-day preschool-- I'm sorry, preschool-- we will deliver on full-day
preschool. There's no question. And we will deliver on that. It starts in 2023, as the ballot initiative indicated.
So I think it creates a gap in public trust that doesn't just affect transit. It affects education. It affects our
potential for Front Range rail, which might involve an ask of the voters. It involves funding for higher ed. It
involves social services funding. It's sort of a matter of how do we restore that public trust?
Now I'll end by saying that none of the current RTD Directors are responsible, in the sense that you didn't
make this deal, and neither did the Executive Director. And I totally get that. So there is nothing that-- you
are simply in a position of having to administer a deal that was made in 2004. And so there is-- I don't think
anybody would make this deal today. But that doesn't matter. The voters have been paying taxes for this
project now since 2005.
And so it's just a question of how it can be expeditiously delivered. I think certainly moving forward with the
engineering plans is a good step. And by the way, maybe there's some cost savings with new technology
that didn't exist last time it was costed out that can bring that cost down. tag And then, of course, moving
that date up. If you can't complete it by 2025, and we know that 2042 is not kind of a legitimate date for
discussion, what are the realistic dates and benchmarks that can be reached and what can be delivered in
'26 and '27 and when can final delivery of the FasTracks initiative be completed?
So again, glass is half full, glass is half empty. Of course, congratulation to your predecessors and you for
completing a big part of what was promised to the voters. The work ahead, unfortunately, you are left with.
You didn't do the deal. You weren't party to the deal. Maybe some of you supported the initiative back in
the day. I did. I voted for it. Maybe some of you didn't live in the District, or even in Colorado, back in the
day.
But it's what you now have as a responsibility to successfully administer and deliver so that we can restore
the public trust. Now it's important for transit, don't get me wrong. We want people from Longmont and
Union Station and Adams County and Westminster and Boulder and Louis-- we want them to be able to
move around. It's a key part of our climate plans. It's a key part of our traffic reduction plans. But broader
than that, it's also an issue of public trust in government.

And so I'm here to let you know that, of course, we look forward to partnering with you on both RTD reform
and empowering RTD to make higher and better use of some of your properties and some of the other
great recommendations that came out of the Commission, but also as a representative of the state, making
sure that all entities of government across our state, of, course honor the will of the taxpayers who very
generously provided the 0.4% sales tax, and that we do, in as expeditious a way as possible, complete the
Northwest Rail and therefore complete the promises made under FasTracks, and then, of course, are able
to talk about the future expansion of RTD.
Thank you for your time, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Governor, thank you so much. And as I would like to say in my native
language, [SPEAKING SPANISH]. Right? So we'll be moving this forward together.
And what I'd like to do is ask our General Manager if she has anything she'd like to share at this point.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you so much, Madam Chair. And thank you, Governor Polis, for taking the
time to join us today. As I've conveyed, we do look forward to the open and earnest dialogue and working
together to create some solutions to mitigate the Northwest Rail situation as we see it today. So thank you
once again for joining us.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir.
OK. I'm going to go back to Second Vice Chair Cook. You have the floor, Madam.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And in the interest of time, I see there's other people too, I'll skip that second
question and take that offline.
With regard to the proposals, what I'd say is we do have, it seems like a new time, with our stars are sort
of aligning around being able to move forward in ways that we hadn't had the possibility for previously. And
key to that is having some updated information. And that, in itself, represents a step that's meaningful to
the folks who are looking to this. And it can be paid for out of the FasTracks account. So I agree with that
piece.
I wanted to say, I agree with the idea also of leaning into these possible partnerships. And in particular,
we've got the representative on the Front Range Rail Commission and, of course, we're in touch with the
folks in regard to Amtrak and identifying the opportunities that we might have to help advance that I think is
wise. I'm not quite yet-- it feels premature, I need to know more about whether or what studies are underway
for Front Range Rail regarding the alignment, rather than jumping ahead of that. I'm a little bit-- I need to
know more about that piece.
And then I would just say, in the spirit of what Debra Johnston has, in her prior statements, offered, I'd like
to find out more about the interests involved for the communities affected by this. And I realize that I just
don't. I'd like to find out what's at stake for them, why they view it as important, do they see the need for a
change in the technology to reflect electrification, as a name, or whatnot, what their economic development
aims are. So I just wanted to say I'd like to travel out, as it were, and find out more from the communities
about what they see and need and what their observations are with regard to these issues.
So thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair, but I believe that there were some other Directors that were in
the queue prior to me, those being Directors Tisdale and Williams. So I'll defer to them, if you don't mind.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I have you down first, but I can go to Director Williams next.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Catlin and Madam Chair. I just want to make a kind of esoteric point.
I live here and I pay property taxes. I've never had any kids in school here. So I think that outside of RTD's
use of sales tax, that there are agencies who collect taxes from people who live in the area that perhaps
that constituent does not get the benefit of. So I don't think that that's too far removed from the discussion
that we're having here tonight.
I'd like to really think the governor for acknowledging that there is nobody on this Board here who voted for- or I don't know who voted for, maybe you voted for-- who was part of the FasTracks program. And I really
appreciate him saying that it's not probable that anybody would pass the FasTracks program today as it
was written 17 years ago.
I'd also like the rest of us to look at the fact that the Northwest Rail is not the only piece of the FasTracks
program that is incomplete. And I'd like to remind Director Guissinger and Director Davidson that there are
other pieces of FasTracks, and if we are going to support FasTracks completion 100% that we need to do
that 100%, not just the Northwest Rail.
And then I'd really like to thank Director Dishell for his statements, most of which I agreed with. And that's
all I have to say tonight. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Let me begin by thanking the governor for sharing
his time with us. I think that was very helpful. I think it's fair to say that no one disagrees with the idea of
completing FasTracks and especially the Northwest Rail. And I say that as the Director who has the
Southwest extension in my district. And I'm the only Director with that in my district. But I recognize the
importance of the Northwest Rail to this entire process.
I'd like to bring us back to resolution 004 of 2019. That was the FasTracks Recommitment Resolution that
we passed. That's a resolution that I co-authored with Director Lubow about. That commitment that we
made then remains unchanged. But of course, as we know from 2004 until now, the circumstances have
changed. Costs have increased and revenues have decreased.
That's why resolution 004 was focused on finances. We charged the staff, and, for that matter, all of us, to
find creative sources of funding. And I personally believe, and the point I'd like to emphasize tonight, that
that opportunity for creating this completed system remains in finding partners, partners that can work with
us to complete this. I don't know, maybe we can talk to GameStop or Robinhood or someone else.
But the message is clear. Capital is available in this country. There is a tremendous amount of pent-up
capital waiting for projects, capital that is not tax dollars. We're not talking about tax increases. We're talking
about going into the marketplace and finding people who can invest capital in projects like this. That's what
we need. That's what we need to focus on. Staff needs to focus on it. All of us need to focus on it.
And I believe with that, we will be able to come, let's say, close to the governor's plan for getting this done
in the near term rather than in the very long term.
Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I wanted to first thank my fellow Directors for putting forth some
fairly pragmatic next steps, particularly Director Davidson, in taking a look at the real feasibility for the peak
service plan and really putting, sharpening our pencils and figuring out what it costs, so that we have some
basis for discussion as we move forward.

That being said, I was struck by a couple of components of this presentation. One, of course, is something
that I've been talking about quite a while, and that's the commitment in FasTracks for enhanced bus service.
That was also, if you want to use the word promise, that was also promised to voters, particularly in areas
like mine and in areas like Director Whitmore's, and a 1% increase in the base system bus hours through
2020 and then 1.5% per year 2021 through 2025. That has fallen by the wayside.
And I guess what really struck me was the equivalent service hours, revenue service hours, that has
resulted from the FISA diversion. And as we look ahead, and we want to look at a comprehensive look at
the ways of finishing FasTracks, I would submit that finishing FasTracks includes restoring that base
service. So as Director Dishell said, we serve those people, those existing riders that we have, and we don't
further erode the bus service that has happened in my area and other areas for the people that are really
dependent on that base system service.
So I would ask that if we move forward, we do not forget that we also made a commitment to the base
service. And as we move forward, let's make sure that we do not overlook that yet again. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions, a few comments. And actually, I want
to start with an observation. Because I think it's important for us as we just recently passed a
recommendation, A recommended action, excuse me, around justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. That
is important for me to name in this moment how power and access has played a role in the conversation
that we're having right now.
I think it's important for us to recognize that we have allowed the governor to come in here and have a
conversation with us, and we haven't provided that access to our constituents to weigh in on this discussion
as well, many of them who also-- to Director Catlin's point-- invested these dollars and have unfinished
projects within their corridors. And so I have to point that out, because we've had discussions about having
public comment at our committee meetings. And it appears that we do have the ability to do so, but it might
be the absence of power in terms of money and position, in this instance. And so I have to call that out,
because it is important. And we represent the constituents. And so I'll stop there, as I'm sure you all get my
point.
I have no qualms about us having a discussion about a design study. I've told Director Davidson this, I think
it's important, in addition to a design study, as Director Williams pointed out, that was 17 years ago that
those plans existed.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, Director Lewis. Director Lewis, I think we lost you. OK. All right. Well,
thank you.
I see no one else in the queue to speak tonight on the Board. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. I just-- there's a couple of questions. And I'm happy to
take them in to follow up. But there is one that I did just want to raise here.
First of all, thank you for the discussion on everybody's part. A number of people have brought up the
importance of going out, and Director Lewis was just saying, speaking with constituents. I think that's
incredibly important. Director Cook, I'm excited about the idea of going out and working with the cities and
looking at their plans. I think that's exactly the kind of thing that I feel and meant with working with the cities,
not on behalf of them. I think there's a lot we can do so. So thank you for that discussion.
I did want to ask a question about ridership to Mr. Van Meter, perhaps. And this is, I think, a pretty important
topic. And I also will just provide the context to the Board, this represents an area of concern and mistrust,

and in large part because when I look at the 2004 plan, we had projected 8,600 to 10,000 daily riders on
rail and additionally projected 16,900 riders on what became the Flatiron Flyer along the 36 corridor. That
was by 2025.
If my numbers are correct, the Flatiron Flyer is more or less on track. It's maybe a little bit ahead. We're
14,500 in 2019. So that seems to match a lot of our projections along that corridor. But the rail line has
more than halved in terms of our projections by 2025. And I do understand that those are more complex
models, and I don't think we need to get into detail there. I just would emphasize the importance of that's
the type of thing we do need to talk to the community about.
But one question that I have, Mr. Van Meter, is the Southwest Chief and Front Range Passenger Rail
Commission evaluated different alignments. And I know that they centered on the alignment that is the B
alignment as being the higher ridership, saying that 40% of the boardings would be Denver and Boulder,
with especially notable boardings to the north in Longmont, and projected 9,200 daily riders. Now that was
a more limited service, 25 stations and across the whole line. So presumably it doesn't include all of the
stations we would have.
But I could not find, and I'm wondering if there's any maps showing the difference of the ridership should
they choose the North Metro line, the ridership should they choose going out into the prairie to Denver
International versus going through the corridor. I'm wondering if we have any difference in ridership and if
that can kind of give us a secondary glimpse of a different projection and how they may have arrived at
their numbers.
BILL VAN METER: Director Davidson, this is Bill Van Meter. I don't have that information available right
now. I had exchanged communication with Commission staff earlier today, and they indicated that they
would be available to support, were there any questions from this. So the best I can do is commit that I will
follow up on that with Commission staff and try to get an answer.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, sir. Appreciate it. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Rosenthal, I see your hand up.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. Two quick follow-up questions.
One is actually just to follow up on what Director Lewis was mentioning. What is the sense of the Northwest
Rail project versus the three extensions? Is this something that RTD could pursue all together at once?
Would RTD be able to, if it was able to get the funding-- and I did hear from the presentation that it's
possible, given current, I believe, it's FTA requirements that we would not qualify for some of that funding- but at the same time, let's just assume we did, would RTD be able to get started, shovel ready on all those
projects now?
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. That's probably a shared response between Henry and myself.
On each of the corridors, it has been long enough since we completed public engagement, environmental
assessments, environmental impact-type analyses and planning work, we would need to do a level of that
for each one of the corridors in advance of proceeding into design and construction.
I would speculate, given the work that we have done in the past and the capacity of staff and consultants
to support that, that we could do those corridors simultaneously if the funding and opportunity you posit
were made available, we could proceed on multiple projects at the same time in terms of involvement,
environmental impact, and proceeding the planning forward.
And then Henry might wish to opine in terms of the capacity of delivering those multiple projects in disparate
locations and through design and construction.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Bill. Henry Stopplecamp.
Yes, it's possible. I mean, we were running multiple projects throughout the FasTracks program. The
alignment pretty much stays the same. A lot of the design work we did earlier on will continue to be valid.
There are some corridors that we didn't take it too far. The Southeast Rail extension-- or Southwest Rail
extension-- we have probably about a 20% to 30% set of plans. We'd had to finish that to take it to 100%
with downtown connection. We got pretty far along on that, but we've got utilities and drainage in that area
that we need to iron out. And then the Northwest, our North Metro, up to 107th, again 124th to Highway 7,
those plans are pretty much done.
So the planning effort, I think, is going to be the biggest one, with cleaning off the environmental documents,
the alignments, the right-of-way for those three corridors, we've got a pretty good handle on. So there is a
potential of working all three at the same time and even piggybacking and leverage the Northwest Rail
corridor at the same time.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Then my-- thank you very much for that. That's very helpful.
And for my next question, I got a text from a community member asking, so as RTD receives possibly an
unsolicited bid, I believe like Kiewit did for the R Line, who is really the contact at RTD who's basically the
focal point for those? Is it the General Manager? Is it Mr. Stopplecamp? Is it Mr. Van Meter? Who's kind of
coordinating contracts and possibilities and dealing with Amtrak, dealing on the issue of the different options
that we have? Who's going to coordinate the design study? Is there a focal person who is going to be
responsible and dealing with all those?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So let me take this one. A true unsolicited proposal goes through Brian Iacono,
who is the Senior Manager of Materials Management. So he is the one that deals with all the contracts for
RTD. Now as far as the review of the unsolicited proposals, like we did on the R Line and on North Metro,
takes a village. And so Bill's group's in there, my group's in there. We do the evaluations.
Now if we're talking Front Range, Amtrak, there's a lot of conversations going on before an unsolicited
proposal comes out. Both Bill and myself would be involved with our teams. But a true unsolicited proposal
goes through Brian Iacono. We look at not only the capital costs, we also look at the operating cost too. So
there's two arms of all these projects. So the Finance folks will look at the capital availability. And then the
operational side and Bill's group and my group look at the functionality. And then the Operations group
looks on what it takes to operate the corridor. So it's really a team effort, either working through Bill, myself,
for concepts, yes. But a true unsolicited is through our Procurement department.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, if I may, Madam Chair, just to qualify-- and thank you very much, Mr.
Stopplecamp and Director Rosenthal. Recognizing that Mr. Stopplecamp was speaking of what was done
previously, I think as we're having this dialogue today, we're engaging on how we can move forward and
collectively. And as we look at this from a holistic vantage point, that may change somewhat in engaging
around discussions with the Board. So I just wanted to qualify that.
And I do remain steadfast in what Mr. Stopplecamp said as it relates to procurement, because we have to
ensure that there is a level playing field for all participants, that no one gets an upper edge on anybody
else. Because as we see ourselves, and we are a public agency, we have to ensure that there is fair and
equitable competition as it relates to doing business with RTD. So I would have been remiss if I didn't state
that. So thank you very much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Just to follow up on that, General Manager Johnson. So basically, if Mr.-- and I'm
sorry, I'm mispronouncing the name, Iacono?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Iacono.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Iacono.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So if he receives a bid or what have you, and I'm not trying to get too much in the
weeds here, it's just because I think it's a good path to pursue. But basically, General Manager Johnson,
you would be kept apprised of any effort, any bid, or anything like that. And so while that may not be
something that maybe you're directly working on, it would be somebody like you'd be carbon copied
basically.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, sir. And thank you very much for that question. As it currently stands, Mr. Iacono
is a direct report to me. And so I would be cognizant of that fact. So thank you so much for the question.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. I think I'm going to wrap this up. We've had this dialogue for two hours.
And we will be revisiting this on more than one occasion.
But I guess my last question would be to you, General Manager. What is your plan, at this point?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Malpiede, may I finish before the General Manager Johnson? I got cut off.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. Thank you, Director Rivera-Malpiede.
I had a few questions. Because maybe I was misunderstanding from the presentation that was provided to
us. But it was my understanding that the best option for us to move forward for Longmont, specifically, is a
train-- for a train-- is to have CDOT build it. Did I misunderstand that, or is that-- can you elaborate on that
for me, Mr. Van Meter? Or Stopplecamp, whoever wants to take it.
BILL VAN METER: This is Bill Van Meter. Thank you, Director Lewis.
So in terms of partnership opportunities, I identified two. One is a partnership with the state CDOT and the
Front Range Passenger Rail Commission on a Front Range service. And the other is were there to be
successful network modernization program under Amtrak. They're both real opportunities. There's, both
lack of funding at this point. But if either one were to receive funding, that opportunity for a partnership and
collaboration could bring RTD's costs down in a partnership approach and work to the benefit of all parties.
Neither have funding now.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And I don't know if Mr.-- if there's anyone on the phone that might
be able to answer this question-- but I recall from earlier conversations at the beginning of the pandemic
that we were struggling to hold on to our ridership for bus and for rail. And so I'm curious as to what our
ridership is specifically on rail at this moment. And are we seeing that ridership increase or are we seeing
the same number of folks who had stopped using our services at the beginning of this pandemic?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you, Director Lewis. I will ask Director Ford-- excuse me-- I will ask Mr. Ford,
the Chief Operating Officer, to speak to that. But prior to turning over the floor to him, I would say that we
have maintained our ridership, as it relates to the service levels, recognizing we just had a service change,
and we are providing service at 60% of what it was pre-COVID pandemic levels. So recognizing our
resources that we have leveraged and resources being human and be they capital, that's where we are at
this juncture. But I will defer to Mr. Ford to speak more specifically , if he has something to add.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. I don't see that we have really increased our
service in terms of-- excuse me, our ridership. I think we've been maintaining about the same level. We're

providing about 60% of our service. And we haven't seen any real increases in ridership at this point on the
bus side. It may be a little bit different on certain routes, where we need to add some extra sections. But on
the rail, it seems to have continued to be pretty consistent and we have not seen an uptick at this point.
I will continue to monitor and provide any other updates that may be warranted. But we just went through a
new service change, so we'll continue to monitor that and provide you some updated information.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. And I'll stop, because we have been at this
quite a bit. I'll just conclude with just a reminder for the Directors on this call, that this is a Regional
Transportation District and it's our responsibility to think regionally as we're making these decisions. And
while I do, I, one, I love trains. My son loves trains. We love to ride trains together. And I would be more
than thrilled to see us put another project forth that he and I and other folks, but more specifically he and I,
could really benefit from because of our love for trains.
But I hate to see us do that at the expense of the communities who are really dependent on our services at
this time. And I think it's important that we keep those folks in the center of our conversation, those that are
most marginalized, those that are most oppressed, those that are most vulnerable, we keep them in the
center of our conversation and we think about our agency regionally. And much of this discussion has been
about the Northwest Rail. And we've all talked about how there are other unfinished projects within the
corridor. And I think it's important that we keep that in mind.
The last thing that I will add, which is what I was talking about before we got cut off, while I do think it's
important for us to restore public trust, that we do have to ask at what cost and at what cost to who. And
Director Davidson, I will say, I actually don't disagree with the design study. I'm curious of the cost, the
actual cost of the design study. And I do wonder-- and this is a question-- I do wonder if we need to do an
environmental assessment, because we've done-- because it's been so long. And it's my understanding
that we would be basing a design study off of old data. And I think it's important that we're making decisions
off of recent data, if those are going to be things that we might be able to truly operationalize.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. Those are great questions that segue right to
closing remarks from our General Manager.
But before I turn it over to her, let me just thank the 90 community members who submitted public comments
to the RTD Board Office. And I would just say to the public that our next Board meeting is Tuesday, February
23 at 5:30. And we would really welcome any public comments at that time regarding this issue or any other
issue.
General Manager, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you to our Board members
assembled here for your comments and your questions and the earnest dialogue about the constituencies
that we serve. I want to again thank the governor for coming on, voicing his thoughts relative to where we
are collectively, and to staff, once again, for their due diligence and all the hard work put forward.
So recognizing I was taking copious notes as it relates to all members of the Board, relative to the remarks
that were made, in line with the presentation that was given that clearly oriented me as being one of the
new people to the region and getting a historical perspective on what has occurred, I believe that our best
path forward at this time is to ensure that we're dealing with what we all collectively know. And I think that
can't happen until we do put forward a 30% design in conjunction with an environmental assessment. So I
appreciate Director Lewis saying that, because recognizing the time has elapsed, the landscape in the

community and the development has changed, we'd be remiss to look at something that was done some
time ago and not know what we're dealing with collectively, right?
So I would recommend to you all that we, as staff, and specifically with the two gentlemen that you've been
hearing from tonight, Mr. Stopplecamp and Mr. Van Meter, that you allow us 60 days to bring back
information to all of you, and perhaps it's a recommendation. I don't want to overstep right now, since I need
to confer with the team. But I would surmise that what we would do is develop a plan, including a budget,
because we don't know what the numbers are so we'd have to work that up to give you an understanding
so you could make informed decisions about what that is, if we're going to leverage money out of the FISA
account.
But I think that's the first step forward. Because right now, we're just talking in ambiguity, because none of
us know exactly what it is. So that's what I put forward to you all for your consideration.
So thank you very much for the opportunity to offer that to you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam General Manager. Is there any other items to come before
this Special Board Meeting this evening? OK, seeing none, we are adjourned at 7:42.
I'm going to ask that we take a five-minute break, so that folks can go get something to drink, and then we
will go on to our Finance and Audit Committee.
Thank you, everyone, for joining us.

