Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 26, 2010
Page 1 of 3
Regional Transportation District

Memorandum
To:

RTD Board of Directors

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 27, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Meeting of the Legislative Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, January 26, 2010 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Daly, Vice-Chair Pulliam, Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Busck, Christopher, Cohen, Kemp, Martinez, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Pulliam, Tayer, Tobiassen

Directors Chacon and James

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rick Clarke, Chuck Culig, Kevin Diviness, Carol
Duecker, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry
Howerter, Marla Lien, Jason Longsdorf, Caitlin Magee, Andy Mutz,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Daria Serna, Cal
Shankster, John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Greg Straight,
John Tarbert, Liz Telford, Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil
Washington, Susan Wood

Others Present:

Juliann Pulliam, Mac Callison, Bob Wilson, Jennifer Brandeberry,
Julie McKenna, Bruce Johnson, Brian Middleton, Roger Sherman,
Maria Garcia-Berry, Robin Kniech (FRESC), Daryl Kinton, Edie
Bryan, Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Bill Mosher (Trammell-Crowe),
Joe Sallard, Mari Lipponen, Tom Acre, Hunter Sydnor (Kiewit),
Darren Roue (Kiewit), Ed Bush, Doug Gragg, Kristopher Takaus,
Jerry Glick

Call to Order:

I.

****
Chair Daly called the meeting to order at 5:34 p.m.

State Legislative Issues
a. Update on state issues by Brandeberry-McKenna team – Jenifer Brandeberry
and Julie McKenna gave this update.
The City and County of Denver has introduced a bill, HB 10-1143, that will be
heard next Thursday morning in the House Local Government Committee.
This is a bill that adds residential uses to the TOD statute. There is a large

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 26, 2010
Page 2 of 3
group of supporters ranging from the development community to the
environmental community. Ms. Brandeberry feels this bill is in good shape.
There are a handful of bills that have been introduced this week regarding
repealing sales tax exemptions or putting them in “time-out” for a couple of
years. RTD staff has looked at these bills, and Ms. Brandeberry is trying to
set up a meeting with the Department of Revenue to see if amendments are
needed to the bills. Marla Lien, General Counsel, believes that as long as
there is some discussion and documentation, we may not need any
amendments to these bills. These bills are being “fastracked” and will be
heard tomorrow in House Appropriations and House Finance Committee. Ms.
Brandeberry and Ms. McKenna spoke with the leadership on these committees
as well as the bills’ sponsors to let them know there are concerns and an
uncertainty if amendments may be needed. They have been given a card to
draft amendments should they need them.
There is also a proposed bill that deals with abandoned railway right of way.
Representative Claire Levy from Boulder has submitted it for drafting
purposes.
Ms. McKenna shared that they had met with Senator Suzanne Williams earlier
this fall and she expressed an interest in a coordinated presentation between
DIA and RTD on what’s happening at Denver Union Station and
redevelopment at the airport. This will be a presentation before the joint
House and Senate Transportation Committees in February. It will be a good
opportunity to show some exciting progress and the partnership between DIA
and RTD.
Ms. Brandeberry said that there will be three opportunities for RTD to present
updates to the general assembly. The Board will be kept informed as the
dates get solidified.
Director Kemp welcomed Ms. Brandeberry, Ms. McKenna and Ms. Ellebracht
back for the new year and said let’s be strong during this legislative session.
Director McMullen asked about any issues that might affect RTD this year.
Ms. McKenna said there are a handful of bills that repeal portions of the
FASTER bill, and they have been sent to Committee but probably won’t make
it out. The focus of the session will be on the budget. RTD got most of what
it wanted last year with Representative May’s help and the ability to go to the
ballot without legislature approval.
Marla Lien clarified that the residential addition to our transit facilities has no
relation to eminent domain. The concession agreement for the East and Gold
Line corridors, for which there will have to be some eminent domain, does not
allow the concessionaire to do any development be it commercial, residential,
or retail.
Director Pulliam asked about the railroad bill and how we can get it going. Is
there opposition to the bill? Ms. McKenna said this bill hasn’t been introduced

Summary of the Legislative Committee meeting held on Tuesday, January 26, 2010
Page 3 of 3
before. The initial concern was with the Colorado Municipal League based on
some previous legal cases. Ms. McKenna and Ms. Brandeberry have been
doing some work ahead of the bill being introduced and the league doesn’t
seem to have an issue. There is no formalized opposition that she has heard
of. Ms. Lien clarified that she hadn’t introduced it before because we hadn’t
closed on any right- of- way properties. Now that RTD has acquired right of
way and will acquire more, this bill is very important.
II.

Other Matters – Committee Chair Daly shared that Director James called to apologize
that he could not make the meeting.
Director Martinez asked if there will there be another Legislative Committee meeting
before the APTA Legislative Conference in Washington, D.C. Sherry Ellebracht,
Government Relations Officer, said it had been discussed and she felt it was a good
idea. Patton Boggs will have a briefing on Monday night in D.C. before going to the Hill.
Director Martinez said he would like the rest of the Board to hear pertinent information
before the delegation goes to Washington so that everyone is informed.

III.

Date for Next Meeting – The date for the next Legislative committee will be determined
later.

IV.

Adjourn to Study Session - Chair Daly adjourned the meeting at 5:47p.m.

