2024-05-29
Special Board Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening. This is Chair Erik Davidson speaking. I would like to now call to order the
Wednesday, May 29th special board meeting. We are convened as of 3:00 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I
would respectfully ask everyone to remain muted unless you are recognized to speak. I will now call the
roll. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek. Director First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Dishell. Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Secretary Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Lewis.
JAIME LEWIS: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm present. Mr. Chair, I apologize for speaking out of order, but I wanted to note that
the captions are not working.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. I'll pause after roll call and see if we can address that. I'll
take one quick pause after the roll to see how we're doing. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And this is Chair Davidson. I am here. That is 13 present and two absent. I would ask
the Board Office if you just wouldn't mind assisting, noting for the sake of the record, if I miss it, any directors
that join remotely or late. Pause for a moment just to look. Mr Kroll, would you mind letting me know what
the status is on the captions, please? OK.
Great. Director Ruscha, the Board Office has sent you another link. Would you mind if I proceed with the
next section here and then check in with you to see if that link is working?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yeah, Mr. Chair, I have the link. It's working. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you. Thank you very much, Ms. Knapp Rhodes and the Board Office.
Thank you, Director Ruscha. As noted, we have 13 present, two absent. We do have a quorum. Please
note that the special board meeting does not have a section for public comment this afternoon. However,
anyone who would like to address the board can still do so during the regularly scheduled May board
meeting, which will happen after this meeting. The public can still offer their comment in person by email or
participating remotely in our next meeting.
I'll now move to this portion of our agenda regarding an executive session. In a moment, the board will meet
in executive session to discuss the Office of the State auditor's initial findings in the 2023 to 2024
performance audit, and the January 24 2024 E Line incident north of Southmoor station. I would like to
append the motion to move into executive session to state that the special board meeting will be deemed
adjourned after it adjourns into the executive session.
For public transparency, this means that once the Board moves into executive session, the main meeting
will be adjourned. For anyone who might be in the room or remote, the regularly scheduled May board
meeting will occur after the meeting with the anticipated start time of 5:30 PM. So please know that we will
be back.
I will now entertain a motion to move into executive session to discuss the following, Pursuant to Section
24-6-4024C-CRS for matters required to be kept confidential by federal or state law or rules and regulations,
and section 23-1032 and 3 and 23-103-71-CRS regarding a presentation from the Office of the State Auditor
on its initial findings in the 2023 to 2024 performance audit. Anticipated time frame for responses and final
report and discussion regarding the same.
And executive session pursuant to Section 24-6-402RBCRS to receive legal advice and section 24-64024CCRS matters required to be kept confidential by state law and rules. Section 40-18-104CRS and
7CCR723-7 Public Utilities Commission rules 7349DI and 4. Confidentially of light rail vehicle accident
investigation regarding the January 24th, 2024 E Line incident north of Southmoor station. I will now
entertain the motion.
DOUG TISDALE: So moved, Tisdale.

JAIME LEWIS: Second, Lewis.
ERIK DAVIDSON: The movement is Tisdale, the second as Lewis. Are there any directors opposed to the
motion? Seeing none, the motion will pass with 13 yes and two absent. For all those who are expected to
attend the initial conversation regarding the Office of the State Auditor's findings clearing, would you please
stay seated? For those here for the subsequent conversation regarding the E Line, please note that
someone will come and get you once we have finished the conversation regarding the performance audit.
So please exit at this time, but stay close by. And for everyone else, would you please vacate the room at
this time and take all of your belongings with you?
MR. KROLL: Director Ruscha to leave this Zoom room and join the executive.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Kroll. Director Ruscha and our visible voices representative, I believe it
is Lindsay, if you could please leave the Zoom link for the special board meeting and move to the executive
session link. We will change over the Zoom room at this time. Thank you. I'll pause.

