February 12, 2019
Operations & Customer Service Committee
KATE WILLIAMS: Let's try to get through it. Dramatic, that you want to add, you'll get a
chance to do that. And if not, we're going to go right to questions. OK? Everybody's OK with
that? OK.
Recommended action is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to enter into a contract
with First Transit for the provision of contracted, fixed-route transit services, group 28. This
contract is for three years with two one-year options for a total of five years. The initial threeyear contract amount for service is $81,174,070. The option year one amount is $29,386,941, and
the option year two is $30,671,864. I know. The total five-year, not to exceed amount for service
is $141,232,875.
In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractor's direct fuel costs in an amount estimated to be
$10,200,929 for the initial three-year contract term, $3,547,094 for option year one and
$3,618,757 for option year two. The total five-year not to exceed amount for fuel is $17,366,799.
The total, five-year not to exceed amount for the contracted fixed-route transit service and fuel is
$158,599,654.
This recommended action supports the following General Manager's goals. Core goal number
one-- successful delivery of transit service, and task goal number three to ensure fiscal
sustainability. OK. Am I done? Gentlemen, do you want to add anything there? We need to
prove it first. Thank you
FRED WORTHEN: Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. Very briefly,
I have Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, Greg Smith, our Competitive
Services Manager, Michael Ford, our Chief Operating Officer. This is for one of four operating
contracts we have available. This is for replacement of our contract at Commerce City. We have
a long working relationship with First Transit, who we are recommending to have this contract
awarded to. We're more than happy to answer any questions, but in the interest of time, I'll
bypass any other further presentations.
KATE WILLIAMS: Have anybody who would like to speak on this issue? OK. Seeing nobody, I
guess we will take a vote on it. I did not note. I think it's Walker and Cook, over there.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Chair Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, Director Folska, thank you. Do you want to indicate your approval or
lack thereof, or do you want to speak?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I thought I'd just ask one quick question. It seems that the cost is a
lot higher in option year one and two. Can you address that please?

KATE WILLIAMS: I cannot, but I'm sure somebody down at the table can speak to Director
Folska's question.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I'm asking the staff to address that question.
KATE WILLIAMS: They're getting to it. Hang on.
CAROLYN CONOVER: This is Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services. Just
to clarify your question is why the option year costs are higher than the initial three-year costs?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Correct.
CAROLYN CONOVER: So I show option year one at $29,386,941 and option year two at
$30,671,864, but our initial three-year cost is $81,174,070. I guess I'm confused. I know our
costs, the costs go up incrementally at about 4% per year when you look at each individual year,
but the option years are not larger than the initial three years.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: So they all go up equally, incrementally at 4%, is that it?
CAROLYN CONOVER: About 4%, 4.3% each year, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, Thank you. I'll vote yes.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you for that, Director Folska. OK. So if we count Director Folska as
a yes, Director Broom is absent. We have 14 yeses and one not voting. It's not a no vote. It's a
not voting, for the record. Thank you all.
OK. Moving right along, I think now we have some updates. Is that correct? Gentlemen, ladies.
Oh, Carolyn, goodbye. Gentlemen only. Service availability in January of 2019. Does any-- we
have anything we want to add?
FRED WORTHEN: So I'll just say very briefly, we continue to see some positive trends in both
our hiring and our recruitment efforts that are helping with improving our service availability.
Just a very, very brief history. The beginning of last year was pretty rough. We had probably the
largest amount of service that we had lost during the first six months of last year due to
manpower issues. We added 69 drivers last year to our headcount, which was the first year we've
had a positive increase in drivers in some time. We have 41 drivers in training right now. So we
hope to continue that trend.
KATE WILLIAMS: 41, that's a great number. Do we have anybody who wants to add, ask,
comment? No? Great. As I said, this information-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Uh-KATE WILLIAMS: Director Folska, I am so sorry.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's OK. It's late. Very quickly, gentlemen, if you could tell us what you
attribute that to?
FRED WORTHEN: I think there's a combination of a number of things. The headcount has
helped tremendously. We also made adjustments to our current bargaining agreement, which we
believe is not only helping with recruiting but also some retention efforts. We have also made a
number of operational adjustments with regard to things like where we stage our fleet at. So if
we do have impacts, how quickly we can respond to those particular types of incidents.
We've also made improvements to our vehicle maintenance program too because it's not just a
matter of having a driver available, but we also need to have buses available. So some of our
improvements that we've made to our vehicle maintenance program have also helped with
having vehicles available.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. OK. Seeing nobody else in the queue to speak, I
think we'll go on to the next update, which would be the 2017 Performance Review. And I think
we want to talk about why we're seeing that now.
MICHAEL FORD: Yeah, I'm going to introduce Jeff Becker, who's going to present. But this is
a service performance for 2017. Typically, it would be reported in the Fall. We had some
glitches with the data, so we're going to be presenting that now. You would expect to see another
report in the Fall of '18-- or of '19 for service performance for 2018. So you'll see that later on
this year. So with that, I think I'll turn it over to Jeff to give a updated presentation on the data for
2017.
JEFF BECKER: Thank you. Good evening I'm Jeff Becker, Senior Manager for Service
Development. This presentation addresses that part of our mission statement that is cost effective
service throughout the district. But one size does not fit all, so RTD has developed a whole
variety of services to address the variety of markets that our customers represent. And we would
not expect the performance of each of these types of services to be the same, and they aren't. On
the other hand, for example, we would not expect a bus route to have the same performance as
our rail service.
On the other hand, something like our FlexRide service, we would expect a FlexRide service in
Thornton to meet the same expectations as that in, say, Lone Tree. So we have this variety, but
we're able to look at the cost effectiveness of our services throughout the district and compare
them.
And then we connect it all together so that we address our customers' travel needs. We rightsize
the services to meet sustainability and performance, and, of course, we follow all of the Board
policies and regulations.

We have two primary economic measures of performance, one is cost effectiveness, or subsidy
per boarding, which is something like profit for widget, but we don't make a profit. But it does
say, well, what do we get? How many riders do we get for the dollars we put in?
The other one is productivity, which for a transit agency, is how many riders do we get for the
amount of resources, which in our case, is hours of service that we put in? Those are our two
primary measures. And we calculate that every year for every route and service that we operate,
and we group them together in those classes of the variety of services that we put out.
And I just want to show you on this table, just for an example, take the urban local class, what is
that? Well, that's our urban routes that don't go downtown, which is CBD. But it would be like
our crosstown routes, like on Colorado Boulevard or on Hamden or something like that. And
there are about 35 of those routes.
So if you look at the first column under Subsidy per Boarding, you'll see $4.56. For all those 35
routes, on average, it costs $4.56 subsidy per boarding passenger. And if you look to the next
column, you'll see $9.47 Well, we're not going to look at every route all the time to see what we
should be doing. So our policy is to look at the worst performing routes, about the 10% worst
performing routes.
And so if one of those routes is at like $10 subsidy per boarding, or $11 or $12, we're going to
start looking at it. And likewise, if you look at boardings per hour, it's 29 on average, but if it
falls below 17, like only 10 boardings per hour, we're going to take a look at it.
KATE WILLIAMS: Jeff, can I interrupt for just a second? We were just noting that in our Board
packet, the bottom line there says System 2016. In the Board packet, we had a number of $5.54,
but what you're showing up there is $6.50. So one of us has the math wrong.
JEFF BECKER: This is the correct one. It is incorrect in the Board paper.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
JEFF BECKER: And I-- in looking this stuff over, we always find something. I don't know
where I got that other number from.
So it's a little bit easier to put these numbers into a chart, and so that's what I'm going to do for
you here. This first chart, let's take a look at the axes. On the vertical axis is subsidy per
boarding, that's our cost effectiveness. But you'll notice that we start at zero at the top because
subsidy is a negative number, right? And we don't make a profit on anything, really. And then
we look at boardings per vehicle hour, and that increases, of course, to the right.
So what this means is that any service that's kind of up and to the right in this chart is better than
those down and to the left. And this one shows all of our different classes of service. And just to
look at the two extremes, you'll see the mall being our best performing service, and there's no
fare revenue for that at all. But it just has so many riders for the hours that we put out, it's really
good. And on the other end, we have Access-a-Ride, and we know that that is a paratransit

service for people with disabilities, and we know that that is not going to be a high-performing
service.
So I just want to show you a few more charts of these classes of service in the middle. This one
here is for our regional routes, which have dwindled as we put in rail service. And I would call
your attention to that orange-colored box there.
So at the bottom left are those minimum points. That bottom corner represents the maximum
subsidy per boarding for that class and the minimum boardings per hour. And then the box
contains all those routes that do meet our standards.
And then you'll see I labeled some routes, some of the better performing routes. And then you'll
see ones that are outside that box. This is a case where you don't want to be outside the box. If
you're outside the box, we're going to take a look. And this is very useful for all of the
municipalities all to know what's going on.
In this case, there's a few routes that are not meeting the standards for effectiveness but are
meeting the boardings per hour. And our full report discusses every single labeled route that's
outside the box and says why and what remedies we're thinking about. For example, there's the
EV and the CV that are outside the box. They were restructured actually last year.
This one is our urban local routes, which I mentioned before. A few routes are not meeting the
productivity standard, but they are meeting our subsidy per boarding. I want to call your
attention-- first of all, you can see the Route 33, which is way outside the box. That is on our
current proposal for the May Run Board Service Changes to be discontinued.
However, take a look at the vertical, orange dotted line at 25 boardings per vehicle hour. That is
what we would consider to be the minimum to get 15-minute frequency for any particular route.
And likewise, there is a green-dotted vertical line at 40 boardings per hour. That's approximately
what it would take to get 10-minute frequency.
So this chart is very useful for showing a variety of things, you know? Are you meeting the
standards? How does one route perform relative to another? And what does it take to get better
than our minimum standard service?
The next one is on our suburban local bus routes and our FlexRide services, which generally
cover our lower density areas. And this is pretty useful, putting them together. Looking at it, you
can kind of evaluate what services might be appropriate for a particular community. If you look
at about 10 boardings per hour, you see there's kind of a no man's land there between them in
terms of performance expectations. And that's where we look to see where routes fall in between
and what we should do.
And we have, actually, over the years, poor performing suburban bus routes, we have converted
to flex routes, to the FlexRide. And we've actually done just the opposite, where we've gotten a
really good productive FlexRide service going over a number of years that couldn't handle the
ridership, we've converted it into a suburban bus route. So this has been very useful.

And finally, I just wanted to show you one more. We have it for all of the-- and it's in your
packet-- and this is for rail. And, of course, we've been adding rail. We'll be adding some more.
The rail performance is rather good with the exception of, you'll see, the R line. We don't-- we
just present the facts, right? And the R line started up. It was a long route with quite a lot of
service but not much ridership. And it started in February of 2017. In 2018, performance did
improve, but it's still probably outside the box.
So that's kind of an overview of what we're doing behind the scenes in all of our service
planning, scheduling, and all and how we then, kind of, how do we decide what to do next?
Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Jeff. I think we have some Board members who would like to
speak to this. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I do want to cover the R line. And I had expected that to be on our
service changes for May but did not see that 30-minute or 60-minute. And you look at this
report, and at that time, it was $20 subsidy every time somebody stepped on there, which is,
that's getting up there in the rank of FlexRide, so pretty high dollars. I think I recently heard that
the reason that we may not be able to reduce or expand the headways is because it's new starts. Is
that correct?
JEFF BECKER: Well, it's not exactly new starts, but it's an extension of existing rails. But it is-under our funding agreement with the federal government, we are required to provide the service
that we said that we would. And that means that we will be adding service on the E, F, and R
lines to meet that requirement.
DAVE GENOVA: If I may, it's essentially-- it was this not the new starts but a small starts grant.
And actually, the FTA made changes to their grant agreements that it's more of a contractual
relationship in terms of the headways that we operate, in terms of in previous full funding grant
agreements, we didn't have those kinds of requirements, that it was a requirement for the FTA.
Now, that's not to say that after a service gets in operation for a while they're not willing to-they'd be willing to allow us to propose revisiting it, but we have to at least at the beginning.
But I will point out, though because that, what you just showed, was for 2017, right? So I would
hope that that's improved for '18 because the ridership is up 21-- or I'm sorry, according to what
we had in the financial packet 24%, 24.1% year-to-date for the R line. So that's pretty
encouraging in terms of the increase in ridership that we're seeing in the R line for '18 over '17.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah. And so I know there was an increase, but it's still in the 70s is my
understanding, talking to Jesse in the last couple days. It's still not there. So that's why I had
expected to see it in the May. So did the feds change the rules partway through in the game?
DAVE GENOVA: I wouldn't say it's rules. When we did-- the Board may recall the W line was a
Full Funding Grant Agreement project. And when we made some adjustments on that, they said,
hey, you can't do that because of the Full Funding Grant Agreement. And then there was actually
not specific language that specified that we have to run those headways. And they've changed

their approach on that in grants after that. I don't know at what particular time period, but it's in
the newer federal grants that they've done.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. OK. Thanks. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'd like to see if Director Folska, do you have any questions?
Hearing none, we'll go on to the other Directors in the queue. Director Catlin, good evening.
You've been very quiet.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Williams. A couple of comments-- when we went through
the service changes in May, I heard a lot from my constituents that they recognize there are
service standards. And there's one thing about those standards but there's something else about
coverage. And when you have very, very few routes in a region, you kind of want to make sure
that you establish a baseline. I noticed that three routes out of the five that were outside of the
box were in my region, and those are about the only routes we have. So I guess I would ask that
if you take a look at it, you consider that coverage is an important component.
Secondly, on the packet where you described some of the routes and what was happening, Route
85, it says formerly a part of Route 401 was created-- buh, buh, buh-- the route was discontinued
in August 2018. And we've gotten some-- my constituents are confused because we replaced that
with a FlexRide, and it operates peak service in four trips in the morning and four trips in the
afternoon, and then operates as a Call-n-Ride during the middle of the day, but there's nowhere-you have to know to go to look for it on the website under Call-n-Ride. And so I would really
ask that if we move forward on some of these FlexRide options that we take a look at how we
communicate that to our customers a little bit better.
But you say that it was eliminated. There was a substitution, and then on the FlexRide, for South
JeffCo FlexRide, it says it's produced an increase in ridership. Well, that was the very change
that I just talked about because you transferred those patrons from a fixed route 85 onto the
FlexRide, so naturally you would see an increase. So I guess I just wanted to point that out in
terms of clarification on your descriptions. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Dr. Catlin. Director-- I can never do it-- Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Thank you, Chairwoman. You know, on the 33-and Jessie called me, and I'm really appreciative of that-- but on the Route 33, there are three
routes in the morning and then four routes in the afternoon. And unfortunately, the afternoon
ends like at 5:00. And a great number of the community members in that area work shift work.
And so there's no bus service for them. They don't work from 6:30 to 5:00. A lot of them work
more than one job and are transit-dependent and have to do it.
So I would just ask in terms of looking at populations, particularly diverse populations, and who
are doing different kinds of jobs, that we really take that into account. Only because this really is
a tough schedule to be able to accommodate community members who don't have a regular 9:00
to 5:00 job.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Williams. I have a similar concern. I call it the boonie effect.
And for people, like myself, that live out in the Netherland Districts, our routes may not meet the
standards but that shouldn't be the only requirement, it seems to me, because there's an equitable
issue. People are paying, individually, the same taxes as anybody else but their getting much,
much, much less coverage, maybe zero, maybe a very little amount, maybe something once an
hour.
And I think personally, I think there are enough of us Board members from those areas, but also,
it's an equitable issue. That we should rethink how standards apply to areas where the transit is
very limited if not a desert. And is there some way to deal with that equity issue that people-- it's
like taxation without representation, in a way. I mean, it's like you're giving money, but you're
getting very little.
And I would like to see something other than standards that can't be met in some of these areas
being used to help these people. And I'm not sure what it is, but I think it might have to be
beyond cost benefit. It has to be equity, and I'd like to see that done. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lubow. I see nobody else in the queue. I thank
gentlemen. Thank you for that presentation there. Like I said, we all have the information in our
packet. If anybody has further questions or wants to discuss it further-- Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: No further questions. I just had one other matter that I wanted to bring Mike
Meader up for this part of-KATE WILLIAMS: Can do. Mr. Meader, approach the table.
MIKE MEADER: Hi. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer at RTD. I just
wanted to take 30 seconds to introduce a new member of the staff. This is Dan McClain. He's a
new Senior Manager of Safety. So he has filled the position created from Shirley Bennett's
retirement, for those of you who knew Shirley. Dan comes to us with many years of experience
in the oil and gas, mining, and construction industries. So you'll be hearing a lot more from him
throughout the year. But welcome, Dan.
KATE WILLIAMS: Welcome.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you, Mr. Meader. Are there any other matters that anybody would like to bring up at this
time? Director Folska, are you with us still? Smart woman. Seeing no other matters. Our next
meeting date is March 12, 2019. I'd accept a move to adjourn.
MULTIPLE BOARD MEMBERS: Move to adjourn.
KATE WILLIAMS: Do I hear a second?

MULTIPLE BOARD MEMBERS: Second.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Good--

