Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 1 of 6

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum

To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

April 8, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
April 08, 2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms, R, T & D
***

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

John Tayer, Chair; Bill Christopher, Vice-Chair, Barbara Brohl, Noel Busck,
Juanita Chacon, Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, Chris Martinez, Bill
McMullen, Dave Ruchman, Barbara Yamrick
Daryl Kinton, Wally Pulliam, Neill Quinlan

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bob Lewis, Phil Washington, Marla Lien, David Genova, Scott
Reed, Paula Perdue, Lloyd Mack, Dean Shaklee, Trent Ratcliff, Ed Gonzales,
Teresa Sedmak, Robert Merriman, John Tarbert, Daria Serna, Caitlin Magee

Others Present:

Holman Carter, Steve Weinstein

Call to Order:

Chair Tayer called the meeting to order at 7:38 p.m.

I. Recommended Actions
Before the recommended actions began, Chair Tayer said that the first two
recommended actions would be voted on together.
 IT Contract Amendment – Microsoft Enterprise Agreement
The Information Technology Division proposes that the Finance/Administration
Committee approve and recommend that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to execute all documents necessary to amend the contract with Insight for a
three (3) year software Enterprise Agreement with Microsoft in the Amount of $
266,589.94 and for a total contract value not to exceed $1,550,000. Insight was
chosen using the State of Colorado award in December 2007, which the state
competitively bid themselves. Additionally, it takes advantage of the state’s buying
power.


IT Contract Award – Oracle Data Base Administration Support

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 2 of 6
The Information Technology (IT) Division of the Administration Department proposes that
the Finance/Administration Committee approve and recommend that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a contract in
the amount of $180,000 for Personal Services for an IT Oracle Database Administrator
(DBA)(18DJ001). The contract is to be awarded to Sol-IT following a competitive review of
twelve submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of one year with two additional
one-year options. This has been determined to be a personal service contract by Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus two one-year options to renew based on
positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit is not to exceed $180,000. The
contract would begin on May 1, 2008.
Motion: Director Christopher made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the April 15, 2008 Board
meeting. (first and second
recommended actions)
Second: Director Kemp seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously

 Central Parking Contract – Phil Washington, Assistant General Manager, Administration
introduced this item.
Director Chacon had a question about adjusting services because of the new charter
regulations allowing customers to use their passes. Cal Marsella said that it is likely
adjustments will be made since more people will be able to use the fare boxes now that
passes will be accepted which would result in less ticket sales.
Director Ruchman was interested in revenue generated from the ticket sales versus cost
for the contract. Mr. Marsella responded that the District does make money on the ticket
sales. Director Ruchman wanted to check with other entities about minimizing point of
service.
Cal Marsella asked that the Board not delay this but would give staff the direction to
research. Director Chacon asked about the District being more involved in managing this
program. Cal Marsella spoke that RTD used employees on a volunteer basis but did have
to pay them; this contract is more cost effective than using employees.
It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into
a three year contract for 2008, 2009 & 2010 with Central Parking for $1,258,226.00, to
supply ticket sellers for all major sporting and other special events. In addition to the
three year contract is an option for two, one year extensions through 2011 and 2012 for
an additional total of $896,121.20. The grand total for a five year contract is

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 3 of 6
$2,154,347.20 from 2008-2012.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the April 15, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Martinez seconded the
motion.
Vote
On Motion: The motion passed unanimously.
 Recommendation for Adoption of Plan and Trust Documents for RTD Defined Contribution
Salaried Pension Plan – Marla Lien, General Counsel introduced this item. This is the
second time this item has come before the Finance and Administration Committee. Ms.
Lien said staff had worked hard to incorporate the Committee’s suggestions into the new
trust documents.
Staff is looking for direction in regards to the level of contribution. The Board can go
with a fixed level of contribution of 9%. The Board can go with an unnamed contribution
that the Board would have to set the contribution level every year. The third option is to
go with a stated contribution level of 5% and the Board would be able to determine on an
annual basis the additional amount that would be contributed.
The other issue is whether to have the same group of trustees for the defined
contribution salaried pension plan as the defined benefit salaried pension plan.
Motion: Director McMullen made a motion for
full approval before the Board
at the April 15, 2008 Board
meeting.
Second: Director Elfenbein seconded the
motion.
Discussion: Director Brohl voiced objection over the 5 – 9% contribution. When the Board
voted to go to a defined contribution plan, it was based on a 9% contribution. The Board
originally was looking at a 7% contribution and decided on 9% because of the low benefit to
the employees. Director Brohl express concern over lack of consistency in a plan that could
fluctuate between 5 and 9%, there is not a lot of security for the employee.
Marla Lien said that this was brought to the Board and if there was an under funding of the
plan at a fixed rate, the Board would have to close the plan and open a new plan with a
lower rate.
Cal Marsella said that the 5-9% scale gives the Board more flexibility so that the District
would not end up with two, three or four plans due to being locked in at a rate that the

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 4 of 6
District could not sustain financially. The 9% has a built in float mechanism so that the
Board could fund the plan at a lower rate if they needed to.
Director Kemp asked if the trustee names and the term expiration dates, would they
coincide with the new defined contribution plan? Ms. Lien responded that the names
were the same but the dates were not. This trust has rolling trustees so that you do not
have a vacation of trustees all at the same time. The Board could bring the dates in line if
they choose.
Director Busck asked that if the plan was being funded at 9% for many years and then
changed to a 5% rate if it could be challenged in court. Ms. Lien responded that she felt
it could be challenge but that the plan disclosure would cover this.
Director Christopher said that he felt the flexible contribution would be bad for employee
morale and he did not favor it at all. Director Christopher felt a fixed rate was better
protection for the employees.
Director Yamrick expressed some concern over plan administration fees and where the
funds will come from. Steve Weinstein provided clarification.
Director Tayer clarified the two issues, issue 1 – have a straight contribution of 9% or a
sliding contribution of 5-9%. Issue 2 – the trustee terms.
Director McMullen expressed support for flexibility because of unknown future economic
situations.
Director Martinez thought the 5-9% was too much of a variation; he felt 5% was too
low. Director Martinez felt a narrow range would be better.
Director Elfenbein felt that was unfair to tie future Board’s hands to a fixed rate.
Director Yamrick expressed support for the flexible rate.
Director Ruchman felt that 9% was a more comfortable rate and that if finances were
difficult in the future, the Board at that time, could take action and wanted to change the
plan bylaws to reflect this.
Marla Lien clarified that if the Board gave a rate of 9% and then needed flexibility, the
plan would have to be closed. Steve Weinstein and Ms. Lien pointed out that the
changes Director Ruchman was suggesting could leave the plan open to litigation.
Cal Marsella suggested a compromise of 7-9% sliding scale.
Substitute
Motion:

Director Busck made a motion to
accept the original motion with the
sliding scale amended to a 7-9%

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 5 of 6
contribution level.
Second:

Director Martinez seconded the
motion.

Director Brohl felt these were numbers without figures to back them up of how this
would affect employees. Director Brohl wanted to know what the exact numbers would
be.
Director Ruchman wanted to delay the decision for another month and get staff to come
up with more options. Ms. Lien stated that staff has already come up with three options
that have been discussed.
Director Busck said the he liked the flexibility if times get rough.
Vote On
Motion:

The substitute motion passed 10-2
(Directors Elfenbein and Ruchman
opposed)

The Committee decided to match the terms of the trustees for the defined contribution
plan to match the defined benefit plan. Chair Tayer asked if that language could be
added to the original motion.
Director Yamrick raised concerns that the language regarding the trustees in the defined
contribution plan was not the same as the resolution passed regarding the make up of the
trustees on the defined benefit plan. Mr. Weinstein pointed out that the language of the
defined benefit plan only mentions four staff members. It was by Board resolution that
the make up of these staff members was determined.
Motion:

Director Martinez made a motion
that the terms for trustees for the
defined contribution plan be covered
under the same resolution as the
defined benefit plan and that the
terms as defined under the original
remain as is.

Second:

Director Elfenbein seconded the
motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The motion passed unanimously.

Resolution No. _____, Series of 2008 related to the extension of delegation and
continued authorization for issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2008A

Summary of the Financial/Administration Committee held on Tuesday, April 8, 2008
Page 6 of 6

Teresa Sedmak, Manager of Debt and Investments, said this resolution is no longer
needed as she was able to price a refund earlier this week. Sixteen million dollars worth
of bonds was refunded for $609,000 savings to the District. The District realized a
3.68% savings rate. The deal was executed on April 7 and will close on the 22nd of
April. This resolution will not be needed at this point; another resolution may be needed
later this year if further savings to the District can be realized. Cal Marsella commended
Teresa Sedmak for her work in getting this savings for the District.
This resolution will be removed from the Board agenda.
II.

February 2008 Financial Stats Report – Robert Merriman, Manager of Budget and Financial
Analysis gave this report. Ridership is up, sales tax revenue is down. Mr. Merriman
distributed RTD Sales and Use Tax Receipts for February 2008. This handout is available
for viewing in the Financial Administration Meeting Minute Notebook. Mr. Merriman spoke
about sales tax and that the District is 3.3% under budget. If sales tax receipts remain at
this rate for all of 2008, the District will be $13.5 million under budget.
Ridership is up. Revenue boardings were 10.6% over 2007 and 7.4% over plan.
Chair Tayer commended Mr. Merriman for the new graphs regarding ridership. These new
graphs make it much easier for the Board to get information.
Cal Marsella commented that the District is in for some tough times financially because of
the sales tax revenue. Mr. Marsella also said that the reduced sales tax revenue is
compounded by the cost of fuel. The District budgeted $2.62 for diesel fuel last year and
this year is paying $3.37. There will have to be a significant mid year budget adjustment.
Director Kemp asked why the District did not lock in fuel prices for 2008. Mr. Marsella
responded that fuel prices were fluctuating so much; there was not a good price to set the
lock. Staff has been looking for a good price to lock and it has not come yet. Director
Kemp expressed concern that by summer, prices are expected to be over $4.00 a gallon.
He urged Staff to lock in a price. Mr. Marsella said that if the Board wanted to support a
lock, he would make it happen. The Committee supported a lock at $3.20

III.

Other Matters – Director Chacon spoke about attending the COMTO scholarship event and
gave commendation to Phil Washington for his outstanding work with COMTO.

VI.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Financial Administration Committee will
be May 13, 2008.

VII. Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Tayer adjourned the meeting at 9:01 p.m.

