Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, August 8, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Absent

Arrived
7:01 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District F
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:02 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Present

7:01 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:01 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:01 PM

Ken Mihalik
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District M

Present
Present

7:01 PM
7:01 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:01 PM
7:01 PM

Doug Tisdale
Jeff Walker

Director, District H
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:01 PM
7:01 PM

Kate Williams

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:01 PM

Directors Archuleta, Deadwyler, and Folska were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Jeet Desai, Kevin Diviness, Ron Enserro, David Genova,
Bob Grado, Doug MacLeod, John McKay, Heather McKillop, Barbara
McManus, Mike Meader, Allen Miller, Brenden Morgan, Skylar Mott,
Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino,
Cheryl Sclafani, Cal Shankster, Henry Stopplecamp, Mark Tieman,
Tanzania Trout, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Mac Callison, Richard Edwards, George Fuller, William Gross, Jeanne
Shreve, Simon Smith, John Thompson, Gary Van Dorn, R. Paul
Williamson

B. Recommended Actions
Committee Chair Anderson stated that there were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• January 2018 Service Change
Bruce Abel, Acting Chief Operations Officer and Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations, said that the first update item is the 2018 January
service changes. He said the first draft of the service changes are the
proposal to Board in an informal setting. He noted that staff is not asking
for any action but rather to communicate to the Board the draft proposal
that will be taken out to the community for RTD to solicit input, feedback,
etc., to help staff craft a final service change recommendation.
He stated that the January 2018 service changes are about living within
means, about how RTD, as stewards of the taxpayers’ dollars, has an
obligation to make sure that the agency’s services match ridership levels. He
stated that the agency is not about operating vehicles, it is about moving
people. He further added that it is also RTD’s obligation to make sure it is a
financially sustainable organization.
He stated that recommendations in the proposal are revisions to FasTracks
funded services because the organization has integrated financially between
the Base system and FasTracks. He said that he heard the comment earlier
that the Base system will begin cross-subsidizing FasTracks through 2023.
He added that the question is whether it happens in 2021, 2022, or 2023.
It is not a question of whether the Base system will cross-subsidize

FasTracks, but when and to what extent. He said the agency’s view of
whether FasTracks funded services and projects are appropriately sized has
a direct impact, because if the agency lessens the FasTracks service pitfalls,
RTD will have less of a cross subsidy from the Base system that has to go
support FasTracks. He added that the smaller the hole is in FasTracks, the
smaller the subsidy is from the Base system to fund that hole in FasTracks.
He stated that part of the underlying theme of the conversation is that
operating changes generate more positive financial impacts faster than
capital reductions. He said a $4-million savings in each year for six years is
far better than saving $4 million by not doing capital projects in 2018
because that is an ongoing savings that builds upon itself or compounds
over time.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, stated that as
Mr. Abel alluded, this proposal contains a mix of service efficiencies and
observations, which included reduction of service on Route 42 and 45. He
said that Route 42 is a new route that was just introduced in April 2017,
but because of the level of services needing to meet the agency’s ridership
expectations, staff is proposing turning it down. He added that the agency
is proposing to eliminate Route 89 which is something the agency has
revisited before in the past, back in 2012, and is now reviewing it again
because, it only carries 115 boardings per day, which is well below the
standard for a route in its category. He further added that there are a
number of changes to FasTracks routes, which include the R Line, the W
Line, and also late night services.
Mr. Carter noted that the change that is the most striking is the R Line,
given that that it is RTD’s newest line. He said that he can imagine the
questions that may come up as to why the agency is looking at cutting the
services of something so new. He stated that is simply answered by looking
at its ridership performance. He said the current performance on the R Line
sits at about 41 boardings per hour and noted that the F Line sits at about
173 boardings per hour in comparison. He said that the proposed cuts to
the W Line would yield 141 boardings per hour. He added that, when the
agency made the decision on the W Line to reduce its services to increase
its productivity, it was sitting at 72 boardings per hour. He said that looking
at the R Line relative for where the agency started with the W, the R is right
below that.
He stated the proposal on the R Line is to reduce the off-peak service and
weekend service, and it will also not operate south of Florida station. He
said the current service operates every 15 minutes, all day, from Peoria and
Smith station, all the way down to Lincoln station at Lone Tree. He said the
agency is proposing to revise the off-peak mid-day service to only operate
between Peoria and Smith and Florida Station. He added that the agency

hopes to cut the number of hours by 15,000 annually, and this will bring the
line’s productivity up. He said the agency is hoping to double the number of
boardings to 80 per hour, which would be more sustainable.
Mr. Carter stated that staff is trying to maintain the frequency to every 15
minutes. He said it is important because the way the bus service works is
based on a 15-minute increment. He noted that reducing the services down
to every 30 minutes, would sustain a better chance of getting better
ridership on the line. He said on the weekends, service would run from
Peoria down to Florida again, then the R Line would become the H Line. He
added it would interline with the H Line, then continue on. He said this
would protect some of the connections and allow for one train connection to
the corridor on the Southeast, and peak hour would remain as is, which is
every 15 minutes, all the way from Peoria and Smith, down to Lone Tree.
Mr. Carter stated the W Line proposal is simpler because the agency has
done a lot of the work through pervious service cuts. The projected ridership
on the W line started out at 19,000, boardings, and RTD is seeing about
13,000-15,000 boardings per day. He added that ridership is actually good
at this point but noted the line started out with a 7.5-minute peak
frequency. He further added, that now RTD is down a bit and the ridership
went from 72 boardings per hour up to 141 boardings per hour. He added
that the midday service does not meet the standard for operating every 15
minutes and the agency is considering reducing that frequency to every 30
minutes during the midday and on the weekends. He explained that the
weakest point of ridership is between Federal Center Station and the
Jefferson County Government Station, which is where the agency is
proposing the lesser frequencies.
Mr. Carter stated that, looking at the late night issues, the agency is trying
to create a larger Maintenance of Way (MOW) period. He said that, for
maintenance to be done on the systems, the agency is proposing to cut the
last trips off of the E, F, and D Line services. He added that all of these
actually accommodate a cost savings of $3.9 million on the rail side by itself
and added to the $500,000 savings the agency is looking at on the bus
side, for a $4.4 million savings overall. He said the agency is planning on
providing eight public hearings to go over the proposed service cuts:







Golden to talk about the W Line
Aurora to talk about the R line
Northeast Denver to talk about Routes 42, 45 and 89
Boulder to talk about changes on the JUMP
Two in Denver
Curtis Park to talk about the L line.

Mr. Abel explained that Maintenance of Way (MOW) work occurs every
evening for track inspection. He added that currently, the last train comes in
a little after 1:00 a.m. and the first train goes out at 3:30 a.m., which gives
RTD workers 2.5 hours to go out to do State of Good Repair work. He
further added that providing additional time improves the agency’s ability to
perform track inspections for long-term sustainability of safety.
Director Menten inquired how many airport workers will be affected by the
changes and if there is some kind of special communication required.
Mr. Carter remarked that the agency has to pay attention to the impact on
the airport workers. He added that the University of Colorado A Line itself is
not being effected, however, connecting to it from the W Line would be
affected. He said that there might be some other slight adjustments the
agency makes to the schedule.
Director Lubow asked about the JUMP changes.
Mr. Abel explained that the City of Boulder pays RTD to run service more
frequently than service standards would generally allow. He added that RTD
has done this over the years, perhaps in a more behind the scenes way. He
said the agency is just making it more visible to the Board. He added that
the City of Boulder comes to RTD and says the City of Boulder would like
services to run every 10 minutes, not every 15 minutes. He said that RTD
agrees to provide the service at a fixed cost. He further added that all
communication with the City of Boulder has been that they wish to continue
this program.
Director Lubow asked about the JUMP that goes to Lafayette. She asked if
Lafayette was piggybacking on Boulder’s service improvements.
Mr. Carter remarked that the route is primary in Boulder and drops down to
the lower frequency when it serves Lafayette.
Mr. Abel said that there have also been times when Boulder county has
supplemented the City of Boulder funding when they want buy ups into
county portions of services.
Director Lubow asked if that has been happening recently.
Mr. Carter replied no.
Director Tisdale asked about the R Line changes. He added that he has not
had a chance to digest exactly how that works. He stated that this is the
first he has heard about the rebranding of the R Line into the H Line. He
noted that none of the public hearings is in the Southeast area and they

would be the people most impacted by the R Line change. He said that
Director Mihalik’s constituents and his constituents might be well served if a
public hearing were held there. He added that it is a big change and people
will ask questions. He further added that Denver City Councilman, Kevin
Flynn, wanted to know about C and D Line changes.
Mr. Carter said he would provide the information. He added that one of the
changes made to the C and D Line proposal as it related to the L Line was
Saturday service into downtown Denver, which has been modified in this
current plan. He further added that although staff looks forward to using the
C Line in later evening periods, because a lot of special events occur
throughout the year that are better served by C Line than the D Line, the
agency is still looking at the idea of having the D Line still come up on
Saturday and Sunday.
Mr. Carter mentioned that the agency is still working with the Five Points
Business Association. He further added that the agency is working with the
association to incorporate some of their ideas to make changes to the plan.
Director Broom stated that there has been no positive input that has come
back but that several things have been pointed out to him. He said that the
R Line has only been in operation a short period of time and started in the
middle of winter. He said multiple projects have broken ground on the line
and reducing services would be a bait and switch.
Mr. Carter said the agency is looking to maintain the 15-minute frequency
on the line, not just during the peak periods. He stated that, within the City
of Aurora, the frequency stays the same. He added that, if a developer
planned his/her development on the level of service being provided by the R
Line, that still remains. He further added that the line does not go down to
an area that is not using it, which is the Denver Tech Center. He said the
change affects how long trains are on the line going down to Lone Tree, and
even in the peak period with the highest demand, service for the Tech
Center area is still maintained at the current level.
Director Walker commented that he noticed the changes to C and D Line and
did not get a call from any of the councils that are in District D. He said that
it shows that there is still some demand for a central downtown service in
the Southwest.
Mr. Carter remarked that there is demand and the change is complex. He
explained that the L Line actually changes the frequency on the D line as
well. He said that, instead of having a 10-minute frequency during the peak
period, that gets turned down to 15 minutes, which is offset by the fact that
the agency will be able to add all four car trains to the D line. He added,
capacity wise, the agency is still good on the D Line in that respect. He

further added that the agency is also offering the L Line which should
improve the on time performance of the D Line as well.
Director Francone asked for more detail about the Conifer and the Evergreen
routes.
Mr. Carter said that the agency is trying to go a little earlier to make better
meets at Federal Center Station with the W Line.
Director Francone asked about the discontinuance of the service from Front
Range and the ridership on the EV.
Mr. Carter stated that the discontinuance is due to not utilizing RTD services
and provides a safer turn for drivers. He said he would contact Director
Francone regarding the EV ridership the following day.
Director Francone noted that RTD does service changes three times a year.
Mr. Carter added that they are typically done in January, May, and August
to work out with school schedules.
Director Francone said that she has been spending a lot of time in Evergreen
and Conifer and they have a lot to say. She said that RTD never holds
meetings there and that she would follow up with staff to set aside some
time.
Chair Hoy asked to define some terms for him. He asked what the bus stop
consolidation means.
Mr. Carter stated that the concept was introduced in May when the agency
talked about service on Colorado Boulevard and on Broadway. He said the
agency did an analysis on ridership on each of the stops and decided to
consolidate. He added that the agency is aiming to speed up the service. He
further added that RTD has routes that have stops that are less than 200
feet apart which is counterproductive when trying to move a route down the
road.
Mr. Abel stated that over the years the agency often gets request for new
bus stops and RTD grants them, then over time the agency sees stops on
every block.
Chair Hoy asked whether the key thing is bus stop consolation is eliminating
certain stops that are not available.
Director Williams stated District A has no trains but a lot of bus services.
She said that the changes and consolations have been a very good thing.

She further added that this proposal leads to our pervious discussion which
is trying to live within the agency’s budget. She said the five councils that
she deals with are aware of what is going on and are okay with it.
Director Solano asked how the consolidation of bus stops would affect the
ADA community.
Mr. Carter stated that that is why the agency has the public hearing process
and that the ADA community did contribute to the process.
Director Solano stated that he is in Commerce City were the Route 62
operates. He added that a lot of people are on walkers trying to get to the
Salud clinic. They say the Route 62 is great but they have to walk too far.
Mr. Carter remarked that he will look more into it.
Director Walker asked how long the original G Line was in service.
Mr. Carter said about a year.
Director Walker asked if the demand is there and if it will ever come back.
Mr. Carter stated that the R Line covers a lot of what G Line did.
Director Walker asked if RTD has enough buses to cover that route.
Mr. Abel said yes, but probably not enough branded buses at the moment.
Director asked how much time would be added to a person’s trip under the
proposed changes when transferring from the R Line to the H Line.
Mr. Carter said 5-7 minutes between Lines R and H and 5-7 between Lines E
and F.
Committee Chair Anderson stated that she received a call that day regarding
Routes 89 and understands that people in that area are trying to come
together and retain that service.
Mr. Carter said that there are a couple of things that are going on in the
area. He explained that the Stapleton Transportation Management
Association is trying to provide a shuttle service between Northfield and the
Stapleton property. He added that at the same time there is service in
Anschutz and the agency is trying to speak to the people that provide the
Anschutz shuttle to see if they might take over some of the responsibilities.
He said that 115 boardings per day is extremely low ridership from an area
that is going from suburban to urban.

• Lost Service Hours Update 8 8 17
Mr. Abel said that the monthly review is somewhat disappointing, because
the agency is trending upward again. He added that there were 315 lost
service hours in July 2017 compared to 103 last year. He added the trend is
not one the agency likes to see.
He stated that, in terms of year-to-date, the agency experienced 1,700
hours of lost services compared to 2,500 hours for last year, which is a
positive note. He said that the agency will continue working both internally
as well as with the agency’s contract partners to do everything that the
agency can to enhance the recruitment and retention efforts, so that the
agency finds itself in a better position in terms of head count and can lessen
the lost service. He said that the agency will continue to monitor and report
back each month.
He stated that he spoke last month about a possible November service
change in conjunction with opening up Civic Center. He said that the agency
will not be implementing the change in the way the staff is used to, that the
background in all of our computer system and get the information necessary
to communicate downstream to our customers. He said minor changes will
take place with accessing egress to Civic Center and new gate assignments.
He added further that the agency will be making some internal adjustments
in computer system.
Mr. Abel stated that there is a BYD noise update. He said that the agency
did communicate last month that RTD would have noise makers on board of
all of the new BYD shuttles, and all shuttles by the end of July. He said that
the agency did do that. He added that the agency has 33 of the new BYD
mall shuttles updated.
He added that he wanted to share that the agency has finalized plans for an
autonomous vehicle demonstration. On Wednesday August 16, 2017, at
Pepsi Center. He said that it will take place between 10am-3pm. He added
that the agency is doing this in conjunction with TransDev, one of the
agency’s contractors that working with EZ Ride Taxis, an autonomous
vehicle manufacturer.
Director Lubow asked about Director Solano’s the irate call from a
constituent regrading one of the buses that did not show late at night and
asked if there are standard operating procedures for such an event.
Mr. Abel said there are procedures and that he would speak with Director
Solano about details on that.

Director Walker asked if there have been any comments about the sound of
electric buses from individuals in the blind community.
Mr. Abel said he received comments after the previous meeting from Gary
Van Dorn, who sent an email thanking the agency for making this change.
Director Walker asked if there was an MP3 of the sound so that the agency
can send it to people so they know what to listen for.
He stated that there is a New York Times article about the Lexington Line in
New York containing a chart that shows the number of trips dropped per
day. He said the line must operate millions of passenger hours and
recommended that Mr. Abel read the article.
Director Solano asked about the lost service hours. He said he thinks there
should be a calculation of lost services hours due to driver no show.
Mr. Abel explained that the report does show that on the missed runs and
pull out delay items. He said that both of those indicate either an operator
not showing at all or showing late.
Director Solano asked whether the number gone down.
Mr. Abel remarked that the year-to-date total has gone down, but year-overyear the number has gone up.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair Anderson noted there were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - September 12, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 7:52 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

