2025-03-12
Operations Safety and Security Committee
IAN HARWICK: The Wednesday, March 12 Operations, Safety, and Security Committee will now come to
order. We are convened as of 5:40 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Please note, the Committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and
will be audio- and video-recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the
meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real-time Translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the Board Office at
rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. And a link will be provided.
Additionally, the CART transcript can be automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like
access to a live transcript of this meeting in Spanish. A livestream of this meeting is also available at-- via
RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Harwick is here. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Pagliari.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
IAN HARWICK: For the record, I see that we have all seven Directors here. All right, now we're going to go
into public comment. I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the
committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately
preceding month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand
or press Star-9 on your phone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like
to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board at rtd.directors@rtddenver.com All right. Mr. Kroll, do we have any hands raised for public comments?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Chair Harwick. And just real quickly, for the record, I just want to note that, Chair
Bouquet is in attendance, as is-- I believe I saw Director Guzman, in addition to the seven committee
members here this evening.
With that, we do have, at this time, three individuals who have raised their hands in-- for now. And the first
one is former RTD Director Jamie Lewis.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me, sir, just point of order. For the good of the order, I am attending this
meeting virtually as scheduled, and I can barely hear what's going on in the boardroom.
So if you are in the boardroom, you need to lean into your mic, speak very clearly, and maybe raise your
voice just slightly. Don't shout. Show your inner Doug Tisdale, please. I have no idea what has been said
in the boardroom without looking at the CART transcript. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: OK. I think with that, former Director Lewis, would you like to recognize him, Chair Harwick,
to provide his public comment?
IAN HARWICK: Yes. Director Lewis, you are free to speak.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you. Good evening, Directors. I look forward to the discussion concerning Accesson-Demand tonight. I would hope that there is a period of time for staff to receive feedback from our
community whether the recommended changes keeps AoD viable or not.
One of the overarching questions I have tonight concerns perceived savings. For example, if there is an
assumption that the rides are going to be reduced from 70 to 40, and the rider backfills those missing trips
with Access-a-Ride-- I'm at a baffle right now trying to figure out how someone who is currently using trips
at $20 a shot will be saving money if they use Access-a-Ride at $60 to $80 a trip.
So if staff could clarify that savings scenario in their presentation tonight, I think our community would really
appreciate it. Thank you very much.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Tim Keenan.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Keenan, you're free to speak. You may proceed.
TIM KEENAN: Hi, everybody. So, well, first of all, I just want to thank everyone for their service on this
committee and on the RTD Board. You're doing a lot for all the citizens of Denver, disabled and otherwise.
And so, yeah, actually, former Director Lewis actually hit on my first bullet point here, which was to exactly
what he said, so I guess I won't repeat it.
Well, a part of what other my-- sorry, but I was going to say was, what exactly is sustainability when we
think about Access-on-Demand and paratransit services? According to APTA, about-- most agencies spend
about 10% of their budget on paratransit services. So I wonder where we are in that spectrum, and how
our-- the, quote unquote, "sustainability" of Access-on-Demand would enter into this?

When this-- I understand that the drastic increase in the monthly expenses triggered, hey, what are we
doing? But really, given what-- given paratransit and how many paratransit riders there are, is this really
something that could be-- that we need to-- I understand we need to make it more sustainable, but what
does that entail?
The real meat of the matter-- well, there are several, but one of them is a service area. I know several
people who live out like they were-- their house used to be-- their domicile used to be on or near enough to
an RTD route to enable them to use Access-a-Ride, but that route has since stopped, and their only
transportation option is Access-on-Demand.
Limiting the radius would leave these people in a no man's land, really, with no options other than do you
use unsubsidized rideshare, which a lot of people can't afford.
As far as the number of trips, it's great that they increased it from 30 to 40, but that means somebody who
needs Access-on-Demand to get back and forth to work every day, and if they work full-time, they will have
zero trips to do anything else, and I just think that's unacceptable, I think.
IAN HARWICK: OK-TIM KEENAN: Oh, that's it. I'm done. OK, thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Jack, do we have another speaker?
JACK KROLL: Yes. At this time, we have Joe Beaver.
IAN HARWICK: OK. All right, Mr. Beaver, if you would, please state your name and then you may proceed.
You have three minutes to speak. Mr. Beaver?
JOE BEAVER: I see. I'm unmuted now. My name is Joe Beaver. I serve on everyone RTD's ACPD Advisory
Committee with Gabe Christie. And I'm a 25-year activist with Colorado Cross-Disability Coalition. So thank
you for letting me be here. I want to tell you about Wade Blank and some of the things that he did.
Wade Blank marched with Martin Luther King in Selma, Alabama. He was Presbyterian Minister at Kent
State University when the National Guard shot down four student protesters. He moved to Denver and got
a job as Activities Director for the, quote, "Youth Wing" at Heritage Nursing Home on Federal Boulevard.
They were focusing on young residents, so they hired Wade Blank because he was fairly young, only 30
years old, and had long, blonde hair.
So he moved in, and there was no more Hallmark TV, only rock-n-roll and pizza. It rocked like a college
dormitory. Wade took them out to places that they enjoyed. They went to concerts. He actually took them
to a Grateful Dead concert at Red Rocks. Of course, the nursing home didn't like that for some reason.
But what they really didn't like is whenever he took them to the capitol. And they told him-- they told of the
hard living conditions that they were living in. So Wade got fired for that.
So his reaction to that was to start the second independent living center in the entire nation. He got those
young people out of the nursing home and got them into their own apartments. Even though they had their
own apartments, they were in wheelchairs, and they could not move around the city because the buses
were not accessible. Have you heard of the Gang of 19?

Denver became the first Metropolitan city to have a fully accessible bus system in the entire nation,
something for us to be very proud of. The City of Denver is building a monument at Civic Center Park in
honor of the Gang in 19, and it's scheduled to be completed next summer.
RTD should be the first to honor Wade Blank by renaming the Civic Center Station to the Wade Blank
Memorial Station at Civic Center. I thank you very much for your time.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Appreciate it as well. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Nate Trela.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Nate Trela, if you'd state your name and then proceed, you have three minutes to
speak.
NATE TRELA: Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Directors, for the chance to speak today. I do appreciate the
thought of everybody is trying to give the issue of how to make sure Access-on-Demand remains
sustainable while also remaining valuable.
Director-- former Director Lewis and Tim Keenan hit a couple of the main points there about sustainability
of the program, but still maintaining utility. I would-- want to echo one sentiment there about the whole
backfilling question because if the assumption in terms of these savings is that these trips won't be backfilled
by traditional Access-a-Ride, it's literally saying that what the goal is, is to do a worse job of moving people
around and making connections.
When you're literally counting on savings by people simply not going where they need to go and using RTD
services, that is literally what is happening there, and I think it's important to recognize, with the values of
the-- the mission of the system is, that can't be something that should be forgotten about.
Because those are people taking trips to go to work. Those trips will be backfilled in. As Director Lewis
pointed out, you've turned a $20 trip into an $80 trip for the district.
One thing that's never been clear is what amount is RTD looking to save in this process? The figures have
bounced around, but it's never been a clearly stated goal of how much needs to be saved. I think that's a
simple item that needs to be clear so you all have the-- can really assess what the options are.
I'm really hoping that the Board is going to, again, try to be deliberate and not try to rush this through to get
it in with the May service changes, which looks like could still be possible. With so many new members of
the Board, I know there are many organizations, like the National Federation of the Blind, that would
appreciate the opportunity to have a discussion and talk a little bit about what the service has meant to so
many people.
Last, with the service area changes and hours that could possibly come with the proposed changes to
Access-on-Demand, it's just important to realize that could add an entire new burden to either staff or to
the riders to manage to make sure that they're using it at the right time and the right-- within the right
distances and things like that. It's not clear how that would be implemented and if that just becomes
unmanageable.
When you've already got some people struggling to keep track of their rides across multiple platforms and
they have to be able to access a schedule at the same time, it just continues to degrade the level of service
to the point where it becomes unusable for some of your passengers. So just please keep that in mind as

you're considering future changes. I'm sure you'll be hearing from more of us as the months go on here
heading up to the changes. Thank you for the time.
IAN HARWICK: Mr. Kroll, do we have any more speakers?
JACK KROLL: Yes, there are several more. Curtis Chung is next.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Speaker Chung, if you would state your name, and then you may proceed. You have
three minutes. Speaker Chung?
JACK KROLL: Mr. Chung, if you're attempting to speak, you are still on mute. Perhaps, Chair Harwick, we
could move to Richard Bamber and return to Mr. Chung in a moment once he's had an opportunity to sort
out his audio issues.
IAN HARWICK: Sure. Speaker Bamber, if you would please state your name, then proceed, you'll have
three minutes.
RICHARD BAMBER: Hi. Good evening, everybody, it's Richard Bamber, Greater Denver Transit. Couple
of quick points about-- welcome discussion with service planning standards. There are a number of
performance standards in the document. Passengers per hour, passengers per trip, subsidy per Passenger.
We never see this data. RTD never publishes it, there's never a report. Getting ridership out of data beyond
that that's put in Board briefing documents is quite difficult. We're giving per stop, per trip, we have to do all
the math ourselves with gigabytes of data is currently our situation. So we long for actually a report where
every single bus route is actually published with annual ridership and those sort of metrics.
Secondly, transfer policy, there is no transfer policy in the Service Planning Standards. Each route is only
ever considered in a silo in isolation with those data. These standards badly need a transfer policy for each
route where we decide what are the routes that feed passengers and what are the routes that passengers
are being fed to.
This is a common theme. Schedules in advance, we never-- we need to sort this out. Time after time after
time, public comment that is limited in its meaningfulness because we don't have an idea exactly what the
agency is planning.
And I'm going to pose a question to the Directors here tonight. Is the Transit Information Exchange System
fit for purpose for the agency's needs in the year 2025? And I just pose that question. Thank you very much.
Bye-bye.
JACK KROLL: Mr. Chung, are you able to provide your comment now? Are you able to unmute? If not, it
seems like we're still having issues there. We'll move next to Derek Selbo.
IAN HARWICK: Speaker Selbo, please state your name, and then you may proceed. You have three
minutes.
DEREK SELBO: Hi, good evening. My name is Derek Selbo. I have a couple questions. I am totally blind,
and I've been using paratransit for many years. And I can honestly say, how can the Directors make a
decision if they have, A, not ridden the regular bus service from RTD for the Access-a-Ride? Not Accesson-Demand, but Access-a-Ride.

And secondly, if they have not been-- I'll use a simple way of explaining it, being blindfolded to understand
how Access-on-Demand can drop you exactly where you need to be and pick you up exactly where you
need to be picked up? Because you have no idea what is around you, how can they make a decision?
So I would request that all of the Directors, before making any decisions, be put in both of those positions
where, A, for a week, they have to use the regular bus so that they can truly understand what it's all about,
not their motor vehicles. And secondly, they should also then have to be blindfolded for at least a few hours
and taken on a bus and told to make their way around, obviously with supervision, make their way around
to wherever they need to go. Let's see how well this works.
So, Directors, while I respect all of you, I would say, you cannot make a decision until you understand what
you're making a decision about. Put yourself in somebody else's shoes so you understand what you're
making a decision about. Thank you very much.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Mr. Kroll?
JACK KROLL: The final speaker we have with their hand raised is Mr. Chung. And it does look like he was
able to come off mute now.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Speaker Chung.
JACK KROLL: He was off mute, and then he went right back on.
IAN HARWICK: Speaker Chung.
JACK KROLL: I know we've had Mr. Chung provide public comment over Zoom in previous meetings. We
can always invite Mr. Chung to submit his comments via writing, but at this time, there are no further
speakers in the queue, and it appears that the technical difficulties continue to persist. Oh, we do have one
more in the queue that just popped in. Jo Elizabeth Pinto.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Speaker Elizabeth Pinto, if you would, please, state your name, and then you may
proceed. You'll have three minutes.
JACK KROLL: Ms. Pinto, we do see that you have been unmuted, but, again, we're not able to hear anything
that you might be trying to offer at this time. Chair Harwick, again, we might invite Ms. Pinto to provide a
comment via email, which we would distribute promptly to the Board and include in the transcript of this
meeting. And during this time, we've also seen Cody Bair raise their hand and desire to provide public
comment.
IAN HARWICK: All right. Speaker Bair, please state your name, and then you may proceed. You have three
minutes.
CODY BAIR: Good evening, RTD Operations and Safety Committee. My name is Cody Bair, and I'm a blind
user of Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand. While I agree with the comments of my friends and
colleagues, Mr. Keenan and Mr. Trela, and full heartedly support those comments, I also wanted to point
out a couple of other issues with the proposed changes that I hope the committee will consider.
And the first of those, which Mr. Trela previously alluded to, is the three-quarters-of-a-mile boundary for
usage of Access-on-Demand. While I wholeheartedly hope that this policy would not be instituted, in the

worst-case scenario that the Board decides to move forward with this and Institute the policy, I hope they
will spend some time considering how to administratively handle this.
It would be an undue burden for riders to have to figure out, every time they want to go somewhere, whether
it's three-quarters of a mile from an RTD bus stop or whether that bus is running at that time. Imagine, every
time you hop in your car, having to try and figure that out. It would be extremely difficult.
And as such, if RTD is to pursue this plan of action, I hope that they will bear the burden for proving that
out. And with that, I think, it's also possible that by the time they spend on trying to prove that, the
administrative costs could be significantly greater than the savings.
The second point at which I want to talk to is the three-month wait period for new Access-a-Ride users to
use Access-on-Demand. For many of us, we have jobs that don't give us a set schedule every day, as in
we have to stay at the Office until a particular project is done, making it untenable to use-- to schedule an
Access-a-Ride a few days out for that day.
And as such, it would be difficult for new people to come in onto the system to be able to use the service
to its capability. And what would be the standards for determining whether somebody ultimately gets
approved for Access-on-Demand or not after the three months? These are questions that I hope will be
considered tonight, and I appreciate your time. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, speaker Bair.
JACK KROLL: Chair Harwick, I see one additional hand raised, and that is Cynde Vaughn.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Speaker Vaughn, if you would state your name, and you may proceed. You have three
minutes.
CYNDE VAUGHN: This is Cynde Vaughn. Can you hear me?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
CYNDE VAUGHN: Oh, great. Wonderful. OK, so I wanted to speak to the issue of the Access-on-Demand,
specifically about the proposal to limit the service area of the Access-on-Demand to particularly the same
dates and times of the matching fixed route that's within three-quarters of a mile of a particular area where
the person is either being picked up or being dropped off.
And I have some really grave concerns about that. I mean, first of all, I've spoken to several folks who have
been working on this planning piece. And it is my understanding that the proposal is not to exactly match
the Access-a-Rides. If you will, the matching route system where a person must be within three-quarters of
a mile for either the pick up or drop off with the same service times as the matching fixed route.
But rather, some semblance of a summary of a route, a fixed route system. And in other words, it would be
too expensive to have Uber and Lyft actually match the service system every four months, and to change
that and exactly match-If the 0 is doing one thing and maybe its service is more limited on Sundays, and if the 66 has more
limitations on holidays or it cuts off at 6 o'clock, since that's not possible, that there would be a more
globalized system of generalized limitations for holidays, for weekends, and so forth.

And, first of all, I have a real concern about that because that is not matching the service delivery. And the
second piece is that there are many people, as it has already been said, there are many people who will
lose the only option they have for accessible rides within the area. They're not able to use the fixed-route
system. They're not able to because of their disability. And they do not qualify because they cannot ride
Access-a-Ride because they're not within three-quarters of a mile.
So the system is not going to be fair for folks who are within the fixed-route system, because it won't exactly
match. And if they're outside of that fixed-route system, this may take away the only option that they have.
They cannot afford to get a different job or find housing, which is very expensive. So I think you really need
to consider this carefully when you think about that limitation. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, speaker Vaughn.
JACK KROLL: Next, we have Earl Lee.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Speaker Lee, please state your name, and then you may proceed. You'll have three
minutes.
EARL LEE: Thank you. This is Earl Lee. I am the ACPD Chair. And this is an issue I really haven't weighed
in on too much, but as I listen to all of this, I think we're a little premature in making-- taking a vote on an
action on this whole thing. I believe that there are a lot of unanswered questions that need to be resolved.
I do believe that the Access-on-Demand is a complimentary service to the Access-a-Ride. Needs to be
looked at a little bit differently.
I think it was originally designed to support some of the inefficiencies, if you will, of Access-on-Demand,
and I'm not sure that those inefficiencies have been addressed yet. And I think that the P&Cs are not
necessarily fulfilling some of their duties, especially with regards to weigh vehicles.
So I would encourage the Board to shelf this-- shelf a vote at this point in time. And let's have some other
serious discussions and see if we can't put a mix together to get rid of some of the inefficiencies and blend
all of these-- Access-on-Demand, Access-a-Ride, and the TNCs to make a more cohesive, blended unit
that will service people with disabilities because we truly need and depend on RTD services for us to get
around. Thank you, I appreciate your time.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, speaker Lee.
JACK KROLL: Chair Harwick, there are no further speakers in the queue at this time.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Mr. Kroll, were there any emailed comments received for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Yes. You all received one email comment from former Director Lewis, and it contains some
questions regarding the proposed paratransit modifications that will be discussed later this evening. That
letter has been forwarded to staff, and they will compile responses to anything that isn't addressed in the
presentation this evening.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Thank you. Also, just to clarify, for everyone that's still on here, there-- for the May
2025 service changes, there will not be any modifications to paratransit. I just want to make sure that
everyone is aware of that and just to let you all know. All right.

And with no other participants in the queue, we will close the public comment period at this time. And looking
at external entities, there are no external entities. Any entity reports this evening? And Committee Chair
Update.
When reviewing your packet this week, many of you noticed a new section of our meeting has been added.
I intend to use this time on the agenda to draw your attention to key work we will be doing as a committee,
and to set and remind us all of guidelines with respect to how our meetings flow.
We have an ambitious work plan in place which will require our collective focus preparing for and during
our meeting-- our eight 2025 committee meetings. Given that, I am going to hand this over to Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Chair Harwick. So I did send out a notification last week regarding
upcoming items on our agenda and some changes in the work plan. If you haven't read it, please do take
a look.
Information from external entities is now going to be a permanent placeholder for our agenda. I did ask the
Board Office if any external entities had a written report they'd like to submit. We do not receive any for this
month. Hopefully that changes moving forward. However, we will have a joint meeting with our external
entity partners later on in the year, as you can see on the updated work calendar that was emailed.
Additionally, for our meetings, we have tried to stack questions for first week-- excuse me, stack speaker-so first questions first on the topic, then comments. I think we've had mixed results the last few times we've
tried.
So tonight, we are-- just going to give everyone 45 seconds. The standard rule is that-- not rule, excuse
me, guideline is that you get two passes before you yield to your colleagues. We can be more flexible and
give more because we are going to have that 45-second guideline. I'm just asking everyone to keep in mind
the clock, the time. I know our packet is like some 400 pages this month, but we are expected to do our
homework in advance when possible. So thank you for your understanding and for testing that out with us.
We are going to have a live timer embedded in Zoom at some point. It is a functionality that is available.
I've spoken to the Board Office several times over the last three months in hopes that we could have gotten
that kicked off today, but unfortunately, due to time constraints, that wasn't an option. So we will be keeping
time, it just won't be on your screen. And you'll get a courtesy heads up when you've got about five seconds
left to go.
And so with that, that concludes my Chair report, and I or a Co-Chair Harwick will only be giving these if
there are administrative matters for the good of the order, not just for the sake of stopping. Not every month
will have one. Thank you. Back to you, Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. All right. For Recommended Actions, tonight, there are three recommended
actions on the agenda for this evening. The first item for-- is the Service Planning Standards and Service
Performance Reporting for the Board of Directors to provide policy guidance regarding the development
and periodic revision of service standards and service performance reporting. Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Co-Chair Harwick, just a quick point of information. I was having a little trouble making
out what Co-Chair Ruscha was saying. Can you just give me a quick 30-second summary of, like, what the
deal is with how we're going to-- it sounded 45 seconds, I caught some of that, but I think they were right
about the audio in the room, perhaps. So maybe you can summarize how this is going to work. And if maybe

Chair Bouquet can chime in to clarify on some of the other-- just how it's worked. So I just had some trouble
understanding it. First time.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If-- if I may, Mr. Chair.
IAN HARWICK: Go for it. Thank you. Simply put, Director Nicholson, everyone will have 45 seconds for this
meeting for either questions or comments because we have noted that sometimes our discussions are
going long, and stacking questions versus comments had mixed results. So we are trying to create ways
So that everyone can get their voice in, things heard. We are respecting staff time and we're moving at a
reasonable time. So the clock will start when you begin if you have a comment or question, and we'll give
you a five second heads up before your 45 seconds are up, and we'll ask you to wrap it up. And that's for
everybody. That's not directed at you, Director Nicholson. But does that answer your question?
We're not going to limit you to just two passes. Or any person. We are going to have a 45-second clock
running. Is that-- I can't see you from the screen, so not hearing anything else, I'm assuming-BRETT PAGLIERI: Director Bouquet has his hand raised.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. Again, it is-- it is up to the discretion of the
Committee Chair with this, but I would recommend best practices when it comes down to it. With a running
clock, if back and forth happens between a committee member and there's running conversation, I would
encourage that to go past 45 seconds. Again, it's the discretion of the committee members as well if these
questions or conversations are going back for 45 seconds or going more than 45 seconds. But I might be
misunderstanding a little bit.
JAIME LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Bouquet. And I also appreciate that you respect the autonomy of the
committees. I did do a cursory review of time and analysis of how long people are speaking, and 45 seconds
is what we came up with. These things are always subject to change, but I will note that last month's meeting
did run one hour and 13 minutes past its expected time.
So you're correct, it is the Chair's discretion, and hopefully we've demonstrated that we give space and time
for everyone who wants to participate. But with that, I think I've taken the gavel from Chair Harwick who's
to be running this meeting, so I'm going to pass it back to him and let him continue.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Committee Chair Harwick, could I be recognized?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. I'll just make it real quick. So just in regards to-- you said we decided 45 seconds.
I'm assuming that's Director Harwick and yourself, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA:
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah-- Yes. I'm sorry. I'm not sure if you're asking me to speak to me or to Harwick.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. That's all I had. Thank you for recognizing me.

IAN HARWICK: OK, I'm going to go back. The first item is for the Board of Directors to provide policy
guidance regarding the development and periodic revision of service standards and service performance
reporting. Do we have-JULIEN BOUQUET: --Director Harwick, I'm sorry for interrupting you. I do see Director Chandler's hand is
up. Sorry for interrupting.
IAN HARWICK: That's all right. Thank you for telling me. Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you to both Chair Ruscha and Chair Harwick. I just have a question. With
the open meeting rules that we have, the only time we really get to discuss all of this is in a committee
meeting. So I would highly recommend that we have a little bit more time than 45 seconds.
I think it's only fair to our constituents and to the spirit of the open meeting law that we have robust
discussion. So I would just caution that limiting discussion amongst us at these open meetings is probably
not paramount, is limiting what our constituents can hear as well. So it's just my personal comment.
IAN HARWICK: Is there anybody else?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have my hand raised. This is Secretary Nicholson.
IAN HARWICK: Secretary-CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. I would just add that the issues that are up right now are some of the
most important and most contentious things that we talk about. Service changes are a big, big, big deal to
the average rider, and we talk about them a ton. This is a big deal-- this is one of the bigger things we do.
And AoD has been a back-and-forth discussion for a year. This is a massively important change.
Let's not rush through it. Let's not do these in five seconds and 45-second snippets, and then go tell the
disability community that we made a thoughtful decision by having quick discussions that didn't do justice
to the importance of what we're about to decide. That would be my suggestion.
JULIEN BOUQUET: So sorry, Director Harwick, just final point on this as we take a discussion when it
comes down to it. I just-- am I recognized? I'm sorry.
IAN HARWICK: Yes, please.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, sir. So the committee does have the right to assess-- the committee does
have the right to make a motion to extend time on a discussion. Just wanted to set that up. So at any point,
if the committee felt that they needed to discuss more than 45 seconds. So just wanted to point that out
there. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Chair Harwick, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Chair Ruscha, you're free to speak.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. We have now spent several minutes talking about 45 seconds. Again,
it's been noted that most people do not take 45 seconds. 36 seconds was the average. We've also tried
other ways to keep things moving along while also making sure that everyone is recognized and able to
speak. I don't think I have ever cut anyone off in a meeting.

I don't think Chair Harwick will do the same. We are simply asking our colleagues to respect time so that
more folks can get in more discussion without this turning into debate teams. So we would just appreciate
everyone giving this a test run. Thank you. If we could move on, it's up to Chair Harwick, this Co-Chair
would appreciate it.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Does anybody else have anything else to say?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek.
IAN HARWICK: Director Buzek, you're free to speak.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you. As I've stated before, I'm a fan of precision and brevity. Let's try the 45-second
rule. Thank you, that's all I have.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. All right. For the third time, for the Board of Directors to provide policy guidance
regarding the development and periodic revision of service standards and service performance reporting.
Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Second, Ruscha.
IAN HARWICK: OK. We've got Nicholson and Ruscha second. OK. This is a three-Director action item
brought forward by myself, Chair Ruscha, and Director Paglieri. At this time, I would ask these Directors
who have any question-- those Directors who have any questions or wish to speak to raise your virtual
hands, and I will call on you in turn. For Directors or staff calling into the meeting, if you wish to speak,
please raise your hand.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Director Ruscha has your hand raised.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director-- Chair Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. We also have a brief presentation in the Board packet. It's at your
discretion, but it might be useful just to pull that up, just the PowerPoint, although staff has control of that.
But I'll leave that up to you. If not, and there are no questions and we're ready to roll, we don't need to deck
people to death for the sake of having a PowerPoint.
IAN HARWICK: OK, Director Ruscha, it's up if you would like to-- if you feel inclined to speak if no-- unless
no one has any questions and they just want to vote.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I've raised my-IAN HARWICK: OK, sorry, I can't see Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Is someone going to watch the screens? I'd like to call the question.
IAN HARWICK: Question's been called.

VINCE BUZEK: That requires a second. And a two-thirds vote of the committee.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Am I-- am I allowed to say anything when I call the question or no?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Point of order.
VINCE BUZEK: No discussion.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: OK.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Nice. I second that.
JACK KROLL: OK, so I've heard Director Paglieri has seconded. So now, Chair Harwick, you would need
to take an immediate vote. There's no discussion on this. Two-thirds of the folks in attendance would need
to vote to preclude debate-- or conclude debate on this, and then move immediately to a vote on the
recommended action.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Can we just take the vote?
JACK KROLL: So you could just take the vote, but there does seem to be a few hands raised on this topic.
I'm not sure. So at this point, you have a proper motion on the table, it's been seconded. And you could do
a roll call vote to see who supports effectively concluding debate on this item.
IAN HARWICK: OK, then let's take a vote on calling the question.
JACK KROLL: If it would be helpful to you, I can read the names of the committee members and they can
indicate their votes.
IAN HARWICK: I can do it. All right. We've got Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: I've got a question for staff, so no.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: No.
IAN HARWICK: I'm a no. Director Nicholson?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I think this is going to pass in 10 minutes, so yes.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: I echo yes.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: No.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Ruscha.

JOYANN RUSCHA: No. Also for accessibility reasons.
JACK KROLL: OK, so that motion would have failed. So now you just returned to discussion on the item,
and I believe Director Ruscha, Director Buzek, and Director Chandler have their hands raised in that order.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Chair Ruscha, you have the floor.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Just to clarify, I am presenting this item, correct?
IAN HARWICK: Yes.
JAIME LEWIS: OK, because that's what I have in my queue. I did not have questions on my action item.
Give me one moment, please, so I can switch screens. And away from-- actually, if staff could just put that
item back on the screen, that would be most helpful and most accessible.
JACK KROLL: OK, I believe I am sharing my screen, and the presentation is up, Director Ruscha. Please
indicate when you are ready for me to move to the next slide.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So I will be presenting on our service standards and service reporting- performance reporting policy update. This was brought by myself and Director Harwick and Paglieri. Next
slide, please. Next slide, please.
Very briefly, just an overview. What are service standards? Service standards defined expectations. They
define performance measured through metrics. We cannot have standards without a metric. They are
valuable for measuring performance across various routes and lines, times, geographic areas, et cetera.
Service standards ensure service-planning decisions are transparent both to the Board and to the public.
They help ensure clear communication to the public, and improve public trust and equitable policymaking.
Next slide, please.
The policy objectives for this Service Standards Revision action item before you are as follows. First, to
create clear policy guidance for updating service planning standards and performance reporting metrics.
The second is to ensure alignment with our strategic plan, and also recognize that we have evolving regional
transit needs.
Third, and this has come up across almost every committee multiple times almost every month for the last
couple of years, is just to resume the regular reporting cadence that does align with historical practice. And
it promotes data-driven decision-making. Some of those comments we heard in public comment today.
Next slide, please.
Financial and operational impacts. We're now on packet page 10. This was put in here specifically for
Director Buzek who might have asked if there was a fiscal note. There is a five-month period for staff to
garner performance data and refine reporting, which is why this does not go into effect until July if passed.
It links service standards and data-driven service performance decision-making.
And it avoids disrupting the COA efforts that are commencing in quarter 3 of this year, keeping the focus
on operational analysis. So there are no other expected financial impacts. It would be rolled into our dayto-day operations. Next slide, please.

Risks of inaction. Our existing planning standards emphasize route cuts over long-term network
sustainability. The lack of transparency of how we're making our decisions does contribute to the erosion
of public confidence, and it frustrates stakeholders and government entities, which we have heard in
meetings and public comment, as well as letters.
Currently it's misaligned with Board-approved onboarding and continuing education policy, specifically
regarding training on key transit industry matters. Next slide, please. Next slide.
And so if approved today, these are our next steps in July of 2025-- and I should say, approved also at our
next regular Board meeting at the end of the month. In July of 2025, staff will deliver a report to OSS
outlining the 2016 standards and any changes since.
I will note, it is part of current Board policy. We revise the standards every two years. With the exception of
temporary revisions during the height of the COVID era, we have not consistently done so.
We will also get current service performance data, which is those reports that have been discussed and
requested by some Directors, as well as the Accountability Committee, over the last couple of years. Those
reports may or may not have been part of formal Board policy, but they were certainly part of RTD just
historical procedure for several years, if not decades.
And then also, OSS and the Board will ratify and reaffirm current service standards incorporating
administrative and ministerial changes since prior adoption in 2016. I will also note, this action item does
not prohibit staff from bringing more changes, say, next year, as opposed to sticking to the three years. The
action item is no less than three years.
So for example, if staff came back to us in July and said, here are the improvements we've made, this is
the updates to our decision-making metrics or model, and these are the things we're working on, it's possible
we'll also receive another update next year closer to when the COA is ready for a public vote. Next slide. I
went ahead of myself.
So, again, July 2026, and at least triennially after, the Board will review and approve the COA and service
standards related to the COA. And then at least annually, no later than July of each year, just so we're
keeping with a seasonal sync, if you would, root line service-level performance data will be presented to
OSS, and that data will be published on the RTD website.
So if you guys remember, the reports that we had back in 2018, 2019. They'll look similar to that. I'm sure
staff will update and enhance the format, giving us some additional data, but the baseline data will be there,
again, down to the route. Next slide. And that is all. I will yield for questions.

JACK KROLL: Yeah, go ahead.
IAN HARWICK: Troy, are there any questions? I can't-JACK KROLL: Oh, sure. So Director Nicholson has his hand raised, and then I'll also remind you that
previously Director-IAN HARWICK: Yes. Director Whitmore.

JACK KROLL: --Director Chandler also had their hands raised.
IAN HARWICK: OK, so we'll go Buzek, Chandler, Nicholson. Director Buzek, you're free to go. Free to
speak.
JACK KROLL: Looks like he's lowered his hand, so I'm not sure if he has a question anymore. So the only
Director with a hand still left is Director Nicholson.
IAN HARWICK: OK, Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. So just clarifying, that all this does as of right now is direct staff to provide a
report in July of 2025? That's all we're voting to do at this moment? Is that correct?
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha?
JACK KROLL: Director Ruscha, if you are trying to respond to that question, you are muted.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So Director Nicholson, I believe your question was-- you're asking this
action item only requires a report? Is that what I heard?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Right. If we vote-- the only thing we're voting Yes on right now is providing the report?
So we're not doing anything else. We're just saying, please, staff, do this report and we'll come back to it in
July?
JOYANN RUSCHA: So the report is part of the action item, and is also in the Board packet-- Board memo
as well, so it does have a couple of parts. In addition to getting the report on our service standards planning
metrics, the report that we often reference in other committees, staff will also update us as to what changes
they've made to service planning standards in July, and the Board will have to vote to approve, reaffirm, or
make any changes to that because that is actually our current Board policy.
Additionally, as noted, triennially, the-- excuse me, the agency will continue to make those route
performance reports every year. And then we will return to our old policy, which is approving any service
standard, service planning standard changes moving forward. Does that answer your question, sir?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I have one follow-up question for GM/CO Johnson related to that.
IAN HARWICK: Feel free.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thank you. GM/CEO Johnson, can you address just a little bit from your end, how
does this change your process from what it would have been if this item doesn't pass? And is this going to
be a burden on the agency? Or do you feel pretty good that we can do what's asked in this agenda item
comfortably?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, and thank you, Director Nicholson, for the question posed. Just
by way of context, I did have the opportunity to have a meeting with Co-Chairs Ruscha and Harwick, and

with team members as well, and talked about this going forward, recognizing there was a desire to bring it
forward in July. What I qualified for them, is that we were in the process of working on this.
And so, for all intents and purposes, what we're going to do in-- for the 2016 report is updated, but it's not
where it should be in reference to standards that would customarily be leveraged for service development
plans. And more importantly, with the comprehensive operational analysis, it's very imperative that we do
one in the fashion of which is traditional in the industry, because that will help inform the key standards that
we need to leverage.
While there was a desire to bring this forward, I was amenable to sharing that, yes, we can do this for now,
recognizing that this isn't what I would stand behind and rally for, but it is an incremental step. More so,
what I will share is that when we do leverage the COA, quite naturally we're going out and have to do a
solicitation.
And so while it says July of 2026, that date could change very easily. There's a lot of unknown variables
because we have to do a solicitation. We're starting that preparation work in the fall, but I'm just saying,
there is a potential it may not be July 2026. So I just wanted to get that on record. But as we go forward,
we're just taking what we have, updating it with some caveats as we move forward, want to work in
partnership.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Awesome. I appreciate that. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Kroll, are there any more hands? Oh, I see. Director Chandler, you're free to speak.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Director Harwick. My question has to do with-- so not only are we
voting, then, to push this forward, this comprehensive plan, but it also is going to set up that standard for
the triannual reporting, is that correct as well?
So I think there's really a couple of things we're voting for, is the actual process and the update, but also
that standardization of over time, is that correct?
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh. Sorry, sir. Yeah, I would concur that that is-- that would be accurate.
JACK KROLL: And Chair Harwick, GM/CEO Johnson has some further comments.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chairs. If I just to add additional context. When this
body did receive the System Optimization Plan-- that is, the branded comprehensive operational analysis,
there was a commitment made that we would be bringing things back on a triennial basis. So that has
already been, more or less, acted on by this body.
So I just wanted to share that that's why we are working in earnest to report out on where we are with the
System Optimization Plan, because those are the foundational pieces that we would like to leverage to
inform our scope of work as we plan for the next version of a more in-depth comprehensive operational
analysis. Thank you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr Chair-IAN HARWICK: --Chandler. I just want to make sure, Director Chandler, does that answer your question?

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Indeed, it does. I just really think that's important that we know that we're not only
setting up the collection of all of this data, but what we're going to do with the data. That we're actually
going to have some action-- or at least some review of that data. That's my point.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Thank you. Director Ruscha-- or Chair Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. No, I think Director Chandler actually summed it up perfectly. I just
wanted to note that our COA, which we are still calling the SOP, I think, is related to service standard
planning. It's a bit of a Venn diagram, if you would. So that was one of the reasons why we are trying to get
caught up to Board policy, while also just recognize that we will not be voting on a COA until next year.
That's why you see the calendar you do.
But I think Director Chandler really hit the nail on the head. You cannot have standards without metrics,
and metrics are of no use to the Board without reporting. Thank you.
And I apologize, I also do want to thank GM/CEO Johnson and her staff for taking the time to work this out
with Directors who were interested in this policy. It was also something that came out of our retreat. We
had several meetings, and this would not be possible before you guys today as an action item without that
collaboration and communication and that willingness to work together. So thank you, GM/CEO Johnson,
for that.
JACK KROLL: Director Harwick, at this time, I see no further hands raised, and that might be an indication
that debate on this item has concluded and you could call for a vote.
IAN HARWICK: Sounds good, will do. OK. Are there any No votes on this action? And Mr. Kroll, I can't see
anyone, so if there's any Nos I can't see.
JACK KROLL: There are no No votes, although I do see Director Ruscha has raised her hand.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Their hand, if you don't mind, sir. I am a Yes vote. I just wanted to note that Director
Buzek had to leave. And so he is no longer in attendance tonight for-- just for roll count. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Then with-- I think it's-- when there was six Yes votes-- it's six Yeses, no Nos, no
Abstentions, that motion passes. All right. Our second item tonight is for the Board of Directors to adopt the
Title VI Service Equity Analysis Report for May 2025, Service Changes to Comply with Federal Laws,
Regulations, and Guidelines Related to Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. Do we have a motion?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Second.
IAN HARWICK: I could not hear the first.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Sorry, I forgot the first. I'll move.
IAN HARWICK: OK. So we have the move is Paglieri. Do we have a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I second.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Director Chandler.

IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler is a second. OK. All right. All right, now I would like to ask Martin Romero,
Metro Transit Equity Manager, Civil Rights; Carl Green, Jr, Director, Civil Rights; and Jessie Carter, Senior
Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling, to present this item. At this time, I would ask those Directors- oh, sorry. Go ahead. Oh, also, I would like to acknowledge that Director O'Keefe has joined the meeting.
MARTIN ROMERO: Thank you, Director Harwick. So good evening, members of the Board. My name is
Mario Romero. I'm the Transit Equity Manager. Tonight, I'll be going over the May 2025 Proposed Service
Changes, Title VI Service Equity Analysis. Next slide, please.
OK, so an outline of what I'll be covering during the presentation. I'll be summarizing the proposed service
changes. talk about the FTA requirements as the reason to why we complete this analysis. I'll cover the
equity analysis decision tree, and then cover the Title VI policies legal test and methodology. I'll go over the
analysis results. And then we'll talk about public outreach completed for this proposed-- for the proposed
changes. And then we'll conclude with the recommendations.
So here, we have a snapshot of the proposed service changes for May 2025. At a high level, there are a
total of 35 proposed service changes. This includes seven service increases where we are adding service
in some form to a route. Four modified services or route adjustments, 17 schedule timing, and seven
seasonal adjustments. And then Jessie will provide you with more detail on the proposed changes following
this presentation.
So the FTA requires RTD to perform a service equity analysis for any major service changes. I'll define
what constitutes a major service change in the upcoming slides.
As a transit agency receiving federal funding, RTD must comply with specific laws and regulations to ensure
equitable service for underserved communities. And these laws include the Title VI of the Civil Rights Act,
which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, national origin in federally-funded programs, ensuring
fair and equitable access to RTD's services and programs. And then we have the FTA-JACK KROLL: Mr. Romero, if I might interrupt, we had some bandwidth issues here. Every so often, the
system refreshes, and we dropped your audio one slide back. So if you could back up one full slide and
pick up from there.
MARTIN ROMERO: Sure. So, yeah. So the FTA requires RTD to perform a service equity analysis for any
major service changes. And I'll be defining what constitutes a major service change a little bit up ahead in
the presentation.
OK, so as a transit agency receiving federal funding, RTD must comply with specific federal laws and
regulations to ensure equitable service for underserved communities. And these laws include Title VI of the
Civil Rights Act, which prohibits discrimination based on race, color, or national origin in federally-funded
programs, ensuring fair and equitable access to RTD services and programs.
The FTA circular provides guidance on implementing Title VI requirements for transit agencies, and this
ensures nondiscrimination in federally-funded transportation programs as well. Our Board-adopted 2022
Title VI program defines the policies and processes we follow to ensure compliance with the requirements.
So all in all, we conduct this type of work because it's a federal requirement.
So this slide here provides an overview of the three steps in the decision-making process for conducting
an equity analysis. We'll focus on major service change as it pertains to this presentation. So in step 1, we
evaluate the type of change it-- in this case, we ask ourselves if the change is a major service change.

And if so, if we determine yes, it is a major service change, we move on to step 2, which is where we assess
whether the change results in a disparate impact on BIPOC populations, which stands for Black,
Indigenous, and People of Color, or a disproportionate burden on low-income populations, which we refer
to collectively as equity populations. And just to note, low income is currently defined as individuals at or
below 150% of the federal poverty level.
So then if a change results in a Disparate Impact, DI for short, or Disproportionate Burden, DB for short,
we move on to step 3 where we evaluate alternatives and identify ways to minimize, mitigate, or avoid
potential impacts on equity populations. Next slide, please.
OK, so Title VI policies refers to our major service change policy, DI, and DB policies. Again, I'll be referring
to Disparate Impact as DI and Disproportionate Burden as DB going forward.
OK, so what is a major service change? So RTD defines a major service change as a 25% additional
reduction in the service hours of any route or line that would remain in effect for more than 12 months. And
so based on this definition, this analysis resulted in nine out of 35 service changes exceeding the major
service change threshold of 25%.
So DI/DB, which we know as our Title VI policy, state that a major service change should not adversely
affect equity populations. 10% more than non-equity populations. And specifically, the policy states that for
a service increase, equity populations receive no less than 10% of our-- no less than 10% of non-equity
populations. And for service reductions, equity populations receive no more than 10% of non-equity
populations.
So given that information, let's look at this graph on the right to provide you with an example of how we
assess potential disparities for proposed changes. So this graph here shows that we have a proposed
change to a route at 25% of the non-BIPOC populations it's impacted by. So in order for us to calculate that
10% threshold for a service decrease, we would multiply 10% times 25% for a total of 2.5%. And then we
add that 2.5 to 25, which gives us our threshold of 27.5.
And so for a service reduction, essentially, the change from 25% to 27.5% is 10%. So we want to remain
within that 10% at that no-disparity range. If the proposed change to a route or line results in more than
27.5% of the impacted population being BIPOC individuals, this would indicate a potential disparity for a
major service reduction.
For a service increase, we subtract 2.5 from 25% for a threshold of 22.5. And so if the proposed change on
a route or a line impacts BIPOC populations at a percentage that falls below 22.5%, there's a possible
disparity for a major service increase. And we conduct the DB calculations in the same manner. Next slide,
please.
OK, so legal test. When a DI or a DB is identified, RTD takes extra steps to ensure equity in service change.
We can move forward with the change if we meet the legal test by providing two things. So, one, we need
substantial legitimate justification for proposed change, providing there is a necessary reason for the
change.
And two, if there is no alternative-- no alternatives that would have less disparate impact on BIPOC
populations, we would still accomplish our legitimate program goals. So by following this process, RTD
prioritized fairness and works to make transit decisions that best serve all customers.

OK, methodology. So each Title VI policy is applied at the route level and at the system level. At the route
level, the analysis examines the demographics within a quarter-mile of individual routes using US Census
data, and that helps us understand how changes will affect that specific population.
So looking at the image here on the right as an example, Route 0 is shown as a red line with a light pink
buffer representing a quarter mile area around the route. So one key data point to mention is that the service
district average for BIPOC is 38.1% and 14.1% for low income.
The system-level analysis, it considers the populations of entire block groups served by route stops. So
rather than just those within a quarter-mile buffer, this approach helps us understand the overall impact of
service changes across the transit network. And since it evaluates all major service changes together and
measures their overall impact, the system-level analysis provides a more comprehensive view than
individual route-level analysis. Next slide, please. OK.
So now, providing you all that background, let's get into some of the results. So route-level analysis-- just
to simplify the nine major service changes, I've created this table to indicate which changes have a potential
DI or a DB at the route level. And as shown, routes NB1, B2, 225, 225D, DASH, and Free MetroRide
resulted in a potential DI.
There were no DB findings in this round. One column I want to highlight is the DI Threshold column. So this
is a difference in percentage that this route exceeds the 10% threshold. So for example, if we look at the
Free MetroRide, the free MetroRide was only 0.1% from being in that no-disparity zone, or within the 10%
threshold. Similarly, the NB route, we're at 0.17% to 225, and DASH were 0.55% and 0.63% respectively.
So for explanatory purposes, I'll go over the route DASH show you how DI and DB is examined. The Board
can refer to packet pages 63 through 71 for the full details on other routes. OK, so just a quick reminder,
that the Title VI policies establish the threshold in order for us to perform the comparison.
So the results for the DASH indicate that BIPOC populations receive slightly less of an increase in service
with 0.52% compared to non BIPOC populations at 1.27%, a difference of 0.75%. Does meet the threshold
of 1.15%, and therefore, there is a potential DI finding.
On the other end, low-income populations stand to benefit more with 1.76% more of the benefit compared
to 0.73% benefit for non-low-income. This does meet the-- this does not meet the 0.66% threshold,
therefore, there is no DB found here. Next slide, please. OK.
So in addition to route-level analysis, an additional analysis, we do focus on key activity centers to better
understand where customers are going. In this analysis, we look for changes in access to retail and
convenience stores, academic institutions, social services, senior housing, and employment centers. And
this helps us understand access-- this helps us understand, if access is increased, reduced, or if new access
is created to these key locations.
So we obtain retail and convenience stores, as well as social services, from ESRI Business Analyst, 2022
and 2023 data; we obtained academic institutions and senior housing using DRCOG's Regional Data from
2024; and we gathered employment data from the US Census Bureau Longitudinal Employer Household
Dynamics from 2022. Next slide, please.
OK, so as we look at the nine major service changes in the proposal, we can see that the change enhances
access to various locations. As most of these are service increases, I do want to point out that access to
key activity centers will improve because buses will either run more often, allowing more convenient and

flexible travel options. However, these changes do not add new centers. It simply enhances access to the
existing ones.
And so some of the more notable enhancements are the 80,770, and 31,430 enhanced access to jobs on
Route 44 and Route 16 respectively. And grocery access was enhanced to 209 locations on Route BOLT
and 208 locations on Route 44.
Improved access to social service centers on the Free MetroRide, DASH, and Route 144 at 47, 34, and 58
locations respectively. And all other activity centers also saw an enhancement in access to senior housing
and academic institutions. Next slide, please.
OK, so now let's get into the system-level results. As a reminder, the system-level results is a measure of
the net impacts of the changes as opposed to route-level. And so here, BIPOC populations stand to benefit
less compared to non-BIPOC populations. That's a 43.97% versus 50.82%. The difference here is 6.85%
in favor of non-BIPOC, which meets the DI threshold of 45.74%.
And then low-income populations tend to benefit more compared to non-low-income populations. Here, it's
a 64.09% versus 41.23%. And this is a difference of 22.86%, which does not meet the DB threshold of
37.10%. Next slide, please.
OK, so public hearings. So as it relates to service changes, outreach and public engagement is just as
important as it's a requirement that we inform the public to give them the space to provide feedback. I'd like
to highlight that the Communications and Engagement Team and the Service Development Department
partner to hold two virtual hearings and one Ask a Service Planner virtual meeting on March 3 and 4. Next
slide, please. OK.
In addition to that, the Marketing Department launched the Comprehensive and Multilingual Outreach
Strategy, producing various assets for social media and in-service assets in Spanish and English. The
Transit Equity Office also helped to promote major service changes specifically to equity populations along
the impacted routes.
A mass email was sent to over 1,150-plus community members, partners, nonprofits, neighborhood
organizations, and key activity centers.
Public Relations released three separate news releases, which were sent to regional media outlets.
Additionally, Service Development and Communications and Engagement presented to all the Subregional
Service Councils, the Citizens Advisory Committee, CAC, and Transportation Management Associations.
Next slide, please.
OK. So to conclude, our analysis indicates that Title VI concerns are minimal and do not raise concerns
about inequitable distribution of benefits as these changes are increases in service. And the percentage
DI-to-threshold differences are minimal. The changes meet the Title VI policy legal test, at the route level,
we observed only minimal differences between comparator groups, and there are no practical alternatives
to avoid, minimize, or mitigate the findings.
At the network level, there is a DI finding, but it but it remains low. And there are no DB findings. Equity
population stands to benefit from the overall service plan proposal with BIPOC customers benefiting despite
smaller gains from the major service changes and still enhancing access to key activity centers. Next slide,
please.

OK, so to bring it all together, the presentation covered the Title Vi Service Equity Analysis methodology,
the findings, and conclusion. This fulfills the FTA requirement for Board awareness and consideration of
the equity analysis. Therefore, staff recommends the approval of the May 2025 Title VI Service Equity
Analysis. This brings us to the end of the presentation. I will be open for any questions now.
IAN HARWICK: All right. At this time, I would ask those Directors who have questions or who wish to speak
to raise their virtual hands, and I will call on you in turn.
JACK KROLL: Director Harwick, I first see Director Paglieri, then Committee Chair Ruscha, then Director
Guzman.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Paglieri, you're free to speak.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. My question-- I have two questions for staff. The first question is, are
key activity centers weighted equally? And my second question is referring to something on packet page
108. The 16 says it impacts 120 grocers. I live next to the 16. I don't think I've ever counted that many
grocery stores. If you could explain what is included in a grocer, I would appreciate that. Thank you.
MARTIN ROMERO: Yes. Director, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
MARTIN ROMERO: Yeah, so for your first question, can you provide a little more context exactly what you
mean if the key activity centers are weighted evenly? And then to answer your second question, grocers
count all convenience stores. So 7-Elevens, anywhere where you can get a good, essentially. So that could
possibly be a gas station where they sell food or-- like I said, 7-Eleven. And then any, any grocery stores
as well.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Chair, may I be recognized to respond?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you for answering that. Yes, you answered my question on the grocers. Sounds
like anywhere that sells food. The other question you mentioned, the key activity centers, jobs, grocers, et
cetera, are each of them taking into consideration equally? Or is it based on the number? So in different
words, if one area has 10 million jobs but nothing else, will it be equal to something with more rational
distribution of activities?
CARL GREEN JR: Chair Harwick, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
CARL GREEN JR: That's a great question, Director Paglieri. So as far as the key activity centers, there's
no weighting between each of the five individual categories for key activity centers.
More or less just for background and context, as far as our public comment and engagement when we were
producing the 2022 Title VI program update back in-- or calendar year 2022, a lot of feedback that we
receive is wanting to get a better assessment of where people are going rather than just looking at-- so
when we do the route-level or the system-level analysis, that is doing that is doing an assessment of where
people live or within neighborhoods.

And so we added this assessment, the key activity centers, more or less to ground-truth where people may
be going with utilizing transit services. So it's not weighted there-- I guess to sum it up, they're weighted
equally, and it's more or less giving a better understanding on the increases or any changing of access to
these services-- or key activity centers, rather.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Great question. Brett, does that answer your question? Director Paglieri?
IAN HARWICK: Yes, Chair, thank you.
IAN HARWICK: All right, Director Ruscha. Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have four questions. So the first question is, how many attendees
were at the hearings collectively? And related to that is are those hearings done with the Planning
Department? Or does the Civil Rights Office do their own independent outreach? That's question number
1.
I will go ahead and run through my other three questions, and then please feel free to ask to repeat if
needed. Second, did RTD email a large list when doing its outreach for this Title VI portion or limit it to
stakeholders along these routes? Question number 3, what data are we using to determine jobs? Including
what year that data was pulled from. And then number 4, the academic institutions referenced, is that K-12
or are we talking about higher ed? Thank you.
CARL GREEN JR: Chair Harwick, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please, Mr. Green.
CARL GREEN JR: I'll attempt-- wonderful questions, Director Ruscha. I'll attempt to answer all from what I
recall. So as far as the-- one of the questions that was posed is the jobs. That is from the Longitudinal
Employer Household Dynamics. And the-- this is in reference to packet page 107, but it's the US Census
Bureau Longitudinal Employer Household Dynamics, and the year of that is 2022.
And as far as the academic institution, that includes schools, pre-K through college. And I may be missing
one or two questions, if you can repeat that-- repeat them, please, the ones that I've missed.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks-JESSIE CARTER: --if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please, Mr. Carter.
JESSIE CARTER: I believe the first question was how many people attended the meetings, and who
basically sponsored the meetings. We work as a team here. Communications, Title VI, and Service
Development all attended the meetings that we had. I can get you the exact number of folks, but if I
remember offhand, we had one lightly attended Zoom meeting. I think we had four people from the public
in attendance on that one. And we had one that had about a dozen, but I'll get you the exact numbers on
that one.

The one that was the most active in my memory was the Talk to a Service Planner. We actually had more
than a dozen of folks who participated in that meeting sessions, but I will, again, provide to the Board of
Directors a list of attendees-- or a list of the number of persons present at each one of those meetings.
IAN HARWICK: Director Ruscha, does that answer your question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I believe so. I'm just checking the transcript. I have a bit of a lag relative to the rest of
the Board here. I guess the-- oh, the other question I asked was, when we talked about email
communications, does RTD have one email list that they use for stuff like this? Or did we segment that out
and only email or contact or do outreach to individuals that lived-- or-- yeah, that lived along these lines or
their place of business or a community interest was along these routes?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, I apologize.
MARTIN ROMERO: Committee Chair Harwick-IAN HARWICK: I see Mr. Summers has his hand up, but I also see Chairman-- GM/CEO.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, I was going to yield the floor to Mr. Summers and indicate that we do work
collectively and collaboratively as it relates to engagement activities. Mr. Summers can address the
question since I do see him on screen. Thank you.
STUART SUMMERS: Yeah, thank you, GM/CEO Johnson. And Director Ruscha, for the question, one
thing we tried new this go-around with our service changes, in the past, we've had a pretty comprehensive
list of neighborhood organizations and businesses and entities that are along the different changes, the
proposed changes.
Something we tried this year is we actually went through that list and we broke it out so we could subdivide
it by specific change that's happening along a route or a line so we could directly communicate with those
individuals about those proposed changes and solicit their feedback directly. So that's something that we
did different this time just so we could engage them.
Instead of sending all the proposed changes to everybody, we try to be a little bit more targeted so they
would understand some of those impacts and they could engage their communities as well. Thank you.
MARTIN ROMERO: And Director, if I may add to that?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
MARTIN ROMERO: Transit Equity Office also scopes the major service changes specifically with the
quarter-mile catchment along those routes, and we actually just-- we actually do pull all activity centers and
email those entities directly, which is included in the number you see, 1,150.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Chair Ruscha, anything else to add?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I have some comments on this action item, but I will yield and just keep it to questions
for now. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK, thank you, Director Guzman.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Mr. Romero, Mr. Green, Mr. Carter, thank you so much for the work on
this. Everybody that was involved. I am keen on the numbers for the deltas that we're talking about in terms
of disproportionate service levels, although I understand that we are meeting our mission, and sometimes
that means that we have to look at whether we're meeting the mission and hurting somebody or whether
we're meeting the mission and continuing to help people.
And so I guess the way that I'm interpreting the presentation that you've given and the lengthy report that
goes with it, which is quite detailed, is that even though there might be some disproportion in the service
delivery for different communities, disparities that might be of concern, that by doing these changes, we're
providing more access for everybody system-wide. And on these 37-- I lost count of how many routes there
were, sorry, changes in service development, that we're actually providing better service.
Key point of interest for me, and one that I'm glad that you highlighted in here, is the number of jobs that
are accessible by these changes. Particularly with the Route 44 being at the top of that list, which is the
one that runs through my district, the number of accessible employers for people now.
Especially as things are getting more expensive, we're looking at tipped wage workers that might be losing
income depending on what happens at the legislature, it's been a lot of conversation in my community, so
I just want to say thank you for that. I don't really have a question, I just wanted to make that comment.
Thanks, guys. Good job.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you very much, Chairman Harwick. I just wanted to make a comment as
well. I appreciate the fact that the Route 153 chambers is increasing its route from every 30 minutes to
every 15. That is very important to my community, so I just wanted to say thank you.
IAN HARWICK: And Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you. Give me one second. So I really appreciate these service changes.
I was at a community meeting and people were extraordinarily happy with the service coming back on
Quebec, so thank you for that. But I actually want to talk about the MallRide-- sorry, the MetroRide.
So RTD's Title VI methodology assigns transit equity benefits based on Census block groups within a
quarter-mile catchment area of routes, assuming that all residents in these areas benefit equally from
service changes. I myself actually live in the catchment for the MetroRide. It runs a block away from my
apartment.
However, this approach does not account for actual travel patterns or ridership. The reinstatement of the
MetroRide is categorized as a major service increase, yet the equity analysis shows a lower percentage of
BIPOC riders benefit from the change compared to non-BIPOC riders, even though more low-income riders
benefit-- if you've been to downtown, you understand why.
Given that the free MetroRide primarily serves commuters transferring from rail and regional buses, many
of whom live outside of the immediate service area-- this, I guess, is a question for GM/CEO Johnson. Has
RTD considered incorporating historical ridership data, fare card analysis, or rider surveys to more
accurately reflect the demographics of the actual transit users? Put another way, do BIPOC individuals who
Ride downtown for fun rather than to go to a job not count in our equity analysis, and why not?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, if I may?

IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question, Director Nicholson. And when we talk about
this equity analysis, we're talking about the service changes within a 12-month period as we go forward,
hence, that's why we do this from the vantage point of what you're talking about, historical data and things
of the like. That is more involved with the comprehensive operational analysis when we're trying to discern
what might be optimal going forward.
And so when we're looking at these triennial changes, we're looking at it on a 12-month basis, hence, that's
why it's critically important that we bring forward to this body any disparate impact or disproportionate
burden as outlined in Title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Right. I guess to follow up, what I'm asking is we analyze the geographic population- so we analyze who lives in the area that the bus or train is running. We look at jobs, but we don't look at
who's riding on the-- we don't look at the demographic analysis of the actual riders themselves. We have
districts that are very, very white that may have-- the 6 is a great example. It starts in Aurora, it ends in
downtown. It happens to go through Hilltop and Cherry Creek and-And so what I'm asking is, am I correct in understanding that BIPOC individuals who ride the MetroRide
downtown-- not for a job because they're not factored into the jobs analysis, that they wouldn't be factored
into whether the MetroRide was having a disparate impact because they're not considered as a result of
not living there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for the question. So it's a multifaceted response, keeping in
mind, as it relates to our customers and those that are riding, utilizing any type of data we had from a
demographic standpoint, we don't have that readily available, first and foremost, going forward. Because if
I am utilizing a MyRide card, account-based ticketing, am I putting forward my demographics? And that's
not a requirement.
Holistically, when we're utilizing the data sources that we have available, we do, pursuant to requirements
of the Federal Transit Administration, in compliance with Title VI, on a frequent basis-- and off the top of my
head, I'll yield the floor to Carl Green Jr. to help me address this question.
I want to say when we do our onboarding surveys and things of the like-- this is different from survey data
from customer experience, we do go out and ascertain key information relative to the ridership-- i.e., the
poverty level relative to what their incomes are, and ask people how many people reside in their households,
and other information pursuant to nationality or race.
But that's not done on a basis triennially because we're utilizing data sources that we have available when
we do those onboard surveys, which I believe we may do every three years, and hadn't done them for a
while as FTA directed us to stand down from that, because we were in a place where we didn't have the
actual volume of transit usage, and so that data was skewed. Hence, that's why you've often heard us say,
as we work with the metropolitan planning organization-- that would be the Denver Regional Council of
Governments, that we have data sources dating back to 2019.
So with that, I'm going to yield the floor to Mr. Green to add any additional information that I may have not
covered or correct me if I've spoke incorrectly relative to the response that I provided secretary Nicholson.
Mr. Green, the floor is yours.
CARL GREEN JR: Yes, thank you so much, General Manager and CEO Johnson. Chair Harwick, if I may?

IAN HARWICK: Please.
CARL GREEN JR: And I'll just state for the record, GM/CEO Johnson was right on par with what is expected
as far as it relates to service equity analyses. Per the FTA Circular for Title VI, there are two primary sources
of data that is utilized to conduct service equity analyzes.
The first primary one is Census data, US Census data or the American Community Survey Estimates. And
transit agencies across the country generally go with this particular assessment using this data source
because of the availability of it.
Coupled with that, I will say that the FTA expects that we utilize the most recent data. So the most recent
Census data is the ACS, or American Community Survey, 2019 to 2023, which we are currently using. And
then to your point, Director Nicholson, which is a good one with respect to ridership survey, because there's
Census data, which is more population data, compared to ridership survey-- or ridership or trip-based data.
So, to GM/CEO Johnson's point, with respect to our customer surveys, the last time we did a
comprehensive or off-to-onboard surveys was in 2015 with a supplemental one in 2019.
And then per GM/CEO Johnson's point with regards to the pause, so to speak, from the FTA of conducting
onboard surveys during the pandemic, the planning department actually just carried out, with the utilization
of a vendor, to carry out off-to-onboard surveys last fall. And we're in the process of combing through that
data, and we should have that readily available by April time frame, which you will see with respect to the
2025 Title VI program update demographic analysis.
So future tense, we will be able to utilize-- or leverage ridership surveys to supplement our primary method
of conducting the analysis, given that we have enough ridership by that particular route in order to assess
ridership or by trip-based information.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: One more question if that's OK?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, go ahead, Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Great. So just to follow up on that, that that's wonderful to hear. We are-- what am I
trying to say? We have done a-- the whole agency has done a wonderful job of transitioning to accountbased ticketing and being able to understand our customer base in a way that we couldn't five years ago
because there wasn't a record that was tied to someone's trip history, where they got on, where they got
off, how they paid for it, et cetera.
That is going to go through the roof once we have tap-to-pay, such that people will no longer have to pay
cash, they'll no longer have to use ticket vending machines. And so we'll have even better, even more of
an ability to track where people are getting on, where people are getting off.
That data gives you the ability to understand the customer journeys far better than we can right now and
look at, for example-- like, if someone's, you know, getting on every day at 8:00 AM in Commerce City,
coming into downtown, and going back, what I guess I'm asking is, are you planning-- is there anything that
you're looking at to be able to make use of that information to inform our equity analyzes going forward
given that it's such granular data?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Committee Chair?

IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So I'll start, and I'll yield the floor to Mr. Green. I think there's a couple of things,
because it is up-- when we use account-based ticketing, it's up to that customer if they want to relinquish
their data to us. So it's not a Big Brother element. And one thing that's quite important, considering this
Transit Equity Report that was provided by Mr. Romero and Mr. Green, is considering the populations in
often instances that are transit-reliant, there are a lot of unbanked customers.
So moving forward, we're still going to have a portion of our customer base in which we will not have
information on due to the fact that they're going to utilize cash. And so that is something with transit
agencies, just being in the public domain, is critically important, because we do not want to create a
disproportionate burden or disparate impact on those populations going forward.
So, while we're moving forward, the intent isn't to collect information, but there may be an opportunity for
individuals to opt in for us to leverage that information, but no way will we have a complete picture as we
move forward due to the reasons I just outlined.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Oh. Makes sense. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK,. Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you again, Director Harwick. My question is, how often is that survey done
for the on/off ridership thing? You said it was done last fall, and it hadn't been updated since the pandemic.
What are their plans in the future for that data to be updated yearly, quarterly, once every five years? What
does that look like?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So traditionally in the transit space, it'd be optimal to do it on an annual basis. That's
what I would endeavor for the agency to do going forward, but there's a myriad-- there could be other
factors, but optimally it'd be annually. I would have to confer with our long-range planning staff because it
is long-range planning, not service planning, that conducts that as we use that information to make informed
decisions as we move forward.
But quite naturally, when we do something along the lines of, a COA, as I indicated before, we're leveraging
different aspects so we can understand what it is as we plan going forward. So while we did it this year,
recognizing we're going to be taking preparatory steps in reference to providing the foundation for a COA,
we would do that going forward, but I would have to confer with staff relative to what we intend to do. Yeah,
but it should be. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler, is that good?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, that's it. That's exciting news because I think that having that data annually
would be exciting. I understand that it may or may not happen, but at least that's a target, so I appreciate
that.
IAN HARWICK: Great, thank you. Director Paglieri?

BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to quickly note that we're coming up on about two hours
in this meeting. And we have people-- support staff behind me and the transcribers and people who might
need a break. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Yeah. I have it on my radar. Director-- Chair Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. It looks like you and I are the last two to speak. So I also see that
Director Guzman has his hand up, and I said I would-- I think it'd be more appropriate if I spoke last. Or
second to last.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Just really quickly, I don't know who set up the service change part of the website
where we could give feedback. Whoever that was-- and if other Directors have not explored that, when they
come up, the tiles linked to each one of these changes allowed public to respond back directly to that route
or line and give feedback directed at the changes that were proposed, but also potentially provide additional
information.
Brilliant, thank you, because I was able to use that to solicit feedback from community. I hope that you got
it. I hope that you found that useful, and it was very easy to navigate. Directors, when we have these service
changes coming up, it's a great tool to provide to community members and other elected officials or other
neighborhood organizations that you're working with, but yeah, I just wanted to mention that before I forget
because I was going to say it earlier. Thanks. That's all.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Guzman. Director Nicholson, please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes. Very briefly, I want to echo what Director Guzman said and actually go further.
I've had many, many people tell me they want to have an easy way to give feedback on lines that they ride.
Not just when they're up for service changes, and not just only the ones that are up for service changes,
but the entire system so that it's very simple for someone to go on and be like, I had a great experience on
the 225, or I had a horrible experience on the Flatiron Flyer.
And so I'd love to see that tool expanded to just allow feedback more broadly. I know there's ways to do it
in the feedback form, but it's not intuitive for a lot of people. So I think it's a phenomenal-- the amount of
people who are just like, I wish I could tell the agency what's going on, that they don't feel like they can
even though we know how, this is a great step forward, let's keep moving in that direction.
IAN HARWICK: OK, Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I will be a no vote tonight for the same reasons as I have been coming
up on a year now, just to briefly recap. Despite our action item tonight, we still lack an updated service
standards policy. And my district keeps asking, where's our service? And some of these routes in my area
are standing room only. And that's even with very poor on-time performance, particularly ones that run from
Denver to Aurora.
Second, our Title VI analysis, I think it just falls short. Our policy falls short. We don't have a look-back
policy to assess cumulative impacts over time like other agencies do. And my understanding is that we're
measuring availability more as the crow flies rather than, say, the most accessible routes.

And then finally, community engagement-- and this has been brought up before. It just has dropped off
since COVID. I remember when staff was present in my neighborhood and in my district to talk about
potential changes, whether they had a Title VI impact or not, and that's disappeared, and I think we need
to bring that back. We need to go back to where community is.
And so these-- because these issues, while they might be-- while we might be working on them, I'm not
comfortable voting Yes tonight on this action item. And hopefully I'll be in a different space in the fall after
our July action item on these items. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. I hate to ask this question, but I'm just going to ask it really quickly. Mr. Green, Jr. or
Mr. Romero, with everything that's been happening at the federal level, are we even concerned that Title
VI might go away? Is that even a thing that could happen? And-- like, I'm not trying to put a plan for the
worst, but, like, is that something we're nervous about or something similar coming down our way? Or is
that just-- we just have to wait and see?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Committee Chair, I believe that question is better suited for me to address as
opposed to staff.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So first and foremost, recognizing that the Civil Rights Act of 1964 is federal law that
was effectuated, and keeping in mind, it would be quite difficult for a President unilaterally to execute an
executive order or a memorandum doing away with that in that fashion recognizing that there's three
branches of government.
And so while I recognize that there's been quite a bit of discussion relative to buzzwords that really aren't
buzzwords, but people are utilizing them in a weaponizing format-- DEI and things of the. I want to assure
this body that while there's federal laws, there's also state laws. And as we look at delivering transit services,
considering the RTD Act and how this organization was effectuated, it is to provide services in an equitable
fashion.
And when we hear "equity," we're not just talking about the color of one's skin or sexual orientation. We're
talking about providing services to people with all abilities. It talks about curb cuts, those access elements
as well.
So this organization will continue to provide transit services through that equitable lens. There have been
conversations that have ensued through different forums with the American Public Transportation
Association and other entities going forward, and I would be very surprised if, in fact, federal legislation was
repealed as it relates to the Civil Rights Act of 1964. So we will proceed accordingly. Thank you very kindly
for the question.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, appreciate it. With no more questions, I'm going to call the vote. I know that
there is one No already, so I will go through and-- Director Buzek, who is no longer with us. Director
Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Myself, I'm a Yes. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I'm a Yes.

IAN HARWICK: Director Pagliari?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director. Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Seeing that there are five Yeses and one No and one Absent, this measure passes.
Now that we have gone five minutes over our 7:30 break, we're going to take a 10-minute break and we're
going to reconvene at 7:45.
I could see some-- some commotion going on.
JACK KROLL: And the recording has started, everyone.
IAN HARWICK: All right, everyone. Welcome back to the Safety and Operations-- Safety, Security, and
Operations Meeting for March 12. I'm going to reconvene this meeting. It's 7:50 PM. OK. Now we're going
to just jump right into our third recommended action.
For the Board of Directors to approve the May 2025 Service Change as revised and summarized in
Attachment A, and to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators impacted by the service changes. Do we have a motion?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: So moved.
IAN HARWICK: Hearing Nicholson as the mover. We have a second?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I second. Director Chandler-IAN HARWICK: Chandler is second. OK, now I would like to ask Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager,
Bus Operations, and Jessie Carter, Sr., Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling, to present this item.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, honorable committee members. Fred Worthen, AGM with Bus Operations.
In February, staff brought forth a set of preliminary recommendations for the May Service Changes. Mr.
Carter has since then worked with staff to conduct a number of outreach efforts with our community and
has modified some of those recommendations slightly.
So at this point, I will ask Mr. Carter to basically present on any modifications, changes, or updates to the
previous service changes you have heard. Mr. Carter?
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. I feel like we've already talked quite a bit about the service
change, so I won't go over that anymore. However, you will note that in the Board paper, there were mention
of several changes that occurred since we've talked back in February.

One, there was a minor change of wording on the Route 16 proposal to state that this service change
proposal or recommendation actually amends the SOP. Also on the route 93L, there was a change of the
Park-n-Ride associated the service change. It was noted as being Thornton Crossroads rather than East
Lake 124th. So, again, it's Thornton crossroads at 104th Station.
And then we did add the L line, which serves 30th and Downing to 16th and South Street, which is our light
rail service. And the reason why we're doing that is we heard from both operators-- and it was confirmed
through public process that some of our passengers were seeing longer wait times because we have a bit
too much time between 20th and Welton and 18th and Stout, so that schedule will be adjusted. And that
concludes the changes to the Board paper. And with that, I turn it back to you, Fred, or open to questions.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Carter. That concludes our presentation, Chair Harwick. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. All right. At this time, I would ask those Directors who have questions or who wish to
speak to raise your virtual hands, and I will call on you in turn. Chair Ruscha, I see you first, although there
may be people out in the real world as well, but you're first to go.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, I would appreciate that. So can staff please remind us-- I know it's posted
online, but can you just please remind us what the deadline was for the public to submit changes-- or, sorry,
comment to the proposed changes? And that's part one of my question.
And part two is a comment. Can staff please alert us earlier than a Friday before a Wednesday meeting
when we are going to have service changes, amendments that differentiate from the previous month's
discussion item so that we have more time to process? Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
JESSIE CARTER: OK, as stated in the Board report, the process for-- or the public opinion-- or public
outreach efforts started February 13 and ended March 6, 2025 for this particular service change. And I
hope that answers the question., Director Ruscha or Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Half of it, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may, Co-Chair Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: Please.
FRED WORTHEN: So it is very difficult for-- based upon our existing service timelines, for our staff to
basically provide any other information prior to the actual service packet going out to the Board of Directors.
As Mr. Carter mentioned, our public feedback sessions closed last Tuesday. His staff needed time to
compile the feedback, complete the report, and that took him all the way through Friday itself.
So it is very difficult with the changes to our public outreach plan to get things to the Board much earlier
than we are getting it to the Board right now. I would mention, though, that the preliminary service change
recommendations are done a month in advance. There are very seldomly-- most of the time, if there are
changes, they are minor in nature. If they are more and larger in nature, though, we go into greater detail
when we present to the Board of Directors itself and to the committee.

IAN HARWICK: Chair Ruscha?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, Mr. Chair, if I may really quickly? I wanted to add additional information.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Recognizing the comment that was made by Co-Chair Ruscha, this is something that
I, too, have discussed with staff as we move forward, recognizing what Mr. Worthen said forward. And
considering that we do triennial service changes in our meeting schedule, it makes it somewhat difficult.
And we know when we're doing our triennial service changes, and so I would like to explore, during the
months in which we have to make a decision, perhaps we could move the Operations Committee back a
week so then staff has enough time to incorporate the comments and data and provide adequate time for
us, the staff, to review, as well as moving forward for the Board's deliberations as well.
So, I throw that out for context because it's something that we have been talking about, recognize the undue
burden that's placed on staff, and then the comments that are made as if we're trying to not provide
information in a timely manner. That's not the intent. It's just by virtue of our triennial process and trying to
garner as much information as we can. So thank you for the opportunity just to share that. I'm not seeking
a response at this juncture, but it's something that I will be exploring with the service planning team. Thank
you.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Chair Harwick and all. I just want to thank GM/CEO Johnson for her
comments. I think what you said echoes some of my concerns, and I would love to be part of that
conversation in how we can ensure getting in public comment, allowing for staff time, but also making sure
there's not an undue burden on the Board as well. Does have the final say, and as you know, our packets
get pretty big. I think this one hit 400 pages. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, thank you, Director Harwick. I just wanted to say thank you to Mr. Fred
Worthen for his service, and I appreciate all that he has done. And good luck on your next endeavor, and
thank you for your service.
IAN HARWICK: Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you. Two things very briefly. First, I echo what GM/CEO Johnson said.
Not to brag, but our work is more important to the general public than Finance and Planning in that they
pay more attention to it. And so giving people extra time to see the packet, respond, weigh in, et cetera
when there are service changes and other things I think is more than warranted. If the Executive Manager
and the office can handle that, I think it'd be fine-- I would support it.
The second thing that I would say is-- and this gets back to I'm a nerd and I appreciate the technology that
lets people engage with this. The service changes website is phenomenal. There isn't a map of where the
service changes are on the service changes website. And so it was actually, as someone who is a little bit
spatially challenged, it took me a bit to figure out where all the service changes were relative to each of the
districts and what was impacting my district and what was impacting--

So this is a plea to the GIS department or just whoever can put together a PDF that for the fall service
changes, on that service change website, if we can have a picture of the routes that are affected so that
people can see where they go and whether it's nearby them, that would be amazing.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Director Nicholson. Do we have any other comments? Hearing no, I'm going
to move that to a vote, then. Are there any No votes? OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sir, I didn't have a chance to raise my hand. I will be a No vote tonight for reasons I
mentioned previously.
IAN HARWICK: I wondered, you were quiet. OK. All right. Then I will take the vote. Again, Director Buzek
is no longer with us. So we have Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I am a Yes vote, and I hope that your previous comment is not taken literally.
He's no longer available for this meeting.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. I realize as I said it, I was-- yeah, thank you. Director Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I am a Yes vote, and I call the question in his honor.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: Director-- Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: No.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
IAN HARWICK: And as the current Chair, I am a Yes. And that gives us five Yeses, and one No, and one
Absent, and this passes. All right. Now we're going to move on to discussion items this evening. We have
one. This is about the Paratransit Program Modifications. I would like to ask Fred Worthen, Assistant
General Manager, Bus Operations, and Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services, to present
this item.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Co-Chair Harwick. I'm still struggling with the term "Co-Chair," so my
apologies. Before I begin, I will yield the floor to Ms Johnson to see if she has any opening remarks. And
then I will move forward with the presentation from there.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Worthen. Co-Chair Harwick, if I may may. Would just like
to state for the record that this is a discussion item. The team is bringing this forward to ensure that
everybody is grounded in our Paratransit Program, understanding that we have two elements of paratransit
service, one being the American with Disabilities Act of 1990 Complimentary Paratransit Service that all
transit agencies that are recipient of federal dollars provide.

Additionally, we have Access-on-Demand. That is a premium supplemental paratransit services that this
organization commenced with a pilot just before I got here. I don't say that because I don't own it, I do. But
wanted to ensure that this was something that commenced during the height of the pandemic.
What we are endeavoring to do after commissioning a peer review that was conducted by transit
professionals that are members of the American Public Transportation Association was to have them come
in and assess what might we do to enhance our offerings to ensure that our paratransit program services
are sustainable and that are equitable? And when I say "equity," I'm not talking about any federal regulations
or laws, but equitable from the vantage point of what we do at RTD, making lives better through connection
and providing services.
So at this juncture, Mr. Worthen will go through where we are. We've done a myriad of different community
engagement outreach. There has been quite a bit of discussion with entities from which you've heard of.
We had a thought leadership session, for instance, with the National Federation of the Blind. I call that out
because they have been very vocal and working with President [? Beetham. ?]
We have had, I would say, two meetings thus far, and then a supplemental meeting at their facilities to have
conversations about what it is that we're trying to do in ensuring that we can provide services for all people
with abilities.
With that, I will yield the floor with Mr. Worthen. I know there have been-- I say I'm going to yield the floor
and I keep rambling. I'll say one other thing. We're presenting this information. We are not endeavoring to
come back next month or in May.
I did have a conversation with Co-Chair Ruscha who put forward a strong plea that we wouldn't do anything
prior to June. You all do know that Mr. Worthen is transitioning, taking on a new role at the Jacksonville
Transportation Authority. We are adjusting And we're doing a transition. I will apprise parties of next week
as we've been having meetings this week.
And so those are some of the reasons why we want to ensure that we're being diligent and intentional, but
I would be remiss if I didn't state just yesterday I received an email from my colleague who actually is the
CEO of Valley Metro in Phoenix, Arizona who reached out to me and said, "Debra, I would love for our
teams to connect because we're looking at our paratransit program." And I connected her today with a
member of staff.
And so I share that to say that we're not alone in this and we're not doing anything in a vacuum trying to
create any disparate treatment to any customer segment.
I think, if anything, as we look at where we are, we want to ensure that we are being good fiduciaries, and
that we understand that while we do have our ADA paratransit services, our supplemental premium services
are something that we do need to look at to ensure that we can sustain them for a period of time and that
we're not putting the agency in a precarious position.
So that's what I had to offer up. With that, Mr. Worthen, please go forward. And if you need a lifeline, I'm
here to help. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, I appreciate that, Ms. Johnson. First, before I get started, is the presentation
showing up OK online?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes.

FRED WORTHEN: OK. Thank you. So good evening, honorable Board members and committee members.
I'm Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations. Tonight, I'll provide an overview of our
paratransit programs, a refresher on the American Public Transit Association peer review conducted in the
spring and summer of 2024, how recommendations under consideration regarding the report were
developed, and recommendations under consideration to improve paratransit operations.
And I do apologize in advance. Some of our Board members who have been with us have seen portions of
this presentation already. It will be a good refresh for individuals to remember some of the information I'm
going to provide. However, with seven new Board members, I felt like it was needed to start from ground
zero to make sure that we're on a level playing field with regard to knowledge regarding this topic.
So RTD provides a broad suite of fixed-route and paratransit services available to our customers. As Ms.
Johnson mentioned, RTD's Paratransit Program is comprised of our Access-a-Ride service and our
supplemental premium paratransit, commonly referred to as Access-on-Demand.
Our Access-a-Ride services are complimentary paratransit services that are conditionally provided to
passengers who live within and/or travel within three-quarters of a mile of RTD's fixed-route services or rail
stations due to a disability or mobility barrier as defined in the criteria set within the Americans with
Disabilities Act of 1990.
These services supplement regular fixed-route services, customers are required to pay a fare associated
with each trip taken, and all Access-a-Ride vehicles are branded and 100% accessible.
RTD's Access-on-Demand program is a supplemental premium service that provides curb-to-curb taxi and
ride-share options. Access-on-Demand services are currently available 24/7 throughout the RTD service
area that is available to current eligible Access-a-Ride customers.
Access-on-Demand customers do not currently pay an initial upfront fare like they do on regular Access-aRide services. RTD pays the first $25 of the customer's trip. Any cost above $25 is paid by the customers.
Customers can take up to 60 total trips per month on one of four different service providers.
Most access-on-demand-type services began as user subsidized voucher programs with services paid for
by transit agencies. Taxi companies typically provided on-demand services through voucher programs on
what is commonly referred to as the Federal Transit Administration Taxicab Exemption.
The initial exemption allowed transit agencies to issue ride vouchers to customers without requiring FTA or
DOT-compliant drug and alcohol testing for taxicab service providers using the same standards as is
required for regular fixed-route and paratransit service providers.
However, as transportation network companies such as Lyft and Uber have entered the market, accesson-demand-type programs have grown in popularity and usage in ways not intended by the initial enabling
Federal Transit Administration rules and regulations.
In proposed rule clarifications to drug and alcohol testing programs governing transportation network
companies issued by the FTA in December of 2024, the FTA stated, "In 1994 when the exception was
issued, many taxicab drivers were independent operators providing service to any individual who hailed
them from the curb. The selection was random and not predictable with the rider flagging down the next
taxi cab that appeared."

The proposed clarifications went further to state, "However, the use of TNCs has gone beyond incidental
support of public transportation, with first mile, last mile, and guaranteed ride home programs to regularly
supplementing or replacing transportation service."
Based upon the information contained within the Federal Register, it's clear that the FTA intended programs
such as access on demand to supplement paratransit services, not replace existing paratransit or traditional
fixed-route services. Although the FTA has not issued final clarifications as to whether or not TNCs will be
required to drug and alcohol driver-- to test drivers going forward, I think it's important that the initial intent
of the Access-on-Demand program as the agency considers policy changes under this program.
Overall, paratransit represents about 2% of RTD passenger trips in 2024. However, paratransit services
consume approximately 20% of Bus Operations' budget. When Access-on-Demand was originally
proposed by staff, the intent was to help supplement Access-a-Ride services as well as reduce paratransit
operating costs. Unfortunately, Access-a-Ride ridership has remained fairly steady, while Access-onDemand has grown substantially, creating a new demographic of paratransit customers.
Both Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand has seen a steady increase in the operating budget. Accesson-Demand now consumes about 20% of the total Access-a-Ride budget.
As the number of trips provided through the Access-on-Demand increase, so did the monthly cost
associated with providing these trips. Monthly program costs during the initial pilot phase were roughly
$85,000. As the pilot project progressed from providing service in a few zip codes to the entire service area,
demand for Access-on-Demand services grew quickly.
When trip caps were eliminated as part of the Zero Fare for Better Air Program in September '22, demand
for Access-on-Demand services jumped dramatically. This program has grown to over $1 million per month
in program cost.
Currently, about half of all active paratransit service customers use Access-a-Ride only. About 15% of the
active paratransit customers use a combination of Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand. However, about
35% only use Access-on-Demand services.
As mentioned, Access-on-Demand was intended to supplement Access-a-Ride services, taking some of
the pressure off of those services. It was never intended to create a new service market. However, the
Access-on-Demand program does not require an upfront fare, is not restricted to traditional ADA service
boundaries. Our service ours provides a fairly large subsidy per trip and a fairly large number of trips
provided per month, thus, the program has created a new service market.
Late in 2023, staff learned that some customers were utilizing multi-stop options that were outside of the
Access-on-Demand program scope and service restrictions. The Uber application allowed ambulatory
customers to request multiple stops when booking a ride. This option is not available through all service
providers or to customers who use mobility devices. The inability to provide multiple stops options to all
paratransit customers created disparity among our riders.
In December of 2023, staff notified all riders that multi-stop was never allowable under the Access-onDemand program, and that paratransit customers could not utilize the service. Unfortunately, RTD cannot
require Uber to turn off the multi-stop functionality. As a result, staff has to manually monitor service usage
to ensure the service is not used.

In February 2024, Debra Johnson asked that I assume oversight of our paratransit operations. I have an
extensive background in paratransit and demand-responsive services. When I assumed oversight of the
Paratransit Operations, CEO/General Manager Debra Johnson commissioned a peer review through the
American Public Transportation Association to examine RTD Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand
programs.
As a bit of background, when a peer review is requested, APTA will compile a panel of subject matter
experts to assess specific aspects of an agency's operations. This assessment typically consists of the
panel interviewing subject matter experts, examining program data and information, and interviewing key
stakeholders.
Panel experts volunteer their time and effort to help improve operations among other transit systems. The
Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand peer review commenced in April of 2024. As part of the preliminary
process, at the panel, experts met with staff to prepare for the peer review.
This included reviewing work to be completed as part of the review, determining interview and work
schedules, and working through other logistics such as travel, lodging, and workspace. In May of 2024, the
peer panel conducted on-site interviews, collected data, and worked extensively to analyze paratransit
operations for a full week.
The peer review focused on identifying best practices employed by similar transit agencies, including
demand response programs such as our Access-on-Demand program, to examine program parameters
that included responsible cost controls, sound customer-facing processes, and reviewing software,
hardware, and other tools to ensure optimal service performance and program cost-effectiveness.
From May through August, the peer panel worked to develop a final report that included observations and
recommendations to consider that could improve Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand services. The full
report is available online and is also included in your Board packet materials.
Although the final report is very detailed, the panel recommendations centered around three major themes.
First, there's the need to develop a clearly stated vision for paratransit to guide priorities for the Access-aRide and Access-on-Demand services. Currently, the Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand programs
function pretty much as standalone programs instead of complementary programs to support each other.
Second, there's a need to refresh the Access-on-Demand program structure to create a financially
sustainable option that serves customer needs. When the Access-on-Demand program was first initiated,
the monthly cost of operations was roughly $75,000. The program has grown to over $1.2 million in monthly
expenses. In 2022, the average cost per trip was roughly $10. The average cost per trip has grown to
approximately $16.50 per trip.
Currently, one-third of Access-on-Demand users consume about 70% of Access-on-Demand services.
Growth within the Access-on-Demand program is not operational or fiscally sustainable. Third, there is a
need to leverage technology and processes-- and process improvements to streamline daily work.
The recommendations received by the peer review panel were valuable. However, staff has had to
individually assess all recommendations to determine the viability within RTD's operating environment. The
peer review panel also recommended developing longer-term strategies to continue to improve our
paratransit operations.

After RTD received the final peer review report, several steps were taken to evaluate the feasibility of
recommendations within the report and to further refine the recommendations that I'll discuss later within
this presentation. These steps included surveying other transit agencies, extensive customer and
stakeholder outreach efforts, data and regression analysis, and in-depth case studies.
A significant amount of information has been gathered and utilized to formulate paratransit program
modifications under consideration. Initially, we collected information from 21 different transit agencies
through surveys or a review of other transit system programs. From the data gathered, about 95% of
agencies reviewed charged the same or higher fares for paratransit services similar to the Access-a-Ride
program federally mandated under the Americans with Disability Act. Also, about 80% of the agencies have
programs similar in basic operations to the RTD Access-on-Demand program.
Of those with programs similar to Access-on-Demand, 80% charge fares that are the same or higher than
their federally mandated paratransit programs. Only one transit agency reviewed had a zero fare upfront,
but that program had stringent requirements that customers be established-- regular customers of their
core paratransit system requiring 50 trips on the core paratransit system over the course of six months to
be eligible for the service.
Subsidies by other transit agencies range from $4.50 to $60 per trip, with trip caps ranging from 0 to 60
trips per month with the average trip cap of 42 trips per month.
Staff also engaged in customer and stakeholder outreach efforts. A web page was established in March
2024 that included information regarding the peer review report, observations, recommendations, and next
steps. An online feedback forum was developed. We received 516 comments through the web page.
Surveys were also conducted to gather feedback from the public. A second survey was sent to a statistical
sampling of paratransit customers. Additionally, feedback was solicited through our Customer Advisory
Committee such as ACPD, APAC, and the CAC. And additionally, multiple stakeholder meetings were
conducted. I personally led stakeholder outreach efforts and regularly met with advisory committees
throughout the entire engagement cycle.
Two surveys were distributed by staff. A general and a statistically valid survey representing the paratransit
customer base was distributed. The surveys asked several questions regarding service satisfaction, as well
as the importance of various program elements such as fares, subsidies, trip caps, and service area.
Respondents were also asked to rank three different scenarios to help staff understand the importance of
program elements to our paratransit customers.
The public online survey received 387 responses. The randomly sampled customers used for this statistical
sampling or provided links to the survey and paper copies were also available.
Survey responses indicated that over half of the respondents use Access-a-Ride services at least once per
week. About 65% of respondents used Access-on-Demand services at least once per week. Survey
recipients were also asked to rank in the importance and order of most important to least important
regarding several program elements of the Access-on-Demand program. Fares was most important, with
the subsidy per trip and number of trips allowed each month receiving nearly identical responses and
rankings. Service area and service hours available were ranked lowest among choices provided.

Service respondents were also asked to rank three different scenarios. Scenario A required customers to
pay an upfront fare of $4.50 per trip. After initial fare payment, customers would receive a trip subsidy of up
to $30 per trip for up to 30 trips per month.
Scenario B required customers to pay a higher $5.50 fare per trip. After an initial fare payment, customers
would receive a trip subsidy of $25 per trip for up to 40 trips per month. Scenario C required customers to
pay a $6.50 fare upfront per trip. After the initial fare payment, customers would receive a trip subsidy of
$25 per trip for up to 50 trips per month.
The scenarios were designed to help staff understand what customers valued the most in order of
importance with regard to customer upfront fares, subsidies, and the number of chirps provided per month.
Of the responses received, 64% of survey respondents chose scenario A as their top choice among the
three scenarios. This indicated the customers would prefer to have lower fares over higher trip subsidies
and more trips per month. Scenario B was the second choice, which required customers to pay a higher
base fare upfront, an additional $1 per trip over scenario A, have a $5 per trip lower subsidy, but also have
an additional 10 trips per month available to customers.
Scenario C was ranked third with customers paying $2 per trip more than scenario A, having a $5 per trip
lower subsidy, but also having an additional 20 trips per month over scenario A. Scenario A is very much
in alignment with customers ranking fare as the most important component of the Access-on-Demand
program.
A question was also asked to help determine if customers were willing to pay a premium for Access-onDemand services outside their traditional Access-a-Ride service boundaries, which are within threequarters of a mile of traditional fixed-route services or rail stations. Only 17% of respondents were very
likely to use Access-on-Demand services outside traditional ADA service area if a premium were required
for such services.
There was also a significant correlation between respondents who rated price as most important to those
respondents who rated trip subsidies and trip caps most important.
Of those who use Access-on-Demand services, 30 trips per month or more, which we term high-frequency
users. 54% selected scenarios B being C. Where those who take less than 30 trips per month, lowfrequency users, selected scenarios B or C. Responses also indicated that regardless of the scenario
chosen, there would be minimal changes in trip usage overall.
There was also a strong correlation between the age of respondents and those who chose scenario A as
their top pick. 51% of respondents 39 years of age or younger chose scenario A, 60% of respondents
between the age of 40 and 59 chose scenario A, and 74% of respondents aged 60 and above chose
scenario A.
Staff examined troop usage patterns for 2024 to assist in formulating programmatic change
recommendations. About three-quarters of active Access-on-Demand users take on average, 30 trips per
month or less. Based upon usage, staff believes that providing up to 40 trips per month is reasonable meets
the majority of Access-on-Demand user needs.
Going back to Access-on-Demand services, as previously mentioned, the program structure as it resulted
in a new market for these services and rapid ridership growth since full inception of the program. During
early stages of the Access-on-Demand program, ridership was roughly 6,000 trips per month. By the time

the program was open to the entire RTD service area, with expanded service hours and providers, the
program had already more than doubled in ridership, with roughly 15,000 trips per month.
By August of 2024, the program has grown from 6,000 trips per month in its pilot phase to roughly 63,000
trips per month, roughly 10 times the initial size of the initial pilot project.
Staff also examined the impacts of modifying service boundaries by examining actual trip patterns of
customers. The majority of Access-on-Demand trips were taken within the traditional service area
boundaries provided by Access-a-Ride services.
Of the trips that were either partially or fully outside the traditional ADA service area where Access-a-Ride
services are provided, only 5% have trips to both start and end outside the ADA service area. Fewer than
4% of customers regularly take trips take trips outside the traditional service area. However, 40% of users
have taken at least one trip per month that starts, ends, or are totally outside the service area.
Modifying the Access-on-Demand service area to mirror the existing ADA services would have minimal
impact to customers, yet improve access for WAV customers who are Wheelchair-Accessible Vehicle
customers. Currently, RTD uses our paratransit service providers to supplement wheelchair accessible
vehicle services for Access-on-Demand.
When WAV services are provided for Access-on-Demand, those vehicles are not available to provide
service on Access-a-Ride. Additionally, providing service outside the core ADA service area extends wait
times for those in need of wheelchair-accessible vehicles as there are a limited number of WAV vehicles
available and our service area is a full 2,400 square service miles versus a compact ADA corridor service
area.
Finally, properly assessing cost to service is difficult as WAV resources are built under the traditional
Access-a-Ride contract, not as a separate line item, thus, the cost for ADA programs are understated.
Demand for wheelchair-accessible vehicle service has increased with overall demand. As previously
mentioned, WAV service is only available to customers who are able to use curb-to-curb service, and the
cost of those WAV trips is incorrectly allocated to the Access-a-Ride program, overstating the Access-aRide cost and understating the Access-on-Demand program cost by up to 27%.
After considering customer feedback, the regression analysis, customer surveys, customer program usage
data, and other factors such as fiscal sustainability, staff has developed several recommendations for
consideration regarding the Access-on-Demand program. I'll go under-- I'll go over the key
recommendations and the consideration on the screen, then I'll provide other relevant data used to develop
these recommendations.
First, we are recommending that customers pay base fare equivalent to the fare paid on other Access-aRide services. This includes a $4.50 base fare for customers or a reduced fare of $2.25 for LiVE customers.
Staff is also recommending reducing the trip cap from $60 to $40 per month. And staff is recommending
that the subsidy per ride be decreased from $25 to $20.
These recommendations are in alignment with the responses from customers regarding the order of
importance for program elements with the reasonable fare being the most important element. We're also
recommending that the service area and service hours be modified to mirror those of Access-a-Ride
program and effect at the time.

Based upon a number of factors and a regression analysis conducted, it is projected that the staff
recommendation to modify trip caps, fare subsidies, and service area alignment will result in a net reduction
in program cost of approximately $434,000 per month, or about a 41% reduction in program spending.
Most customers take less than 40 trips per month, thus, the trip cap reduction will impact-- will not impact
most customers. Based upon regression analysis, customer usage patterns, and the experience of other
transit agencies, staff believes that those who are super users that utilize more than 40 trips per month will
manage their trips more effectively.
Aligning service area and service hours with the ADA boundaries will also ensure equity and equal access
to services. As a reminder, those who are outside of the ADA boundary but cannot use Access-a-Ride
services do not have services available that are available to Access-on-Demand users.
So program cost reductions are based upon lower trip usage, customer fare contributions, and the
elimination of some trips currently taken that are available to other transit users.
Staff is recommending that a LiVE fair discount is offered as part of the Access-on-Demand program
modifications. In the fall of 2024, a random sample survey of paratransit customers were conducted. 74%
of survey-takers reported household incomes of less than 250% of the federal poverty level, and that in a
customer survey, 55% of Access-a-Ride and Access-on-Demand customers reported household incomes
of less than 200% of the federal poverty level.
RTD Civil Rights staff estimate that based on census data, 28% of the people living in the RTD district may
have income less than 250% of the federal poverty level. So our financial estimates assume that 55% of
customers may qualify for the LiVE program discount.
Staff is also working on several Access-on-Demand operational changes that require Access-on-Demand
users to be enrolled and establish as Access-a-Ride customers, that the suspension policy be streamlined,
and that future contracts incentivize transportation networks to TNCs to provide wheelchair-accessible
vehicles.
Staff has also examined opportunities to improve Access-a-Ride services. Most Access-a-Ride users take
10 trips or less per month. About 60% of Access-a-Ride users take 30 trips or less per month. During the
annual agency survey conducted in 2024, Access-a-Ride customers indicated that vehicles arriving on time,
ease of scheduling trips, and travel time were among the most important service provision factors.
One of the historical challenges regarding Access-a-Ride service delivery was on-time performance
reliability. Looking back three years, Access-a-Ride service delivery floated in the upper 70% range until
September 2023.
In September 2023, staff integrated freeware with existing scheduling software which resulted in immediate
on-time performance improvements, climbing to 90% on-time service pickups in March of 2024. On-time
service delivery for Access-a-Ride services has consistently been around 90% since that time.
Customer satisfaction regarding Access-a-Ride has improved as well. Access-a-Ride concerns have
declined by 49% when comparing 2023 data versus 2024 data.
Utilizing survey information and customer feedback, staff is also looking at a number of operational changes
or enhancements to our Access-a-Ride program. This includes changing recertifications from four years to
five. On-time performance will be modified to measure pickup and drop-off metrics and future scheduling

software enhancements. Staff is also exploring software modifications to support changes in service
provision and to provide productivity enhancements.
For example, we're exploring ways to provide same-day service requests on Access-a-Ride services. There
will also be modifications to the conditional eligibility process. Staff is exploring contract modifications to
provide better program accountability and reduce operating costs, as well as modifications to the existing
suspension policy.
Finally, staff is working on developing a fleet procurement plan to procure smaller vehicles such as sedans
or minivans as part of a pilot project. A modified fleet mix should reduce operating costs and improve
passenger comfort.
As Ms. Johnson mentioned, this timeline may be subject to change, but at the time of production, this is
what we had available. So this month, staff has presented background and proposed program changes to
improve paratransit service, as well as maintain program fiscal sustainability.
It is anticipated that the staff will bring a final set of programmatic changes for the Board to approve and
either April or May of 2025 with staff working to effectuate any Board-adopted modifications between
adoption and the implementation completed in August of 2025.
I know that that is a lot of information to digest in a short period of time. However, that concludes my
presentation, and thank you for your attention.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Are there any comments or questions from the committee? My
guess is no. I'm just looking online right now, and I see Director Paglieri.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. I have quite a bit to say this evening because I think this is an
extremely important topic. And I will try to keep each question under 45 seconds and each comment under
45 seconds.
So my first question is, when you were studying these-- did the peer agency review, and if you looked at
other agencies, what percentage do other agencies spend on the ADA-required services? Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: On the-BRETT PAGLIERI: Sorry, to clarify, what percentage of their total budget do they spend on these ADA
services? And maybe what do we spend as well?
FRED WORTHEN: Typically for Access-a-Ride, the federally mandated services, the budgets for Accessa-Ride services fluctuate between 15% and 25% of the operating budget.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. I can go back around in the queue to answer my next question. I yield the
floor.
IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Chandler.?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes. Thank you. Finally got that off of mute. Thank you, Director Harwick-Chairman Harwick. My question is to Mr. Worthen. You had a slide that you talked about which isn't in our
packet. I believe it's the Access-a-Ride on on-demand service definition slide? That wasn't in our packet for
some reason. And I noticed that the date on your slide was from 2024. So that slide--

So I'd like to go back to that because it seems like there's quite a bit that's-- in my mind, points to the fact
that Access-a-Ride is obviously not a good product compared to the Access-on-Demand. Access-onDemand is a good product because people are using it more because it is eclipsing.
And so on page 253, slide 253, there's a definition there on what Access-on-Demand and the-- a definition
is. And that's why people are misusing it, is because the definition is so narrow. And so I don't know if our
agency has the capacity to tell people, you can't use it to go to and from work. But that's what that definition
is saying, is that you-- these are what is recommended uses and not what's actually put forth. So I don't
know if you can get back to that slide. Does that make sense?
FRED WORTHEN: I can explain to you. Again, going back to the initial FTA rulings, the Access-on-Demand
programs were designed to be basically somebody goes out on the curb-JOYANN RUSCHA: Excuse me, sir, just for point of order. Would you mind, Mr. Worthen-- or staff, if they
could, just pull up that slide that Director Chandler referenced? It would be helpful for us who are-- who
have a different version of the packet, as well as who our remote.
FRED WORTHEN: You said 253?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Well, it's farther down than that. I don't know-- I didn't write the-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, if I may. It is package page 253, which is also slide 6 whereby we see Accesson-Demand service meant to be supplemental.
And then it lists out-- use cases include medical appointments, unforeseen situation, shopping, to just
amplify the point that Director Chandler has made, whether or not we can actually state that one cannot
use it for employment, I would agree in that vein because it is a service and it's discretionary in that regard.
While the intent may be supplemental, it's hard. I just wanted to-KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Right. And that-- I guess that's my point. Slide 253 says Access-on-Demand
service is meant to be supplemental to the ADA requirement-- required paraservice-- paratransit service,
not a replacement service.
Well, it's become a replacement service, OK? And so I think we need to address the fact that it's become
this because it is a better service. And that's my point, is when people are given a choice, they're going to
take something that's a better service.
So I think there's multiple things here. We need to figure out how to either correct the misservice, the
unproductive service, the lack of service in the Access-a-Ride because people will only continue to use
Access-on-Demand more. I would. I mean, I think the paratransit-- or the population we're trying to serve
would use it more.
And I think that that's why it's kind of hard for me to say, well, are we policing this? And I think that's an
administrative nightmare. I think on page 282, you talked about-- I have to go down to page 282 in this
slide. And again, the packet we received is different than-- by a few slides the one that you showed because
I was trying to follow along very diligently.
So slide-- or page 282, how does one keep track of all this? I think that's an administrative nightmare as
well. So I would like to say that one of the things I would recommend, because you had recommendations

on page 293, is has anybody thought outside the box of what we can do as far as recommendations other
than continuing to recommend what we are currently doing?
And maybe a recommendation might be, on your slide-- or your page 293, we actually give the person the
choice what to do with their dollars instead of us trying to administer that. I think it takes a lot less staff time,
a lot less angst from the rider if they're actually given that choice instead of us trying to cap everything and
trying to just push them towards that end. So I just-- I guess I have some comments as to why other
additional scenarios were not considered.
FRED WORTHEN: If I may-IAN HARWICK: Please.
FRED WORTHEN: --Chair Harwick. First off, I would disagree with the comments that were made. Because
this is a premium service, the agency has a right to regulate that service in any way set. It is not federally
mandated, so things like restricting trip cap and usages are well within the purview of the agency, they are
not regulated by the FTA. However, that being said, that doesn't mean that we should.
What I was trying to relay, though, is that when this program-- these programs were started, the FTA has
clearly stated that these types of programs are not meant to replace existing services. And I'm merely
relaying to you that the FTA has things under consideration now that may dramatically impact these types
of programs down the road depending upon what happens with clarification of existing legislation itself.
As far as the administrative burden, we are already tracking things like subsidies for trips per month, and
we have to do all of that manually right now. Part of what we are headed towards down the line is to create
a software interface where customers could basically book trips, and it would give them information based
upon things like trip availability, how many trips they have left per month, would give them the ability to be
able to pay their fare through the portal.
That is down the line, though. That isn't something that we can do right now. However, we are already
tracking the subsidies that the vendors have a contract that basically they automatically charge for abovethe-trip subsidies. We have to manually track the number of trips used per month. That does create a
challenge for us as we have four different vendors that we are tracking at this point, but I do understand the
comments. But again, I think that we have to consider the intent of the FTA when we consider policy as
well.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Can I ask a quick follow-up question?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: So what do you think is the intent, then, of the FTA?
FRED WORTHEN: Again, the intent of the FTA was for these programs to be supplemental to existing
services, not to replace those services.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: And so how do we, then, put that genie back in the bottle? I mean, as a user of
that, it just seems excessively punitive to somebody who's gotten accustomed to it, someone who's reliant
upon it, to have to-- and so-- I mean, I'm not arguing with you in any way at all, but I'm just saying realistically,
you have a product that people want to use, and it's going to be really difficult to rein this in.

FRED WORTHEN: Don't disagree, ma'am. What we are trying to do, though, is bring forth
recommendations that make this program sustainable, that meet the needs of the majority of our users
itself. So we're trying to find some middle ground where we continue to provide these services, but at the
same point, we make them fiscally and operationally sustainable where they meet the majority of our users'
needs.
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Harwick, I believe GM/CEO Johnson would like to add a few words.
IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much. And thank you very much, Director Chandler. Your comments
are heard loudly and clearly, and recognizing where we are and your analogy of putting a genie back in the
bottle, right? Because these are different elements that are impacting a lot of different transit agencies,
while there was an intent, especially during COVID whereby we were looking at a population that needed
to get to critical spaces, these programs really were exploratory, and then they took on a life of their own.
Hence, with the FTA's recent Notice of Proposed Policy Statement that came out in the former
administration to look at that taxi exemption, it's grown bigger than that. So considering that transportation
network companies have been leveraged and they're different than in taxi companies, we're in this quandary
as we move forward, but that's why we were having the discussion here today, to get these comments from
all of you so when we double back again with the community, we have an understanding of how we go
forward.
And I would be remiss not to state, considering that we are in this nebulous area relative to the contracts
that we have with TNCs that will sunset. It's difficult for us to understand what the parameters will be
because we have to, more or less, wait and see what that guidance will be, if there will be any guidance as
well because when you develop a statement or a scope of work, we don't know what we're asking for from
the TNCs.
And what I will share is that there has been this cadre of TNCs working together, and they have reached
out because they're saying they're being limited, if, in fact, that their of independent drivers were subjected
to drug and alcohol testing.
So this is really convoluted. And so I just want you all to know that as we have been going through this
process, recognizing the APTA peer review commenced in April, we weren't faced with the taxicab
exemption-- even though it was there, this did not come out until December 20 whereby they said, there's
these-- there's this opportunity to put forward comments-- it was in the National Register, it was posted.
And so this has been another issue that has come to pass. So that basically speaks to part of your question,
why weren't we addressing that? Because we had gone through some initial iterations, and then the Notice
of Proposed Policy Statement came out right before the Christmas holiday.
And as we have worked with our peers at APTA and submitted comments, which I shared with the Board,
to let you all know about, whereby we're asking the FTA to stand down on the policy and allow us-- i.e.,
transit agencies, to have representation via APTA to engage about the actual experience. So I just wanted
to give that context as well just to explain that why we are where we are. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler, do you have anything else?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I have some other, but I'll yield the floor.

IAN HARWICK: OK. Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I also have some questions. I will ask a few, then I will yield to my
colleagues and try to come in at the end if there's still time. So first, just a comment. Like, the has said,
these programs are meant to replace existing services, but the FTA has been very clear that we should be
looking at FTA guidelines for mandated paratransit when we provide these services or make any substantial
changes.
And when this program was piloted, replacing some existing services, that was what was pitched as part
of the record. The intent was to alleviate some usage on Access-a-Ride and improve service for Access-aRide. I was there in those meetings. It's also, again, part of public record.
But irrespective of what the intent is of the FTA, the ADA is the floor. If we wake up and we find the floor, I
don't know if that yields a congratulations. So I do appreciate when staff is going above and beyond, and I
see a few things in this presentation where we are, for example, parity regarding the LiVE program.
But for my questions, though-- this is for Mr. Worthen who led this-- who's been leading this charge. How
many transit agencies in the United States have partnerships with TNCs? In your presentation, you
referenced some policies and some agencies, but I would actually like to know how many agencies have
partnerships with TNCs, if you have that information, because as we see here, if you've seen one transit
agency, you've seen one transit agency. And whether that's a raw number or a percentage, any most recent
available data would be appreciated. Thank you, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for the question, Committee Chair Ruscha. As far as how many transit
systems nationwide have these type of relationships, I can't speak to an exact number. I can say that we
looked at 21 different agencies to look at their policies and procedures, and I provided a lot of information
on what we saw from those 21 different agencies.
So we did look at a wide variety of transit systems, how they're operating, talk to them, surveyed them.
However, if you were to say, are there 200 systems nationwide? I can't speak to that, and I don't know if
there's any statistics on that available.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr Chair?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. Is it OK if I dialogue briefly on this question?
IAN HARWICK: Yep.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, thank you. So Mr. Worthen, thank you, I appreciate that. The reason for my
question is what I stated, if we've seen one transit agency, we've seen one transit agency. That being said,
oftentimes other agencies can give us good ideas. So I don't want to discount what other agencies are
doing. It's just that even a quick, cursory Google will show dozens of agencies that partner with TNCs or
NEMTs, Non-Emergency Medical Transportation, which we have also done in the past.
And so I just want to caution staff moving forward, when we talk about what other agencies are doing, or if
we call them peer agencies, just to keep that in mind, that it's all unique. And in terms of what we're spending
per rider or on service, some of these other agencies using TNCs have specific supplemental funds that
are being provided locally or through state dollars to help with those programs.

So I know that we use the word "holistic" care a lot, but this does require a holistic perspective, but most
importantly, within our own agency, when we talk about that holistic perspective. So I would just encourage
staff and my colleagues on the Board to consider, what does RTD need, what do our customers need, and
what is right for this agency?
I do have some other questions about methodology and the like, but I'm going to yield to my colleagues
who might have similar questions. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you. So I have no idea if we're doing our jobs here. This presentation and
this conversation isn't nearly expansive enough to address the fundamental question of whether what is
proposed is morally or practically right. It doesn't look at how we make trade-offs between funding for our
core fixed-route system and funding for paratransit.
I know people like to ignore that, but we have a limited budget, and everything needs to be grounded in the
trade-offs involved. Real people are hurt either way.
That's not the fault of staff, to be clear. The Board has not asked for the level of review necessary for us to
responsibly make changes. It is not clearly defined the why of Access-on-Demand, as it has morphed from
a cost-saving measure to a supplemental service that is meant to do something.
It doesn't ask, what is our moral responsibility here? A clearly defined mission for AoD should define the
more operational questions like, how much do you spend on this? I think we haven't asked because we
don't want to know. Because these are deeply difficult moral choices that affect people's lives, and it's much,
much easier to abstract them away.
AoD serves the congenitally blind woman who needs to get to work, the cognitively disabled young man
who would be homebound without it. And it also serves the senior citizen who broke her hip and can't drive
for eight months while she recovers. Some people need AoD for life, others for just a few months.
This presentation does not break down our AAR spending or AoD spending by rider. It was mentioned a
little bit by Mr. Worthen about 30% and 70%, but we need far more data on customer behavior to understand
exactly what we're paying for. There was no deep analysis about how people use AoD. I don't know whether
we get data on, for example, pick-up and drop-off locations that could be used to model what kind of trips
people are taking.
I've thought a lot about this over the last few months, and I still don't have a good answer. What I do know
is that the incentives presented today are misaligned, and what's proposed doesn't fix that. A per-month
cap strikes me as far smarter than our current system. I've talked about this a lot with Director Chandler
over the last month or two.
The proposal here is prescriptive-- only so many trips at only so many dollars. It strikes me we should just
tell people, you get an $800 subsidy per month And you pay $4.50 per ride. That $800 is equivalent to the
20-- or, sorry, the $20 subsidy times the 40 rides that are proposed in the packet today.
That will encourage people to preserve their subsidy by taking the cheapest trips they can. It will encourage- it will enable them to take more trips if they are economical. And for people who only use the service
sporadically, it'll enable them to take longer-- to ride longer distances where they need to.

This is particularly important for the more rural service-- more rural districts in our service area. We have
heard Director Catlin complain about the fact that for her district, a $20 subsidy doesn't get you very far.
And it will allow people to take multi-stop trips without any issues because it just comes out of your thing.
We don't care at the end of the day how many stops you have, it's the equivalent of-- because we're no
longer counting the number of trips you have. And if technology allows, we could charge a higher fare on
much longer trips so that if you're spending $100, we could ask for a $10 or $20 fare.
So my request to staff is to bring back additional analysis of a dollar subsidy per customer per month
structure like I've mentioned. I also want to see similar modeling for our fixed-route customers. How much
do we spend each month on a fixed-route customer per person? I've never seen that information, and it
feels-- I should say here, it's not right for us to make changes to AoD without that data.
I think changes are warranted. I have been very clear about the need to have cost containment with
everything we know that's coming, but I have to be able to look myself in the mirror after I vote for them.
Thanks.
IAN HARWICK: Director Paglieri?
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you, Chair. Thank you, Director Nicholson. Sorry, Secretary Nicholson. I feel
very similarly on these issues because this discussion, which will probably be one of many, and we have
not addressed the fundamental questions about what this service is for, who this service is for, and how
we're going to pay for this service.
And so, quickly, my comment and a question is-- my perspective and goal for Access-on-Demand and
Access-a-Ride is sustainability. I want this to be a sustainable service that enables us to be fiduciaries of
the agency because fundamentally, that's one of the reasons we're elected. The ghost of former Chair
Erickson-- sorry, Davidson is echoing in my head, but I really want to know what can be sustainable, and
at what point, given-IAN HARWICK: That's not good. We lost you there, Director Paglieri. You're back now.
BRETT PAGLIERI: OK, OK. Let me step back. I just want to know-- I want to make sure this is sustainable
and make sure we're good fiduciaries-- or fiduciaries. But my question, then, is something that was briefly
mentioned-- and this has not been brought up yet by the Board. We keep talking about alcohol and drug
testing drivers.
And as someone who's experienced violence from drunk, inebriated drivers and drivers under the influence
of drugs and alcohol, I think we should discuss why, morally, we are OK with not testing our drivers for
drugs and alcohol.
Granted, I think my question, then, is what kind of drugs are being tested for? And is it legal drugs in the
state of Colorado like marijuana that is making issues at the federal level?
But I cannot condone on any level us allowing someone to get into a car where we are testing our bus
drivers for illicit-- like, for inebriation, but we're not testing our Access-on-Demand drivers for the same-we're not keeping them to the same standard. And that's my question, is, what is the issue with testing
these folks? We should have a high standard and we shouldn't allow this behavior. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?

IAN HARWICK: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank You. So just for clarity, when we're talking about drug and alcohol testing, it's
for the transportation network companies, and they're a third party. And we're contracting with Uber and
Lyft and zTrip things of the like.
So for RTD having a third-party contract with these entities, as it currently is set up, there was an exemption,
and the agency does not have a mechanism-- for those that have utilized TNCs, somebody's working
independently, there is no mechanism, hence, that's why FTA put this forward.
And so I just want to assure all for the record that when we talk about the other services that we provide,
those individuals are drug- and alcohol-tested. We're talking about this nebulous area that has greatly grown
in the midst of COVID because a myriad of different transit agencies were leveraging different systems to
provide services to vulnerable populations when there was stay-at-home orders. So I just wanted to ensure
that I said that for the record.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. May I respond, Chair?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Yeah, thank you just for clarifying. So we do rigorous testing of our direct employees,
I'm assuming. Do we require any drug and alcohol testing for the Uber drivers that are in the Access-aRide-- Access-on-Demand program?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may? Once again, I was indicating no because these are third-party contracts. And
I want to clarify, while we have third-party contracts with other entities, they are required, as specified by
federal guidelines, by the Federal Transit Administration, this is a new area, and we have seen a growth
relative to transit agencies engaging in contracts with TNCs.
Hence the proposed policy statement that was noticed in the Federal Register, that's what they're seeking
to address because it's a gray area.
BRETT PAGLIERI: Thank you. I just want to be it known that if we cannot drug- and alcohol-test all of our
drivers, then we should not be providing programs with drivers that cannot be tested at the same standards
as the other drivers that we have. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. What a wonderful conversation we're having. Robust and I love it. Mr.
Worthen, thank you so much for your presentation. A quick question. In all of the conversations that we've
had, one thing keeps coming back up over and over from constituents, and it has been a matter that has
been addressed to the Board in full at our regular meetings with this particular program.
I think the triggering event for all of this was when we found out that there was a potential to use a multistop function on one of the TNC platforms that was not allowable under others. And so by doing any of
these limitations, whether it's the $5.50 or 40 cap or any of the other options, have we looked at that in any
way to address that issue?
And I'm asking that because it is such a tricky part of what we're doing and something we don't have control
over, necessarily, because we don't control the platform. I also heard you say we're working on a nexus

platform to be able to provide services that's well into the future, but as it stands right now, I do have some
concerns regarding that.
I'll be quick about this, but we've heard everything from "I should be able to go through the McDonald's
drive-through or Burger King drive-through on my way to the doctor," to "I really need that multi-stop function
to drop my child off at daycare on my way to work."
And so I'm trying to understand, in terms of the services that we're providing, fixed-route would not get that
service. I can't go through a Starbucks drive-through on a bus.
As much as I might love that option, because I work there, it's not reality. This service as a supplemental
premium service could potentially do something like that, but it's kind of neither here nor there for me
because if we're going to charge a fare to begin that ride, what happens after? Has any of that been
concerned-- any of that concern been dealt with in the follow-up conversations you've had, either with
community, with the TNCs, or amongst the professionals in the room that are having this conversation?
Because I think it's a sticking point, and I don't know how to get around that one. And I'm with my community,
this is an important service, but I am stuck on that. That one broke me at the meeting. And it stuck in my
head. We can't go through a drive-through, a bus can't go through a drive-through. So what's fair and
equitable and what's necessary could look like two different things depending on your view. So I'll leave
that there. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, thank you again, Chairman Harwick. I guess my comment, back to Director
Paglieri, is I would hope-- and I assume that because Uber is in the-- or any of the other agencies that are
used-- that we're using as the supplementals, they don't particularly want to kill their riders. So they are in
the business of making sure that their drivers are sober.
So we can assume-- I know that's a big assumption, but if there was a problem or if they were consistently
having drunk drivers-- and we've seen Uber reprimand their drivers. We've seen that kind of market
correction to them.
So I think that by saying that they don't do that, we don't know that for sure, but we can assume that they
have some mechanism because they exist and we don't see a lot of their drivers driving drunk and that kind
of thing. So I think we can have a good assumption that they're not trying to kill their customers.
But I also think that the multi-stop thing is kind of interesting because I agree with Director Nicholson in that
if they were given dollar amount and they needed to go to two or three stops, why would we care at that
point? So it would be up to the rider to determine that.
Now whether that's equitable or not, I don't know, but when we give that choice to the rider, whatever that
looks like, I think that's best for them to decide. If it takes more of that dollars for multiple stops, that should
be up to them because I think that that helps them become independent.
If they are a blind person and they need to get to some place and it requires them to get two or three
different stops in there, I think that that's a good use of that dollar. As opposed to limiting them and saying,
you only get one stop. And again, I think it's an administrative nightmare for us to try to keep track of all of
that.

So I would hope that we would come to a conclusion that it's really about servicing the least-- the population
that needs to be serviced the most in the best way. And I think that might mean thinking about what Director
Nicholson's talking about as far as giving someone the options to make those choices themselves. And I
agree that we don't have enough data at this point in order to make a decision based on that.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you. Sorry, I jumped past Director Guzman. I think he had a question that I turned
into a conversation and I misread that. So Director Guzman, if you want to ask your question again for Fred- or Mr. Worthen.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yeah. Very directly, I just want to know, is that conversation happening at all? Are we
talking about that with this? Because I didn't hear anything in the presentation or read anything in the
presentation specific to that and it's bugging me.
FRED WORTHEN: OK, thank you. I do apologize, I wasn't trying to skirt a response. I wasn't exactly sure
if that was a comment or a question directly. With regard to multi-stop, at this point, staff is not
recommending reinstituting multi-stops themselves for a variety of reasons.
First and foremost, our services should be equitable and equal access, and unfortunately, our TNCs do not
have equity or equal access when it comes to wheelchair-accessible vehicles.
And so that option of multi-stop is really not available through all of our providers and to all of our actual
users themselves, particularly those who are wheelchair-bound, particularly since we are the ones that are
providing wheelchair-accessible vehicles to supplement Access-on-Demand services through our Accessa-Ride contracts and we don't have the ability to do that.
That doesn't mean that it can't be something that can't be worked on in the future as we look at other
software enhancements-- like we were talking about with the software interface, we just don't have the
ability to provide that to all of our users at this time.
So to provide equal access, and from an equality standpoint, we aren't recommending reinstituting the
multi-stop at this time. That doesn't mean that it's not off the table for future contracts or for future
approaches through software modifications, we just don't have the capability to provide that to all of our
users at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Thank you very much.
IAN HARWICK: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah, so I have a quick comment, and then a question for Mr. Worthen. To Director
Paglieri's point, I understand exactly where he's coming from, and as someone who has-- as a full-time
pedestrian who has had to deal with some very reckless drivers, I take drug and alcohol behind the wheel
very, very, very seriously.
I'm a plain-spoken guy. There's no world in which Uber and Lyft will start drug-testing and alcohol-testing
their drivers, which will mean that we can't use them. And so we have to contract with a much, much smaller
provider if we could even find one to do this, and that would mean that the service was much more difficult
to use and the wait times would be in the dozens of minutes.
And so, yeah, unfortunately, it really-- if FTA goes forward with this, the ability to run the program goes
away, unfortunately. So we'll just see where that's at.

I will also add, though, that we have lost out on a lot of good bus operators because of the marijuana drugtesting. There is, at least in my opinion, no good reason why someone using pot at home should prevent
them from being a bus operator, but right now, we have to-- that's federally mandated. So I think it's
important to separate the stuff from the stuff when we're thinking about drug- and alcohol-testing, even for
our fixed-route folks.
The question I had for Mr. Worthen, just going off of what Director Guzman and Director Chandler raised,
is, have you looked at the possibility of, instead of doing a per-trip and a per-number-of-trips and a per-trip
subsidy, just saying, here's the amount of money we are going to spend on a single customer this month
and use it up-- have you explored that model? Because I, at least having read the presentations over the
last year, I haven't seen anything that looked at it from that perspective. I'm just curious if you can expand
on whether that's been looked at, and if so, how.
FRED WORTHEN: Thanks for the question. To be perfectly honest, when you have no skin in the game,
there is no incentive to basically monitor or manage your behavior. I will say that as bluntly as I can, but as
professionally as I can. That is part of the reason why we have some of the challenges we have right now,
because there is not a requirement to pay a fare upfront like there is on all of our other services itself.
This is the only program that we have in existence where customers do not pay a fare upfront. Our Accessa-Ride customers do pay a fare upfront. Our fixed-route service provide a fare upfront.
So by requiring some type of fare payment upfront, that does require a customer to put some skin in the
game, to basically pay for some of the services, and to help with the cost associated with the program itself.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Mr. Chair, can I-IAN HARWICK: Please.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Thanks. So just to be clear, what I had suggested was absolutely charging someone
per trip. I think that that's absolutely-- the same $4.50, $5.50, $2.50, whatever the number is. But saying
we're not going to police how much you spend on a trip.
So in my district, I take not a ton of Ubers, but the ones I do take tend to be about $10 because it's trying
to get somewhere when the buses stopped running, it's generally not going all the way across town. And
so for me, if I were using this, I would use a lot of it, but I'd use it $10 at a time. I'd pay the $5 or $4.50, and
then you guys would-- RTD-- you guys, we would pay the other $5.50 or whatever it is.
For someone in Peggy Catlin's district, the trips would be $50. So there wouldn't be as many of them, but
they would more effectively meet her needs. I'm curious if that kind of thing, rather than saying a fixed
number of trips, which has been a big fight-- I mean, the biggest argument we've seen so far. What people
have brought up more than anything else is don't cut the number of trips. I need 60 trips. I need 50 trips. I
need 40 trips.
By doing this, we would give them the ability to take as many trips as they wanted. Within their dollars. And
it's like, you get to decide how to trade off between number of trips and expensive cost of trips. And I'm just
curious if that's something that you guys looked at for the program.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, sir. Thank you for that question. Yes, that was part of the regression analysis,
which led to the recommendations that we have with regard to the number of trips, trip subsidy, and the
fare itself.

That was part of our regression analysis, and based upon our regression analysis, the recommendation we
were bringing forth, we believe, meets the majority of our customers' need because, again, 75-plus percent
of our customers use less than 40 trips per month. It's that additional 25% that are the super users-- again,
as I stated, there's a small percentage that are driving the majority of our cost.
So again, if you just write an open checkbook, there is going to continue to be growth. There has to be
some containment of the program with regard to the trips, the subsidy, and the fare itself. You can't just pull
one and not expect the program to grow exponentially itself.
So yes, we did look at balancing those things as part of our regression analysis, which is why we landed
where we are with the recommendations we have. Great questions, though.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yeah. And can I respond, Mr. Chair?
IAN HARWICK: Sure.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yeah. And I would just say, to finish that off, that if you look at the numbers, you go
from a $25 subsidy 60 times, which is $1,500, if I'm doing my math right, down to a $20 subsidy 40 times,
which is an $800-per-person maximum subsidy.
So I think the cost containment there comes from just fundamentally being able to say, this is how much
we're going to spend per person, which is one way of addressing the equity question because you're literally
saying, this is how much I'm going to spend per person and everybody gets the same thing.
So I would really like to see us do an analysis that looks at the exact same dollar amount, the $800 that
you're proposing in subsidy, allocated in a way that gives people the freedom to spend it however they want
with a per-trip base fare, basically.
IAN HARWICK: There's no question there, correct?
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, correct.
IAN HARWICK: OK. All right. Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. So first, I'd like to ask us to just be really respectful of our language.
Like, for example, when we say we don't have skin in the game, this was our program, we put out the
subsidy, and then we increased the subsidy. And we have removed people from the program for going over
their allotted trip amounts. I did do a core request on that and people have been dropped from the program
for doing just that.
I would say, as evidenced by the hundreds of comments we've heard over the last several months, people
do have skin in the game. And so if the agency lacks a function where people can easily track their usage,
it's up to the agency to figure out, just like we do with all other services.
I mean, for example, if I had-- I'm grateful that I have my monthly-- my Board pass, so I don't have to
manage this anymore, but when I roll off the Board and I start using tap to pay after a certain amount of
rides, I've automatically converted to a monthly pass. I didn't have to do anything except ride the system,
RTD took care of it for me.

So in the same way, we need to think about our paratransit customers and make this service as easy as
possible to use for them, but also for them to stay in compliance.
With that, I do have some questions, slash, comments. So I have a comment on multi-trip, and then a
question on the budget. So multi-trip. After hearing about this for months and getting some data through
open records requests, I feel that the multi-trip option, taking it away, it seems a bit ridiculous because
we've already established it doesn't make a fiscal difference, but it is creating another barrier for our
disabled riders.
And I hear the words like "equitable" and "equal access." Well, currently we have, I think, four providers for
on-demand. Some of them don't allow you to book trips online. Some of them don't take Venmo as a
payment. Do we dump them as well? Because when we marketed the service, we said this is an opportunity
for paratransit customers to participate in the open market. In fact, the open market was emphasized
repeatedly-- and it still is-- in the user agreement when people sign up.
So that whole conversation about the multi-step option just feels like a red herring to me, and I think the
Board is smarter than that. It doesn't-- it's not making a difference in dollars and cents, it might even be
driving up the cost in some cases, but it is absolutely-- I mean, this would potentially really hurt our disabled
riders who depend on this system.
And my question, though, is-- my questions here about budget. So for Fiscal Year 2024-- or, excuse me,
'24 and '25-- so when we pass the budget in 24 for this fiscal year, we budgeted almost $44 million for
Access-a-Ride, and then it went up to 15 million for on-demand.
So collectively, that is less than what we've spent in years past based on most recently available public
information. Because for years, the line items in our budget were missing paratransit. It disappeared until it
reappeared last year. So I've asked what our prior budgets were for paratransit, and I've yet to get that
data. I would really appreciate if staff could please compile that data and get it to the Board.
Now, I think from 2018 onward would be really appropriate because I think that's the last time we saw a
line item in the budget for paratransit, but we've also had some programs change like Call-and-Ride,
FlexRide, and taking over some of Metro Taxi's responsibilities and the like. So not every year will look the
same, but having a breakdown, a year-over-year pre- and post-COVID data is more than appropriate, and
I think necessary for this Board to be able to make any decisions on this program.
And then I want to just move on to non-emergency medical providers, transportation providers, or NEMTs,
we call them. They were always expected to be part of the bidding queue when this program was launched.
That is, again, part of the public record. It's on YouTube. You can find it. It's in a Board report if you want
to look.
And they would meet the drug- and alcohol-testing requirements, and there are providers who could put in
a bid. So if we have not been engaging in conversations or exploring that since this pilot was first launched
and we said we were going to explore it, I would at the very least like to see an RFI put out before we make
any major changes to this program.
Because, again, NEMT and similar services were at least told to the public they were supposed to be part
of this program. Uber, Lyft, zTrip, Metro Taxi were not going to be the end all, be all. That was the start of
something and not the end. And I feel, maybe because of COVID or other reasons, we just dropped the
ball on that and there's an opportunity there.

Moving into-- so I guess my question is, what is the plan to include NEMTs as originally prescribed when
the pilot was pitched to the board? That would be a question if anyone could answer.
FRED WORTHEN: So, thank you for the question. There was an open solicitation for services that was
available to anybody who wished to bid and provide services underneath the Access-on-Demand program
itself.
The four providers that-- I can't tell you, if there were anybody above and beyond the four providers that bid
or not. That would be a question for Contracts and Procurement. But we did go through an open solicitation
process, and we will be going through another open solicitation process this year as the current contracts
expire at the end of Fiscal Year 2025.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. Mr. Chair, may I wrap this up?
IAN HARWICK: Yeah, we're super close to not-- to a four-hour meeting, so yeah, go quick.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Is that a yes or no?
IAN HARWICK: I just said go quick. Yes, go quick.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. So we can follow up with the NEMT online-- or I'll send a memo to the Board,
but, again, it was intended-- in the very first-- the very first authorization the Board gave for this program,
NEMTs were mentioned. So my second question is, do we have any other RTD services that require a
waiting period before we can use them? Yes or no?
FRED WORTHEN: No.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Anything on our family of services? No? OK, thank you. And then I noticed that we
have surveys on the potential service changes, and I can't-- I simply cannot remember. Was this sent out
in the initial survey that we put up online, or was it a subsequent survey? Where it says choose between
options A, B, and C, or what was most important-- or did you guys come up with options A, B, and C based
on the initial inquiry of what was most important to riders? Just to understand that-FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for the question. There were two different surveys that were sent out. One
was a public survey. The other one was a statistically valid survey. They were developed by data scientists
here at RTD to help individuals understand the priorities. Those were conducted, oh, in 2024 at some point.
I don't remember the exact dates, but I could get you the exact dates if you're interested.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, I would. And just to wrap this up, if staff could send-- and this was requested by
myself and a Director. If staff would copy Directors on the communiques going out to our paratransit
customers, as well as service providers that are also stakeholders. We have not received those-- we've not
received those communications.
So it would be really helpful if staff included us in those communications. What I would like to see, though,
is that survey-- I have a couple questions about the regression analysis done. Not for this meeting. Not to
say that our staff didn't do a good job, but statistics was my favorite math class in college and it would make
me feel more comfortable moving forward.

So with that, I'll just end it by saying that I think it would really benefit not just the committee, but the Board
and the public if two things were to happen. Number one, we go back to what we discussed with the retreat,
which was having a task force on this issue.
I know I raised my hand to volunteer. So did Director Chandler. I think having some communication between
staff and a couple of Directors to dig in on these fine data points would be really helpful so that we can
move forward as cleanly as possible.
And then second, similar to what we did with the budget two years ago, where the Board Office just sent
out a survey saying "What questions do you have" or "What data do you need" before you're able to take a
vote, i think it would be very beneficial if staff did the same for this topic so that way, when we revisit it, the
data points that we've been asking for or any other hanging questions hopefully have been answered.
And then we can-- when we come together, we feel comfortable in whatever decision that we make because
we have the information that we need. So those would just be my two open requests. And I thank you very
much for your time-- for everyone's time, and for all the work that you've put into this. It's not easy. It was
very challenging. And I also-- some of the questions thrown at staff today were tough, but I want to recognize
that just opening up the agency to this kind of vulnerability did show leadership and it is appreciated. Thank
you.
IAN HARWICK: Director Chandler, you are our last-- you're our last person tonight. If it's a quick question,
go ahead, but if it's a more-- it's a longer question, Chair Bouquet is going to field a lot of questions, I
imagine, from this, and specifically from Directors. So if it's quick, please feel free-KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Yes, thank you so much, I'll be very quick. Page 255 of our packet does have
the paratransit budget broken out for years 2021, '22, '23, '24. And so if you look at that, the paratransit-- it
doesn't break it out what exactly is paratransit, but it does break it out with fiscal year, bus operation, and
paratransit.
Just bringing to your attention the fact that it went from $58 million to $68 million in that fiscal year. And the
percentage there is humongous as opposed to 2023 to '24 in bus operations, which is approximately a little
bit larger dollar amount, but obviously a smaller percentage. So I just want to bring that to your attention,
Director Ruscha, Chairman Ruscha so you can look at that.
My question is, who really qualifies for all of these subsidies? And I know that's probably something that I
just need a memo about. So no need to answer if I could get that information because we're talking about
limiting certain people And I want to know who that would be. So thank you.
IAN HARWICK: OK. I am going to-- normally we would head into other matters, but I'm going to do-- other
matters, but then I'm just going to close the meeting down. But-- as-- going to jump in there. I'm sorry, Chair
Bouquet, you wanted to go.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Director Hardwick, I'll probably speak right after you, actually.
IAN HARWICK: OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I believe we'll have very similar other matters.
IAN HARWICK: OK. All right. So as we're not going to open it up to everybody tonight, just want to recognize
Fred Worthen. This is his last meeting as the lead staff liaison to this committee. Fred's last day at RTD will

be March 21, 2025. Thank you, AGM Worthen, for your contributions to RTD and to this committee. You
stepped into the role last year and have been a valuable resource to the Board in this committee. Thank
you for your partnership and best wishes on what comes next for you. Enjoy Jacksonville and the warmth.
And with that, I will-- actually, before I open it up to GM/CEO, Fred, I just really appreciate you. And I know
we've bantered, but it's been super fun. And I just appreciate your willingness to really engage in a whole
variety of conversations that probably weren't-- they were just the new space for all of us. So thank you.
And GM/CEO Johnson.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir.
IAN HARWICK: Of course.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Co-Chair Harwick, and the banter. Yes, when we were having
this discussion of thinking about how Fred stepped into the space, as you can clearly see, he is passionate
about what he does. Many of you may be aware that he started his career close to 40 years ago back in
Corpus Christi, Texas as a bus operator and moved up through the ranks. And he's been here at RTD
almost seven years.
And appreciate his industry knowledge, his care and concern about moving people to and fro. And I will
have an opportunity to recognize him appropriately amongst those that comprise this agency next week,
but want to wish Fred all the best at JTA. And thank you for your service to the Regional Transportation
District, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, ma'am.
IAN HARWICK: All right, so I see three-- I see three hands. I'm going to go with Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Committee Chair. Just to echo off of this, I would like to say a
huge thank you on behalf of this Board, Mr. Worthen, for your services to this agency. Mr. Worthen, as
CEO/GM Johnson mentioned, has nearly four decades of experience as a bus operator, including taking
on leadership roles in Texas and Washington.
I know this Board has been very grateful for the many projects that you were a part of for this agency, and
I would like to especially highlight the work that you have done for RTD's facilities and fleet transition plan.
This work specifically has led to this agency moving to the future and bettering the environment here in
Colorado. The work you have done will have lasting, positive changes for future generations to come. We
can't thank you all enough for your service, and we all greatly wish you the best in your future endeavors,
Mr. Worthen. Thank you for leaving your mark.
And I will be remiss if I didn't share the same words that I gave to Mr. MacLeod yesterday, and that is, enjoy
your Wednesday and Tuesday nights back, and find a good time. And find-- maybe have a good celebration
meal as you watch some of our Board meetings in the future. So thank you so much for your service.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, JTA meets during the day.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Ooh. Thank you, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you-- thank you, sir. I will be on a beach enjoying some of the remote meetings.

JULIEN BOUQUET: Lucky man.
IAN HARWICK: All right, last two. Director-- Chair Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I believe we have three. I just wanted to add my comments. Thank you,
Mr. Worthen-- I'm going to move to first name basis. Thank you, Fred, for being ready and available to
answer our questions, even when they seem to come out of left field.
And I just want to note, for those of you who might not remember, Fred was also a rodeo winner-- excuse
me-- back in the day when he was a bus operator. And when I heard that, I said "Pics or it didn't happen."
And he immediately sent me a picture of him with that trophy.
So at our Board meeting, please expect a card signed by Board members with a copy of that photo
enclosed. We appreciate your perspective and all that you've done. And I hope you still have that trophy at
prominent display in your office, it was well-earned. Thank you, sir, for your time, and Godspeed.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, ma'am. Funny enough, my mom passed away a couple of years ago, and I
had the opportunity to visit my brother in Hot Springs, Arkansas-- just a few weeks back, actually.
And one of the articles that he had-- and I will scan it and send it to you, there was actually an agency
profile with me and my father. I actually started as an operator before my dad, but my dad came on as an
operator and they did a family profile of my dad and myself, so it has pictures of me and my dad together.
So I kind of got a little sentimental and emotional, but thank you for those kind words.
IAN HARWICK: Secretary Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you. So first, very quickly, I just wanted to say that Director Paglieri and I
have been hard at work on the security initiative that I mentioned last month. I've done a couple of
community presentations and have some more later this month, and hopefully we'll be circulating some of
that out to the other Board members. So if you're interested in talking to your community about security,
email me, and I would love to work with you on that.
But the second thing I'll say is, Fred, I've only been aware of the internals of RTD for a little bit now, but I've
known of your work through the advocacy organizations that I've been a part of. And I think both, on behalf
of myself and the larger community, there are not a lot of organizations that promote the kind of growth that
you have exemplified at RTD and the ability to go from an operator yourself up to the individual basically
running bus operations.
And I think it speaks to you as an individual, I think it speaks to this agency, and hopefully has served as a
motivator for other people who join us to know that they can make similar advancements. So thank you for
being that example, to all of the workers we have here. And I know that by myself and the larger transit
activist community, you will be missed. And please have a great retirement.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir.
IAN HARWICK: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: I'll even keep this to under 45 seconds. I just want to say thanks and much appreciation
to Fred Worthen. Had the opportunity to work closely with him for probably four and a half or five years of

my six on the Board as former Chair of the OSS Committee and Vice Chair of Committees-- or pretty much
in the same realm of duties.
And Fred, you've been a consummate professional, friendly. I've enjoyed our conversations offline, and
you've just been a wealth of information. And as Director Nicholson said, you will certainly be missed. I wish
you good health in Jacksonville. And don't forget that you can retire. I would recommend it heartily.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, sir. I do have plans on that at some point. You were always so difficult to
work with, though, sir. You had all these hard questions for me. No, actually, it was a real pleasure working
with the entire Board. If you'll indulge me for just a minute, Committee Chair-IAN HARWICK: Please.
FRED WORTHEN: Harwick. For me, it has been an honor and a pleasure to be here at RTD over the last
seven years. It's difficult when you're in a role such as mine because I have to find that balance. My whole
life has been about service delivery. I started out as a transit dependent as a child. My mom didn't drive
and my dad was gone a lot. So I grew up riding buses, drove buses, and my life has been about providing
service.
So it's really difficult when I have to bring forward program recommendations like we're working on with
paratransit. But at the same point, I look at the fact that what I'm trying to do is make sure that we can
continue to provide those services and to provide the best services possible to our customer within what's
operationally and fiscally sustainable as well. And sometimes, those needs conflict, and that's a really
difficult moral position for me to be in.
So thank you to all the Board for listening to me, for indulging me. And I will see some of you before I leave,
but thank you all for all of your support over the years. And thank you, CEO Johnson, for all of your help
through the time that you've been here as well. Thank you.
IAN HARWICK: Thank you, Fred. On that note, thank you all for hanging with us for this meeting. This was
an important meeting to have, and a lot of really important things went on, and so really appreciate all of
your time and dedication. So I'm just going to lead in really quickly.
The next Operation Safety and Security Committee meeting is scheduled for Wednesday, April 9. That
meeting will be a very busy-- will be very busy with discussions on the following Title VI Program Policy
Change Recommendations, Downtown Rail Reconstruction, our Annual Safety Report, a Semi-Annual
Update from RTD PD, Fare Collection Strategies and Tactics, and the Customer Bill of Rights.
Additionally, we will be inviting representatives from the Advisory Committee for Persons with Disabilities
and Access-a-Ride Paratransit Advisory Committee and the Citizens Advisory Committee to join our
meeting. And now I'm going to-- I see nothing else, we're going to-- seeing nothing else to discuss, this
meeting is adjourned at 9:45 PM.
JACK KROLL: Good night, everyone.
IAN HARWICK: Good night.

