1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, January 15, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:33 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:30 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Present
Remote

5:42 PM
5:28 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:25 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:27 PM
5:33 PM
5:34 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Remote

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:26 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:31 PM

John Tayer

Director, District O

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Chair

Present
Present

5:19 PM
5:26 PM

Directors Folska and Menten participated by telephone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Susan Cohen, Carolyn Conover, John Elias,
Sherry Ellebracht, Eric Farrington, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Anthony Menendez, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Daria Serna, John Tarbert, Bill Weidenaar

Others Present:

Chris Barker, Celina Benavidez, Matt Christiansen, Jane Donovan,
Boyd Gordon, Stan Gronek, Van Groves, Tom Grushka, Nehemiah
Hall, Robert McNown, Jon Moellenberg, Ted Rutledge, Jason
Simmons, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Oracle Hardware and Software Contract Approval
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a contract (22DJ010) to DLT solutions LLC in the amount of
$2,020,472 for Oracle hardware, software and services.
Terry Howerter explained that this would be authorizing the General
Manager to enter into a contract with DLT solution for hardware, software
and services related to replacing some of our aging servers.
Trent Ratcliff stated that this contract was the outcome of 18 months of
comprehensive needs analysis and research on the technology architecture
that we needed and was sustainable for the future to meet our current and
future needs. He said that the infrastructure comes from the business unit
staff, IT staff and throughout RTD. This is a foundational set of hardware
and software that over the next 12 months will allow us to have a 5x
reduction in the number of servers that we maintain our critical business and
operations systems. Trent explained that we received two proposals and
this is being requested to be awarded to DLT Solutions as the most
responsible low bidder.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion
to move this item to the full Board
at the January 22, 2013 Board
meeting.

Director Tobiassen seconded the
motion.
Discussion:

Director Folska said that the $2 million for the hardware and
software seemed like a very low cost. She asked staff to
explain this low cost. She feels it would be a terrible mistake
to not budget enough to support proper implementation.
Trent Ratcliff explained that what we really are doing is
expanding on the infrastructure that we put into a trial
approximately a year and a half ago. RTD purchased two of
these database machines at that time and migrated most of
our critical applications onto those servers. He said that this
procurement is to purchase one additional database machine
and two engineered application servers. He states that the
original database machines exceeded staff expectations so
staff wants to move forward with more of the hardware and
software for operational and business efficiencies.
Director Lubow noted that the Board Report indicated this will
replace equipment that is five years old. She asked if the
expectation was that this new equipment would last for five
years as well. Trent Ratcliff stated that the hardware could
last for five or six years. He said that we can also expand the
hardware by 2x if we need to instead of replacing them;
Oracle will support these machines for many years if needed.
Director Lubow asked for the breakdown of cost between
hardware, software and maintenance. She also asked what
the expected expenses would be next year when we did not
need to purchase the hardware but needed to do another
contract for maintenance. Trent Ratcliff stated that he had
somewhat of a summary but not an exact breakdown. The
database hardware and enterprise database licensing which
includes compression of the data, high availability failover
capabilities and disaster recovery licenses costs in the
$340,000 range with $90,000 in maintenance. The
applications servers (2) cost $610,000 with approximately
$134,000 in maintenance. The various additional software for
different business applications is in the $600-$700 thousand
range with approximately $140,000 in maintenance. Trent
Ratcliff explained that maintenance would be 22% of the
original purchase price which includes patches, upgrades for
the hardware, and on-site issue support within four hours. He

stated that the maintenance costs have been included in the
Strategic Budget Plan as well.
Director Lasater asked for the life expectancy of the hardware.
Trent Ratcliff said the hardware came out three years ago. He
explained that RTD’s refresh cycle is 5 years. If the hardware
is meeting our needs and we can get parts for it, then we can
keep the hardware for a sixth year. Trent stated that after a
sixth year we are taking a risk of potential hardware failures
that could be catastrophic.
Director Lasater noted that with a maintenance cost of 22%
of the value over a five year period we are looking at on
overall maintenance cost of 110% of the value of the original
contract. He said that he is not familiar with this type of
environment but he feels the cost is high for a maintenance
contract. Trent Ratcliff explained this is not just a standard
server with processing; it has a storage array unit built in.
Trent stated that means we will not need to purchase an
additional $500 thousand dollar storage network appliance.
Trent said that while 22% may seem high it provides us 24/7
monitoring and alarming of the systems by Oracle customer
service and they do all the patches and upgrades on a
quarterly basis. This has allowed RTD to offload tremendous
growth in Database Administrator (DBA) Resources. Trent
explained that these servers will reduce our need for half of a
DBA, offsetting most of the maintenance cost.
Director Solano asked if this new acquisition would make the
Board Paperless Packet more secure. Trent Ratcliff explained
that the MinuteTraq system is hosted securely in the cloud by
our vendor so this would not have any impact on the Board
Paperless Packets.
Committee Chair James declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 0]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow,
Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
John Tayer
REMOTE:
Claudia Folska, Natalie Menten

C. Updates

• CU Leeds Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update – No Backup
Terry Howerter introduced Robert McNown from the CU Leeds School of
Business. He explained that RTD has contracted with CU Leeds to provide
sales and use tax forecasts that we use for short and long term projections
and forecast models. He informed the Board that we receive an update from
CU Leeds every quarter.
Robert McNown reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
can be found in the January 15, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet. Robert informed the Board that the model is
grounded in well accepted economic relations. He stated that the CU Leeds
forecasts are not wildly different from other units doing similar exercises.
Robert McNown highlighted that recovery from the 2002 recession took
longer than 2009 recent recession. Colorado is making better progress in
terms of employment, wages, and State taxable retail sales. He stated that
the picture is one of steady, moderate growth but the economy at the
National and State level is still subject to some uncertainties.
Robert McNown stated that CU Leeds is predicting only a 1.23% revenue
increase in 2013 over 2012. This is attributed to data anomalies causing
high collections in January 2012, extremely robust consumer spending,
slower forecasted national and state economic growth, and Moody’s
forecasts of higher gas prices in 2013. He stated that he understands this is
not great news but CU Leeds wants to be realistic. He explained that most
of this sluggish growth will be happening in the first half of the year; by
2014 we will see growth exceeding 5% so we will be more on track with
our current moderately high rate of growth.
Robert McNown explained that they rely on the population forecasts from
the US Census and Colorado Office of Demography in their long term
forecasts. They analyze how the composition of the population will change
over time and apply their understanding of how spending patterns will
change with population composition changes. Robert stated that these
population forecasts are also subject to interim revision. The US Census just

provided a revision in which the projection of the population in 2040 is 6%
lower than was projected 10 years ago.
Robert McNown concluded by saying CU Leeds realizes their forecasts could
be too high or too low but the important thing is that the forecasts are
generated from theoretically sound economic relations and modeled with
state-of-the-art econometric procedures.
Director Anderson asked if the retail sales collected by RTD outlined on Page
10 of the presentation included internet sales. Robert McNown stated that
it does include internet sales. He explained that when retail sales are
measured at the National level that would be comprehensive; by measuring
retail sales for the State, if there are out of state sales through the internet
they will not show up in the data. He stated that his team is trying to keep
their eye on internet sales. Brian Lewandowski provided an analysis of this
in CU Leeds full report of how this may effect projections going forward.
Committee Chair James asked Robert McNown if he had any comments on
whether or not anything would be done at the political level about collecting
tax on internet sales. Committee Chair James stated that he has not seen
much done on the issue. McNown said that they have seen in other states a
move to make more of the internet sales taxable. Some states have
extended their reach particularly if companies have a facility in the state that
gives the state some jurisdiction over internet sales but that is a very
contentious issue. Robert stated that as internet sales grow he anticipates
there will be some political forces on the part of groups like RTD that want
to capture more of the internet sales for their revenues and then there will
be countervailing pressures on the other side. He said that he is not in a
position to forecast how those political forces will work out either in the
internet sales context or the budget negotiations that are ahead of us.
McNown explained that is why CU Leeds provides us with the high and low
forecasts to take into account some of the uncertainties.
Director Bagley noted that in reading about gasoline prices locally versus
nationally, Colorado seems to be about 50 cents lower than the national
average. He asked if this could have a contributing factor to possibly
increasing our retail sales tax. McNown explained that the issue is not so
much the relative level of our gas prices compared to the Nation’s but what
the direction of change will be. He stated that even though our prices may
remain below the average they will still rise over 2013.
Director Bagley stated that he assumes all the CU Leeds forecasts were
based on RTD not collecting a tax on candy or soda. He said there could be
benefits that might come long later in the year or 2014 that we may not yet
know about. McNown explained that it would be possible if CU Leeds knew

that next year there would be a step up in the effective tax rate because of
a change in exemptions they could build that into the forecast. For example
in the model CU Leeds does have an effective tax rate that takes into
account that the vendor allowance has been phased back in. That changes
the effective rate of taxation in the same way changes some of the
exemptions would.
Director Bagley stated that in looking at the projections from December,
2011 RTD was significantly advantaged over what the projections were. He
asked if Robert McNown had anything to attribute that to. McNown said
this was in part from the data anomaly that lead to a postponement for
some collections from December, 2011 to 2012. He explained that CU
Leeds had no way of knowing about that; his team actually did not learn
about the anomaly until March through their conversations with staffers at
the Department of Revenue. Robert stated that a more important piece was
that Colorado and the District households were much more aggressive in
their spending behavior than CU Leeds would have expected.
Director Hoy stated that the population projections in the report were
negative numbers but that he believes this was pointing out that the
increase in the population was less than first anticipated. Robert McNown
said yes; the projections are about 6% lower than the Census Bureau was
reporting 10 years ago.
Director Tobiassen asked what the top three retail sales generators would
be. He also asked if retailers like Walmart and Best Buy have stores in the
District do they collect tax when selling something over the internet.
McNown said the top three retail sales generators are car sales, restaurants
and hotels, and clothing/department stores. Robert explained that retailers
in the District are required to collect tax on internet sales but he is not sure
if RTD get their tax. He believes they are required to collect for the state
but does not think RTD receives any of that collection. Terry Howerter
stated that the state uses the same basic data process for those taxes as inperson purchases to RTD would receive some of the tax collected.
Director Lubow said that scientists say we are in a situation of climate
change that could lead to water problems, less snowfall, etc. These
changes could factor into the economy. She asked if the CU Leeds team
took situations like these into account when generating their forecasts and if
it was even possible to take them into account. McNown stated that his
team did not factor anything with the climate into their forecasts. He
explained that their forecasts are much more conservative than other
forecasts he has seen because CU Leeds takes into account the
demographic drag. McNown said he is not sure how they would address
those situations but thinks it is worth giving some further thought to.

Committee Chair James thanked Robert McNown for his presentation.

• Web and Document Accessibility Briefing
Trent Ratcliff reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that can
be found in the January 15, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet.
Director Hoy asked how the scope of work for the RFP was developed; was
this done by internal employees or did we contact outside sources. He also
asked if this was phase one of the project. Trent Ratcliff stated that it was
written by internal employees but there is information available online and
they also consulted with local and national vendors as to what might be
included in the scope. Trent explained that we will have the vendor evaluate
our website and provide us with remediation. Once staff feels they have
remediated the website the vendor will conduct another assessment. Trent
stated that we can include more assessments by the vendor if needed.
Director Tobiassen said that when we originally began looking at this RFP
there was some discussion about having someone from the local disabilities
community involved in the evaluation. He also asked if he and Director
Folska could have a copy of the action plan when it becomes available.
Trent Ratcliff stated that was correct; Jim Pilkington with the Division of
Vocational Rehabilitation was on the panel.
Director Solano asked if the website would be accessible to our Spanish
speaking community. Trent Ratcliff explained that is not part of this
assessment but it is something marketing is looking into with the website
redesign.
Director Lubow asked if there was a process for the public to evaluate our
progress. Trent Ratcliff informed the Board that staff has been working with
the Division of Vocational Rehabilitation, the Colorado School for the Blind,
and several other organizations that make up an advisory panel. Trent
shared that he also reached out to a number of his peers in a consortium of
transit agencies in North America. He sent out 30 inquiries and only
received 4 responses as to what other agencies were doing in this area.
Director Malpiede asked how much the implementation was going to cost
RTD. Trent Ratcliff stated that the accessibility contract was $36 thousand
to have the two assessments. He explained that after the assessments it is
his hope that this company will be able to offer training for staff. Once staff
is trained all the work will be internal.

• November 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod reviewed the November Monthly Financial Status Report with
the Board that is available in the January 15, 2013 Financial Administration
and Audit Committee Agenda Packet. There were no questions on his
report.

D. Other Matters
Committee Chair James said that it had been a pleasure to serve as the Chair of the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee for the last few years. He said that
he enjoys working with our Chief Financial Officer and financial staff; he looks
forward to turning over the reins to Director Walker.

E. Next Meeting Date - February 12, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 6:48 p.m. to the Operations and
Customer Service Committee.

These minutes were prepared by Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

