Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
Civil Rights Committee
Tuesday, March 7, 2017
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Civil Rights Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Solano called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Committee Vice-Chair
Present

Arrived
5:16 PM
5:14 PM

Bob Broom
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District F
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

5:23 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:28 PM

Judy Lubow
Ken Mihalik

Director, District I
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:12 PM
5:21 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:16 PM

Doug Tisdale

Director, District H

Present

5:15 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Jeff Walker
Kate Williams

Director, District O
Committee Chair
Director, District D
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:21 PM
5:12 PM
5:27 PM

5:07 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Lee Cryer, Nate Currey, Martell Dyles,
Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina Gibson, Bob
Grado, Doug Gragg, John Hersey, Ali Imansepahi, Russ Larson,
Adrian Mabry, Michelle Madrid, Doug MacLeod, Robin McIntosh Jr.,
John McKay, Barbara McManus, Mike Meader, Ed Neuberg, Scott
Reed, Jenifer Ross-Amato, Roger Sherman, Zamy Silva, Brittany
Smith, Lindsey Smith, Errol Stevens, Henry Stopplecamp, Bill Van
Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Ashland Vaughn, Brian Welch,

Others Present:

William Gross, John Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Megan
Wagner, Tim Walker

B. Recommended Actions
There were no Recommended Actions.

C. Updates
Zamy Silva, Senior Manager of Civil Rights, started off the meeting by introducing
John Thompson from Denver Transit Partners (DTP). Mr. Thompson presented a
check in the amount of $50,000 for the Workforce Initiative Now (WIN) program.
Ms. Silva stated that DTP and RTD have been partners for a long time and the todate contributions to the program are $200,000.
Ms. Silva advised the Board that the 2016 Civil Rights Annual Report was
completed and she would be providing a copy to each of the Directors. She gave a
brief overview of the report which included highlights of the Civil Rights division.
2016 Highlights of the Year:
 In collaboration with bus ops, facilities, capital programs, etc., an effective
checklist was created for bus stop accessibility district-wide which will bring
RTD into compliance with Federal Transit Administration (FTA) regulations.
 The American Disability Association (ADA) office received a Shalom of
Denver Hero Award for efforts and assistance coordinating efforts to grant a
1-year of Access-a-Ride services to disabled patrons.
 Brought on an additional Equal Employment Opportunity (EEO) Specialist to
assist with protected class investigations and EEO trainings.
 In accordance with FTA, EEO office created and implemented a process to
review Sub recipients’ EEO Program Plans
 Implemented an effective process of monitoring and reporting the RTD’s
workforce utilization analysis reporting to the RTD CEO, Senior Leadership
as well as HR recruitment staff.
 The Small Business Office (SBO) successfully completed the FTA Triennial
DBE Goal and Methodology for FFY 2017-2019 proposing a 24% agencywide DBE goal. As part of the goal methodology, SBO consulted one-on-one
with all the local chambers and organizations that represent small businesses







and hosted a public forum. RTD has received another successful FTA
Concurrence of the Triennial Disadvantaged Business Enterprise (DBE) Goal.
Base system and FasTracks DBE/SBE goals were achieved for 2016, and
many FasTracks projects that closed during 2016 exceeded their DBE/SBE
commitments.
The WIN Program was selected to be a part of the FTA’s National Workforce
Grantee Summit “Implementing, Disseminating & Modeling Ladders of
Opportunity”. The Summit was held in Washington, D.C. in the U.S.
Department of Transportation’s (USDOT) offices
The WIN Program executed two Intergovernmental Agreements with each
founding partner of the WIN Program. This major milestone is for a primary
use of the federal grant that WIN was awarded as well as solidifying the
continuance of the WIN Programs’ vision for creating a skilled and trained
workforce to enter RTD

Ms. Silva also briefly touched base on meetings that Civil Rights’ staff members
conducted or attended in 2016. In closing Ms. Silva presented the goals of the
Civil Rights’ division moving forward.
Civil Rights Division:
 Strive for an excellent upcoming FTA Triennial Review in all of RTD’s civil
rights programs.
 Develop and implement a Diversity class at RTD which will be required for all
RTD employees.
 Partner and coordinate an inter-agency collaborative Small Business Event,
develop a WIN Peer-Agency Capacity Building program and hire a new EEO
Manager.
 Increase public outreach, initiate a plan to reach out to Denver-area high
schools to talk to students about careers in the transportation industry.
ADA:
 Attend the National ADA Symposium in Chicago May 2017
 Hire a new ADA Specialist/Investigator who will assist, support and
collaborate with internal stakeholders in an effort to effectively manage,
monitor and bring resolution to complaints.
 Conduct Service Animal Trainings for RTD’s Street Supervisors
 Propel several initiatives within Civil Rights Division to include continuous
enhancement and implementation of an effective RTD ADA complaint
procedure.
 Establish and implement a new ADA committee at RTD to promote an
inclusive, efficient and responsive organization.
EEO:
 Expand EEO trainings for 2017/2018 to continue to raise awareness,
reinforce and educate RTD employees on EEO laws.
 Continue to work with RTD HR on several equal employment opportunity
initiatives, outreach, etc.



Work with RTD legal department and other internal stakeholders in an effort
to improve our investigations process/procedures

SBO:
 Facilitate workshops to the community on SBE certification and doing
business with RTD
 Host an DBE/SBE recognition event for the prime contractors that have
exceeded goals on FasTracks projects and the SBE/DBE firms that have
worked on corridors
 Coordinate and execute an inter-agency collaborative Small Business Event
WIN:
 Implement an entrepreneurial mentorship program for WIN participants that
are looking to start their own business in construction and transit related
services
 Implement a full scale, Bus and Light Rail Mechanic worker pipeline training
initiative and program
 Provide a youth transit exposure program for young middle school and high
school students to explore careers in transportation
Director Anderson asked if the WIN program provided outreach to Adams and
Jefferson County.
Ms. Silva replied that the WIN program has participated in several panels to reach
out to high school students about careers in transportation.
Director Anderson asked if there is a continuing issue regarding assistance animals.
Ed Neuberg, ADA Manager, said that service animals are still an on-going issue.
Director Folska asked Ms. Silva how the $200,000 contribution to the WIN
program will be utilized.
Ms. Silva explained that the WIN program was originally designed to train WIN
participants within the District to work on construction projects. Civil Rights staff
will recruit participants but anyone is eligible to apply. She informed the Board that
there are limited projects for the participants at this time; however they have hired
some personnel through the program. She stated that the Community College of
Denver along with the Urban League of Metro Denver both help the WIN program in
their recruiting efforts. The recruitment process accesses the applicants and
determines what training is needed.
Director Folska asked Ms. Silva if there are recruitment efforts for people with
disabilities.
Ms. Silva and Martell Dyles, Manager of WIN, confirmed that some classes were
offered through Atlantis Community Inc. She stated that they are shifting their

energy from construction industry jobs to bus and rail operators to assist RTD with
recruitment efforts.
Mr. Dyles explained that the WIN program helps all individuals that come through
the program regardless of race or disability. He stated that WIN has made changes
in the program to accommodate those with disabilities.
Director Folska asked Mr. Dyles and Ms. Silva if they could provide a list of
organizations that they partner with, that work with people with disabilities.
Director Williams said that she was under the impression that the reason we are
having problems with recruitment is because of the union’s commitment to a set
number of hours per week. She asked if shorter shifts could be offered to the
drivers.
General Manager Genova stated that there are part-time positions and the Union
does utilize part-time operators.
Director Williams asked if the new RTD ADA committee is a stand-alone
committee.
Ms. Silva responded that the goal is to only have two ADA committees at RTD.
She stated that it is very important to retain the ADA Paratransit Advisory
Committee (APAC) committee as a stand-alone committee. She explained how
they are going to terminate the design panel committee and absorb some of those
committee members. She said that her team has put a lot of work in creating a
protocol and setting a criteria before they go out. The second committee has a
working group, steering committee and an external advising committee to provide
input. The external advising committee will bring issues or concerns to the steering
committee and they then commute that to the working group.
Director Williams asked if the Board gets reports from those meetings every month.
Ms. Silva stated that APAC meets every other month and a meeting facilitator has
been hired. She said that there are things to report throughout the year but not
necessarily every other month. She stated that in moving forward there will be
discussions as to what is appropriate to report to the Board.
Director Williams mentioned that there were people volunteering their time from
various parts of the community that would like to know that their input is heard by
the Board.
Director Sisk thanked Ms. Silva and the Civil Rights team. He stressed his
appreciation for John Thompson with DTP, and stated that his contributions to the
WIN program are noteworthy and deserves accolades.

Director Tisdale stated that workforce development is the number one issue facing
economic development and developers, it is not just RTD it is everyone. He said
the WIN program is a great contribution to addressing workforce development. He
explained that Community College of Denver has been a great partner and they are
committed to this. He applauded DTP, RTD and CCD for their partnership efforts.
Director Francone thanked Mr. Thompson. She noted that the Annual Report
stated that Civil Rights was going to hire a new EEO Manager. She asked if that
was in addition to whom they already have or if they are replacing a position.
Ms. Silva stated that the Civil Rights division is replacing someone.
Director Folska asked if people with disabilities have been included in the on-board,
off-board surveys and the customer service satisfaction survey.
Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning, stated that commuters were
selected at random.
Director Folska asked if the surveys included paratransit services.
Mr. Van Meter responded that the surveys only included fixed-route services.
Director Folska asked if paratransit services encompass 10% of RTD’s operating
budget.
General Manager Genova said he would research and provide exact numbers later
to the Board.
Director Menten asked what part of the annual budget goes towards the WIN
program.
Ms. Silva explained that with every grant that RTD receives there has to be a
match component. She stated that there is a memorandum of understanding with
the Community College of Denver and Urban League of Denver stating that some of
the funds are in-kind and participants hired will specifically perform WIN program
work. She agreed that it is a bit cumbersome and stated that her team will be
happy to sit down and explain more in detail to Director Menten.
Director Menten asked if the WIN program employs 50 participants a year.
Ms. Silva stated that the number fluctuates depending on the projects WIN is
involved with, as people are hired based on project goals. Mr. Dyles noted that
hiring can vary from 20-180 people a year depending on the construction projects.

D. Other Matters
Director Folska informed the Board that former Chair Tom Tobiassen will be
honored on Friday, March 10th, 2017 by the Aurora Chamber of Commerce, as Man
of the Year.
Chair Hoy thanked everyone that participated last Saturday at the retreat. He said
that they accomplished a lot and he was pleased with the participation and the
results.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 11, 2017
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Solano adjourned the meeting at 6:08 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

