Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17, 2009 at
Noon
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

September 17, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17,
2009 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp; 2nd Vice-Chair Busck; Secretary Daly;
Treasurer Tayer; Director Brohl (via phone) and Director
Bagley who arrived late in the meeting

Board Member Absent:

1st Vice-Chair Martinez

Staff Present:

Phil Washington and Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:02 p.m.

I.

September Board Meeting Review
Interim General Manager Phil Washington reviewed items on the unanimous
consent agenda and the recommended action.
Motion:

Director Busck made the motion to move the full
Board agenda ahead for the Board approval on
September 22, 2009.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
Motion:
Unanimous Consent

Executive Committee discussed if the Regional
Equity Compact Resolution should be an
amendment to the Eagle P3 action item or a
separate agenda item. The decision was made
to make it a separate item and move this item
ahead of the Eagle P3 under recommended
action.
The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17, 2009 at
Noon
Page 2 of 6
 U.S. 36 Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery
(TIGER) Grant Contingent Commitment
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the
Board of Directors offer fiscal support for the U.S. 36 application for
“Transportation Investment Generating Economic Recovery” (TIGER)
funds. Through preparation of the U.S. 36 Environmental Impact
Statement (EIS), the U.S. 36 communities, in concert with RTD and the
Colorado Department of Transportation (CDOT), have been planning
improvements to the U.S. 36 Corridor for the last six years. The planning
efforts have culminated in the recommendation of multi-modal
improvements ready for implementation. It is recommended that RTD
offer support for the application by pledging $30 million for transitrelated improvements, beginning in 2010, contingent upon the receipt of
at least $30 million in TIGER grant funds for the U.S. 36 project and a
corresponding match commitment from CDOT.
Committing these
matching funds will strengthen the application and better position this
project to maximize the opportunity for federal funding. Funding for the
$30 million is included in the FasTracks Financial Plan in the U.S. 36 BRT
- Phase 2 project.


January 2010 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed January 10, 2010
Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and comment.



2010-2015 Transit Development Program (TDP)
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors adopt the 2010-2015 Transit Development
Program (TDP).



Adoption of 2010 Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the 2010 Performance Measures for Goals 1-7.



Kacey Fine Furniture Easement at 11305 W. 6 th Avenue, Lakewood, CO
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to grant a permanent
parking easement underneath a proposed LRT bridge extension to the
owners of the adjacent Kacey Fine Furniture property at 11305 W. 6 th
Avenue, Lakewood, Colorado.



Recommendation for Amendment of Contract for Outside Legal Counsel
– PPP Concession Agreement
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that a
contract amendment in the amount of $1.325 million be added to the
contract with the firms of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17, 2009 at
Noon
Page 3 of 6
(Freshfields) and Kaplan Kirsch & Rockwell LLP (KKR) to assist in all
steps necessary to procure a concessionaire and draft a concession
agreement for construction of the Gold Line and East Corridor commuter
rail lines through a Public Private Partnership (PPP). The total contract
not to exceed amount will be increased to $4.325 million. Funding for
this contract in 2009 is included in the 2009 Amended Budget for the
PPP project. Funding for 2010 and 2011 is included in future years for
the FasTracks financial plan.





Budget Transfer for Central Corridor Signal Software Modifications
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $2.1 million from the Central
Corridor Enhancements capital budget to the FasTracks expense budget
to cover an IGA with the City and County of Denver for signal systems
enhancements to allow increased frequency of LRT operations, which
cannot be classified as a capital expenditure by RTD. Funding for this
project is included in the 2009 Amended Budget for the FasTracks
Central Corridor Enhancements capital project.



Budget Transfer for Station Area Master Plans (STAMPS)
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $813,280 from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the FasTracks expense budget to
provide funding for Station Area Master Planning, Next Steps Planning
and Corridor-Wide Planning. Funding for these projects is provided
through federal Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality (CMAQ) grants and
local jurisdictions.

Recommended Action


IT Contingency Work Order Contract Final One-Year Option
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to execute all
documents necessary to award a contract amendment to initiate the
fourth and final one-year option with Ciber as well as incrementally
increasing the total contract upset limit an additional $475,000 to extend
the contract for IT Technical and Management Support Services
(15DK008). This contract was originally awarded in 2005 to Ciber
through the competitive bid process totally separate from the ERP effort.
The contract allowed for an initial year plus four one-year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. Through
negotiations, Ciber has agreed to reduce their billing rate 9% for the
remainder of the current option year through the term of the final option
year ending April 25, 2011.



Issuance of Eagle Project Request for Proposals (RFP), Increase Stipend
Agreement, Negotiation of Compensation Agreements

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17, 2009 at
Noon
Page 4 of 6
 It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the
Board of Directors:
(a) directs staff to issue the Eagle Project Request for Proposals
(RFP) on September 30, 2009 to allow the East Corridor,
Gold Line and Northwest Rail Electrified Segment to be
jointly procured and delivered under a single concession
agreement so that all corridors will open for passenger
service in 2016 in accordance with the FasTracks program
(b) approves an increase in the amount of the stipend agreement
from $1,750,000 to $2,500,000 per team to provide bidder
teams an increased incentive to remain in the Eagle P3
procurement process which, in turn, will provide a more
competitive process that will maximize the value to RTD
(c) authorizes the transfer of $2,250,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the PPP project in the FasTracks
capital budget to pay for the increase in the stipend amount.
This would advance funding included in the FasTracks
financial plan in 2010 for PPP preparation.
(d) authorizes the General Manager to negotiate and enter into a
compensation agreement with the three pre-qualified teams
invited to respond to the Eagle Project RFP (the Proposers) in
an amount not to exceed $20,000,000 to be payable in the
event that RTD elects not, or is unable, to execute and
implement a concession agreement with the selected
proposer through no fault of the selected proposer. Payment
only will be made to the team that is selected by the Board
for a contract award, and not to the unsuccessful teams. As
a condition of this compensation RTD would receive all of
the design work, including calculations, analyses and other
supporting work that the selected team completed as part of
the proposal process. Additional funding of $17.5 million for
the compensation agreement, which equals the difference
between the stipend amount and the compensation
agreement amount for the selected proposer, is included in
the FasTracks financial plan for the Eagle project corridors in
2010, and will be budgeted at that time .


II.

REGIONAL EQUITY COMPACT RESOLUTION

GM Transition Team Status
Committee Chair Busck provided this update. Krauthamer will be advertising in
the Denver Post, Denver Business Journal, COMTO, APTA and the Wall Street
Journal. The article in most of the newspapers will be small and direct
interested parties to Krauthamer for more details and job description. The
articles in APTA and Wall Street Journal will be larger and provide more details.
The cost will also be greater but was approved by Committee Chair Busck.
The committee meeting on 9/22/09 will look at a proposal for stakeholder
involvement along with revised timeline.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17, 2009 at
Noon
Page 5 of 6
Additionally he has requested Gregg and the Committee to begin considering
other issues such as relocation allowances, price differentials for housing due
to poor economy, travel costs for families, compensation, etc.
Director Daly requested to see a copy of the big ad that will be going in APTA
and the Wall Street Journal. He also requested copies of Krauthamer business
cards to hand out at the APTA conference or when questioned by someone on
the GM position.
III. Board Members Local/Travel Budget
Chair Kemp teed this discussion up by sharing that due to the number of
additional ad hoc committees meetings (including the Metro Mayors Task
Force), regarding FasTracks and other RTD business, some of the Directors
have incurred lots of expenses and have been disproportionately burdened with
their local expense costs.
He asked the question if since the Resolution passed by the Directors to lower
the local and travel expenses affected 2009, do they want to revise this or
leave the same in 2010?
Director Busck shared his perspective that lots of the local expense is
attributed to mileage and since he perceives mileage to be a tool for doing
business similar to the IT components, mileage should be removed from the
Board member’s local expense and paid from a separate fund.
Director Brohl raised the question why is it necessary to separate out local
from travel and why this cannot be combined as one budget line item to be
managed by the Board member as appropriate. She also thought a creative
solution might be to have the Board members allocate some dollar amount from
their funds to go into a “superfund” to cover such expenses as described.
Paula Perdue indicated the current policy does not allow this and there may be
financial budgetary controls and accounting guidelines that forbid this type of
co-mingling across Board member accounts.
Chair Kemp also noted that some Directors want to show their constituents
they are being responsible with funds and this would not be fair to them.
Motion:

Director Daly made the motion to revise the
resolution to reflect the 2010 year but to leave
the amounts as lowered and approved in 2008.
Director Busck seconded the motion.
The motion PASSED.

Director Brohl raised the issue if the Board should reconsider going to per diem
on meals and incidental expenses (M&IE) when traveling.
Chair Kemp requested that an analysis is prepared on expenditures associated
with Mileage as well as per diem and brought before the F&A committee in
October.
IV. Other Matters
Interim General Manager shared some special requests around DUS and
information on the White House Cabinet Secretaries Town Hall forum in Denver
on September 18, 2009. He also shared that over the next couple of weeks,

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on September 17, 2009 at
Noon
Page 6 of 6
the staff is preparing a strategic map for going forward (1 page document)that
will reflect the intent to follow a standard APE but prepare an adjusted APE
based around a number of critical factors. This map will also identify other
important key planning dates and activities based on going from good to great.
V. The meeting adjourned at 1:10 p.m.

