Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 27,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 1 of 3
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

September 28, 2011

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 27,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Board Members
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen, Tayer,
Tobiassen and Walker.
Directors O’Boyle and Riley

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Ron Bibeau, Rick Clarke, Kevin Diviness, Jane
Donovan, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, TaiShrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Carla Perez, Jeanette Scarpino,
John Shonsey, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Del
Walker, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Daryl Blowes – CEO of IQM2 via conference call.

****
I. Call To Order
Chair Kemp called the Study Session meeting to order at 5:50 p.m. Chair
Kemp noted that General Manager Washington had an announcement to
make.
General Manager Washington indicated that he wanted to announce to the
Board that RTD has received a serious and confidential unsolicited proposal
regarding the North Metro Corridor last week. We will be reviewing this
proposal with our unsolicited proposal procedures to ensure that the proposal
meets all of our goals and requirements. If the proposal meets the initial
screening requirements, we will provide an RFP process to allow for any
competing proposals to be submitted. RTD has many lessons learned from the
Eagle Project, FasTracks, and TREX. We will incorporate those lessons learned
into this proposal, including frequent and regular briefings in Executive Session
to the Board. However, at this point in time discussions will be generalized to
protect the proposers and the entire proposal review process as we move
forward.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 27,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 2 of 3
II. 2012 Requested Budget Discussion
Jeanette Scarpino explained that similar to last year, we are presenting the
2012 Requested Budget to the Board at a high level for review. This is being
done prior to the required public posting of the Operating Expense Budget in
mid October. The Requested Budget is subject to further revision and the final
version will be presented at the Finance Committee Meeting November 15th to
be adopted November 22 nd by the full Board. The initial Requested Budget
from all departments was over $11 Million than the Strategic Budget Plan and
staff has worked very hard to lower those figures.
Chair Kemp inquired how close we are to locking in a fuel price.
General Manager Washington indicated that we pay a set differential when we
lock in fuel. After review of the first part of 2011, we felt that differential was
too high. Since our contract was expiring with our provider of the last 5 years,
we decided to go out with an RFP for a new provider for fuel distribution. Until
all the proposals are reviewed and a new distributor is selected, we will not be
able to lock in a price, which we do not want to do at current futures prices.
What is not understood is that today’s fuel prices are not necessarily what we
would lock in at. We are looking at the futures market, which looks at the
next 12 months. The current futures market estimate at $3.25 is higher than
the $2.88 that has been proposed in the budget. Therefore, until a new fuel
provider is selected, it is cheaper for us to pay the float or market price.
Director Deadwyler inquired if we are paying market prices now. General
Manager Washington indicated that for 2011 we have a fuel contract and we
are locked in at $2.36 a gallon. However, if we are unable to select a new fuel
provider and lock in a set price for next year, we will pay market prices
beginning January 2012.
III. Paperless Packet Demo
Chair Kemp noted that he wanted to recognize and express his sincere thanks
to Director Tobiassen, Paula Perdue, Barbara McManus and Director Hoy for
their work on this project. Chair Kemp added that Director Tobiassen has been
working on getting the Board paperless packets for the past two years.
Director Tobiassen thanked everyone involved in this process for all of their
hard work and added that in this economy we actually received great
proposals, and IQM2 will be able to do what we need to do.
Daryl Blowes from IQM2 explained the paperless packet interface and held a
short question and answer session with the directors based on the paperless
packet demo.
Trent Ratcliff noted that this RFP process has not been finalized.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday September 27,
2011 at 5:30 p.m. Page 3 of 3
Board members had several questions around how the system would work
including sticky notes, records, and highlighting capabilities. Legal Counsel
Marla Lien indicated she would have her staff to take a look at a couple of
things and Paula Perdue added that what Daryl has demonstrated is the
technical capabilities of the paperless packet system. A large piece of what
we will be working on over the next few months will be to define the
procedures and processes to ensure that we are in compliance.
IV. Other Matters
General Manager Washington gave his thanks to the Board members who
attended both the Industry Forum and the Reception today. We had over 240
participants from all over the country and the world and it was a successful
event.
Chair Kemp added that this was a well received forum with many business
disciplines represented.
Director Tobiassen noted that the Ipad rollout to the Directors will be in mid
October and there will be a training/demo room set up in the Board Office.
Chair Kemp further added that 11 Board members will be attending the APTA
Annual Conference next week in New Orleans and is looking forward to see
everyone there.
V. Adjournment
The Study Session adjourned at 6:45 p.m.

