2024-01-17
Operations and Safety Committee
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good evening, everyone. The Wednesday, January 17 Operations and Safety
Committee will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM Mountain Standard Time. I would
respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to
speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that this committee meeting, along with other
committee meetings of the RTD Board of Directors, will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and
video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted
as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com, and a live stream of this meeting is
also available on RTD's YouTube page.
I would now like to call for the roll for committee members. Director Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Whitmore.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Present.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That is all committee members present. For the sake of the record, I see that we are
also joined by Director Tisdale, Director Broom, Director Guzman, Director Catlin, and this is Director
Davidson speaking. I am here also. Have I missed any other directors present? Seeing or hearing none,
we'll move on to the first item, or the next item of our agenda, which is the selection of the Chair and Vice
Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee.

As Board Chair, I will facilitate this election. And once both seats are filled, I will turn the meeting over to
our new Committee Chair. Unlike the executive committee election process, which uses secret ballots for
the election of Board officers, for committee leadership appointments, we will proceed with open
nominations, discussion, and vote by the full committee. We will begin with the selection of the Chair and
then we'll move on to the Vice Chair.
We will allow up to three minutes for those Board members who nominate a candidate, those seconding
nominations, if any, and any other members who wish to speak regarding a candidate. I will then call for a
vote, and the candidate who receives at least four votes will be appointed. If only one Director is
nominated, the committee may proceed by acclamation, and that Director will be appointed. If no
candidate receives four votes, then we will continue to repeat the process as outlined until one candidate
receives at least four votes.
I'll now start us off by asking for nominations for Committee Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: Mr. Chair?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, Director Buzek, you're recognized.
VINCE BUZEK: If I may, I would like to forward for nomination for Chair of this committee Troy Whitmore.
Troy, as all of you know, has not only been on the RTD Board for a number of years, but has been on this
committee for a number of years as well. In fact, last year serving as the Vice Chair of this committee. I
think it would be appropriate for Director Whitmore to step up into this position as Chair. He's levelheaded, thoughtful, and considerate of all input that he receives.
Also, I think, which is another important point, is I know that his schedule, his work schedule, is flexible
enough that he can take the time that this committee needs in order to meet with members of senior
leadership as you develop the agendas for each of the month's meetings. So with that said, Troy
Whitmore would be my nominee for the position of Chair. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Buzek. With Director Whitmore nominated for Chair, are there
other seconds for Director Whitmore? None are necessary. Or are there any other nominations for other
candidates for the position of Chair of this committee?
IAN HARWICK: Second for good measure.
ERIK DAVIDSON: All right, great. Thank you, Director Harwick. I have Director Harwick as the second.
Well, seeing only with Director Whitmore as having been nominated for Committee Chair, I will ask if
there is anyone opposed to appointing Director Whitmore to the position of Committee Chair by
acclamation. Are there any no votes?
With zero no votes, and on seven yes votes, it is my pleasure to congratulate Director Whitmore for being
the Committee Chair of Operations and Safety. Thank you very much, Committee Chair Whitmore, for
your willingness to step up into the position and shepherd this committee.
I will now ask for nominations for the Committee Vice Chair. Are there any nominations for Committee
Vice Chair?
IAN HARWICK: I'd like to nominate Director Bouquet for second-- for Vice Chair. He's also been on this
committee for a number of years and I've always been really-- well, for the year that I've been with him,

I've really respected his opinion and his perspective. He's really taking the stepping up this year in his
role.
And I would make a joke about him being a teacher and having not so much time on his hands, or having
too much time on his hands, but my wife's also a teacher and she might say some rude things to me
about that one. But I think he has plenty of time, and I think he'll be a great asset as the Vice Chair.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Harwick. So hearing Director Bouquet as nominated for Vice
Chair, are there any seconds or further discussion? And also, are there any nominations for another
candidate for Vice Chair of this committee?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, I would like to second Director Harwick's nomination. I think Director
Bouquet is an excellent addition to the team. In addition to bringing out his teacher voice when needed,
he also provides comedic relief when needed as well. And he's just an affable colleague, and has clearly
demonstrated his commitment to this committee, but also his community and to transit riders. And I would
be remiss if I did not note that Director Bouquet also rides the system, which is evident in these meetings.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thank you, Director Ruscha, for the second of Director Bouquet. Thank
you. Are there any other nominations for the position of Vice Chair for the committee? All right, not seeing
any further. With only Director Bouquet having been nominated as Committee Vice Chair, I will now ask if
anyone is opposed to appointing Director Bouquet to the position of Committee Vice Chair by
acclamation. Are there any no votes?
Seeing none, it is my pleasure to congratulate Director Bouquet with seven yes votes, zero no votes, on
being Vice Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee. And likewise, Director Bouquet, I thank you for
your willingness to serve in the role and work alongside Committee Chair Whitmore to shepherd this
committee through the year ahead. And with that, now with my election duties complete, it is my pleasure
to ask our newly elected Committee Chair Whitmore to please take over for the remainder of the meeting.
Thank you, sir. The floor is yours.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It's a pleasure to serve with you, and I look forward to
serving with Vice Chair Bouquet and the other colleagues on the committee, and all those gathered here
with us tonight. It has also been a pleasure to serve with former Chair Kate Williams, and I think I'd be
remiss to not mention that we miss her dearly already and wish her the best.
And hopefully, by chance, she may even be watching or listening in this evening. Let us all remember her
passion and her compassion as we move forward with the very important work of this committee this year
and certainly far beyond. So godspeed to Kate Williams.
Public comment is next on the agenda. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to
address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and
immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. Now, during this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses.
However, if you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board
Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com. Mr. Kroll, do we have anybody in queue for public comment?
JACK KROLL: Good evening, Director Whitmore. This is Jack Kroll, Board Office Manager. We do not
have anyone who has indicated a desire to speak at this time.

TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, sir. And we did receive correspondence from one of our constituent
organizations prior to the meeting that was in all of our email boxes. So with that, we can move along to
information from external entities. Do we have any external information that needs to be reported upon
this fine evening, Mr. Kroll or members of the committee?
JACK KROLL: No, Director Whitmore. Jack Kroll again, Board Office Manager. There is no planned
external entity reports for this meeting.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. Next on the agenda is recommended actions. But
one public service announcement prior to moving into this item is just, recall that there will be a
Performance Committee meeting immediately following this meeting. So we do want to respect those
folks and their time. So let's move as promptly but thoroughly as needed through our agenda. Thank you
very much.
So the first item under Recommended Items is Group 32 fixed route service contract for the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with
Transdev Services Inc. for the provision of fixed route services as described herein. This contract is for
three years with two one-year options, for a total of five years, at a total not to exceed cost of
$155,545,539. Additionally, RTD will reimburse the contractors' direct fuel costs in an amount to be
estimated to be $13,085,531 over five years. The total five year not to exceed costs for services and fuel
is $168,631,070. Do I have a motion?
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek so moved.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Motion from Buzek. Do I have a second?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Sloan, second.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. So motion by Buzek, second by Sloan. At this time, I'd
like to ask Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer, Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus
Operations, and Erin Vallejos, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, to please present the item. Mr.
Ford, the floor is yours.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Chair. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. At this time, I would like to
turn over the presentation to Fred Worthen, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, and Erin
Vallejos, Senior Manager of Contracted Service and Bus Operations.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Ford and Chair Whitmore. Good evening, honorable Board members.
Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations. As a bit of background, on July 12, 2023, RTD issued a
solicitation for the provision of fixed route services, referred to in your Board packet as Group 32. Group
32 service package consists of 116 buses operating 20 routes in 13 different counties, cities, or
jurisdictions.
Two proposals were received in response to the RFP that were evaluated by an internal team, utilizing a
value-based scoring system. Based upon the proposed response received, Transdev was deemed by the
team to be the most responsive and experienced proposal. RTD has a longstanding partnership and
working relationship with Transdev, spanning nearly two decades in duration.
Based upon scoring criteria and direct experience working with Transdev, staff is recommending that the
Board authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a contract with Transdev

Services Inc. for services as described within your Board packet. At this time, I'm happy to answer any
questions you may have.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right, the floor is open for committee questions, and certainly members of the
Board that are not on the committee. Questions regarding this action? Director Ruscha, I see your hand is
raised. The floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So according to this memo, this is for 236,786 revenue hours
per year. Can you please address if this is an increase, decrease, or same as the status quo?
FRED WORTHEN: So the package is based upon a 1% increase per year to account for deadhead
training and maintenance, testing of miles. So it is based upon the current services, plus 1% per year.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If I may, Mr. Chair? Mr. Chair, may I-TROY L. WHITMORE: Continue, please.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. OK, and I'm sorry, I just want to make sure I understood. So the 1%
increase is for things like training and maintenance? It's not necessarily revenue or service hours? Or is a
1% increase in-FRED WORTHEN: It could be a combination of any number of things, depending upon what the service
plan is for the year. There is deadhead that we incur, training, maintenance. And there are service
adjustments that occur each year. This is predicated upon a 1% increase per year.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Mr. Chair, may I ask follow-up questions?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. So again, in the memo, it says that Transdev would be providing
service. And I presume they already currently do, since they are a current vendor to Arvada, Aurora,
Brighton, Commerce City, Englewood, Glendale, Lakewood, Littleton, Thornton, Westminster, Wheat
Ridge, city and county of Broomfield, city and county of Denver. And I think this amounts to about 45% of
our fixed route bus service. Of the cities I just listed-- actually, we'll do it in the reverse. Which of those are
served by both Transdev and RTD?
FRED WORTHEN: So first, I'd like to correct. This contract does not represent 45% of our services. We
have four different operating group contracts. Contracted services as a whole represents about 45%. This
is only a percentage of that. With regard to service, there is overlap throughout the jurisdiction of different
operating bases and RTD.
And in some cases, there are even services where both a contractor and directly operated vendor
operate on the same route. It is highly dependent upon the operational needs of the agency each year.
As we evaluate operational efficiency, our service planning group will make adjustments to how services
are delivered and what garage delivers such services.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So this is a percent of the 45%. Do you know what percent of our contracted
fixed route this contract would amount to? Which focus in retrospect makes much more sense because
we're talking about $148 million, which is a lot of money, but seems small.

FRED WORTHEN: I do not know offhand, but I can get that and distribute that to the Board.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Would it just be safe to say that this contract impacts-- or I guess, I'm sorry, I
don't want to ask a leading question. Would this contract impact service positively or negatively, or I
should say, be part of our service across the region or just a portion of the region? I'm sorry, of the district
of RTD.
FRED WORTHEN: As I previously stated, our services are divided by regions themselves. We have four
directly operated operating garages. And for contracted services, each operates as close to their home
base as possible to reduce deadhead and operational cost. But there are times, though, where we have
to cross what I would call jurisdictional boundaries or cross into other garages' operating territory for
operational efficiency or just due to resource constraints.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you. And again, I'm looking at this list. I see Boulder is not included here.
So if I could-- I have another question. So Transdev is a current-TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes.
TROY L. WHITMORE: I see Madame CEO with her hand raised, so she may be able to help with some of
your queries. Debra.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to add some additional comments to
what Mr. Fred Worthen outlined. His comments were accurate, but more importantly, I'd be remiss not to
state, we have a transportation network that's comprised of 2,342 square miles, keeping in mind that
individuals don't solely take a one-seat ride and that there is connectivity throughout the entire region.
Hence, when the question was posed whether or not, is it impacting Boulder, there is a possibility it could
be because somebody could transfer to a different route. So I wanted to ensure that that was put forward
for the full Board's understanding relative to the question that was posed. Thank you.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for that.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Then you, Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I'm sorry, Mr. Chair?
TROY L. WHITMORE: I said go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. And I also appreciate our General Manager CEO's comments, how
important these contracts are and how these routes don't operate in a vacuum. So the other question I
had is, so it sounds like we have different regions or groups of contracts. And I want to assume, but I
guess I'll ask to confirm, does Transdev currently have other contracts with RTD operating in other areas
right now, and is this just one of them?
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. Transdev recently assumed First Transit and has assumed the contracts
that were in operation. So at this point, Transdev is the operator of all four of our fixed route contracts.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. Thank you for that clarification. Now, I asked this in email, and I was
told it was not permitted to be disclosed. I'll ask again, and if it's-- and we can just get this on the record. I

had asked, this memo notes there were two bids that were put in, and it doesn't note who the other bidder
was.
Now, in other contracts, it has been disclosed when other companies put in a bid and they weren't
awarded that contract. And I'm just wondering why this is all of the sudden proprietary or confidential
information for the Board.
FRED WORTHEN: Chair Whitmore, if it is OK with you, I will defer to Legal Counsel for a response to this
question.
TROY L. WHITMORE: That's fine. Ms. Snyder, if you would, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. And I will note that Dana
Steele, our Director of Contracts and Procurements, is available to answer questions as well. But I did
confer with the leadership in that group, and that was the direction, just in order to preserve the integrity
of the process and avoid any appearance of any kind of bias, or just to maintain a pure process. And I'll
defer to Ms. Steele, if there's anything she wants to add.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Ms. Steele, the floor is yours, if you have any further information.
DANA STEELE: Yes, I am. Thank you, Director. And Director Ruscha, thank you for the question. I do
want-- I think there may be some confusion here. We have, in the past, revealed the names of other
bidders. But I don't believe those were necessarily in a sealed-- in an evaluative procurement. We provide
that information after but currently, we have an active procurement, and the technical proposals and the
Evaluation Committee's work is under what is termed as the cone of silence until that procurement is
closed.
And usually, we try to give about 72 hours after that just to make sure nothing goes wrong. So right now,
we want to preserve the integrity. There's nothing that we're trying to do to not disclose this information.
But that is our consistent policy is that we should not be revealing information about other bidders until we
have an active contract in place. I hope that answers the question, but I'm happy to try to answer any
follow-ups.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, is it OK?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Follow up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. It answers the question that that is the policy. I'm not sure I'm following
the rationale. I mean, simply put, the committee or the internal team that reviewed this contract would
have also reviewed the competitive bid of the other single bidder, and they would have been privy to this
information. This Board also has executive privilege, so that's something that could have been disclosed
under executive privilege, if necessary.
In just my understanding, experience with other governments and procurement, I've just never seen an
approval body-- that kind of information being withheld from the approving body. So maybe it's just unique
to RTD. I think we had some of this conversation last year and also during our procurement training. But
you did answer the question. Not sure I follow completely with the conclusion, but I do appreciate you
addressing RTD's policy in that regard.
DANA STEELE: Director Ruscha, if I may follow up--

JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, yes.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Please.
DANA STEELE: --and respond. Thank you, Director. I would say, I don't believe this is unique to RTD. I
think the cone of silence during an active procurement is a best practice and a very common practice
among governments. I don't-- again, there may be some lack of clarity regarding what type of
procurement, where we may have disclosed other names in the past, or the timing of that disclosure
coming after the actual award of the contract. That's about the only clarification that I can provide. I just
don't believe that the cone of silence is not unique to RTD in public procurement.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thanks. And I understand what you're talking about regarding the cone of silence. I
think my confusion or maybe slight disagreement is after the process has been closed, a determination
has been made, and I'm going to presume there is already a letter of intent to an award and/or a
conformed contract is in place.
So this would be a little different if we had a live, open process in which we were receiving bids right now
or if someone on the Board had asked for all of the bids for a comparison or something. Because that's
not our duty in this stage in the process.
Mr. Chair, I do have some other questions. I think they would probably cannibalize this committee's time.
So in the interest of time, I would like to make a comment in a statement, but I would prefer to just yield to
other Directors to make sure that they have their questions asked, if they have any.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you. I appreciate that. We will come back to you. I do see a hand raised. It's
our Legal Counsel, Melanie Snyder. So proceed.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. I just want to make sure that Ms. Steele didn't have
anything else to respond. I did have-- it looked like she might have been trying to add one more
clarification. And then I had one additional clarification to follow. So Dana, go ahead, if you-DANA STEELE: Oh, thank you. I think my question, my concern is with timing. And if I've already
answered the question that Director Ruscha presented, I don't want to go off on a tangent. I do believe
the concern is preserving the integrity of the procurement practice.
So if we were to disclose the identity of the other vendor, in this case, there's a chance that there could be
a conflict of interest, or someone on the Board potentially having some type of interest that they either
weren't even aware that they would need to disclose at that point, and it could delay or even somehow
taint the procurement process. And that's what we're trying to avoid by not disclosing this other. That's the
only reason.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. And then Mr. Chair, if I may?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Proceed.
MELANIE SNYDER: So along the lines of the timing, certainly as soon as a contract is signed, we
routinely make information available about the solicitation, including scoring sheets and proposals. And
so all of that does become available at that time. So it's not that it's never available. It's just a timing issue.
And then also, my understanding is that in this particular solicitation, that there hasn't been a notice of

intent to award-- that the procurement team was awaiting this Board's direction to move forward, so there
is not a signed contract from this vendor.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Melanie. All right, we will come back to Director Ruscha, but I see
committee member Buzek has his hand up. So Director Buzek, proceed.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And my comments were in essence echoing what Ms. Snyder has
said-- that there is no contract until we authorize the General Manager to sign it and then she actually
signs it. If this body were to not approve the contract, the procurement would have to start over. And so
that's why we have this issue of not revealing all of this confidential information. And I can also attest,
having been in city government for eight years, that this is very common in governmental practice. And
Director Ruscha, thank you very much for your questions and comments. They're very good. And also,
thank you for agreeing not to monopolize the conversation. Thanks.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Are there other committee members before I call on Director Broom?
Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I need to get out of this meeting and come right back in. My camera suddenly
stopped and now it says it's being used by another app. And I've closed all my apps, so I will be right
back. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Director Sloan. Good luck with the IT world. Any other
members of the committee before I proceed with Director Broom? All right. Director Broom, the floor is
yours.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Just out of curiosity, in this case, since there's only one bidder, you
know who the low bidder is. Do we normally disclose how many bids we got, who the low bidder was, or if
we choose someone other than the low bidder, what the rationale was for that?
FRED WORTHEN: Mr. Chair, if I may? So Director Broom, thank you for the question. This is not a low
bid. This is a value-based bid itself. So when we evaluate a value-based bid, the scoring committee will
look at a number of different items, such as the understanding and approach that the vendor takes
towards the RFP requirements. The experience of the firm and key personnel in providing services that
are similar in scope, size, and complexity, the cost, and SBE and DBE goals are all consideration on
evaluation criteria.
BOB BROOM: Oh, OK. Thank you very much.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Ms. Steele, did you have anything to add on that matter?
DANA STEELE: I did. Thank you, Director. If I may.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Please do.
DANA STEELE: I would clarify that this was not a single bid-- that there were actually two responsive
proposals submitted for this. And just a reminder to the Board that the evaluation committee first reviews
and scores all of the technical proposals without any view into cost. And then cost is prepared and
revealed by the procurement specialist after the technical proposal scores have been submitted. So it is a
two-tier process.

And in this case, we had two responsive bidders, and Transdev was selected both on the technical
proposal and on the cost proposal as the clear-- unanimous, I believe, by the committee-- as the
frontrunner.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you for that clarification, Steele.
DANA STEELE: You're welcome.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Director Broom, do you have any follow-up? I see your hand is still in the
air.
BOB BROOM: No, I don't. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. I see no other hands, except for Director Ruscha,
so we'll return the floor to you for your comments.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll keep it brief. I won't cannibalize time, although I do
think that $148 million is worth at least 20 minutes. So while it's true that there's always a potential for
conflict of interest, this Board also has a very strict conflict of interest policy that we follow, we adhere to.
In the past, Board members have recused themselves even just over the appearance of a conflict of
interest, even when none existed. And I believe we will continue to do so when those questions arise.
Yes, this information is subject to the public after contracts are executed, but that's after the fact. That is
after the Board has authorized $150 million in a contract that, quite frankly, we can't really see. Now,
when I was part of the procurement training last year for new and current Directors, I was advised that if I
had questions and needed a briefing, even if something fell under executive privilege, that I could do that.
I could reach out.
So after I received our Board agenda, which was dropped, I think, on the Friday before a holiday
weekend, with this request, I read it, and I did reach out with that request. That request was denied. And I
cannot help but to note that we just received an email from Arapahoe County commissioners and elected
officials, suggesting that perhaps they would receive better service if this Board had a different
governance structure.
And while I don't necessarily think that's true-- I think we're doing the best we can with what we have-- I
do not think this is a good look for this Board or to our stakeholders, when we get $150 million requests
right before a holiday weekend and a very quick turnaround. And when questions are asked, they're not
answered, and we are pointed to hundreds of pages of contract documents and told we can ask them in
committee.
This contract could be perfectly fine. It probably is. But without having a process in place in which the
Board can function as the trustees we are, we are effectively rubber stamping. And so I cannot in good
conscience vote on service delivery contracts like this without a little more information and a little bit
heads up. Moving forward, I would ask that RTD, please, we now have a committee work plan that we're
working on. There's a draft in front of everybody. We could have had a heads up.
I would love to see the staff come to us and say, this is what's upcoming. Give a presentation. Allow us to
get some of these questions out of the way. And then come back to us next month, when you have a
contract for us to authorize. I think that would be a much more appropriate process. And that actually is
reflective of what a lot of other bodies do.

I've spoken with county commissioners, folks at the state, and folks on some city councils, and they have
said that they are afforded more information, and they're afforded a briefing with Counsel when needed
before they vote on major things like this. And I think that we should be allowed the same. At the end of
the day, we are stewards of taxpayer dollars. This contract might be fine. But whether it's this service
delivery contract or a major capital project, we have to ensure that we did do our due diligence. And
sometimes, that is taking more than five or 10 or 20 minutes on something this significant.
And then finally-- and this is a policy thing, right? Many years ago, the legislature required us to contract
out the majority of our services under the guise that it would be cheaper and more efficient. Now, I think
that was also union busting at the time, OK. But we no longer have this requirement. We are allowed to
contract up to 58%. We don't have to. And so I would opine that after the legislature removed the
mandate and just gave us permission, that every contract moving forward that outsources our services
and our workforce is a policy choice.
And so I would implore, at some point, this body have a very serious discussion. Is outsourcing our labor
force good for this agency? Does it provide better transit? Does it save us money? And this is not to
knock on Transdev or First Transit. It's not. But these are also policy conversations. And so because I
was not afforded the respect I think that I should have earned as a Director to get that briefing and to get
some of this stuff out of the way and have a more robust conversation about this, I'm going to vote no.
And I would respectfully ask that other Directors join me in asking for some more disclosure and for us to
put on our agenda as a policymaking body a discussion about whether or not contracting out so much of
our service really benefits our constituents and our riders. So thank you very much. I will yield the floor.
And I appreciate your grace, Mr. Chair.
TROY L. WHITMORE: No problem. I respect all of your comments, as well as others. So I saw Ms. Steele
with her hand up. Perhaps you had a reply or some input before I call on Director Rosenthal?
DANA STEELE: If I may. And I don't want to-- thank you, Chair. Dana Steele, Director of Contracting and
Procurement. I don't want to address policy, and I'm not familiar-- I don't know about the origin of the
timing of the production of these documents to the Board.
But I do want to clarify that it's my understanding that the only information that we haven't provided to you
in response to the recent requests of Director Ruscha was the identity of the other vendor. And I believe
everything else has been provided. And that's the only clarification I wanted to make from my perspective.
If that's not Director Ruscha's understanding, I just wanted to tell what was mine.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right, I appreciate the input. All right, Director Rosenthal, please proceed.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Chair, and I appreciate some of the questions that are certainly
being asked of our management team. I certainly understand this is a large sum that we're requesting to
be provided to a contractor who has served RTD and the community. But I'm concerned about some of
the-- I guess I could say judgments that are being made about our leadership team. And it comes across
as accusatory and almost making them out to be duplicitous and things like that.
I trust our General Manager. I trust our legal department and Legal Counsel and our contracts
department. And they had an internal process that we are following that-- and we will find out the other
bidder in due course. So I just want to make sure that we are-- in potential, even though I hear you, Mr.
Chair, that you believe that everything was respectful, I'm feeling like we're going up to the edge. And I

really just think we need to always look inward and make sure that we are respecting our team. Thank
you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you very much, Director Rosenthal. Appreciate your comments as well. Are
there any other questions or discussion matters before we take a vote on this motion? I see none. We
have a motion by Director Buzek and a second by Director Sloan. I will ask for a roll call vote on this
matter. And I happen to actually have the roster in front of me. We're going in alphabetical order, if I did it
right. So Director Bouquet, how do you vote?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a no.
TROY L. WHITMORE: I'm sorry, did you say no? OK.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, I'm a no.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK, thank you. It was just a bit garbled. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Harwick?
IAN HARWICK: No.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Ruscha?
IAN HARWICK: You're muted, JoyAnn.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Ooh, sorry. Respectfully, no.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
TROY L. WHITMORE: And Director Whitmore voting yes. So the ayes have it. One, two, three, four yes
votes, three no votes. No votes coming from Directors Bouquet, Harwick, and Ruscha. Mr. Kroll, do I have
the results correct?
JACK KROLL: Director Whitmore, you do indeed. That is what I have as well.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you very much. Sorry about the pause. I'm getting a phone call
from Amazon Delivery. We all know what kind of priority that has in our lives. So I apologize for that. All
right the second item for new business tonight is the drug and alcohol policy amendments. It's for the
Board of Directors to approve the amendments to the RTD Drug and Alcohol Policy mandated by the
Federal Transit Administration, FTA, of the United States Department of Transportation. Do I have a
motion?

MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
VINCE BUZEK: Buzek. Buzek second.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right, thank you. So I have a motion by Director Sloan, a second by Director
Buzek. At this time, I'd like to ask Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, and Edin Memic Manager, HR
DOT Compliance, to present this item to the committee. Charlene.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. The
committee has before you a package-- quite lengthy one, so I apologize. There's lots to read there. But
it's a critical policy to the work of the agency.
As noted, I have Edin Memic who is our Manager of DOT HR, Department of Transportation, Compliance.
He is here as a subject matter expert, having negotiated the working terms and conditions of this policy
that impact our represented members.
That negotiation occurred with membership from the ATU 1001 over many months. This policy is coming
before the Board for review and ultimately approval because in this last iteration, there were substantive
edits, and they are detailed in your package. And so if there are any specific questions that pertain to the
policy in particular, I will call on Mr. Memic to address those. But I will pause and yield the floor if there are
any questions.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Pardon the dog, because I think the Amazon person has arrived. So is
there any questions of Charlene, or do we need to hear from Ed? All right. We do have a motion from
Director Sloan and Buzek for this matter. Are there any no votes on this action? Seeing no no votes, we
will deem the action approved by unanimous vote of 7 to 0.
All right, we have one discussion item on the agenda this evening, and that's the 2024 Operations and
Safety Committee Work Plan. As most of you know, we have had conversations about work plans the last
evening with both of the other standing committees, and we are going to proceed in the same manner
with a work plan effort. And certainly, Vice Chair Bouquet and myself will work with our staff on
recommendations. So at this point in time, I'd call on Jack Kroll to summarize the work plan and some of
the timing efforts, and then we can have some discussion and then ask for input offline as well. So Jack,
the floor is yours.
JACK KROLL: Great. Thank you, Director Whitmore. Jack Kroll, Board Office Executive Manager. I'll just
say a few remarks very briefly and then turn the floor over to Chief Operating Officer Ford to say a few
words as well. But effectively, as you all heard last night, those of you who attended the Finance and
Planning Committee meeting, this work plan was developed based off of information that the Board Office
received from staff that includes the recommended actions and discussions they need you all to have at
this stage-- throughout the year, I should say.
The opportunity you all have before you this evening is to take a look at the work plan, as it was shared
out, and assess whether there are items you all would like to recommend to the committee to address
following the recommendations and the conversation you all have this evening. You all are free to
continue to submit ideas on what should be on this committee's work plan moving forward, and you can
certainly send those to either Committee Chair Whitmore or Committee Vice Chair Bouquet, the Board
Office, or Michael Ford and other staff.

And what will happen, once all of those recommendations have come through the door, is that Chief
Operating Officer Ford will sit down with Director Whitmore and Committee Vice Chair Bouquet and revise
the work plan as it's presented to you this evening. And that will come back for your approval as a
committee at your subsequent meeting in February. So with that, I don't have anything else to add, other
than to hand it over to Chief Operating Officer Ford for a few more words.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Jack. Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. I really don't have much to
add. What you have in front of you is a listing of items that we have throughout the year. And we look
forward to further discussion with the Chair and the Vice Chair of the committee to determine if there are
other things to be added to that.
I think that would be all I would have to say at this point, given that you have a list of items that we have
put through throughout the year that we know at this time, other things obviously can be added or
changed as we go forward in this process. So at this time, I would defer to our CEO and General
Manager, if she had any other comments to make.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Please proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly. Thank you, Mr. Ford. Recognizing that the agency's core
business is transit service delivery, that's why we are all here. And that is the core business function of
this agency. As I shared during comments at last night's Finance and Planning Committee, I believe it is
paramount that the committee have discussions relative to a path forward, recognizing policies that need
to be established in the course of your Board retreat.
But more specifically, recognizing that some key elements that we're looking to work on a collaborative
fashion, this gives us an opportunity to leverage this working plan in determining what those elements
may be relative to some core initiatives.
As we talk about, back to basics, people power and welcoming transit environment, that is all fully
encompassed in service delivery, as we are a labor-intensive organization. So recognizing the difference
between big P and little P. I wanted to put that on the record as we go forward, because it's critically
important as we talk about retaining employees, having a welcoming transit environment, and ensuring
that our assets are in a state of good repair.
So often times, there's been questions that have been raised in conversations that have ensued. So
recognizing there may be great potential for this body to have quarterly updates on some key elements so
you, in fact, have the information that you need to set forward policy which my team and I can effectuate.
Thank you very kindly for the opportunities to express those comments in this forum.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. So one question that I have. We're on a tight timeline to
turn around the next version next month, and I would assume that this could continue to be a working
document, at least for a few more months, knowing that we do have a day-long strategic planning effort
later in the month of February. Is the thought that we could possibly have these type of amendments? I
didn't really hear that last night, but it was an idea that sprung into my head earlier today. Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Mr. Chair, and I would concur with that, recognizing that
this is a living document. It's your work plan. And we can't foresee everything that lies ahead. But
recognizing, as we look at key performance indicators, agency performance, and goals and metrics of a

light, we typically look at those on a quarterly basis. That gives us a better-informed decision, as we look
to leverage leading indicators as opposed to lagging indicators. I think that would be in the interest of all
the parties, that we could have an opportunity to actually revisit and go forward and do some meaningful
work collectively. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Well, and thank you very much. All right, I've got four Directors in queue. Director
Sloan, the floor is yours.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. First, I'd like to state that I think it's an excellent idea to have committee
work plans. It's a very positive way to look at our year. And Director Ruscha has already mentioned a
topic she would like to look at. I would like to follow up on the idea that our retreat is not scheduled till
February 24, and I'm not sure why we need to do it-- review the plan twice.
It might be better to defer the plan, and have an opportunity to incorporate the ideas from the retreat and
look at it for the first time in March. So that's an idea thrown out. I have another comment, and I recognize
that we're going to have an opportunity to talk to the Chair and the Vice Chair about ideas. But I would
just like to raise one big one, and that is the transition plan. I don't believe the draft transition plan will be
ready in 2024, but a briefing on it would be really helpful soon. So those are my two comments. Thank
you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. I think the draft might be available, and I will defer to
GM CEO Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair, I appreciate that. And Director Sloan, I recognize
you weren't in attendance at the committee meeting last night, but this topic did arise. And as we look at
the Facilities, Fleet, and Transition Plan, there will be updates provided to this body. And we are
expecting the Facilities, Fleet, and Transition Plan to be readily available no later than December 15 of
this year going forward. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you both. All right. Mr. Kroll, I think you're next in queue. Did you have
something to add at this moment, please?
JACK KROLL: Yes, Director Whitmore. I just wanted to respond to a couple of your comments, as well as
Director Sloan's comment around the timing of approval of these. So in November, I presented to you all
a draft bylaw change to enshrine the process of developing these committee work plans in your bylaws,
and that bylaw change contemplates that you all would approve these plans no later than March of every
year. No gold star for doing it earlier.
I think there were some conversation around having a retreat date earlier in the year this year. But for
planning purposes, the 24th was the date that was settled on. So there's no hard and fast, pressing need
to have this approved by February. You can certainly approve it in March.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Well, I appreciate that, and some good thoughts by Director Sloan in that
regard. Let's proceed with comments. Director Harwick.
IAN HARWICK: I'm guessing that what Director Sloan was referring to was the Vision Zero Coalition that
Director Ruscha and Director Guzman and myself have been a part of. Just to put it out there, I am very
interested in seeing that be a topic of conversation in the future. Specifically, March would be great. So
thank you, and that's what I've got.

TROY L. WHITMORE: Appreciate that, Director Harwick. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Just a quick look at the work plan. Seems to be fairly operations
heavy and not too heavy on the safety side of things. And I don't know if you all know this, but we've got a
Chief of Police who's a pretty accomplished guy and really good at what he does.
So I would love to have him in here somewhere, telling us about what's going on with our police
department, the transition from contract security to a bigger police department. What we're doing to
address safety concerns. And as GM CEO talked about, the concerns for our operators and all that. So I'd
like to see more of Chief Fitzgerald in here. So that's all I have to say. Thanks.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Buzek and Director Harwick, for those inputs. They're
certainly worthy of further discussion, and meritorious. I think next I have Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I had a couple of comments/questions on the plan before us.
So I noted that the PTASP is on here twice as discussion and action. But in the note, it says
update/approval.
So I just wanted to clarify that we're having a discussion and presentation first, and then the following
month is the vote, if that was the intent of staff. And if so, I actually appreciate that, because the PTASP is
a pretty considerable document. It is also one of the few things that legally by law, we have to approve
and so I just wanted clarification on that.
And then I had a question, and it's actually about Title VI. So I know that the Board has to approve a Title
VI policy. And this is my ignorance showing-- I don't remember the date at which the Board last approved.
So I was going to-- I wanted to ask our GM CEO if that is something that will come before us again this
year or if that expires in future years.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Proceed.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, and I appreciate the questions, Director Ruscha. The
first question that you posed, relative to the Public Transit Agency Safety Plan, the intent is to orient you
all first before requesting action, recognizing that we are working in conjunction with guidance that we will
receive from the Federal Transit Administration, any type of rule change that will be made pursuant to
certain codes of federal regulations, and more specifically, as relates to what we may do working in
conjunction with our Joint Labor Safety Committee.
So with that as a backdrop, we would orient you to what that is and our steps going forward. So yes,
presenting that element and then basically bringing it back for this Board's consideration. As it relates to
Title VI, generally, our Title VI plan is done on a four-year basis going forward. If my memory serves me
correctly, that was last brought to this body-- I believe I was here, so I want to say it was done in 2022.
And so as we look at where we stand on a federal fiscal year, more than likely we wouldn't be bringing
that back, if I do it off the top of my head, until the latter part of 2025.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Mr. Chair, may I? I had a couple more-TROY L. WHITMORE: Go ahead.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK, thank you, sir. And thank you, General Manager CEO, for that comprehensive
update and feedback. So I do concur with Director Buzek that it would be nice to get an update from RTD
PD our Chief of Police. And so I would also add that it would probably benefit us, similar to how we got
last year, getting some data on how many suspensions, what for, hotspots on the system, just things like
that.
So if we do, in fact, get an update from the PD this year that's a general update, I think that would be
helpful for the Board. And possibly even include information like that in a quarterly report, whether it's the
Board report or just something that is emailed to us. I think that would be helpful since we are also voting
on policy and contracts related to security on our system.
And then I also just wanted to make a suggestion. And this might be something-- I think we'll probably talk
about this at the retreat, or I hope so-- is that we also receive-- and this might be part of Mr. McClain's
safety performance update.
But in case it's not-- that we also receive maybe quarterly updates on our existing caps that we have. I
think in the past, the Board received-- whether it was quarterly, twice a year, yearly, there was some
consistent updates on caps, the status, what was still outstanding, and challenges. And I think that's
something that does fall under this committee, so I'd like to see that in this work plan. But those are the
two comments I had relative to safety and security.
And then on operations side-- or excuse me, the service delivery side, we do not receive performance
reports for paratransit. I know in the past we had, or I think we had-- it might have been quite a while ago.
It might have been years ago. And as we talk about metrics and having a dashboard or just reporting on
our performance, I'd also like to see that included. So I just wanted to say that on the record. Those were
my comments. And thank you to staff, and also thank you so much to Mr. Kroll for coming up with this and
helping us herd the cats. It's much appreciated.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Mr. Vice Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Yeah, I think kind of circling back, the idea that I
interpreted is we would have our retreat in February and then, this is a living document, as that has been
pointed out over and over again. But the hope is we have these discussions during our retreat.
Another thing I would add on to our discussion, and I'm certain Chair Davidson is listening to all of this
and considering what to talk about during the retreat, is going off what Director Buzek said is whenever
Chief Fitzgerald has come down to all of our local events down here in District G, all of my local
representatives have just been impressed by him and his knowledge.
And again, just piggybacking off what Director Buzek said, getting updates specifically also on how we
are partnering with local law enforcement in all of our different districts, I would love to get that from
Operations and Safety. I would love to get updates on that.
Because it is happening and there is progress moving forward, and having that in a public session and
knowing we are moving the needle in the right direction, I think, is crucial. And I think that being one of
our key topics to discuss, either during our Board retreat and/or adding this to our working group, is key
and crucial. Because there is work that is being done, and the public needs to know about that. So thank
you.

TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Vice Chair. Any other comments or inputs? I would like to thank
the committee members wholeheartedly for the good stuff that's come forth already in just a few minutes
this evening. Certainly gives Director Bouquet and Michael Ford and Debra and I and Jack some more
good inputs to add to try and get in shipshape in February, whether it's the committee meeting or the
retreat or both. Any noncommittee members with comments? Mr. Ford, any wrap-up comments?
MICHAEL FORD: No, Chair, I do not have any. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. I appreciate that. Other matters? Anything else for the good of the order
from our Board of Directors? Yes, Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, I would just like to express my appreciation for the real-time signboards that
have been installed at the light rail stations. They're really helpful. And also, I've noticed on the overhead
digital signs, those are now also real time and it changes. And when run is canceled, that goes up on the
digital sign, which is incredibly important for riders, particularly in subzero temperatures. So thank you. I
appreciate it. It's a great improvement.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan, for that update. Director Ruscha.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So I have a comment question and it's about the coping
panels project. So last year, obviously, there were service disruptions, and that does impact the whole
system. And it looked like, based on the data, that we lost some ridership. And I was just wondering if
staff had any kind of postmortem thoughts about, will we get that ridership back? Was that permanent?
Was it temporary? Do we know?
Just also recognizing that project is not complete yet and we will have further service disruptions on the
light rail system. And this is not a knock on staff or anything that we did. That project was necessary. But I
am a little bit concerned that that dip in ridership might become a permanent dip, and I was just
wondering if anyone could speak to that and also to how we're going to face this challenge this year, as
we complete the project.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Madame CEO General Manager, the floor is yours.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you. So in reference to your question, Director Ruscha, thanks for
broaching that. Yes, we have leveraged a myriad of lessons learned going forward. And what is
commonplace, which we are going to incorporate as we go forward, is having the scheduled time
incorporated into our service change.
What we were doing previously when we undertook this project, recognizing that there was a myriad of
different factors that came into play relative to the delivery of materials that were needed, greater window
that was needed, other unforeseen circumstances where maintenance of rail crews needed to be
displaced due to the fact that we had other critical issues happening with our infrastructure and, more
specifically, we had unprecedented rain in the spring as well.
So when we talk about the loss of ridership, it's easy to conjecture and speculate. Because oftentimes,
when a ride takes longer than what is needed, and all that's due to the simple fact that the throughput of a
train has to be done manually and we have to ensure the safe passage of that, recognizing the system
was designed, whether it be good, bad, or indifferent in some places with single track, then that is
hindering the service reliability. It's very analogous when you're driving an automobile, whereby there's
only one lane of traffic and oncoming traffic has to yield to traffic going in the opposing directions.

So with that context being afforded, we are going to do an expansive communications campaign.
Probably won't do a lot to mitigate people's angst, because people want what they want when they want
it. But recognizing that we have to ensure that we're making modifications for the betterment of transit
service delivery. We will do that going forward. And as I indicated with my opening comments, that we will
factor in the actual time delay in the schedule so people can have a better understanding of what that
may be.
But I'd be the first to tell you that we can schedule accordingly, but if there's something else, safety will
come first. And if we have to halt a train, we will do that going forward. And recognizing that we do have
service bell readily available. Chances are we wouldn't use bus bridges or things of the like because we
have another mode of transport that's readily available, being light rail.
And I think with the effort going forward and trying to manage, and also utilizing the components that we
have with our transit app, whereby people can plan in a much more efficient fashion by putting in certain
words to get to a destination, as opposed to knowing the specific station and things of the like. We believe
that that could aid in mitigating the angst and trepidation relative to this critical maintenance project.
Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Is that all, Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: On that question, yes, I had one more, if I may.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you. Thanks. And so this might be too soon. It might be cart before the horse
or before the bus. But so looking ahead to service changes, I know as a Director who represents a portion
of Denver, which is DPS, I had a lot of requests from stakeholders and schools about school tripper
service and increasing that.
So just by way of explanation for my colleagues, so in Denver, the school board had passed initiative for
later start times, and local schools do have quite a bit of leeway into when their day starts, which, as you
can imagine, since so many kids are dependent on RTD, could create kind of domino chaos.
And so I was just wondering. I know we do have an operator shortage, and we're very sensitive to that,
but I was just wondering if our GM CEO would be able to speak-- are we able to increase some service
for our youth, relative to the bell schedule for those high-needs areas for those transit-dependent kids?
DEBRA JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE]
TROY L. WHITMORE: Go ahead, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly.
JOYANN RUSCHA: If it's not too early to say. And I apolo-- I don't want to put you in a bad position, but I
wanted to broach the subject.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, you're not putting me in a bad position, and I will provide context for those that
are listening. So relevant to the point you raised about what we utilize in the transit industry as trippers,
what that means is that we will have extra buses to basically support our transit service delivery during
certain times of the day. In doing that, we do have to ensure that we have people power. More

specifically, as we talk about bell adjustments, we have to clearly ensure that that aligns with our
resources.
And more specifically, we have to be careful that we are not utilizing our services for school bus
transportation, recognizing that the federal government has put guidelines around how we deliver those
services. So with that as the context, Director Ruscha, we will do our best in partnering with Denver
Public Schools, as we always do. Contingent upon the time of day and what services we have readily
available, we will try and incorporate that into existing schedules as we go forward, recognizing that our
workforce bids on their shifts.
We have to ensure that we have ample people readily available, as we could be in an instance where we
are relying on extra board, extra board being those that we have available to sit around, very analogous
to a substitute teacher waiting to get called into a classroom to provide service to those kids in need of an
education. So with that, we will be intentional as we go forward, recognizing the importance.
You've heard me say this-- public transportation and public education go hand in hand. But we do have
an obligation to deliver public transit services to all. So with that as the backdrop, we will ensure that we
do the best that we possibly can without cutting off our noses to spite our faces, and ensuring that we are
not violating school bus regulations, as outlined with the Federal Transit Administration. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Ruscha, is that all?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: You're on mute.
TROY L. WHITMORE: You're on mute. OK. We lost audio. So sounds like we are good there. I see no
other hands raised. Just a reminder-- when we adjourn this meeting, we will take a five-minute break, and
Chair Catlin of the Performance Committee will commence her meeting at five minutes after we adjourn.
Reminder, our next meeting, February 14. Sweethearts, be there or be square. And please don't forget to
get your input to Vice Chair Bouquet or myself or staff members on the work plan. We had a nice little
start tonight, so let's continue working together to flesh out that plan. So seeing no other items or
discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 6:45 PM Mountain. We will commence the Performance
Committee meeting at 6:50 PM Mountain. Thank you.
JACK KROLL: Hi all, just a reminder, you will stay in this Zoom room for that Performance Committee
meeting.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Jack.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you.

From:
Sent:
To:
Subject:

Wednesday, January 17, 2024 4:51 PM
RTD Board Office
Group 32 Fixed-Route Service Contract

Follow Up Flag:
Flag Status:

Follow up
Completed

Submitted as public comment to the Operations & Safety Committee meeting on Jan 17th, 2024.
Dear Operations & Safety Committee,

I note that tonight's meeting contains a Recommended Action item to approve Group 32 FixedRoute Service Contract
for a "not to exceed" amount of $168,631,070 over the next five years. Publicly available information from RTD staff
appears to be scant and I would hope that Directors would only approve a contract amount as high as this on the
condition that they have already seen the proposed contract in its entirety, perhaps via executive session as
appropriate.
To approve a contract such as this without seeing all the details in advance is effectively "governing blind" which is not a
good look for a Board & Committee structure that is currently being questioned by a number of stakeholders and
Colorado legislators. I urge the Directors on the committee to exercise good governance and oversight of public funds
and reject voting for this contract should full details of the contract not be provided by RTD staff.

Kind Regards,
Richard Bamber
(For and behalf of Greater Denver Transit)

To help protect y our priv acy , Microsoft Office prev ented automatic download of this picture from the Internet.

1

