Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, March 2, 2007
Page 1
Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Analyst

Date:

March 22, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on
Friday, March 2, 2007 at 12:00 pm.
****

Committee
Members Present:

Others Present:

Chairman Chacon, Directors McMullen, and Martinez.

Cal Marsella, Julie, Greg, Ken Hardin, Ty Perry, Michael Washington,
Phil Washington, Helga Grunerud, Linda Wilson, Ed Romero, Ron
Montoya, Les Townsend, Sarah Fuentes, Paula Perdue, Julie and Lisa
Trujillo.
****
Director Chacon called to the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.

1.

Call to Order

2.

Introductions
Juanita welcomed everyone and asked that they introduce themselves.

3.

Original PMC DBE Team Scope & Comparison
Ken Hardin, Business Opportunity & Outreach Officer, introduced Julie, Contracts
Administrator for FasTracks and Carter Burgess. Julie assists the PMC Team by
looking at DBE Goals and works with Ken and Greg to help manage and coordinate DBE
efforts. She prepared and passed out a handout of work scope which listed everything
the DBE team is doing. The handout is divided into three years. 2005 which shows 6
months in the planning stage and development, 2006 and 2007 show more emphasis
on implementation.
Julie indicated that the main thing to note is in 2007 there are a few things that are not
being done due to budgetary constraints. These items can hopefully be picked up in
2008. Juanita asked Julie to list what pieces are impacted by the budget constraint.
The items impacted are as follows:


Workforce

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, March 2, 2007
Page 2




Certifications – not that they are not going to be done but we don’t have the
opportunity for Greg to sit and go through and check off each one.
Mentor protégé programs are being held off until next year.
Reduced some for the outreach effort by not emphasizing in the same way that
they did last year.

Ed Romero – gave an overview of what the DBE Outreach Team is doing. He indicated
that they have over 100 years of experience in outreach to small business
communities. They know the leaders, organizations and know what they want.
Ed discussed the two phases of DBE Outreach: phase one is to introduce RTDs Light
Rail project to DBE and SBE communities. The initial process is to stress the
opportunities and encourage small businesses to become certified. The key thing as a
team is to inform them that this is there chance. It is critical to manage expectations,
for instance if we are in the design engineer and professional services phase – it is
important that they do not think they will be getting a contract and start working right
away.
Phase two is to focus as construction becomes a reality starting in 2008. The team
will continue to have management of expectations. As we go into 2008 small firms are
going to understand that it is now imperative that they come forward and be certified if
they are going to be part of the project.
Cal explained the link between DBE Certifications and goal setting. When we get a
larger pool certified that is what set the goals.
Phil Washington explained that the projected goal for FasTracks was 13% and we are
at 22%. An example is that on the very first FasTracks PMC Contract there was a 7%
goal. People in community complained because it was so low. The issue was that the
certification for skill set was low at the time. Now setting very aggressive goals
because certifications have increased and the pool has become larger.
Phil indicated that they looked ked at a couple of Chamber Membership lists to see who
was certified. Of the firms that were certified from that chamber almost 50 -75 % of
the members were certified. If you at least get certified the likelihood you get work is
high.
It was determined that there is a disconnect between the leadership of chambers and
their members.
Helga Grunerud said that her membership knows exactly what they are going after on
this project and suggested that it would be helpful to other Chambers if there was a
list of opportunities. The Chambers have not been able to wrap their arms around
opportunities because they represent such a wide group. She also suggested having
something titled “non construction opportunities”.

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, March 2, 2007
Page 3
Cal indicated that on the West Corridor Art Program he wants to make sure we have
hefty goals and also make sure the art demographics reflect the communities.
Ed went on to discuss his direct responsibilities with the Chambers he is involved with.
There is always changing leadership but it does not mean you stop the effort.
Ed informed the DBE Committee that sometime in April there will be a big Hispanic
Presentation. Juanita asked that Mi Casa be invited as well.
The Rocky Mountain and Asian Chambers are going to have a combined presentation
from us.
Phil wanted to mention that even though there is a disconnect, the chamber members
are getting work.
Juanita would like to see where the numbers are, how much progress is being made,
how many are certified and how many have come aboard. Would be helpful to have
information and have a starting point.
Juanita – asked if we can use the media by getting two success stories out there one
in a traditional and one non traditional as an attention getter.
Ken Hardin said that RTDs Internal Marketing Team is putting together a marketing plan
which includes a set up with Colorado Biz, Urban Spectrum and La Voz. Juanita
suggested using Rocky Mountain News or Denver Post.
The Hispanic Contractor Association has a half hour radio show every Sunday and there
is one coming up on RTD. Ed Romero is going to do a radio program in an effort to
reach out to the Spanish speaking community and address opportunities on
certifications for RTD. It will be on March 25th
Ron Montoya discussed assessment process in which they are spending a tremendous
amount of time interviewing companies that can potentially become vendors, suppliers
or contractors. They make a detailed assessment of companies to see if they meet all
requirements necessary for bonding. He also passed out a list
Trying to customize outreach to make sure you are not receiving information that is not
relevant to the service you provide.

4.

Report on Outreach Activities

Summary of the DBE Outreach Committee meeting held on Friday, March 2, 2007
Page 4
This was covered under item three.
5.

Debriefing of February 26, 2007.
Chair Chris Martinez attended the debriefing along with fifty other individuals. The
meeting was set up to meet with the different organizations that had signed the
MOU’s. Every chamber was represented. Gave an overview of where we are with the
MOU. Information was also given out on 2007 contract opportunities which included
schedules and dates. Chris requested a copy of what was handed out that evening be
given to all board members.
Juanita asked that in the near future the other board members be briefed at a Study
Session on what was talked about today so they understand how difficult the process
is.
Les Townsend mentioned that things are happening in the community. He reminded
the committee that most small companies have issues so when we go in to do
assessments they don’t just open up their books and say here is everything. It takes a
while to gain confidence. 80% of small companies have issues.
Juanita asked for an updated outreach list for RTD. .
Ken indicated that there is a new look to the website. It is updated and more user
friendly.
6. Next Meeting Date
Juanita suggested that the DBE Committee meet every six weeks, which would be
the second week of April.
7. Adjourn
Hearing no objections, Director Martinez declared the meeting adjourned 6:00 pm.

