Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 1 of 7
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

April 9, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008 at
1:30 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

***
Chair Kemp, Vice-Chair Martinez, Secretary McMullen;
Second Vice Chair Busck and Treasurer Tayer (via
phone); Directors Chacon, Elfenbein and Pulliam

Board Members Absent:
Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Paula Perdue

Others Present:
Call to Order:
I.

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 1:35 p.m.

Executive Session
Chair Kemp called for a motion to move into Executive Session.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
move into executive session for the
purpose to discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)
(b) – conference with attorney re RTD/
ATU trustee relationships and obligations
(see confidential packet).
Director Martinez seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed 5 in favor and
against.

The Executive Committee adjourned to Executive Session at 1:40 p.m.
The Executive Committee adjourned from Executive Session at 2:30 p.m.
II.

Action Items
 Appointment of RTD Salaried Employees to the ATU
Represented Pension Trust

0

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 2 of 7
This action item came from the executive session discussion
regarding C.R.S. 24-6-402 (4) (b)
MOTION:
Director Martinez made the motion to
move the appointment of RTD Salaried
Employees to the ATU Represented
Pension Trust forward to the full Board.
Director McMullen seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed 3 in favor and
against.

0



Resolution No. _______ Series of 2008 Salaried Employee
Pension Trust –Trustee Appointments
This action item was brought forth by Director Pulliam in an attempt
to make the terms of the trustees on the defined plan and the defined
contribution coterminous with the term of the RTD Board member
term in office.
This action was somewhat confusing and contradicted an action
taken by the Board at the Operations/Customer service committee
meeting on 4/8 related to the terms identified on the recommendation
for adoption of plan and trust documents for the RTD Defined
Contribution Salaried Pension Plan.
Director Martinez pointed out several procedural concerns including
the fact that any changes to the terms now would affect the term
calendar for the appointees.
He stated this change is more
appropriately made when the terms come up for expiration later this
year.
Noting this issue of process, Chair Kemp made the decision to let this
resolution die.
 Colorado Blue Ribbon Panel Resolution
Director Elfenbein gave a quick briefing of this resolution and asked
for a show of support from the RTD Board of Directors for this
resolution. Director Busck offered up a show of support but wanted
it communicated that this is not enough money to resolve the
transportation issues and we would look to the panel to determine
other options.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
move the Colorado Blue Ribbon Panel
Resolution forward to the full Board.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 3 of 7
Director Busck seconded the motion.
VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

III.

The motion passed 3 in favor and
against.

0

April Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Kemp asked if there were any questions or concerns on the action
items on the April Board meeting report. Hearing no objections, the
motion was made to move the April Board meeting agenda forward and
include the two action items approved by this committee.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made the motion to
move the April Board meeting agenda
forward to the full Board.
Director Busck seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
THE MOTION:

The motion passed 3 in favor and
against.

0



Approval of Director District Boundary Changes
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors approve a change to the boundaries of
Director Districts J, L, M and N as a result of changes to the
boundaries of several Jefferson County voter precincts, as required
by RTD’s enabling legislation [CRS 32-9-111(2)].



Transfer of Funds for the East Metro SAU Project
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer
$250,000 from the Market Street Station Atrium Glass project and
$88,370 from the Low Value Furniture and Equipment account into
the East Metro Supply Air Unit (SAU) Replacement project. Both the
funds being transferred and the project funds are included in the
2008 RTD budget.



Microsoft Enterprise Agreement (Software – 3 years) (waiting for
correct wording)
The Information Technology Division proposes that the
Finance/Administration
Committee approve and recommend that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager to execute all documents necessary to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 4 of 7
amend the contract with Insight for a three (3) year software
Enterprise Agreement with Microsoft in the Amount of $ 266,589.94
and for a total contract value not to exceed $1,550,000. Insight was
chosen using the State of Colorado award in December 2007, which
the state competitively bid themselves.
Additionally, it takes
advantage of the state’s buying power.


Contract Award – Oracle DBA Support (waiting for correct wording)
The Information Technology (IT) Division of the Administration
Department proposes that the Finance/Administration Committee
approve and recommend that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager to execute all documents necessary to award a
contract in the amount of $180,000 for Personal Services for an IT
Oracle Database Administrator (DBA)(18DJ001). The contract is to
be awarded to Sol-IT following a competitive review of twelve
submitted proposals. The contract runs for a period of one year with
two additional one-year options. This has been determined to be a
personal service contract by Legal.
The contract allows for an initial year plus two one-year options to
renew based on positive performance by the vendor. The annual limit
is not to exceed $180,000. The contract would begin on May 1,
2008.



Central Parking Contract (waiting for correct wording)
It is recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to enter into a three year contract for 2008, 2009 & 2010
with Central Parking for $1,258,226.00, to supply ticket sellers for
all major sporting and other special events. In addition to the three
year contract is an option for two, one year extensions through 2011
and 2012 for an additional total of $896,121.20. The grand total for
a five year contract is $2,154,347.20 from 2008-2012.



RECOMMENDED ACTION



Approval of Contract Amendment for 30% Preliminary Engineering
(PE) for Denver Union Station
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
execute a Contract Amendment with Parsons Brinkerhoff (PB) for
the 30% Preliminary Engineering (PE) work related to Denver Union
Station in the amount of $5,200,000. The total current contract
amount, including previous amendments, is $18,396,279. This
amendment will increase the contract value to $23,596,279. This
amendment is required to finalize the 30% PE necessary to provide

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 5 of 7
enough information to the Master Developer, Union Station
Neighborhood Company (USNC) and proposed Design /Builder to
provide a Guaranteed Maximum Price (GMP).
It is also recommended by the Planning & Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
transfer $1,320,000 of the $5,200,000 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the contract
amendment. The remainder of the funds are in the DUS Budget/RTD
Budget in 2008. This action will accelerate funding programmed in
the DUS Budget for 2009 to allow for completion of the 30% PE.
The Contingency Reserve will be replenished from DUS project funds
in the 2008 Budget Amendment.


Approval of Contract Amendment for the Gold Line Corridor for
Additional Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering
Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that RTD’s contract with CH2M Hill for the Gold Line Corridor
DEIS/FEIS/Basic Engineering/Advanced Basic Engineering be
amended to add $1,918,000 to the contract amount in order for
the consultant to perform Preferred Alternative Refinements (PARs)
to the evaluation of the Preferred Alternative (PA) made necessary
as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The
total current contract amount, including previous amendments, is
$14,240,607. This amendment will increase the contract value to
$16,157,774.
It is also recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to transfer $1,290,000 of the $1,918,000 from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to provide the full funding for the
contract amendment. The remainder of the funds are in the Gold
Line/RTD Budget in 2008. This action will accelerate funding
programmed in 2009 to allow for completion of the engineering
and environmental work.
The Contingency Reserve will be
replenished from the Gold Line Corridor project funds in the 2008
Budget Amendment.



Approval of Contract Amendment for the North Metro Corridor for
Additional Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering
Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that RTD’s contract with URS for the North Metro Corridor
DEIS/Basic Engineering be amended to add $1,672,125 to the
contract amount in order for the consultant to perform refinements

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 6 of 7
to the evaluation of the preferred alternative made necessary as a
result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The
total current contract amount, including previous amendments, is
$5,210,495. This amendment will increase the contract value to
$6,882,620. Available funding for this contract amendment is in
the 2008 FasTracks Adopted Budget for the North Metro project.


Approval of Contract Amendment for the East Corridor for Additional
Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) and Engineering Work
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the contract with PBS&J for the East Corridor Environmental Impact
Statement (EIS) and engineering work to be amended to add
$2,998,723 to the contract amount in order for the consultant to
perform refinements to the evaluation of the preferred alternative
made necessary as a result of the negotiations with the Union Pacific
Railroad. The total current contract amount, including previous
amendments, is $12,149,780 (includes East Corridor EIS and Central
Corridor Extension Environmental Evaluation (EE) as originally
budgeted). This amendment will increase the contract value to
$15,148,503. Funds are available in the 2008 East Corridor Adopted
Budget



Approval of Contract Amendment for Environmental (EIS) and
Engineering Work for a New Site for the Commuter Rail Maintenance
Facility
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the contract with URS for the Northwest Rail Environmental
Evaluation (EE) and Preliminary Engineering (PE) that includes the
Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility be amended to add $750,000
to the contract amount in order for the consultant to perform
refinements to the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility preferred
alternative evaluation made necessary as a result of the
negotiations with the Union Pacific Railroad. The total current
contract amount, including previous amendments, is $6,992,802.
This amendment will increase the contract value to $7,742,882.
Funding for this increase is included in the 2008 FasTracks
Adopted Budget for the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility.



Approval to Initiate the FasTracks Bus Maintenance Facility Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
approve a transfer of $3,420,000 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve to begin work on the Bus Maintenance Facility project
starting in 2008. This work was originally planned later in the
FasTracks Program. The Contingency Reserve will be replenished
from the Bus Maintenance Facility Project funds in the 2008
Budget Amendment.
This work would include environmental

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 9, 2008, 1:30 p.m.
Page 7 of 7
evaluation of up to two new bus maintenance facility sites,
preliminary
engineering,
and
preparation
of design-build
documents.
A recommendation for consulting services for
preparation of preliminary engineering and design-build documents
will be presented at a subsequent meeting for Board approval.


Recommendation for Adoption of Plan and Trust Documents for RTD
Defined Contribution Salaried Pension Plan (Marla needs to provide a
new Board report)
It is recommended by the Finance and Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors (the Board) adopt the attached Plan and Trust
documents for the formation of the RTD Defined contribution Salaried
Pension Plan and that the effective date of the plan be January 1,
2008.

IV.

Interview Process for State Lobbyists
This discussion was tabled.

V.

Revisit of Resolution on Payment for Attendance at Events
Director Busck shared his concerns with this resolution which requires
attendance by three Board members or more to an event before a spouse
or guest cost could be paid. In general the member of the Board who
were present agreed with Director Busck concerns but felt it appropriate
to have this issue reviewed by a committee.
This issue will be taken before the Finance and Administration committee
for consideration. Marla Lien will draft a resolution pertaining to the
requested change.

VI.

Other Matters
Chair Kemp and Cal Marsella advised the committee of the latest status
of HB 1278 (Eminent Domain) and the drafted revisions which the Board
is being asked to approved. Board members present (Martinez, Kemp,
McMullen, Chacon, Elfenbein, Busck and Yamrick) indicated their
support for this latest revision. A copy of these revisions will be faxed
and electronically transmitted to each Board member followed up by a
call from Chair Kemp, Cal Marsella or Scott Reed.

VII.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 3:30 p.m.

