2023-05-10
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
TROY L. WHITMORE: Good evening, everyone. I would like to call the RTD Operations and Safety
Committee meeting to order. I'm Troy Whitmore, and I'm the Vice Chair of the committee. And I will be
chairing tonight's committee meeting.
The Wednesday, May 10 Ops and Safety Committee meeting will come to order officially. We are convened
as of 5:32 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board will be
held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the
unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit RTDDenver.com. And a live stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate
that they would like to speak. Also, you can speak by pressing pound 9-- star 9, excuse me. To toggle your
mute setting on your phone, you can press star 6.
It's now time for me to call the role for the committee members. Director Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Bob Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director JoyAnn Ruscha. Director Paul Rosenthal. Director Marjorie Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Kate Williams will not be joining us this evening. And I'm also a member of
the committee, obviously, Troy Whitmore. And I am also in attendance. So we have four of seven committee
members present this evening for the meeting.
For the record, I also see that we have three other Directors from RTD, present Director Guzman, Director
Catlin, and Director Tisdale. Thank you all three for joining us this evening. Now I'd like to open the public
comment section to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the
published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to speak and have
not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Are there any members of the public that wish to speak this evening? Staff members, do you have any
record of anybody wanting to speak?

JILLIAN KNAPP-RHODES: I do not see any hands at this time.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Jillian. And I do know that-- I was made aware right before the meeting
that we do not have any emailed comments. So with that, I will close the public comment section of tonight's
agenda.
All right. Excuse the lull here. I'm working off two computers, and sometimes one is a challenge for me, so
let alone two.
At this point in time, it's external entities reports. And we have no record of external entities needing to
report.
Next item on the agenda, item D, is recommended actions. And we have one recommended action this
evening. It is the Allied Universal Security Services second contract option here. And the purpose of this is
action is for the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or MGM/CEO, end paren,
or her designee, to execute the second option here of the existing security services contract with Allied
Universal Security, otherwise known as AUS, for a total cost not to exceed $20,455,408.
Do I have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved. Sloan.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Sloan. Do I have a second?
BOB BROOM: Second.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. I heard Director Sloan with the motion and Director Broom with the second.
At this time, I'd like to mute myself for a moment while we have Chief Joel Fitzgerald, Dr. Fitzgerald, to
present on the extension of this contract with Allied Universal. Dr. Fitzgerald, the floor is yours.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Thank you, Chair Whitmore. I appreciate it I'm Chief of Police and Emergency
Management, Dr. Joel Fitzgerald. And as the Board knows, we use Allied Security as a hybrid model to
supplement the number of sworn police officers and the complement of officers working in secondary
employment from other local jurisdictions, as well as the Allied staff to provide public safety for RTD
customers and employees and property.
As a result of the procurement process we went through on this, on July 19 in 2019, before my time, Allied
Universal was awarded a three-year contract that included three one-year options for the continued
provision of system-wide security services. The initial contract term expired in June of 2022. And RTD has
already executed the first option year term from July 1 of 2022 to June 30 of this year. So it's my
recommendation that we engage in a second option year term and thereby extend the contract from July 1
of this year to June 30 of 2024.
Just as a reminder, Allied Universal-- they do provide support and critical infrastructure areas and security
for all of our facilities, including bus and rail stations. They conduct fare enforcement, patrol services, and
other flexible staffing and monitoring functions that we would not be able to do without the extra staffing.
So as part of this process, RTD staff as a whole reviewed the proposed actions and concur, recommending
that the Board authorize the GM and CEO to execute the second-year option of the three one-year option
is to allow for Allied Universal to continue providing seamless and uninterrupted security services to RTD
customers.

Adoption of this staff recommended action better positions RTD to meet the 2021 to 2026 strategic plan
priorities of community value and customer excellence. And the financial impact, as Director Whitmore
spoke of, associated with the adoption of this proposed recommended action is $20,455,408, of which,
$10,227,704 will be accounted for within our 2023 amended budget. The remaining funds require
incorporation to our 2024 budget.
So it's important for you all to understand that due to the reduction in the scope of services over the life of
this contract, the cost of the second year option is only $5,971,256, which is a reduction of $4,000,256. And
I'm sorry, $4,256,448. The reduction, in case you want to know, occurs as a result of our transition from
security guards to sworn police officers and some scaling of the in-line operations.
And with that, I will leave it to the committee to ask any questions that you may have.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Chief. Just want to note, before I open the floor for questions, that our
fifth committee member has joined the meeting. Director Ruscha, thank you for being with us. And we're
glad you're here. All right. Any questions for Dr. Fitzgerald from members of the Board of Directors or other
Board members? Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Thank you very much, Chairman, and thank you very much, Mr. Fitzgerald. I
guess my question would be-- I'm looking at the recommended action right now. So would it be the hiring
of additional just unarmed security officers? And would those specific officers-- have we thought about what
their role would be, specifically? As I read right here, just for commuter rail services, or is this-- have we
thought about where we would be placing these unarmed security officers?
I'm coming to this from the perspective of, and I'm going to bring this in other matters ultimately, where I've
been on our E line recently and our southernmost stops. And to be honest with you, I haven't seen a security
presence. And as a first-time rider that I was overhearing, where they're a little disappointed by the presence
of there being security officers.
So my question is, as a Board member, I'm about ready to authorize over $20 million with this recommended
action. And I would like to know, how are we ultimately going to be using these security personnel, as you've
talked about, as we transition into more of a true transit police force?
Are we specifically just going to be targeting the commuter rail services, where, again, I'm representing a
district that has bus, has flexed ride, and has light rail services, and where I'm about ready to authorize this,
compared to what is my district ultimately going to get? What are the other light rail services ultimately going
to get? When I'm getting feedback from constituents, with the idea that there is a lack of security personnel.
I'm happy to go into specifics of that if you need anything. But I guess that would be my overall question is,
how are we going to see a beneficial impact if we are to pass for this recommended action from a security
presence?
JOEL FITZGERALD: So I-TROY L. WHITMORE: Go ahead, Dr. Fitzgerald. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: First thing is that the Allied Universal already provides critical infrastructure security
for us. They are the majority of our efforts in safety and security for RTD. So this is an extension of an
existing contract. This is not asking for any additional funding, per se. It is asking us to just continue
executing our ongoing contract with Allied Security pursuant to our contract terms.

So Allied Security-- they do fare enforcement, patrol services. They staff events. And pursuant to our
deployment strategy and how we use Allied Security and our police officers, certain lines are obviously
getting attention. And other lines, where we obviously don't have as many complaints, may not necessarily
see as many of those security officers.
The bottom line is even though they don't see them, we have commanders split in five areas. Within those
five areas, those commanders are responsible for not only their police staff, but they're responsible for
deploying and strategizing and ensuring that their plans in their specific area of God's green Earth, as I call
it, are tailored to what your needs are.
So I'm a little disturbed that you may not be seeing some of the benefits of having those folks out there. I'd
love to have a further conversation about it. But I just want to really reinforce that this is not asking for
anything new. This is an extension of an existing contract. And outside of having this contract, again, we
are transitioning to a full-time operational police department and a larger police department.
However, hiring and staffing takes time. That's why we're asking at this one-year extension be granted
again because the extension was granted before I was hired. And now, during the course of my hire, we
are hiring, and we have officers in the queue. However, we still need Allied, and we'll still need a hybrid
approach to security services to sustain ourselves.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Bouquet, follow up?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I might come back to it. Thank you, though.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. You're welcome. Secretary Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, and this is a follow up on Director Bouquet's question. The light-- and I
understand this is not a new contract, but that we are getting additional enforcement services from Chief
Fitzgerald's department and like Director Bouquet, I have not seen much fare enforcement, but I do have
to say that the atmosphere on the W line is much improved. And I am a frequent rider. And I would like to
compliment Chief Fitzgerald. Using the resources already in place, somehow there's more effective
management and use of those resources. So thank you, Chief.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I very much appreciate that, Director Sloan. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Where do we stand, manpower-wise? Are we catching up on vacancies,
or are we falling further behind?
JOEL FITZGERALD: We're actually-- we have totally caught up on our vacancies. As of May 30 or so, we
should have a total of 42 officers in the queue hired. When I first was hired, we had 20. And now we've
doubled that. I would like to be more aggressive in our hiring.
But police hiring is a process, and we want to get the right people. So we're doing a really good job
compared to our competitors out there putting together recruit classes. We have folks waiting to go into the
police academy. And as I said, as of the end of May or early June, we'll have an additional, let's say, 10 to
12 people ready to go into the police academy.

So we've also, just as a side note, started working with other agencies to populate their police academies
because they're having a hard time filling theirs. So contrary to what some of the other agencies are seeing,
we are seeing a lot of interest in RTD. And that's a good thing. So there you go.
BOB BROOM: Well, thank you. And kudos. You know, I'm talking with folks in Aurora. They recently only
had four candidates for 40 slots in a class that they were getting ready to start up, which, of course, doesn't
make any sense to put that much manpower to train four at a time. And I can remember years ago, there
were waiting lists to get on the departments. And that's obviously really, really changed.
The other question I had was the fare checkers. Are they uniformed the same as the rest of the officers?
JOEL FITZGERALD: They are uniformed-- the fare checkers, especially on the commuter rail lines, serve
as second crew members as well. So they should be in uniforms. They should be readily identifiable. You
see them on the A line predominantly. However, they should be visible on other lines, just as they should
be visible on some buses and light rail as well. What we're trying to do is ensure that people are seeing
them on lines. We don't have-- obviously, we don't have enough presence out there, in my opinion, to be
seen on every single trip, on every single implement of transportation.
But with that, as Director Sloan indicated, we are doing the very best we can, especially in areas where
we've seen crime occur, to ensure that those areas are safe and secure. And as we grow, you'll see more
tailored metrics for us to be able to be present on more-- in more fare checking responsibilities.
And Director Broom, also, you should know that Aurora is one of the departments we're working with to put
people into the police academy. So we're working on an agreement with them, with Denver, and a few other
organizations outside of our norm.
BOB BROOM: Thank you. Finally, do we use any plainclothes officers? If you get on to a train, you can
look around and you can see right away if somebody's got a uniform on. And if you don't see a uniform,
well, you light up. I would think that you could catch more people doing illegal drugs with plainclothes.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I used, just this week, plainclothes as a way to determine people were doing fare
checks. So again, having them on, having a supervisor or two in plainclothes, is something that I've used
to ensure not only we're getting the best benefit out of our contract with Allied, but also that nothing nefarious
is going on some implement of transportation out there.
I mean, obviously not having hundreds of officers-- like, SEPTA in Pennsylvania has 200 and, let's say, 80
officers for the same square mileage that we cover. We're doing our very best to ensure that those pinchpoint areas are covered and that we're trying to address this problems proactively.
BOB BROOM: Thank you very much.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome, sir.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Next up, Director Ruscha. Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I have two questions related to staffing. So I have a clarifying question
to follow up to Director Bouquet's and Director Broom's. So my first question is, in the recommended action,
it says that we'll hire additional unarmed security officers to serve in Ambassador and Customer Service
roles. Dr. Chief Fitzgerald, are those security officers armed?

JOEL FITZGERALD: Some. There's transit security officers and transit security specialists. They both serve
similar functions, but obviously, having armed folks out there creates an increased presence. The bottom
line is we have two different forms of Allied Security that we use to secure the system. Sometimes mere
presence is what's needed, the people to see that there's someone armed there to not commit a robbery
or not commit an aggravated assault.
But I mean, just today we had someone attempt to take a firearm from one of our security people. So we
have a hybrid approach of off-duty, other jurisdiction officers out there. We have our own officers. And we
have armed and unarmed Allied Security folks. And our deployment strategy, again, is making sure that
there's a combination of those folks out there. And I think I missed the second part of your question.
JOYANN RUSCHA: I hadn't asked it yet.
JOEL FITZGERALD: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. So just-- so I just want understand. We have unarmed and armed security officers.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Yes, we do.
JOYANN RUSCHA: And when you say increased presence, you're referencing the officers that are armed.
I just want to make sure I understand what you were talking about.
JOEL FITZGERALD: When I speak of increased presence, I speak of making sure we have enough officers,
enough security people, staffing our Allied posts. In addition, we are drawing down on that contract by
drawing down-- I mean, there's unfilled positions that Allied has we're using to convert to police officer
positions. So that increases our number of sworn police officers.
If you're interested in the armed presence portion of being sworn police officers, that's what we're attempting
to do, while again extending our contract with Allied to ensure that we have enough people period to provide
safety and security across the gamut of our transit community. So absent-- on any given day, we should
have about 290 to 300 Allied folks working in addition to the officers that we have in our own system and
officers that we hire from outside agencies.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you. And my second question is related to what you just said, and I
apologize if I missed it. You said we had 42 or 40-something officers in the queue to be hired with RTD PD.
Can you tell us how many officers do we have on staff and deployed right now with RTD PD, and then what
you expect that number to grow to by the end of summer and end of year?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Prior to you logging in, I spoke to having at least 42 to 48, let's say, total hired by
midsummer. By the end of the summer, I'd love to say we have an extra when. When I went in the budget
this year, I talked to Debra and talked to Doug MacLeod, and said that my hope was getting us up to about
48 or so and then going beyond that and being able to hire within the same budget year an additional 20.
I'm going to try my darndest to ensure that we continue hiring, but we will not sacrifice, again, a quality of
having folks that can pass all the prerequisite requirements for being a police officer to provide the best
service to people.
So my anticipated number by the end of this budget year would be upwards of 60.

JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. Thank you, sir, and I heard I heard 42, but I wasn't sure if you meant total or
additional. And so I think I got that clarification. And I also just respect the comment about ensuring that
we're hiring highly qualified officers-JOEL FITZGERALD: Yes, ma'am.
JOYANN RUSCHA: --to join our staff. So those are my questions. Thank you.
JOEL FITZGERALD: You're welcome.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director. Looks like second bite at the apple time for Director Bouquet.
Proceed, sir.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you. I appreciate your patience. Chief Fitzgerald, what is our-- if you can give
away this information, what is our goal when it comes down to security presence specifically with light rail?
Like, do we want one Allied Security guard on every train, you know? What is the ultimate goal, or where
are we at with that, if you can answer that question?
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, some of it is, obviously, security sensitive. But I'll tell you this. I think that in a
perfect world, we would love to have you be able to see a person, a security person, on every implemented
transportation. However, that's not realistic.
What I would like to be able to come back to you and for you to give me feedback on is seeing more of a
presence during critical times and during times that we see crime. I think that's the most important thing is
that when we look at things, we're looking from a deployment standpoint of where and when the most critical
things happen within our system.
So part of my-- what you've charged me with is now using what I have, resource-wise, to ensure that across
the system, I'm giving people the safety and feeling, perception, of safety and security that we want to
project. If you wanted to give me one person for every implemented transportation, I'm not going to turn
you down. However, realistically, I would temper that expectation what I just said.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yeah. And I appreciate it. Again, I've become a very-- pretty frequent rider in the E
Line, the southbound trains, and the northbound trains, pretty much going up to university. Full
transparency, I haven't seen that security presence. And again, you have to understand the position I'm
coming through that we're publicly elected, and what I'm hearing from constituents as well. Again, it's more
anecdotal, but as a rider on the E line and now a pretty frequent rider on the E line, I haven't seen the
security presence. So.
JOEL FITZGERALD: I should note that pursuant to our last meeting that we were at, since then, we have
had an officer riding with, either a Lone Tree officer or an officer from Douglas County. So again, with the
number of trains that are scheduled-- I mean, you may not see them as much as you'd like. But that's a
significant difference from what we've done in the past. That relationship now that we have with Sheriff
Weekly and with Douglas County is something that we followed up on. And as you know, and Directors
Tisdale knows as well, that we spoke about at the last meeting down in Douglas County and we have
fulfilled.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. Appreciate it. Yep, yep. Just want to be fully transparent from my experience. And
generally, it's the off hours, as I would like to say. So thank you so much.

JOEL FITZGERALD: As we grow, you'll see more. It's just, it's going to take time. I want to-- again, hiring
is tough. But we seemingly have some good folks in the queue.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you both. Good discussion. Director Ruscha, do you have a followup question?
JOYANN RUSCHA: I do. Thank you, Mr. Chair. To Director Bouquet's point, I also get concerns from
customers who feel that they don't see enough security. But unlike Director Bouquet, I actually ride the bus
more than the rail because of where I live.
And I was wondering, Dr. Chief Fitzgerald, if you could address the bus security a little bit. Like, are we
using some of our officers or contracted officers on bus, and what are our plans for bus security? I mean,
anything that you're able to share, generally speaking. I think I would appreciate that, and so would some
of my constituents and neighbors.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Well, I mean, bus security is-- and just operator security in general is high on our list
of priorities. As I said to Director Bouquet, it's an unrealistic expectation to think that we could be on every
bus. However, part of our contract with Allied Security includes mobile units. Their mobile units go from
station to station and all areas during all times a day.
So you could see someone in one area, and then they would-- I use Sheridan and Wadsworth as an
example. At Sheridan and Wadsworth, you could see more static posts there because we've had more
persistent issues. We are trying to make sure we clean up those persistent issues, one issue at a time,
rather than a scattershot approach that have been used in the past. That's not how you solve problems.
So what you'll see is as we grow, each one of our command staff members will have their complemented
people and be able to work on their particular areas more in depth. But for now, what you do have, again,
reinforcing what Allied brings to the table-- we have Allied Security officers on platforms. We have them on
trains. We have them on light rail. They do check buses. They are out there in mobile areas.
I mean, I just was out yesterday at Evans platform myself doing a security check. And the Allied folks came
by to check on some of the bus drivers. So I've seen it. And I know what kind of force multiplier in our
business, that's what we call it, that they perform and provide.
So you-- and I would urge you all that as things come up, don't let them sit. Reach out to me or reach out
to Steve Martingano, our newest deputy chief. And just please share that-- those problems with us so we
can address them.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair, may I ask a follow up?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Go right ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Sorry. I was trying to follow procedure. Thank you. So as I-- and I-- I try not to go down
the rabbit hole, but what I'm trying to understand is, like, where are our officers deployed on bus? Are you
saying that they might be, for example, at Central Park Station, but they're not necessarily hopping on the
105, or is it a combination of both?
JOEL FITZGERALD: No. No. Our folks are not--

JOYANN RUSCHA: And then the second question I had was-- you said a scattershot approach, and not
being from a security background, I don't know what that means, and I was hoping you could explain.
Because you said that was something we're trying to not do.
JOEL FITZGERALD: Yeah. So what we're trying to-- what we've done is we've concentrated a lot of our
efforts down at Union Station and making sure that Union Station is clean and clear and has changed. And
I think people would attest to the fact that they've seen a tremendous change in the atmosphere there.
We have to win one battle at a time. And that's what the scattershot approach alliteration was. We can't just
throw resources out there and expect to solve problems. That's not what you do in law enforcement. What
you have to do is attack chronic offenders, attack those that are going out into these other areas and
creating problems. And you take it one step at a time.
You may not see people on buses. I mean, that's realistic. Realistically speaking, we have hundreds and
hundreds of buses that deploy every day. We don't have hundreds and hundreds of safety and security
staff. So we have to be very smart in our approach to intelligence-led policing and being able to deploy
resources.
As a subject matter expert here, and having worked in many cities, I'm going to tell you that I have to be
judicious about the resources that we use. And again, if it were up to a vote and we needed to get a couple
of hundred officers overnight and be able to be seen and heard on every trip, it would still be tough if you
gave me a couple hundred people to do that. We would then have problems in other places where we
would need to concentrate resources. That's a very important part of what I do.
And that is assess the situation. You may see it-- Southmoor Station and other stations that were
persistently problematic, changes in the way we do things. Maybe you see people more often there, whether
they're a combination of police officers and security. But that approach is gradually changing the way people
see RTD and the way that the people that are chronic problems see us. And that's keeping some of those
issues away. And that is a more focused approach, as opposed to an approach that just throws resources
out, and there's no rhyme or reason for placing people in any place in particular.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Director Ruscha, any follow-up?
JOYANN RUSCHA: No, sir. Thanks.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you. All right. Next in queue, Director Tisdale. The floor is yours.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I appreciate that. The issue presented this evening
for the committee, and I'm happy, as a noncommittee member, to monitor and weigh in with your kind
permission. The issue, I believe, is one that is easily resolved. It's a narrow issue relative to the Allied
Universal contract extension. And I think it is one as to which the Board feels positively inclined.
That, however, is the excuse to open the door on all of the other security questions that people want to talk
about. And you know, Chief, how much pent-up desire there is to have that further discussion. And as we
go through the further exploration of Respect the Ride, which is the rebranded, re-emphasized code of
conduct that the Board will take up this summer, I think we have some of these natural conversations.
And to get back to Director Bouquet's comments, he and I had a meeting with one of the entities that is
responsible for more than 1% of our sales and use tax revenues. Let me say that again. We met with an
entity that is responsible, in and of itself, for more than 1% of our sales and use tax revenues. Doesn't

sound like a big deal when you say, well, you know, that's 1%. Yeah, but that's one entity that is responsible
for more than $6 million a year flowing into the RTD.
They are very concerned about some of these safety issues. You, Chief, are aware of that. You, Chief,
understand that. You, Chief, have taken great steps in terms of pairing up with Lone Tree and working with
Douglas County and getting all of this addressed in a concrete and visible, tangible manner.
So I want to take a moment to applaud and publicly appreciate the efforts that you have undertaken in that
regard. Because when we talk with someone who is responsible for that much of our sales and use tax
revenue at the RTD, it is incumbent upon us to pay close attention. And we'll share more of this with you
later. But I did want to take that moment to, number one, express my appreciation for that because it
amplifies a little bit on what Director Bouquet was addressing in his remarks. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I don't see any more hands raised from committee
members or other Board members that are in attendance. So with that, we have a proper motion and
second on the floor. I would ask the five committee members, are there any no votes on this matter?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'll be voting no.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Mr. Chair-- sorry. This is Director Ruscha. I will also be voting no.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. So I have no votes for Directors Bouquet and Ruscha. And assuming that
the other three are yes votes. Is that the proper assumption with Director Sloan and Director Broom and
myself? OK. Motion passes on a 3 to 2 vote.
All right. Our next item is item of discussion, item E. And we just have the one tonight. I would like to ask
Michael Ford, our Chief Operations Officer, and Jessie Carter, our Senior Manager of Service Development,
to present this item. Gentlemen, whoever wants to start, begin.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. I'm Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer. And I would like to provide you
an update on the September '23 service change proposals. As you know, we bring three service change
proposals to you over the course of a year's time for discussion and subsequent recommendations, which
is in alignment with the Collective Bargaining Agreement, known as the CBA, with the ATU Local 1001 for
Frontline Operator selection of work.
Currently, ridership levels are at 175,000 boardings on the transit network. Commensurate with RTD
System Optimization Plan, which facilitates an interest in increasing service, this exercise is done in
conjunction with RTD's resources, which then dictates the level of service increase, modifications, and
adjustments needing to be executed for the coming service change.
Efforts to increase staffing levels have continued, resulting in positive increases in both recruitment and
retention. However, in rail and bus operations, staffing remains lower than budgeted headcount, which limits
the capacity to increase service, as proposed in the Service Optimization Plan.
By way of discussion, the guidelines contained in the strategic plan most directly relate to addressing
customer excellence, thus improving on-time performance, maintaining contractual compliance, and
adjusting service levels to match service ridership demand.

Staff is also guided by the Board-adopted service change principles. And in your Board packet, you will see
a breakdown summary of proposed changes, service improvement, service reductions, and seasonal
adjustments to account for travel patterns.
Also in your Board packet is a complete breakdown of proposed service changes and the dates for public
meetings/hearings, which are scheduled for Monday, May 15th at 12 o'clock. That's a virtual meeting.
There's also another one on Monday, May 15, 5:30 PM, which will be at 1660 Blake, in rooms T and D. And
finally, Tuesday, May 16th at 5:30, which is also virtual.
At this time, I'm happy to address any questions you may have. And as has been stated, I'll ask Jessie
Carter to join me, our Senior Manager of Service Planning-- excuse me, Senior Manager of Service
Development to join me. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you, Mr. Ford, and welcome, Mr. Carter. Are there any questions for
these two gentlemen? I'm not saying-- oh, she didn't fail me. Director Sloan, Secretary Sloan, the floor is
yours.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. Director Whitmore, this is more of a comment than a question. But I feel
obligated to thank staff for reinstating the G-S line. It's consistent with the SOP. It was specifically called
out as an important route. And for those who are not familiar, it's Boulder, Golden, Lakewood connection.
So it's all the Boulder, University of Colorado, Golden, Colorado School of Mines, NREL, and the Federal
Center. So it is a well-traveled route that does not fit into the hub-and-spoke pattern of a lot of our transit
service.
And I really appreciate staff's continued efforts to get it back on the schedule. And I will-- I anticipate there
will be quite a bit of ridership, just because it's a difficult route to drive. A lot of jobs are involved, from NRELtype jobs to the people who work in the cafeterias at the universities. And I think it will be a real contribution
to service. And for that, I really appreciate the efforts of staff to get it back on the schedule. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Secretary Sloan. Appreciate your comments. Last call for further
comments or questions of our esteemed panel? I fear that Mr. Carter will be depressed if he doesn't have
a question. But I'm sure he's appreciative of the complement, Director Sloan. So-BOB BROOM: [INAUDIBLE].
TROY L. WHITMORE: There we go. We got the Director Broom in the queue. Go ahead, Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I just had a question about ridership characteristics. When we have a
situation where we have a derailment and service is truncated or substituted with buses and so forth, how
long does it take us to recover our ridership from before the accident occurred?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Mr. Ford or Mr. Carter, would one of you like to address that question?
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Go right ahead, Jessie.
JESSIE CARTER: Director Broom, that's an excellent question, and one that-- it varies basically, depending
on how the system-- or where in the system the accident has occurred. If you are referring directly to, let's
say, the R line and its current truncation at Florida Station, along with the past derailments, it-- once we get

to a point where the service is returned to normal, it could take up to six months to a year for a ridership to
develop a trend that follows that says what that ridership is from that point forward. I hope that answers
your question.
BOB BROOM: I think it does. I think it shows that it behooves us to resume services as quickly as possible,
even if you have to pay extra overtime money or whatever. It's our job to get people from point A to point
B. Thanks.
JESSIE CARTER: For sure.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Ruscha, you're next in queue.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. Mr. Carter, I have a question for you. And it's a little bit of a wonky
question, so I understand if it can't be directly answered. But I was just wondering, given that Denver Public
Schools has voted to allow for later start times, and some of the schools are changing their start times this
fall, has that impacted our route planning for the fall, like our seasonal adjustments, or were we able to just
continue on as we normally would any other year? I do remember, not too long ago, as a parent, we lived
and died by the 65 and 73 and what RTD was planning every fall.
JESSIE CARTER: Chair, if I may?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Please, go ahead.
JESSIE CARTER: Director Ruscha, that is an excellent question. And we were contacted by Denver Public
Schools about a week ago. And they let us know that they are pulling together the schedules for the new
rule. No start times, I believe, before 8:20 AM is the new rule. But as you know, each individual high school
in DPS has the ability, the principal has the ability, to set the bell times for the school. So not only are we
trying to coordinate with DPS Transportation, but we are verifying the actual bell times with each individual
schools that we serve with our school trip or service. So yes, we are trying to adapt our services to it.
But however, I will say that, in a sense, their move to go later is less of a problem than if they were going
earlier in the AM peak. So I think we're looking at this proposed change that they have as being something
that is easier for us to accommodate with our regular plan schedules. So I'll leave with that, and hopefully,
that's answered your questions.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, it has. And I guess let's hope the respective principals and those administrations
are also looking at our schedules and capacity as well, given they have that flexibility. But I do appreciate
that and all your work that is-- that's a pretty extraordinary job.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Yes, I couldn't agree more. Extraordinary work when schedules change. I don't see
any other questions in queue. COO Ford, do you have any closing remarks or anything to add?
MICHAEL FORD: No, I do not at this time. But thank you, and we'll be back.
TROY L. WHITMORE: All right. Thank you both for being with us, excuse me, with that. The next item on
the agenda is item F, other matters. I don't know if Director Bouquet got his questions answered? No, he
didn't. There he is. OK. It's all yours, Director Bouquet. Go ahead.

BOB BROOM: Thank you very much, Director Whitmore. So back to the good old southern stations of the
E line. So obviously, we have maintenance that is going on, and there are delays that are happening. My
curiosity would be-- my question for staff is what is our recommendation when it comes down to advertising
when our trains will be at the station?
Because as a rider, I am totally understanding and totally fine with a train being delayed. Where I have
frustration is when that isn't communicated. So I'm curious when it comes down to staff what would be the
recommendation for our riders when it comes down to waiting for a delayed train when our digital system
isn't displaying when a delayed train will be coming. What is the best course of action?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Worthy question. Mr. Ford or Mr. Summers or perhaps CEO Johnson would like to
weigh in? Who would like to proceed? Looks like Mr. Ford's ready.
DEBRA JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE].
TROY L. WHITMORE: Sorry. Debra, did you want to weigh in, or go ahead with Michael? I think she's
having a little bit of communication issue. Go ahead, Mr. Ford.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I am. Go ahead with Michael Ford, please. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: OK.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And I'll add if necessary.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. Go ahead, Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Well, thank you very much. Michael Ford, COO. We understand the problem. We are
working on trying to address this. We've had some issues with IT and our ability to get the information out.
But our expectation is to get information as soon as possible to our customers. We want to make sure
they're well informed. I know that we're working to correct that problem. I believe that we've made some
headway. I would have to check in with other folks on the call to get a more accurate reading on the status
going forward. But our expectation is to continue to communicate, improve our systems, so we can make
sure our customers are well informed with any changes or course corrections that are happening with our
System.
TROY L. WHITMORE: CEO Johnson, would you like to add your comments?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I would recommend that we will provide you a
more detailed response and a Board memorandum to outline the steps in which we're taking relative to
what Mr. Ford indicated as we move forward so everybody has a complete picture and understanding,
collectively, as the full board. So thank you very kindly.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you. Director Bouquet, if you have follow up on this same topic, please
proceed.
JULIEN BOUQUET: I do. I just want, again, for everyone to be aware, because I use the Next Ride app. In
the last couple of weeks that I've been using it, compared to where it was a couple of months ago, I would
say it's almost like, in my opinion, as a rider, it's almost like it went backwards. The Next Ride app used to

tell me what specific train number is coming at what time. And it would specifically tell me when it would be
late. I haven't had that experience. I just want to be fully transparent with you.
Again, as a rider, and each and every one of my trains have been late. And that I can totally understand.
The frustration is our signs are not telling us that, and the app that I, as a rider, am using is not telling me
that. And I think that just-- it comes down to us as an agency, when it comes down to it, is folks will
understand if something is going to be late. Then I can make the assessment of, oh, do I have to take an
Uber? Do I have to walk now? Do I have to hop on my bike?
So I just want, again, from the perspective of a rider, what would we recommend in the time being as we
are making these corrections to understand my E line that was scheduled for 10:35 PM at night is not going
to be there until 10:44 PM? That I can totally understand. But if I don't know when it's coming, that that's
where I'm starting to have an issue with it. So that would just be my comment for staff to know.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Mr. Chair, if I may.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing that we do need to upgrade our systems and also that we utilize
scheduled information, we're cognizant of this. And as we work with information technology, recognizing
we need to have DPS systems that are leveraged on our railcars, we're in the process of working towards
that. So we hear Director Bouquet loudly and clearly. And as we move forward, we're looking at interim
solutions. Hence, the memorandum will explain what our steps are. And we will endeavor to be highly
communicative with our customer base as we move forward.
So the matters that he's outlining, I've experienced that as well, as well as staff that are assembled on this
call. So we understand the pain points because we utilize the system as well. So we will get that out in
quick order and include the strategy to be highly communicative with our customer base. Thank you.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you very much. The last statement is the most important is our customer base
that we need to communicate with. So thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you, Director Bouquet. And I appreciate this specificity. And your anecdotal
stories is very helpful. All right. Next in queue, Director Ruscha. The floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. And if I could, I'm actually going to change course, if we could.
I have a question related to actually the 2015 state audit. And so this would be directed at anybody with
institutional knowledge that can address this.
That audit had flagged to serious concerns with our contractors, both fixed route and paratransit. One was
compliance with federally mandated drug and alcohol testing. And the other was compliance with
scheduling and adhering to federally mandated maximums by which a person could work in a week.
And in that audit, RTD had agreed to provide quarterly reports to Directors. I'm new, so I could have missed
something. But the last report I could find was December 2020. And I was wondering if we'd officially ceased
providing those reports, if they will resume soon.
And then the second part of that question is we were getting reports on, I believe, drug and alcohol
screening, but not the scheduling piece, which as a Director, I find concerning because there were-- some
of our vendors were scheduling operators beyond 70 hours per week. And that was-- I don't remember if it

was two or three more times more likely on paratransit than fixed route. So I was just wondering if anyone
could maybe give me a brief update or a history lesson as to where that is or if that ended and why.
DEBRA JOHNSON: And so Mr. Chair, if I may?
TROY L. WHITMORE: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I will need to confer with staff collectively. Because when we talk about an audit, I don't
necessarily recognize if we're talking about the triennial review that's done by the Federal Transit
Administration, recognizing that I came into the organization in November. We didn't get the finalized report
from the state until the latter part of December.
But with that being said, I know in conferring with our staff that maintains drug and alcohol and also with
our third party vendors, that we are going through a process now where we've met with them outlining all
the federal requirements. So Director Ruscha, if you're amenable, we will provide a detailed response and
a memorandum as well to that so I can confer with staff and we can identify specifically the audit, which
you're referencing, be it state or federal.
JOYANN RUSCHA: OK. If I may, Mr. Chair.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I meant to email you this question earlier. And work and
mom duties got in my way. So I apologize. I didn't mean to come out of left field. But I'll go ahead and follow
up. And I appreciate that response. And that's all I have. Thank you.
TROY L. WHITMORE: OK. Thank you Director, Ruscha. All right. Any other comments for the good of the
order for other matters? OK. I'm not seeing any more. Just to make the committee aware, and those others
from the Board attending, our next meeting will be Wednesday, June 7. And as you'll note, that is earlier in
the month, slight deviation due to a conflict with a very important rail conference, the APTA rail conference,
which is the week that we normally meet. So we'll be meeting earlier in the month.
And with that, if there are no other comments-- Director Ruscha, your hand's still up. I don't know if you
have another one, or-- ope, there it went. OK.
With that, I think the next item on the agenda is adjournment. So I declare this meeting of RTD Operations
and Safety Committee duly adjourned at 6:28 PM. And thank you all for your attendance and your input.
Have a good evening.
DOUG TISDALE: Good evening to you, sir.
TROY L. WHITMORE: Thank you.

