Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
STUDY SESSION
Rooms R, T & D – 1600 Blake Street
April 23, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

GM 2014 Tactical Plans from Strategic Planning Session

III.

Other Matters

IV.

Next Meeting Date - July 30, 2013

V.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

2.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Board of Directors

Date:

From:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

GM

Date:

April 18, 2013

Board Meeting Date: April 23, 2013

Subject:

GM 2014 Tactical
Planning Session

Plans

from

Strategic

Information

Prepared by:
Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 2

Regional Transportation District
Our mission:
To meet our constituents’ present and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean,
reliable, courteous, accessible and cost-effective service throughout the District.

Memorandum

To:

Board of Directors

From:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date:

April 18, 2013

Subject:

Proposed Tactical Plans for Strategic Goals/Priorities from March 2, 2013
RTD Board/Senior Leadership Team (SLT) Advance/Retreat

On March 2, 2013, Board members and the SLT convened an Advance/Retreat to mutually
discuss and agree upon strategic goals for the agency. These goals/priorities are meant to
drive the 2014 budget cycle. For example, goals established at the 2013 Advance will
drive the 2014 budget cycle.
The Board will recall that we came out of the Advance with five priorities.
attempted to concentrate on the major components of each strategic goal:






Staff has

Innovative and fiscally sustainable service delivery (Enclosure #1)
Grow riders and engage customers across the Region (Enclosure #2)
Innovative, priority-based FasTracks/SBP funding (Enclosure #3)
Enhance constituent collaboration and communication (Enclosure #4)
Continue advancement of FasTracks (Enclosure #5)

In accordance with the Board Policy on the Goal Setting process for the General Manager,
the General Manager is to present the agreed upon priorities with his tactical plan to
implement those priorities/goals at the April, 2013 Board Study Session.
I will indeed present the tactical plan at the Board Study Session. In advance of this short
presentation, please find attached the tactical plans that staff proposes to implement to
realize the strategic goals set forth. We would request Board review of this packet and
your feedback no later than May 17, 2013.

Enclosure: as stated above.
cc: Senior Leadership Team

Packet Pg. 3

Attachment: Memo to Board of Apr 18, 2013 RE: Strategic Goals and Priorities from March 2, 2013 Advance/Retreat (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical

2.1.a

General Manager’s Tactical Plan
Strategic Goal #1
Innovative and Fiscally Sustainable Service Delivery
April 18, 2013
Background
RTD staff and Board continue to focus on RTD’s mission to meet our constituents’ present
and future public transit needs by offering safe, clean reliable, courteous, accessible and
cost-effective service throughout the District. These services include fixed route bus
service, light rail service, paratransit services for the general public (Call-n-Ride) and transit
services for individuals with disabilities (Access-a-Ride) as well as services provided by
partner agencies and supported by RTD (van pools etc.). Staff will continue to work with
the Board of Directors to ensure that services are delivered in an efficient manner while
also recognizing the financial realities facing the organization.
In order to ensure that services continue to meet the ever-changing needs of our
community, RTD implements service changes three times per year, in January, May; when
school lets out and August; when school resumes. The timing of these changes is set
forth in our Collective Bargaining Agreement with our represented employees. Under
normal circumstances these service changes or “run boards” in our jargon, allow RTD to
adjust the levels of transit service provided to better correspond to the level of service
needed by our customers. These service changes also provide the means by which RTD
adjusts levels of service to conform to prevailing economic conditions and to respond to
changes in operational conditions.
When evaluating potential changes in RTD services, RTD staff considers several factors.
Primary among these guiding service planning principles are:






The performance of these services (ridership) based upon RTD Service Standards
(ridership per hour of transit service provided, subsidy per passenger boarding,
etc.);
The effects of the potential changes on the overall transit network (system
impacts) and on transit dependent riders;
The availability of reasonable alternative transit services;
The distribution/impacts of such changes throughout the District and throughout
the RTD’s Family of Services (local, express, regional, call-n-Ride, LRT, etc.); and
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act to be sure that services are equitably provided
without regard to race, color, national origin, etc.

In addition to the above referenced service planning considerations, RTD Service Planning
staff works closely with RTD Finance Department to ensure that service adjustments
reflect the financial realities of the organization.

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

The consideration of these issues provides a systematic, objective and rational framework
within which RTD staff can evaluate potential changes in services in order to maximize
ridership and optimize the use of RTD’s resources.
In many ways, “service standards” could also be referred to as “expectations” as they
reflect what RTD’s performance expectations are in terms of ridership and subsidy for a
service (route) to be considered successful. The purpose of the standards is to help
identify routes that are most in need of service changes in order to maximize ridership and
optimize the use of RTD’s resources.
In applying these standards, RTD’s guidelines call for routes falling below the lowest 10%
productivity threshold based on either subsidy per passenger boarding or passengers
boarding per service hour, or below the lowest 25% productivity threshold for both
measures, to be evaluated for marketing, revision, or as a last resort, possible elimination.
These are not the sole criteria as RTD’s service standards also take into account services
provided to areas of high transit dependency and RTD staff also considers the existence of
alternative transit services in a given area when developing service recommendations.
The process to implement service changes consists of:
1. RTD staff develops a set of initial service change recommendations for
consideration;
2. RTD staff presents these initial recommendations to the Board of Directors and
requests approval to take these initial recommendations to the public for public
comment;
3. RTD staff holds public meetings in areas throughout the District that would
potentially be impacted by the proposed changes;
4. RTD staff develops a final set of proposed service changes based on the initial
recommendations and potential modifications based on public comment; and
5. RTD staff presents the final service change proposals to the Board of Directors for
final approval and/or modification by Board action.
The entire service change process usually takes a period of 3-4 months from the time of
the development of the initial service change proposal until the implementation of the
service adjustments.
In order to support the Board of Directors in their policy deliberations, staff provides
detailed ridership information, cost information and revenue information to help identify the
rationale behind service change recommendations. These recommendations are discussed
at both Operations/Customer Services Committee meetings and Board meetings. Staff also
presents annual service evaluation reports to the Board of Directors to help communicate
the performance of the various services provided by RTD. Staff also stands prepared to
assist with the conduct of any workshops/study sessions on this topic that might be
desired by the Board of Directors.

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

Plan and Next Steps
Staff will continue to work with the Board to develop and present appropriate service
adjustments to the Board according to the schedule presented above for fixed-route, Light
Rail and general public paratransit services. Staff may deviate from the above schedule in
recommending changes to paratransit services provided for individuals with disabilities as
these services do not exhibit the same general seasonal variations as fixed route services.


In the fixed route bus service arena, in addition to employing the service planning
principals outlined above, staff will continue to focus resources on addressing
issues with on-time performance that have been identified since the implementation
of the January 2012 service adjustments made as part of the organization’s service
optimization efforts. Service planning efforts will also focus on any adjustments
that may appear appropriate as a result of the 2013 introduction of the West Rail
Line and associated bus service adjustments. These efforts will continue to ensure
that RTD services are “right-sized” given our financial resources.



In the Light Rail arena, staff will continue to focus on less productive LRT services
that might be eliminated, reduced or modified in order to take advantage of less
expensive service delivery modes and to provide improved time periods for
maintenance of way activities necessary for maintaining a state of good repair of
the Light Rail system. These less productive services may include late night and
early morning services and these activities include safety-critical, mandated system
inspections and repair activities. Improved time periods will allow these activities to
occur more efficiently and with greater safety for employees performing the work
and will improve service reliability for our riding public.
In addition, RTD staff from the Planning, Capital Programs, Rail Operations, and
Service Development groups will work to identify strategic capital infrastructure
projects, such as storage tracks etc. that will result in operational cost savings for
the expected life of the rail operations. When such Operations and Maintenance
(O&M) cost savings are sufficient to offset expected capital costs, such
improvements should be seriously evaluated in order to address the long-term fiscal
sustainability of the LRT operations versus the one-time capital cost.



In the ADA paratransit arena, RTD staff will continue to address Board concerns
over the cost and quality of ADA complementary paratransit service provided in
accordance with the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). Staff would
offer the following plan of action to continue to address these issues:
Service Delivery Initiatives:

1) Staff is in the process of implementing Interactive Voice response (IVR) technology
to improve customer service and better manage customer cancellations and noshows. Features include:
-where’s my ride?
-automated call back function

Packet Pg. 6

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

-automated booking for access-a-Cab
-automated vehicle arrival notices
-automated outbound announcements
-automated trip confirmations
2) Possibly reduce the number of service providers from 4 to 3;
3) Continue to evaluate “brokerage” model;
4) Continued expansion of the Access-a-Cab program;
5) Possible shift of late night/ weekend trips to non-dedicated vehicles;
6) Continue process of specifying pick-up and drop-off locations;
7) Continue evaluation of fleet vehicle mix (size and type of vehicles); and
8) Continue to evaluate service coordination between services/providers.
Demand Management Initiatives
1) Coordination with call-n-Ride and other service providers;
2) Travel training to educate individuals with disabilities how to better use fixed-route
service.
As of January 1, 2013, RTD contracts with four service providers to provide Access-aRide service; MV Transportation, CUSA Transportation Services, Global Transportation and
Via Mobility Services (formerly Special Transit of Boulder County). These contracts are
currently due to expire December 31, 2013. These contracts are being solicited in 2013
and will be implemented by the beginning of 2014.
In March 1997, RTD introduced the Access-a-Cab program to certified Access-a-Ride
clients. This program offers flexibility in transportation services for individuals with
disabilities. Individuals are permitted to schedule same day trips via local cab companies.
The passenger is responsible for the first $2.00 in cab fare. RTD then subsidizes the next
$12.00 in fare, with the passenger responsible for any amount above that. The Access-aCab program has proven to be very popular and continues to grow. Current access-a-Cab
ridership is over 400 trips per day and represents over 18% of total program ridership.
This is more than four times the ridership than in 2007 when RTD adjusted the user side
subsidy from $7.00 to the current $12.00 to be effective in 2008. This service has
allowed RTD to maintain essentially a constant level of Access-a-Ride van service over the
past four years while accommodating an increase in overall program ridership and has
allowed RTD to realize essentially a constant level of subsidy per rider since 2008
(exclusive of fuel cost fluctuations).
Strategies for Funding Sustainable Service Delivery
RTD will develop and implement a balanced Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and Budget for
the Board. These plans will include innovative approaches to balance the SBP and Budget
in order to sustain service delivery. RTD will pursue new revenue opportunities that include
increased sales tax revenue through parity with the State, joining with the State audit
department to verify tax compliance and reporting of RTD tax collections, and endorsing
efforts to collect sales tax revenue on internet sales. RTD will continue to explore new
revenue sources such as the sale of assets and easements that do not interfere with

Packet Pg. 7

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

existing of future RTD operations and sale of other assets not required for transit
purposes. Revenue will be enhanced through leasing and contracting for the operation and
management of assets that can be operated by third parties at a cost savings, such as
parking facilities. RTD will develop shared facilities including parking, transfer centers,
plazas, walkways and bike-facilities at transit oriented or joint development projects where
RTD and developers can combine resources and reduce costs for site development and
amenities and operating cost. RTD will continue to assess other program funding or
acceleration opportunities as they arise, such as federal and state grants. During the
development of the SBP and Budget, RTD staff will provide the Board with relevant
information and deliver frequent updates. Once the SBP and Budget are adopted by
the Board, RTD staff will maintain controls throughout the year and deliver the service
as approved by the Board.
State of Good Repair
RTD initiated an Asset Management/State of Good Repair program to address a previous
RTD Board strategic goal. The Asset Management division is required by MAP-21 to
provide a performance based planning process, an investment prioritization process, and
decision support tools for these processes. It also recommends that some type of risk
factors be included.
The current process takes into consideration a physical condition assessment and an
assessment of the data collected from maintenance work orders to create a condition
score. This score is objective, computed similarly for all asset types, and will be
performed on an annual basis.
To comply with the requirements of MAP-21, Asset Management plans to generate a list
of assets that are approaching the end of their useful life in a priority order based on RTD’s
overall goals for safety, service, reliability, cost and risk. This priority listing will be
available to link into the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) starting with a partial list for the
2015 – 2019 SBP cycle.
Asset Management will also be taking this information and putting it into Term-Lite, a FTA
provided tool, to do 30 year needs forecasting of major repair and replacements of assets
along with reporting the backlog of projects.

Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

Strategic Goals #2
Grow riders and engage customers across the Region
April 18, 2013

Background
RTD has utilized numerous methods to develop new ridership pools and to communicate
with and engage customers from throughout the 40 municipality, eight-county, 2,400
square mile RTD District. Below is a sample list of these methods, but it is not
comprehensive:
Info Ride – RTD Customer Information schedules informational training sessions at which
an Information Specialist will accompany an RTD bus and Bus Operator to a school,
service club or agency to train people how to ride the bus and educate attendees on how
to access information about RTD and the services we provide. RTD has scheduled
hundreds of Info Ride sessions over the past decade involving thousands of people and
plans to expand the program in the coming years as resources become available.
School Pass Program – For many years, Denver Public Schools, Boulder Valley School
District and other individual schools have contracted with RTD to purchase passes for their
students. This is primarily concentrated on high schools, but a few middle schools are
also involved. All told, five school districts and five charter schools covering thousands of
students participate in the School Pass Program.
University Pass Program – A part of the Eco Pass family of pass programs, RTD’s
University Pass encourages universities and colleges to purchase passes for all of their
students, paid for through their student fees. In addition, faculty and staff are also part of
the program. More than 120,000 students, faculty and staff participate in the University
Pass Program.
Eco Pass and Flex Pass Programs – Through extensive networking with businesses,
Chambers of Commerce, Economic Development Organizations, Transportation
Management Organizations and Transportation Management Agencies, business
membership organizations and others, RTD now has thousands of individuals participating
in the Eco Pass and Flex Pass programs, accounting for more than $20 million in revenue
annually to RTD.
Social media – RTD has continued to expand our outreach and informational tools,
including through the use of social media like Twitter, YouTube and Facebook, more than
doubling the number of Facebook “Likes” and Twitter followers.
RTD website – In February of this year, RTD redesigned in-house and launched the new
RTD website with expanded content in a clean layout built around the RTD brand. This
new design brings increased emphasis to tools and information that are most important to
our riders. This includes easier to use schedules, the introduction of a FasTracks tab in
the navigation, the TripPlanner, Schedule Finder, and Rider Alerts tools are on each page

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

but out of the way until needed, and we’ve introduced Twitter, Facebook, and YouTube
feeds on the homepage.
Rider Alerts and Mobile Website – We’ve also enhanced our Rider Alerts, through which
passengers subscribe by bus or rail route to receive emailed service updates. We have
also made significant improvements to our Mobile Website, enabling more customers to
more easily utilize their mobile devices to access RTD route and schedule information, as
well as the entire RTD website.
Interactive Voice Response for MyStop — We are continuing to improve the MyStop
automated system that provides by phone the next three scheduled trips from any bus or
rail stop. RTD is adding a text capability and has plans for a fully integrated real-time
capability as the CAD-AVL system is completed.
Trip Planner – Surveys have shown that one of the lowest ranking aspects of RTD services
is the Trip Planner functionality. RTD’s IT Division is in the process of replacing the
outdated and unsupportable system with a newer generation system that will also
eventually be compatible with providing real time information.
Travel Training – The RTD Board has approved a contract with VIA to provide Travel
Training services to assist in providing members of the disability community with training
on how to use RTD’s regular lift-equipped services to open up additional mobility options.
2014 Tactical Goals
- Expand the tools and methods to communicate with the general public as to the
types of services and programs offered, the ease of using the system, and the
ecological and economic benefits of riding RTD.
-

Systemically upgrade the input and feedback systems utilized by RTD as part of our
on-going efforts toward providing ever-improving communications networks for our
passengers, stakeholders and general public.

-

Expand targeted outreach efforts to schools, agencies and neighborhoods to
educate youth and non-users on the basics of how to access information about and
how to ride the RTD system, and how to utilize programs that may be available to
assist with providing affordable fares.

-

Increase targeted outreach through expanded networks to continue aggressively
market RTD fare products and pass programs to enhance ridership and revenue.

-

Target emerging and underserved markets by utilizing and expanding our marketing
and outreach tools that have been shown to be the most effective for those
specific demographics.

-

The District will move forward with discussions on a City and County of Denver
initiative called “My Denver Card” to include RTD rides on universal cards for all
Denver Public School (DPS) children. DPS would fund the transit fare component.

Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

The Denver Card would also provide DPS children with Recreation Center and
Library access. This initiative will undoubtedly create new and life-long transit
users.

Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

Strategic Goal #3
Innovative, Priority-Based FasTracks/SBP Funding
April 18, 2013

The following items continue to be innovative recommendations from the RTD staff and
fiscal sustainability task force. These recommendations are well thought out and provide a
sound basis to fund FasTracks and the SBP.
Fund Balance Policy
Continue to set aside resources to fund working capital, a Board appropriated fund
to use to respond to extreme events, and a fund to acquire capital assets,
particularly rolling stock, over time.
Enhance Sales and Use Tax
RTD will continue to pursue new revenue opportunities that include increased sales tax
revenue through parity with the State, joining with the State audit department to verify tax
compliance and reporting of RTD tax collections, and endorsing efforts to collect sales tax
revenue on internet sales.
Develop three way partnerships
Revenue will be enhanced through leasing and contracting for the operation and
management of assets that can be operated by third parties at a cost savings, such as
parking facilities.
RTD will develop shared facilities including parking, transfer centers, plazas, walkways and
bike-facilities at transit oriented or joint development projects where RTD and developers
can combine resources and reduce costs for site development and amenities and operating
cost.
RTD will continue to encourage and review private public partnerships proposals that
provide benefits and fit within the financial plans.
Parking fees and Other Revenue Opportunities
RTD will continue to explore new revenue sources such as the sale of assets and
easements that do not interfere with existing of future RTD operations and sale of other
assets not required for transit purposes. RTD will continue to assess other program
funding or acceleration opportunities as they arise, such as federal and state grants.

Packet Pg. 12

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

Strategic Goal #4
Enhance constituent collaboration and communication
April 18, 2013
Background
With outreach mechanisms, information gathering and dissemination effort, and regional
elected officials’ networks, RTD employs several processes and arrangements to
communicate and collaborate with constituents throughout the RTD Region. This is a
representative list of these methods, but it is not comprehensive:
Local Government Liaisons – In 2011, RTD put out an RFP for a Local Government Liaison
contractor to assist RTD in increasing focused communication and outreach efforts with
local elected officials, municipal and county staff and other key stakeholders. This has
resulted in a more targeted effort towards providing factual, up-to-date information and
receiving direct input at the same time with our crucial municipal partners and
stakeholders.
Citizen’s Advisory Committee – For nearly a decade, RTD has overseen the recruitment
and liaison efforts for the FasTracks Citizen’s Advisory Committee (CAC). An independent
group that provides the RTD Board and RTD Senior Leadership with direct input and
suggestions from the communities and passengers we serve, the CAC advises the District
on matters relating to the implementation of the voter-approved FasTracks program.
Local Government Service Planning – Meeting quarterly, the Local Government Service
Planning process involves asking each of the municipalities and counties within the District
to designate a representative to serve on the committee. Updates are given on RTD
service plans, developments, and scope and individual project elements, while the
municipal and county representatives also give updates on their plans and programs. This
helps ensure that we are on the same page when it comes to items that can impact
service or require service modifications.
Denver Regional Council of Governments Regional Transportation Committee – This is the
co-policy making board for transportation decisions made at DRCOG, in conjunction with
the DRCOG Board decision process. RTD has four seats, including three RTD Board
Directors and the RTD General Manager or his designee.
Elected Officials Briefings
RTD regularly schedules briefings with local elected officials along the FasTracks corridors
as they are being developed. This gives opportunities for the RTD Board and key corridor
staff members to provide updated information to our local elected officials and directly
answer any questions or concerns.
General Manager’s Quarterly Meetings
The RTD General Manager holds quarterly meetings in each of the FasTracks corridors to
update key stakeholders and elected officials to help facilitate decision making using the
latest up-to-date information. Each of the municipalities, counties and key stakeholders in

Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

the corridor has been asked to designate a staff-level member and an elected official to be
a representative to the group.
Inside Story e-Newsletter – This monthly electronic publication is provided by the RTD
Public Relations Division to update stakeholders and elected officials on the many projects,
programs and services we provide through the RTD base system.
Inside FasTracks e-Newsletter – The FasTracks Public Information Team develops and
distributes a monthly e-newsletter to all elected officials, key staff members, chambers of
commerce, key stakeholders and others who’ve opted in to receive FasTracks updates.
Speakers’ Bureau – One of the ongoing outreach tools that was started several years ago
and continues to be one of our most successful efforts is the RTD and FasTracks
Speakers’ Bureau. Every year, the PI Team proactively calls community organizations and
groups to schedule presentations to keep the public engaged in and informed specifically
about FasTracks and RTD in general.
Telephone Town Halls – Telephone Town Hall Meetings in each of the RTD Director
Districts is one of our newest forms of public outreach utilizing the latest in telephone
technology. It has been an effective and interactive involvement tool to both share
information with the public and receive questions and feedback.
Community Outreach – In early 2013, RTD hired for the new position of Public Relations
Specialist, Community Outreach to identify and target neighborhood and local media and
information outlets to increase RTD’s ability to communicate directly with residents and
stakeholders at the local, grassroots level.
2014 Tactical Goals
- Conduct the annual RTD FasTracks Survey of area residents to build upon these
surveys that were started in 2007. No survey was conducted in 2012 because of
the potential for going to the ballot with a FasTracks election and because of the
Director District elections.
-

Continue with meetings, both in formal group settings and individually, between
RTD Directors and Citizens Advisory Committee members to ensure on-going
communication and collaboration.

-

Expand community outreach process through the Public Relations Specialist,
Community Outreach position by integrating those efforts with other areas of
outreach that will be beneficial, including the Local Government Liaison process,
Local Government Service Planning, Speaker’s Bureau and other areas.

-

Engage Board Directors on a periodic basis through Local Government Liaison
efforts in meeting with elected officials and key stakeholders who are represented
within the individual Director Districts.

Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

-

Continue with the annual Director District Telephone Town Hall Meetings to directly
provide information and receive public input on timely and general, overall RTD
topics.

-

On a limited and targeted basis, embed Telephone Town Hall efforts in study and
outreach processes when appropriate to communicate directly with specific areas.

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

Strategic Goal #5
Continue Advancement of FasTracks
April 18, 2013
Current Projects
In early 2014 the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) will conclude with
recommendations for transit improvements that will be presented for Board consideration.
This will enable RTD to move those recommendations that relate to FasTracks forward in
the Annual Program Evaluation (APE) and begin working on strategies to implement the
NAMS results.
In May 2014 RTD will open the Denver Union Station project. As the multi-modal hub of
FasTracks, this will be a major event that is a very visible manifestation of the progress
being made on FasTracks. This will also coincide with the start of the downtown Denver
circulator service from DUS to the Civic Center. The circulator is designed to provide
additional capacity for the increased volume of passengers coming into Denver Union
Station.
In 2014, we will continue to manage over $4.5 billion of FasTracks construction projects
including the Eagle P3, I-225, US36 and North Metro on-time and within budget.
Cultivate Strategic Relationships
RTD will continue to work with our regional, state and federal partners to identify
opportunities to accelerate the completion of the FasTracks program. This will include
pursuing any and all federal and state grant opportunities and may include supporting, if
appropriate, CDOT’s efforts exploring a state-wide sales tax for transportation projects
throughout Colorado. Additionally, RTD will continue to work closely with key stakeholder
groups, such as the Metro Mayors Caucus, area Chambers and others across the region to
proactively share information and seek innovative ideas and opportunities to accelerate
FasTracks projects. As part of the focus to cultivate these strategic relationships, RTD will
conduct an APE, the results of which will be presented to the RTD Board of Directors and
our stakeholders in early 2014. The 2014 APE will provide a comprehensive evaluation of
the future implementation of the full FasTracks program, will include the results of NAMS
and will be included in a formal Senate Bill 208 report to DRCOG.
Strategic Programming of Projects
RTD has extensive experience in developing and implementing innovative procurement
strategies such as T-Rex, I-225 and the Eagle P3 projects. RTD will leverage this expertise
to continue to identify creative approaches to procuring the remaining FasTracks program
elements. Examples could include creatively packaging multiple FasTracks projects into a
single procurement or partnering with other public agencies to combine FasTracks projects
with other large infrastructure projects in the region. The benefits of this approach include
reduced mobilization costs and the potential for Public-Private-Partnerships due to the size
and complexity of the combined projects.

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

RTD will apply the appropriate delivery method to each project using our experience in
design-bid-build, construction manager general contractor (CMGC), design-build, designbuild-operate-maintain and continued consideration of unsolicited proposals.
Develop Funding Strategies
RTD is somewhat constrained from issuing new debt by lack of net revenue and TABOR
capacity. To continue advancement of FasTracks, RTD will pursue new revenue
opportunities that include increased sales tax revenue through parity with the State,
joining with the State audit department to verify tax compliance and reporting of RTD tax
collections, and endorsing efforts to collect sales tax revenue on internet sales. RTD will
continue to explore new revenue sources such as the sale of assets and easements that
do not interfere with existing or future RTD operations and sale of other assets not
required for transit purposes. Revenue will be enhanced through leasing and contracting
for the operation and management of assets that can be operated by third parties at a cost
savings, such as parking facilities. RTD will develop shared facilities including parking,
transfer centers, plazas, walkways and bike-facilities at transit oriented or joint
development projects where RTD and developers can combine resources and reduce costs
for site development and amenities and operating cost. RTD will continue to assess other
program funding or acceleration opportunities as they arise, such as: federal and
state grants; additional Public Private Partnerships; continued and new partnerships
with the Colorado Department of Transportation and other local governments. The
net revenue constraint is a combined base operations and FasTracks calculation that
will benefit both from increased revenue or decreased expenditures.
To improve TABOR capacity, RTD will continue to refinance bond issues and capital
leases for savings and issue certificates of participation where economically
advantageous. RTD will continue to plan for and deliver sound financial
recommendations to advance the FasTracks program.

Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: General Manager's Proposed Tactical Plan for Strategic Goals and Priorities April 18, 2013 (1564 : GM 2014 Tactical Plans from

2.1.b

