Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, December 8, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 7:57 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:56 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

7:56 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District H
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

7:56 PM

Tina Francone

Director, District N

Present

7:56 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:56 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

7:57 PM
7:58 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:56 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:56 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:56 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Committee Chair

Present
Present

7:56 PM
7:56 PM

7:56 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

7:56 PM

Director Deadwyler was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Will Adams, Jeff Becker, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan,
Rachel Carson, Jessie Carter, Wayne Cochran, Carolyn Conover,
Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Martell Dyles, John Elias, Terry Emmons,
John Ewy, Attilio Framarini, David Genova, Bob Grado, Doug Gragg,
George Hovey, Brian Iacono, Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Dan Jackson,
Tina Jaquez, Erin Klaas, Mitch Kuharski, Sheri Le, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Mac MacIntosh, Barbara McManus,
Deborah Méndez-Wilson, Vivian Morales, Michael Nabhan, Ed
Neuberg, Kevin Parker, Mace Pemberton, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed,
Ashley Rice, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith, Henry
Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, Monika Treipl-Hamke, Bill Van Meter,
Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Richard Botang, Brad Buchanan, Lynn Clark, Barikwa Deeyaa,
Sordum Deeyaa, John Desmond, Aaron Epstein, Nadia Garas, David
Gaspers, Eugene Howard, FuWei Huang,Wilfred Karikari, Tuguldur
Mandbayar, Devon McClurken, Togii Mensh, Mike Mwirigi, Sanphis
Thiare, Seraphina Thiare, Marolyn Kay Rittenhouse, Joe Tripplet,
Jason Whitlock, Yuzhou Zhou

B. Recommended Actions

• Proposed 2015 Internal Audit Plan
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors approves the proposed plan of internal audits to be
performed in 2016.
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the December 15, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager of Internal Audit, shared
that this year the Internal Audit Department has received a lot
of input from members of the Board and management;
therefore, the draft audit plan was sent out in November to
allow everyone a chance to provide feedback. She said she
would be happy to answer any questions.
Director Bagley noted that in the audit plan there were several
items that indicated the audit was requested by a Board

member. He asked to know the name of the Board member
that requested an audit and why that specific audit was
requested. He requested this be added to the audit plan prior
to the December Board Meeting.
Director Menten acknowledged that she was one of the
Directors who had requested certain audits and would be
happy to explain her reasoning. She said that she had
requested an audit of Call-n-Ride, marketing and
communications. She explained that as it relates to Call-nRide, she is wondering how we track if customers are
receiving calls back when they leave a message. As to
marketing and communications, she would like to learn how
an initiative is deemed successful.
Director Francone indicated that she too requested an audit of
the Call-n-Ride because she has not had an outstanding
personal experience with the service and also receives
frequent constituent complaints. With respect to marketing
and communications she also asked for an audit of these areas
as this is a huge dollar item within the 2016 budget. She
wants to see if RTD is making the best use of these dollars
and getting the most bang for our buck.
Director Bagley said he appreciates the comments made by
Directors Menten and Francone but he wants staff to provide
a write up before the December Board Meeting.
Director Anderson commented that she did not request any of
the audits but remembers having similar concerns about the
Call-n-Ride in Arvada several years ago. She would often hear
from customers who had called for service but never received
a call back. It turned out the driver was hiding.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that he is generally the
requestor of the cyber security audit as he feels this is a very
important area. He suggested that the Board look at auditing
as an information gathering tool that is a very thorough, yearlong process. He encouraged the Board to consider the audits
they would like to see whenever practical, but it is important
to remember that an audit cannot get into the queue mid-year.
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop explained that when the Internal Audit
Department receives requests from individual Directors or
management, those audits are only included in the audit plan if
they are viable audits. She pointed that Access-a-Ride and

Call-n-Ride were audit items that came out of the State audit;
however, questions that came from the Board could be
accommodated in the audit that was planned.
Director Bagley reiterated that he does not have any problems
with the requested audit topics but knowing who requested
the audit makes him think more deeply about it.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 2]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Kent Bagley, Gary Lasater
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Third Quarter 2015 Performance Report
Heather Copp, Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Finance and Administration, indicated that the full 3rd Quarter Performance
Report was included in the December 8, 2015 Financial Administration and
Audit Committee Agenda Packet. She asked Jannette Scarpino, Senior
Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis, to review the highlights.
Jannette Scarpino explained that the report covers the Key Performance
Indicators (KPIs) for the first nine months of 2015. She said that
performance was slightly weaker from the 2nd quarter but overall stable.
She shared that while First Transit Commerce City was the only carrier not
to meet the goal related to passenger accidents, all accidents were nonpreventable. She noted that system-wide on-time performance was not as
good as it was in the 2nd quarter but it was still more favorable when
compared with 2014. Jannette Scarpino pointed out that ridership is below
goal but staff is researching why these figures are negative. She expressed
that related to bus operator/mechanic recruitment, RTD was below goal but
staff is working hard to address the vacancies.
Director Lubow indicated her questions and comments came from
information in the 3rd Quarter Performance Report as well as the 3rd Quarter
Reports included in the December 8, 2015 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet. She expressed her support for changing the
subscription policy for Call-n-Ride services. She thinks that it is good to
have the subscriptions terminate to give other people an opportunity to

make a subscription. She asked that staff ensure everyone knows of this
change in policy.
Director Lubow noted that staff reported that an advocate had begun
educating people how to use the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride, which has
helped increase ridership. She wondered if perhaps the Citizens Advisory
Committee (CAC) members could be trained as advocates. Bruce Abel,
Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, stated that the CAC had not
been used in that capacity to-date. Brian Matthews, Manager of Special
Services, explained that the advocate was a user of the Call-n-Ride who was
concerned about the service being cancelled. She works at an assisted
living facility and began teaching the seniors how to ride. Director Lubow
thought that perhaps finding volunteers to be advocates might be a good
thing to try for other Call-n-Rides that are struggling.
Director Lubow pointed out that ridership for Access-a-Cab decreased in the
3rd quarter. She thought that the goal was for Access-a-Cab ridership to
increase as opposed to Access-a-Ride as the cost is very different to RTD.
Bruce Abel explained that staff pointed this out as it was a change from
what had been the ongoing trend. He said it is not bad so long as
customers continue to get the services they need.
Director Lubow commented that there have been many no shows for the
Access-a-Cab service. She stated that if there is a no show from Access-aCab and the rider cannot walk anywhere it can be very devastating. Larry
Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services, said that staff continues to work
with the cab companies. The reality is that there are many cab drivers who
will not do a trip once they learn it is an Access-a-Cab trip. He explained
that RTD is working with the cab companies to try and motivate the drivers,
who are independent contractors, but it continues to be an ongoing struggle.
Director Lubow asked if there was any back-up service if Access-a-Cab was
a no-show. Larry Buter stated that if it was a return trip RTD would send an
Access-a-Ride vehicle.
Director Lubow noted that there were a lot of red performance figures for
First Transit Commerce City in the 3rd Quarter Performance Report. She
asked if this was a contractor that consistently has problems. Bruce Abel
reiterated that while First Transit Commerce City was red for passenger
accidents, it was determined that they were all non-preventable. He shared
that in recent months they had also been suffering the greatest from staff
shortages.
Director Francone asked staff to provide her with additional information
offline about the Evergreen Call-n-Ride not having the ability to schedule
trips online.

Director Folska commented that the Board recently received an email from
Douglas Howey related to ADA. She wondered if Larry Buter concurred
with Mr. Howey’s requests/comments. Larry Buter indicated he had not had
the chance to review the email as it came in late in the afternoon. He said
he would reserve comments until he had the chance to fully review the
email. Director Folska asked that he get back to the Board with his
thoughts.

• Monthly Financial Status October 2015
Heather Copp noted that the October Monthly Financial Status Report was
included in the December 8, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet. She explained that the Sales and Use Tax
figures were estimated in the packet. Since that time staff has received the
actual figures, which unfortunately indicated the estimates were too
optimistic. She said that currently Sales and Use Tax is about $8.5 million
under budget; however, it appears there will be enough funds in the
operating budget to cover the shortfall but staff will continue to monitor
expenditures. She explained that due to the low figures staff is evaluating
whether there should already be an adjustment to next year’s forecast.
Doug MacLeod, Controller, shared that staff had placed a call to the
Department of Revenue because they were surprised that the Sales and Use
Tax was down so much. He said that staff wanted to make sure there were
no anomalies. Heather Copp noted that there could have been a cause like a
large audit that resulted in an assessment for RTD.
Director Folska said she did not have all the details but recently heard that
the State of Colorado is purchasing new software to audit Sales Tax
revenue. She wondered if perhaps this transition might be the cause of the
low Sales and Use Tax revenues. Heather Copp stated she was not aware
of any new software as a new tax system was implemented only two years
ago. She said she did not think that would be the cause of the low Sales
and Use Tax revenues.
Director Hoy shared that the information we receive from the State related
to Sales and Use Tax has always troubled him as it seems like smoke and
mirrors. He expressed that it does give him some comfort that Ms. Copp
used to work for the State so she knows how they operate. Heather Copp
explained that all taxpayer information is confidential; no entity outside of
the State receives that information. She said that staff will always look into
the Sales and Use Tax when there is an unexpected dip with the State.
Director Lubow asked if staff would keep the Board informed as to any
information they learned from the State. Heather Copp said they would
absolutely keep the Board informed.

Director Bagley asked that the Board be provided with an updated Monthly
Financial Status Report for October prior to the December Board Meeting.
Doug MacLeod stated it would be updated in the packet.
Chair Sisk noted that the drop in ridership is alarming. He wonders if this is
a national trend or something that is unique to RTD. He asked if staff could
look into this. He also wonders at what point the Board needs to take
action.

• Third Quarter 2015 Internal Audit Report
Ann Marie Isaac-Heslop noted that the 3rd Quarter Internal Audit Report was
included in the December 8, 2015 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet. She asked if there were any questions.
Director Bagley inquired if there were any findings from the audits that
concerned Ms. Isaac-Heslop. Anne Marie Isaac-Heslop stated she had no
concerns but if she did, she would bring them to the Board’s attention
immediately. She commented that Interim General Manager Genova and the
Assistant General Managers have been very rapid in their responses to the
recommendations. She believes RTD is in a good place.

• Smart Media Technology (SMT) and Day Pass Printer Status
Heather Copp pointed out that this will be the last official Smart Media
Technology Update before the public pilot program launches in January.
She expressed her appreciation to everyone who participated in the internal
pilot programs. She said at this time it appears there will be a good mix of
customers for the public pilot program between full fare and discount fare
and also the sales outlets the customers will be using. As was indicated in
the report, there will be several major decision points during the first three
months and the Senior Leadership team will meet weekly.
Heather Copp noted that under program components the external hosting is
still yellow. She said that staff will be making a decision soon if this aspect
of the Smart Media Technology should be deferred as it does not need to be
brought up until there is a public facing portal. She stated that staff does
not want to have too many things occurring during the go-live period for the
public pilot program. She shared that everything is ready for the new fare
structure to be implemented January 1st as well as everything being installed
for the Day Pass printers. She highlighted that the rider experience is still in
yellow as staff needs to continue to work on messaging and managing the
expectations of what the cards can do. The handheld smart media readers
changed from yellow to green as the contract for iPhones was approved and
staff has received a commitment from Xerox to upgrade the Smart Card
portion of the platform.

Heather Copp stated she feels comfortable about the January 1st public pilot
program. George Hovey, Program Management Office Manager, expressed
that the testing to-date has been very successful. Xerox has been very
responsive in addressing any issues. He said he is very optimistic for
making the January 1st deadline.
Director Folska recognized this was a complicated process that has been
addressed in phases; however, she wondered when it became a public pilot
program. She thought that the plan had been to go-live to the full public on
January 1st. It was her understanding that was why there was such a rush
to get the Day Pass printers. Heather Copp explained that the Day Pass
printers were not needed for the Smart Card implementation but for the new
fare structure. She stated that those would be live on January 1st. She
indicated that the plan for Smart Cards had been a public pilot ever since
she has been with RTD. The goal is to limit exposure so RTD can get
customer feedback on every aspect of the program and manage
expectations.
George Hovey explained that King Soopers has always been one of the
primary Retail Point of Sale (RPOS) providers. Unfortunately we were not
able to install the RPOS machines prior to the holiday due to a moratorium
King Soopers has between Christmas and the Super Bowl. It would be
difficult to open the Smart Cards to the full public when someone can only
buy and reload cards at RTD sales outlets. He said that without a more
robust sales network staff thought it appropriate to do a phased approach.
Director Folska asked if the moratorium was something staff had recently
learned about. George Hovey stated that was something that has been
known since we started discussions with King Soopers. He explained that
staff tried to expedite the agreement for an October launch but it was not
possible.
Director Folska shared that she has recently seen commercials advertising
that Xerox does transit better than anyone. She thinks that if they really do
transit that well then perhaps they can do some messaging with RTD being
the testimonial since we are the number one transit agency in the country.
Director Tobiassen wondered if King Soopers charged RTD for being a retail
outlet. Heather Copp stated that we would be paying 1.25%, which is far
less than the average merchant fee, on all transitions (cash and credit/debit
card).
Director Tobiassen asked if paper media would be available until the Smart
Cards were fully implemented. Heather Copp stated that was correct. She
noted there were some concerns about people not being able to receive the
Smart Card discount using paper media; therefore, the decision was made to

keep the paper media until RTD has a sufficiently robust system. She said
that the Board would be informed prior to the elimination of paper media.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - January 12, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move into
executive session for the purpose of discussing
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(d) – Specialized Details of
Security Arrangements.
Chair Sisk seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUSLY]
MOVER:
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Folska, Francone, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler
Chair Sisk declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The Board moved into executive session at 8:46 p.m.

G. Adjourn from Executive Session
The Board adjourned from executive session at 9:24 p.m.

H. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 9:25 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

