Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Glenda Rene Hagan – Purchasing Agent – 28 years
Ron Salisbury – Materials Handling & Purchasing Manager – 35 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Authorization of RTD Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

XII.

Recommended Action
B.
Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental
Agreement Amendment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third amendment of an existing
Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City
Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the funding for the design, construction, and
management of the infrastructure that will support the Central Park PnR along the East Rail
Line. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,
or designee, to execute the necessary documents to convey a certain amount of RTD
property for dedication as City and County of Denver ROW. The cost maximum for RTD’s
share of the infrastructure improvements has been determined to be $5,564,325. Funding
for this IGA is included in the 2013 Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle
project budgets.
C.

Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the table below) to establish
BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s desire and intent to implement a “World
Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the US 36 Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the
implementation of these final scope elements will effectively complete a model BRT in the
US 36 Corridor. Approval of this action will allow RTD to commit to the completion of the
US 36 BRT project through implementation of defined scope items, as RTD does on every
other project in the FasTracks program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Completion
Item
Station Amenities

Description
Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.

Opening
Day
X

Post Opening
Day

Station Security
Upgrades

Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.

Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel
time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)
Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.
Relocation of the Church Ranch
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on
each side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.

Passenger
Communications
improvements
BRT Vehicle Fleet
Church Ranch
Platforms
Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield parkn-Ride

X

X

X

X*
X

X

X

*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will
be dependent on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service
requirements.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

