Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
September 17, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Pledge of Allegiance

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum

IV.

Retiree Awards
Glenda Rene Hagan – Purchasing Agent – 28 years
Ron Salisbury – Materials Handling & Purchasing Manager – 35 years

V.

Public Participation

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Deadwyler/Rivera-Malpiede
Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013

IX.

Chair's Report

X.

General Manager's Report

XI.

Unanimous Consent
A.

Authorization of RTD Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

XII.

Recommended Action
B.
Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental
Agreement Amendment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third amendment of an existing
Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City
Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the funding for the design, construction, and
management of the infrastructure that will support the Central Park PnR along the East Rail
Line. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager,
or designee, to execute the necessary documents to convey a certain amount of RTD
property for dedication as City and County of Denver ROW. The cost maximum for RTD’s
share of the infrastructure improvements has been determined to be $5,564,325. Funding
for this IGA is included in the 2013 Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle
project budgets.
C.

Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the table below) to establish
BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s desire and intent to implement a “World
Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the US 36 Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the
implementation of these final scope elements will effectively complete a model BRT in the
US 36 Corridor. Approval of this action will allow RTD to commit to the completion of the
US 36 BRT project through implementation of defined scope items, as RTD does on every
other project in the FasTracks program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Completion
Item
Station Amenities

Description
Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.

Opening
Day
X

Post Opening
Day

Station Security
Upgrades

Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.

Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel
time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)
Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.
Relocation of the Church Ranch
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on
each side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.

Passenger
Communications
improvements
BRT Vehicle Fleet
Church Ranch
Platforms
Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield parkn-Ride

X

X

X

X*
X

X

X

*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will
be dependent on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service
requirements.

XIII.

Executive Session

XIV. Old Business
XV.

New Business

XVI. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

6.A

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

STUDY SESSION
August 27, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Bruce Daly
Director, District N

Status
Present
Absent
Present

Arrived
5:25 PM
5:34 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District J
Director, District A

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:13 PM
5:27 PM
5:29 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District C

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:34 PM
5:25 PM
5:18 PM
5:33 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:28 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Present

5:32 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:19 PM

Staff Present:

Will Adams, Tiffany Angell, Christian Atencio, Shirley Bennett, Diane
Borden, Jessie Carter, Melissa Dubinsky, John Elias, Sherry
Ellebracht, Kevin Flynn, Joan Garcia, David Genova, Terry Howerter,
Austin Jenkins, Angie Keenan, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Tony
McCaulay, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Ana Mostaccero, Paula
Perdue, Priscilla Perea, Scott Reed, Steve Reilly, Theresa Rinker,
Jannette Scarpino, Kitsudar Somchana, Walt Stringer, Steve
Szczecina, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Phil

Packet Pg. 5

6.A

Washington, Kate Wilson, Libby Winter, Dennis Yaklich, Julia Yugel,
Deborah Mendez-Wilson
Others Present:

2014 Requested Budget Plan (High Level - Scarpino)
Terry Howerter noted that this is an introduction to RTD’s budget process. He asked
Jannette to review the Power Point presentation that is available in the August 27, 2013
Study Session agenda packet.
Jannette Scarpino explained that she will review the budget process and assumptions
moving into 2014.
RTD’s vision and mission are the focal point for the budget development. The budget
development includes 7 elements: Vision/Mission, 2014 Budget Theme, SBP Summary,
2014 Budget Assumptions, 2014 Budget Targets, Sources and Uses, and Next Steps.
The budget development also includes safety and cost effectiveness (a keystone for
finance and also for meeting future needs). The 2014 budget theme is one of cautious
optimism. While it might be an overused term, staff is optimistic that RTD can meet our
challenges while being sustainable. Jannette Scarpino communicated the Governmental
Accounting Standards Board’s definition of fiscal sustainability:
Fiscal Sustainability is a government’s ability and willingness to generate inflows of
resources necessary to honor current service commitments and to meet financial
obligations as they come due, without transferring financial obligations to future
periods that do not result in commensurate benefit.
Jannette Scarpino summarized the strategic capital and operating plan for the Base
System 2014 through 2019.
The key elements of 2014 budget are as follows:







No proposed fair increase scheduled
Sales/use tax increase of 4.5% over 2013 projection
Operating expenses inflated at 2.3% CPI over 2013
Diesel lock $3.26/gallon unchanged from 2013 (current 2014 futures price is
$3.30/gallon);
Gasoline average cost of $3.54/gallon unchanged from 2013
FasTracks service increase (rubber tire service) up by 2.3% CPI over 2013, savings
contributed to FISA FasTracks Internal Savings Account

Packet Pg. 6

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

II.

ZJ Czupor, Joni Goheen, Doug Gragg, Sherman Hamilton, Dale
Honor, Adrian Mabry, Susan Monard, Marta Sipeki, Joe Triplett, Gary
Van Dorn

6.A






Investment income up moderately due to higher investable balances and interest
rates
Base capital and expense projects inflated at 2.3% CPI over 2013
No planned debt issues for Base System, 2014 fleet purchases funded by COPS
issued in 2013
FasTracks planning to draw up to $220 million in previously issued debt
Planned increases to fund balances

Jannette Scarpino stated that the 2014 Budget Targets are broken out by
department/division and show anticipated operating expenses, expense projects, capital
projects and the West Line allocation. The totals agree with the Strategic Budget Plan
(SBP). At this time the departments have made their initial budget submissions within
these targets. She noted that Denver Union Station (DUS) operations appear for the first
time in 2014; while this is considered a Base cost at this point the FasTracks financial plan
does provide for some operating costs.
Jannette Scarpino stated that the FasTracks Project Administration budget are preliminary
targets since these were not originally programmed into the budget. These amounts
exclude the West Line; staff will develop capital costs and bring them forward as the
budget evolves.
Jannette Scarpino pointed out that the West Line operations have characteristics that are
more like the Base System. Staff derived expenses from our cost model and are allocating
those costs based on resource drivers such as car miles, Park-n-Rides, # of elevators, etc.
The 2014 Budget Calendar – Next Steps are as follows:






September 10, we make presentation of the 2014 requested budget to the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee
October 12/13, there will a public posting of the 2014 requested budget for review
Oct 15, we provide a budget update for any revisions to be made to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee
November 12, there will be a presentation of the 2014 Recommended Budget to
the Financial Administration and Audit Committee to forward to the Board
November 19, we have a public hearing and Board adoption of the 2014 Budget.

Director Tobiassen noted that just before the meeting, there had been a question from a
member of the audience about operating expenses. He asked Jannette Scarpino to read
the breakdown of operating expenses for the audience so they would have an
understanding of what it costs to operate RTD and how much we budget for each
function.
Jeanette Scarpino read the following line items rounded to the nearest million:

Packet Pg. 7

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

















Bus Operations
$110 million
Private Carrier Operations
$105 million
Access-a-Ride
$44 million
Rail Operations
$36 million
Planning
$1.4 million
Capital Programs
$3.3 million
Safety Facilities
$45 million
General Council
$8.8 million
Finance and Administration $34 million
Communications
$11 million
Executive Office
$4.9 million
Board Office
$990 thousand
Non-Departmental
$5.5 million

Director Tobiassen highlighted that our total operating expense is about $410 million and
Access-a-Ride is close to $44 million.
Director Tobiassen asked for an update of how RTD is doing meeting the goals of the
Sustainability Task Force report. He asked for an update specifically about monetizing
parking now that the law has changed. Director Tobiassen also asked if there is a
strategic plan as to how we will monetize parking. Terry Howerter stated that there was
an update presented at the August 13, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
committee. He explained that the parking was on the list of goals that had been
accomplished by getting legislation passed but RTD had not moved forward since then.
Marla Lien explained that the parking legislation that was passed does not allow RTD to
get revenue from parking; there is no monetization. She stated that RTD can now allow a
3rd party to build and operate parking. This could result in a reduction of expenses but will
not result in a receipt of funds.
Director Folska asked for an explanation of investment income. Jannette Scarpino
explained that typically when RTD issues debt we do not spend the proceeds immediately
so these funds are available to invest.
Director Folska believes that as we move forward with the Fare Task Force it will be very
important to have a fully integrated parking fee and fare conversation. She thinks it is a
very complex issue and she does not want to discourage ridership. Director Folska
wonders if there should be a long term parking strategy that the Board might approve.
Director Folska notes that the price per gallon is estimated at $3.25 but the actual cost is
$3.30. She said that it does not sound like a lot of money but could have significant
consequences for the budget. She asked if staff has any feelings about the conflicts in
Egypt and Syria affecting fuel prices. General Manager Washington said that staff is

Packet Pg. 8

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Director Sisk asked who makes the decision regarding the diesel lock. He also asked what
the fuel lock for last year was and the future for gas is. Terry Howerter explained that our
Procurement division monitors contracts in place as well Suncor; they also look at the
markets all the time as far as the future prices of barrels of oil. He said that normally there
is a group that evaluates this information made up of Phil Washington, Bruce Abel, Brian
Iacono, John Dawson and himself. Terry Howerter stated that the final authority rests
with General Manager Washington as to when RTD executes a fuel lock. He noted that
we are currently locked at $3.34 and the future is for $3.30. Terry Howerter said that
staff does not normally monitor the gas futures like they do diesel as it is a much smaller
amount in the budget. He stated that last year the diesel price was locked in during
August or September so there was budget certainty when it came time for the Board to
approve it.
Director Menten asked for some examples of what would be considered operations and
where physically these operations would be happening related to Denver Union Station
(DUS) expenses. Jannette Scarpino stated that this is mostly security costs throughout
the facility as well as maintenance. She said that she would provide Director Menten with
a detailed list. Terry Howerter explained that staff looks at incremental costs; as we move
out of a 10 bus facility at Market Street Station to a 22 bus facility there will be higher
security, maintenance, snow removal, etc. costs.
Dave Genova commented that as far as locations, it would be the Light Rail platform, bus
facility, surface maintenance requirements in the Commuter Rail facility, the front of the
historic building on the Wynkoop side, elevators, etc. Director Menten wondered what
organizations were involved in the negotiations for maintenance of DUS; she wonders if it
includes the City County Denver, DUSPA, special districts, etc. Marla Lien explained that
Terry Howerter was talking about internal negotiations between him and Rick Clarke.
Director Folska asked for information about what is going on with Greyhound. General
Manager Washington said there was nothing staff was aware of. Marla Lien said that
many years ago during the planning of DUS there were conversations with Greyhound
about creating a facility adjacent to or at DUS. There was a high cost associated with
that; the public sector could not pay for it and Greyhound did not want to pay it.

III.

Communications Update (Reed)
Scott Reed thanked Chair Anderson the Board for the opportunity to give their annual
update; there is a great deal of information to cover so Scott Reed asked that all questions
or comments be held until after the presentation.

Packet Pg. 9

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

monitoring the situation; it could have an impact but right now staff does not see the 12
month futures changing.

6.A

Scott Reed introduced Will Adams, the Senior Manager for the Customer Information
Division. Will Adams stated that the Division consists of several different units. He stated
that his team focuses on customer information but also on customer care; they are really
focused on taking care of the customers and helping them understand how to utilize RTD
to their best advantage.
Will Adams stated that the first unit, Customer Sales and Information, handles the ticket
sales and information. Tickets sales increased steadily from 2010 to 2013 to $6.7 Million
through June; annualized would be a much higher number. Will Adams explained that
there has been a large increase this year due to TSA moving from EcoPasses to
TransitPasses. Now DIA employees are purchasing their passes at the fare counters.
Will Adams also mentioned the Special Discount Card Programs for seniors and disabled
individuals. From 2009 going forward, these programs have been gaining in popularity
and are being used on a fairly regular basis. The volume of cards issued in 2013 will be
5,500.
He stated the Customer Service division is working closely with Light Rail and Bus
operations. There are the 5 individuals dedicated to researching all the complaints. In
2012 there were 35K complaints and commendations with 2,300 being commendations.
Will Adams believes that number is significant. 2013 projections for the full year are
estimated to be about 36K.
The Telephone Information Center (TIC) unit is the largest unit of the Customer
Information Division. Will Adams stated that in 2013 he anticipates the TIC will have over
4.175 million calls from our metro area riders. This is a fairly substantial number. 1.9
million will be handled by the automated MyStop System. The 2.2 million remaining calls
will be handled by agents themselves.
Will Adams pointed out that the TIC experienced a hike in talk time when the West line
opened; about 16-second talk time on average with people getting acclimated to our
changes, major expansion of the rail, trying to explain the West line area now, etc.
MyStop continues to be very well used by RTD riders. In 2010 1.8 million calls were
handled, and in 2013 there have been 2.2 million calls so far.

Packet Pg. 10

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

The Communications Department is made up of 6 different divisions; however since
Internal Audit reports administratively to communications and report to the Board through
the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that division will not be reporting as part
of the presentation.

6.A

Will Adams stated that we are replacing the MyStop IVR with a new unit; There is no
change in functionality but we do need to make sure the new system works as well as or
better than the old system.

Will Adams stated that he been here for 3 months and is making a lot of cool changes. He
is working on a redesign of the special discount program by possibly implementing a mailin application. Currently RTD require that applicants visit one of our 3 locations, but that
is not always practical.
There is a lot going on in the Telephone Information Center. Will Adams shared that the
TIC will be converting from Microsoft Outlook, which is currently used as the RTD
customer service email to ZenDesk. This application is more customer service oriented.
Will Adams explained that it will enable him to do aggressive reporting so he can analyze
what is really happening. He is hoping to improve the response time and also interface
more with social media, which is currently being managed by the Marketing division.
Will Adams said that his team is also working on improving the TIC’s software and
hardware technology.
Will Adams shared with the Board that his goal is a one-and-done service delivery with the
objective being a one-call resolution. This means giving out correct information the first
call rather than providing wrong data and creating additional customer service calls. In
planning for future, we have 60 telephone agents, and 39 desks. Sometimes it takes
more than 39 agents to answer call volume during day. Will Adams explained that he and
Scott Reed are working on how to increase capacity for the call center.
Will Adams stated that MyStop is moving to a new IVR system next month as the current
IVR is quite dated. The vendor we are moving to has a much better application. Later this
year or early next year, a user can text MyStop with the bus stop number and can get the
next departure times for that location.
Director Daly confirmed that Will Adams from TIC took over Joe Berdaus’s position and
welcomed him aboard. Director Daly stated he was very pleased with his presentation and
the information regarding commendations.
Sherry Ellebracht stated that since the Government Relations present to the Board she will
just present a high level overview. She reminded the Board that when she talks about our

Packet Pg. 11

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Will Adams noted that more and more customers are communicating with RTD via email.
Mostly, the customers have basic questions but the questions cannot be ignored. Email is
becoming a preferred method of communicating with RTD.

6.A

Sherry Ellebracht said that RTD had a very successful state legislative session. Two bills
we needed got passed: House Bill 12-1272 – Sales tax parity with the State of Colorado,
and Senate Bill 13-027 – third party parking. A 3rd bill, Senate Bill 1348, was passed.
This was not put forward by RTD but will benefit RTD by allowing local governments to
use their share of HUTF funds if they choose. Sherry Ellebracht stated that she looks at
every bill that is introduced. This session there were about 700 bills and resolutions. She
works with Marla Lien to vet significant bills, and other bills that they keep an eye on, in
terms of reviewing the legality of these bills. There were 22 significant bills and 66 bills of
lesser impact to RTD.
Sherry Ellebracht stated that during the session she was working with
Brandeberry~McKenna and CRL. They are very good at having a pulse of what is
happening in the state/local governments and keeping us informed.
Sherry Ellebracht shared that she also prepared the FY 2014 appropriations booklets, and
shortly will begin preparing FY 2015 appropriations booklets. She stated that she attends
many meetings where RTD needs to have a presence. She works on grand openings and
events where we have other local or federal officials in attendance.
Lisa Trujillo, Acting Public Relations Manager was introduced by Scott Reed. Lisa Trujillo
commented that the Public Relations (PR) division is fairly new as it was just formed in
2011. The Public Relations Team consists of 2 staff, being Lisa Trujillo and Julia Yugel.
She stated that the Public Relations team is currently recruiting for their Annual Intern, and
hope to have an Intern on board sometime in October. There are also two open positions
that they are working to fill.
Lisa Trujillo explained that Public Relations handle both internal and external
communications. She stated that their role is to anticipate, analyze, interpret and
influence public opinion and to assess needs. This is a proactive approach to anticipate
needs before the public is impacted.
Lisa Trujillo said that PR counsel management on policy decisions and public implications.
It is important that they are in constant communication with the Board and management,
working together on these matters.

Packet Pg. 12

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

lobbying contracts/contractors, she is also talking about the relationships that they have.
Our contractors have excellent reputations both in Colorado and at the national level.
Federal lobbying efforts are managed with Patton Boggs, State liaison efforts are through
Brandeberry~McKenna, and our local government liaison efforts are through CRL
Associates.

6.A

Lisa Trujillo advised that internal communications are just as important as external
communications. Internal communication highlights include: Monday Morning Q, Intranet
“the Hub” where events are posted as is the employee of the month, and RTD on the
Road. External communications include Media Relations, Special Event support, Public
Outreach, Social Media and Internet. She stated that Public Relations are in constant
communication with all the different stakeholders/shareholders.
Scott Reed introduced Pauletta Tonilas, Public Information Manager. Pauletta Tonilas
introduced two new team members: Libby Winter and Melissa Dubinski. Libby Winter was
hired to work on the North Metro with Brenda Tierney and Melissa Dubinski is the
permanent PI Senior Administrative Assistant. Pauletta noted that Melissa Dubinski was
previously the temporary person in her position and Lindsey Winter was a contractor. She
believes it is wonderful when there are people who can prove themselves in that capacity
and then earn a spot on the team permanently.
Pauletta Tonilas explained that the PI team is a combination of RTD and consultant staff.
Vertigic helps her team implement the day-to-day activities on FasTracks. There is also a
combination of consultant and staff that is assigned to specific projects as PI liaisons.
Pauletta Tonilas stated that DBE/SBE Outreach is something her team is really trying to
pump up. They have been utilizing Sherman Hamilton’s network within the DBE/SBE
community to optimize communication about successes and opportunities.
Scott Reed introduced Tony McCaulay, Senior Manager of Marketing.
Tony McCaulay shared that Marketing is made up of 5 different groups: Marketing
Communications; Creative Services; Market Research; Sales and Contracts; and Events.
The research group conducts the customer satisfaction surveys. There is a customer
panel that consists of 1 member per district (15 total) that meets 4 times per year. He
explained that this panel will be presented with marketing campaigns and various other
items to review, get customer feedback.
Scott Reed stated that all our advertising is done in-house, which is very unusual. Years
ago RTD had an ad agency that we contracted with externally and RTD spent a great deal
of money for our advertising.

Packet Pg. 13

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Lisa Trujillo stated that Public Relations regularly research, measure and evaluate efforts to
inform public understanding, helping to enable RTD’s continued success; and that Public
Relations plan, manage, hire, train and collaborate with limited resources (a team of 2) to
achieve all the above.

Steve Reilly, Manager of Marketing Communications, stated that he and Cheryl Holmes,
Manager of Creative Services, co-manage the Marketing Division.
He reiterated that RTD’s advertising is all done in-house. Scott Reilly reviewed the West
Line advertising campaign with the Board. The theme of the campaign was West meets
Modern. The advertisements used bright colors and iconic-graphics to deliver the message
about what was coming, when it was coming, and where it would be located. He stated
that the campaign used traditional media tactics and digital media. There were over 6
million impressions in advertising print as well as over 75K direct mail pieces. Steve Reilly
explained that the call to action was “Come to parties, come to grand openings, and mail
in for free coupons”. There were also advertisements on shuttles, buses and light rails.
Online advertising represented 4 million impressions on various websites throughout RTD’s
service area.
Steve Reilly shared that the team hit the streets and did really fun events like temporary
tattoos of all icons and all graphics. The other fun thing was the first concert on the train;
RTD partnered with KBCO and had from the lead singer from the Fray. Steve Reilly
believes it was a fantastic event and an exciting way to get the word out.
The team has gone to great lengths getting tremendous exposure. They are continuously
working on new opportunities. Steve Reilly shared that they launched new look/feel this
past February for the website. He also shared that social media has blown up over past 2
years. He said that they are using more and more digital tools in addition to traditional
promotional efforts to reach constituents however they can.
Steve Reilly shared that the Marketing Division won three APTA AdWheel awards.
Director Menten asked how the commendations where passed down to employees. Will
Adams advised that the Division Managers prepare certificates that are given to the
employees.
Director Menten asked how many monitors in the field are riding trains or buses that are
plainclothes monitors. General Manager Washington stated that they would get her the
information.
Director Menten also asked about the conversion cost from Outlook to ZenDesk. Will
Adams reported the cost would be approximately $80/month per user. Director Menten
wondered if ZenDesk could be expanded to include our GMR process. She wants to
make sure we look at Zen Desk to use in other functionalities to more appropriately
address customer concerns. Will Adams stated that ZenDesk is very robust and staff will
look at what other functions it can be used for.

Packet Pg. 14

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

6.A

6.A

Director Menten noted that advertising can be controversial, especially in certain industries
such as Cannabis, breweries, religion, etc. She asked how we make decisions on what
advertising is allowed on our vehicles. Tony McCaulay answered that we follow strict
advertising standards. Advertising cannot be illegal or obscene. The product has to be a
commercially available product. For instance, there is no tobacco advertising, because
that is federal law. A team reviews the product for advertising. Marla Lien reiterated that
the advertising must be for a product; if it is not for a product the ad must state who is
delivering the message. Director Menten asked if we get into station naming do we have
any stations that we would consider keeping the location versus allowing a corporate
name. Tony McCaulay answered that stations could have a combinations name with a
corporate name in addition to the location.
Director Rivera-Malpiede believes the entire marketing department is phenomenal. She
stated that when she thinks of the caliber of work performed on behalf of our constituents
it is just amazing. She thanked the marketing team so much and stated that she was very
thrilled to be associated with such a high caliber of people.
Director Sisk thanked the marketing team and commented that the number of touches is
really incredible. Director Sisk expressed that he was a little concerned that there are two
vacancies in the Public Relations department. He questioned why we have 2 vacancies.
Scott Reed shared that he had just started the recruitment process for a Senior Manager of
Public Information and Public Relations. This is a new position. He explained that since
the PR Manager is a direct report to the new position they will not be hiring until the new
position is filled.
Direct Walker noted that when he reads the paper, hears the radio, sees spots on the
news, it seems the team is really doing a good job. Director Walker noted that he did not
hear anything about radio advertisements. He asked how we reach that audience. Tony
McCaulay stated that RTD currently does not have any budget for broadcast media. Steve
Reilly remarked that sometimes during the year we do provide seasonal or public service
type announcements. There were also some commercials leading up to the West Line
opening. Tony McCaulay added that RTD have also sponsored various traffic reports.
Directed James wanted to add his congratulations to Scott Reed and the whole team. He
thanked them for the presentation and the great job they are doing.

Packet Pg. 15

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked how the customer panel is appointed. Tony McCaulay stated that
there are not appointees. People apply to be on a panel and then staff selects a panel of
15 members, one per board district. The goal is to replicate that of RTD’s riding public,
same percent of male/female population; same educational levels, etc. Tony McCaulay
stated that we ask for applicants online and through the Read-n-Ride newsletter.

6.A

Director James asked if we would also consider naming rights for lines instead of just the
stations. He thought it might be good for the Downtown circulator. Tony McCaulay
replied that 2 or 3 of the top assets identified are rail lines or circulators. The decision
about if they are named will be up to the Board.

Chair Anderson thanked the Marketing Team for their great presentation. She wants the
entire Marketing Team to know that she appreciates all that they do and how we reach
out to the public. Chair Anderson looks forward to the new software; she thinks it will be
amazing to stand on a street corner and press button to learn next departure time.
General Manager Washington thanked Chair Anderson. He stated that there are two
things not mentioned, but that must be on radar. The first is the Northwest Area Mobility
study results. General Manager Washington explained that not only will the outcome of
the study need to be communicated but the process we have gone through also needs to
be explained. He believes it is very important to dispel the thought that we already have
the results or that we have somehow manipulated them. General Manager Washington
stated that he sent an email to the Board about the Fare Task Force. He explained that
the goal of this task force is to simplify our fare policy; this will be a huge communication
piece once complete.

IV.

Other Matters
Director Menten inquired about the unsolicited proposal to use our paved parking areas for
motorcycle training. General Manager Washington stated that he will get her additional
information.
General Manager Washington commented that the Board may recall the two prototype
buses on the 16th street mall. RTD put out a Request for Proposal about 2 years ago. He
explained that we purchased these buses, with an option to purchase additional vehicles.
General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff had just learned that the firm
has filed for Bankruptcy. He stated that the next step will is likely be to go back out with
an RFP for new/additional purchases.
Director Menten noted that constituents call all the time with complaints about the buses
being seriously overheated. General Manager Washington confirmed that staff was aware
of the complaints.

Packet Pg. 16

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska stated that she is very impressed with how well integrated the Marketing
Department is with other divisions of RTD. She is thrilled to have met Will Adams. She
said that the ZenDesk sounds so exciting, and she is thrilled Marketing is moving forward
with that initiative.

6.A

Director James questioned if the bankruptcy was contributable to other aspects of their
business. General Manager Washington stated that staff believes so. He said that our
financial folks had performed financial analysis but things were going well for them at that
time.

V.

Next Meeting Date - September 24, 2013

VI.

Adjourn
Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 7:42 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 17

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 27, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director James recalled that RTD had been challenged on the unique design of the two
16th Street Mall buses. Design Line was the only vendor that could previously
accommodate RTD. He is curious about our prospects for new vendors. General Manager
Washington commented that he thinks we will be OK finding a new company. Since the
original RFP bus manufacturers have made great strides. He expounded that Design Line
buses have been GREAT for our mall and that it is too bad we can’t get more of them.

6.B

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Planning & Development Committee
Tuesday, September 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Planning and Development Committee
Chaired by Bill James

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair James called the meeting to order at 5:30 pm.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:21 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:30 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

4:48 PM
5:13 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Chair
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Present

5:23 PM
5:15 PM
5:25 PM

Natalie Menten

Vice Chair

Present

4:58 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:08 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:24 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

5:29 PM

Packet Pg. 18

6.B

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

5:19 PM
5:04 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Michelle Brier, Rick Clarke, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, John
Elias, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate
Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Patrick McLaughlin, Doug MacLeod, Brian Middleton, Mike
Millage, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp,
Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Sean Vonfeldt, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Matthew DuBose, ZJ Czupor, Gina Garcia-Balderas, Stan Gronek,
Sherman Hamilton, Susan Monard, Bill Mosher, Laura Rinker, Marta
Sipeki, Joe Triplett

B. Updates

• Denver Union Station Project Authority Update
Committee Chair James introduced Bill Mosher, Denver Union Station Project
Authority. Bill Mosher reviewed a Power Point presentation on Denver
Union Station (DUS) that is available in the September 3, 2013 Planning and
Development Committee Meeting Agenda Packet. He stated that he had
good news to report; the construction project is all moving along nicely.
Mr. Mosher walked everyone through the presentation showing the various
stages and phases of construction. He specifically commented on the
Regional Bus Facility and the yellow tile, stating how reflective the tile is
which provides great light. Mr. Mosher commented that it does not feel like
you are underground because of the great lighting. Most of the remaining
work is related to finish work. Mr. Mosher was also really pleased to report
on Kiewit’s project safety record, citing that Kiewit has been on this project
for over 2 years without any significant on the job accidents.
Mr. Mosher finished his presentation and asked if there were any questions.
Director Folska thanked Mr. Mosher for a great presentation. Director Folska
asked if the Board could spend the night at the Grand Opening. Bill Mosher
said he’d be happy to arrange for a tour of the building along with a big
party.
Director Rivera-Malpiede commented that the DUSPA project has been
absolutely spectacular; it was amazing to be able to witness the project
coming to life. Director Rivera-Malpiede had just been at the train station on
this past Monday. She stated that it is really enjoyable commuting in and

Packet Pg. 19

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

6.B

seeing how much work has been done. Director Rivera-Malpiede mentioned
that she walks around the DUS area regularly and sees many different
people taking pictures of the project; people notice it is quite a historical
moment and very exciting to watch.

Director Tobiassen agreed that congratulations are in order. He commended
Mr. Mosher for providing a wonderful presentation. He commented that the
progress on DUS is staggering.
Director Tobiassen stated that he did have a question from a constituent
regarding the project regarding whether or not there would be a bike station
located at DUS. He also commented about the great team and how
everyone is involved. Director Tobiassen stated that everyone takes
responsibility for DUS because ultimately, everyone has responsibility for the
success of DUS. Mr. Mosher stated that the bike facility will be on the
triangle parcel. That is on City land that had train tracks that needed to be
removed. Underneath the parcel there will be a parking garage and a plaza
above. We are paying for $1M for that plaza and Central Platte Valley Metro
District will then be contributing to moving the bike facility along. The
design is fairly fixed. Mr. Mosher committed to bring in new pictures with
the next update. The planned completion timeline is in the 2015-2016 timeframe.
Director Deadwyler commented that the picture of the public restroom
fixture installation caught her eye. She asked how many public restrooms
were in DUS. Bill Mosher stated that he did not have the exact number
Rick Clarke stated that staff presented those numbers about 6 months ago
so he would get her the information. She questioned how many stalls are in
each restroom. Director Deadwyler also wondered about wheel chair and
scooter access. She wants to know how high the counters are to make sure
everyone has access. Bill Mosher stated that he will get this information for
the Board, and he extended an invite to Director Deadwyler to come for a
visit of the facilities so she can see these areas first hand.
Director Daly commented that staff had received an email from the team
with pictures from Jerry Nery, and the young lady that recently joined the
team. He stated they all climbed the ladder that was higher than DUS.
Director Daly noted that he didn’t see Mr. Mosher in the picture and
wondered why. Mr. Mosher stated that the picture was from the top of the
cranes. He shared that he has climbed before; he climbed a ladder for a

Packet Pg. 20

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Mosher offered congratulations to the Board because he stated that the
Board are the ones that did all the preliminary work making it possible. He
stated that the DUS will become a signature of Downtown Denver in the
same way that DIA has become a signature for the City of Denver.

6.B

project that was 37 stories high. He also shared that the ladders sway badly
when they are up that high and that he doesn’t need to climb a ladder again
but agreed that the pictures are great.
Committee Chair James inquired about the status of the model train
operations. Bill Mosher commented that in anticipation of this meeting, he
had talked with one of our people at Union Station Alliance (USA). He said
that one has been relocated and one is on hold. USA has a public process
that they are working through to find a new location.

Bill Van Meter stated that Bill Mosher and Bill Sirois would present an update
on the Olde Town Arvada Transit Oriented Development (TOD).
Bill Sirois explained that RTD issued a Request for Proposal (RFP) and went
through a formal selection process. Trammell Crow was selected as the
developer. He said Bill Mosher will provide some background on the process
and information about where we are at to date.
Bill Mosher stated that he really likes Olde Town Arvada. Mr. Mosher
commented that RTD, the Arvada Urban Renewal Authority and the City of
Arvada worked very well together. A third party was hired to prepare the
Request for Quote (RFQ) and then the RFP was issued. He advised that
there were 10 responses. Mr. Mosher shared that Trammell Crow went
through the interview process and Trammell was selected. He continued
that the committee had only made their selection in July and that the project
was moving very quickly since the selection. Mr. Mosher stated that all the
agencies really had their acts together; they had done their research well and
knew what they wanted.
Bill Mosher reviewed how they had put a plan and a team together to create
a healthy, vibrant project that would truly support the City of Arvada and
Olde Town Arvada. There are two options that Trammell Crow submitted.
The first option, Option A, is the base option that they do not intend to
pursue. It is a 9-acre site owned by the Arvada Urban Renewal Authority,
RTD, or the City of Arvada. This option created a 400 commuter car
parking facility as a stand-alone facility with housing, hotel and retail being
built in and around the development. This option met the initial objectives,
but one of the designers came up with an option that was not really what all
the parties had asked for; however, Trammell Crow felt it was a strong
option and submitted it for evaluation. That was the option that was
selected.

Packet Pg. 21

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• Olde Town Arvada TOD Update

6.B

Mr. Mosher stated that in either option the goal is to merge the Bus Facility
with commuter parking while doing it in a way that maintains the view that
the people desire. Mr. Mosher feels that Trammell Crow have a viable plan
and he stated that at a meeting a week ago Monday the Arvada Urban
Renewal Authority and the City of Arvada approved the plan for a larger
garage at this location. Trammell Crow are looking at some retail and
apartment projects they think they can move forward with fairly quickly. He
stated that Trammell Crow would like to stage the opening similar to the
grand opening of Denver Union Station where it coincides with the opening
of the transit facility.
Director Tobiassen questioned if the properties will be owner-occupied or if
they will be rentals. Mr. Mosher stated that they have just proposed there
be residential properties with the option to go either way. He believes there
are some great locations for condos but is concerned about building them in
this environment; the current legislation in Colorado is not conducive to
building Condos. He stated that the good thing is that you can build fewer
units to keep the properties smaller and more affordable. He said the goal is
to have some home ownership in the area.
Director Tobiassen commented that Micro Residential is an interesting
concept. He also wonders if the plan is to decouple parking from housing.
Mr. Mosher shared that Trammell Crow did some research on the apartment
market in Arvada, taking into account the Water Tower apartments which
has larger units. Trammell Crow is planning to build smaller units that are
more affordable. Micro housing around the world means 150 square feet;
Trammell Crow is not interested in that definition, but is interested in
somewhere between 350-750 square feet units. Mr. Mosher stated that
Trammell Crow does prefer to have parking associated with each of these
projects but it will likely not be on a 1 to 1 ratio. Another thing Trammell
Crow are looking at is to have 3-5 zip/go cars onsite for people who don’t
have cars.
Chair Anderson questioned if this action would take care of the parking
needs of Olde Town Arvada. Mr. Mosher answered that the City of Arvada
has been looking at a variety of potential parking sites. Initially there was
some concern about putting all the parking here, but as this plan has come
together the idea is gaining popularity.

Packet Pg. 22

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Mr. Mosher explained that Option B calls for making the parking facility
larger. The City of Arvada is looking to put 200 to 300 additional parking
spaces in the facility for Olde Town; to do this the facility would come
further south and the garage would go deeper. He stated that the challenge
with this option is that it costs more money.

6.B

Chair Anderson is excited about the plan and about doing something with
the hill the structure will be built against. She feels this plan is a great way
to achieve the goal of getting people into Olde Town. She is very pleased
with plan. She thinks there is a lot of chatter going on out in the public that
is indicative of people not really realizing how great this project is. Chair
Anderson wondered if this might become an issue in the future. Mr. Mosher
stated that so far there has been great public support. He noted there have
been some controversial issues in Arvada recently but his team will work
through it. Chair Anderson expressed her excitement and hopes that our
state makes it possible for people to own condos in Olde Town Arvada.
Director Menten inquired about the definition of a multi-family development.
Mr. Mosher commented that there would be multiple units within one
structure.
Director Menten asked if there has been some recent legislation regarding
construction liability. Mr. Mosher stated that Colorado is one of the most
stringent states with regard to developer liability. Bill Mosher stated that
there has been legislation that would allow for arbitration, developers being
able to fix the issue, etc., but this legislation has not passed as of yet. The
per-unit insurance cost is over $30K.Now, developers have to document
everything. Developers use third parties to document and video everything.
Mr. Mosher explained that all of these added costs are passed on to the
purchaser. He stated it is very tough for lenders to want to make loans for
Condos.
Director Solano inquired about the hotel that was mentioned that would run
along Vance Street. He wonders if there are any existing hotels in the area.
He also wondered who would fund construction of the hotel. Bill Mosher
commented that the feasibility studies have shown that hotels in Arvada are
not really feasible; however, Arvada is interested in trying to figure out how
to get a hotel in the area so Trammell Crow is trying to make that happen.
He said that funding would involve some private funding and some additional
public support through the Arvada Urban Renewal Authority and the City.

Packet Pg. 23

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Chair Anderson stated that she is very excited to see this growth in Arvada,
but stated that Trammell Crow cannot take the movie theatre. This is the
first movie theatre Arvada has had in 30 years. Mr. Mosher feels that this
plan actually compliments the movie theatre and should provide additional
adjacent parking.

6.B

• Transit-Oriented Development: Board Update

Director Lubow commented that she needs a little refresher course on the
TOD process; she stated that Mr. Sirois had mentioned that this is an
expanded role for RTD to assist with the TOD process. Director Lubow
wondered what resources RTDs put in to the TODs. She asked if there was
a cost/benefit analysis completed on the project. Bill Sirois shared that the
Board had previously wanted to look at an expanded view of TOD versus
just looking at dollars and cents. Things like affordable housing, increased
ridership and improved station amenities will all be results of TOD. He said
that while RTD will not be making a lot of money from the project, the
improved amenities add value. Director Lubow questioned if there was any
analysis of public money going to private developers. Marla Lien explained
that RTD does not directly fund housing development, retail development,
etc. RTD can share infrastructure, lighting, parking, etc. but we do not
directly subsidize private development.
General Manager Washington stated that in 2009, staff brought a policy
recommendation to the Board for approval. RTD talked about doing what
we can do as an agency to create vibrancy around our stations. This action
is directly tied to growing our ridership. He believes if we have vibrancy
around our stations, we are more likely to grow ridership.
Director Menten inquired about the 40 parking spaces on the north and the
60 parking spaces on the south side of Alameda Station. She wondered
why we received these spaces at no cost to RTD and if we were working
with one or two developers. Bill Sirois advised that this is all the same
developer. He explained that as part of our negotiation with the developer
we said that they needed to allow us these 100 parking spaces; this is a
way for us to transition from a traditional Park-n-Ride facility to something
that is more of a neighborhood walk up. D4 is the developer.
Director Folska inquired about some of the other projects that had been
worked on previously such as 10th & Osage and Yale Station and wondered
if we are still working on those projects. Bill Sirois replied that those
projects are not part of the Pilot program. He noted that there has been

Packet Pg. 24

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bill Sirois gave a brief presentation on the Transit-Oriented Development
walking through the slides with an overview on:
o Alameda Pilot
o Welton Pilot
o Federal Center Pilot
o DU Station
o Depot Square
o I-225 Corridor

6.B

Chair Anderson provided a brief synopsis of how Arvada got to where they
are today. She explained that Arvada City Council decided many years ago
that Olde Town should be a transit center so they changed their zoning and
put a transit overlay on their comprehensive plan. At the time, Olde Town
was a suburban area allowing approximately 4 units per acre. There has
been an ongoing effort to make Olde Town Arvada into a transit oriented
area, and Chair Anderson thinks it’s great that RTD was able to do a
partnership with the City of Arvada and the Arvada Urban Renewal
Authority.
Chair Anderson advised that she specifically did not go to the Arvada City
Council meeting because she wanted the Arvada City Council to make any
type of remarks they wanted without a RTD representative being present.
Chair Anderson feels that it works well to have these partnerships and also
to have private investment support.
Director Sisk commented that this is an extraordinary opportunity. He
mentioned that at a future time, he would like to have a better
understanding of TOD, what the partnership is about, and how it really
works. He thought it might be helpful to see a case study of a specific
project so the Board can see what the public does, what the private sector
does and how the economics really work. Bill Sirois suggested that Denver
Union Station is the best example. Bill Sirois indicated that staff is planning
to provide a “Lessons Learned” report in 2014.
Director Solano commented that this is all great pie in the sky, future stuff,
but that RTD needs to get 4 corridors done and complete the light rail.
General Manager Washington stated that these projects are happening right
now. He reiterated that these projects offer integral real benefits that could
translate to value for other parts of the region. He thinks Director Sisk’s
idea of really breaking down one project is a great idea. Director Walker
reiterated that these projects do create a lot of value; there are far reaching
effects of these projects that can be seen everywhere, even right outside
the map boundaries presented by Mr. Sirois.
Committee Chair James inquired about the Federal Center site. He wonders
how many acres there are available. Bill Sirois advised that there are around
40-45 acres. Committee Chair James noted that this is a new format for
getting value for land. He stated that this is an efficient use of resources,
both public and private, and that it is good to get things happening. He
stated that some things can’t be measured quantitatively; some things can
only be measured qualitatively which is sometimes difficult to measure but
Packet Pg. 25

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

some interest by a private developer but nothing formal has happened at this
time.

6.B

still has value. Director James stated that our main mission is mobility, but
this development is very important.
Director Folska expressed that she would like to see a quality of life element
added to the pilot program going forward. Bill Sirois stated that we do a
quality of life report for all of FasTracks that goes beyond just TOD. He said
that staff would do a microcosm look as well.

General Manager Washington reminded the Board that RTD’s Human Resource
Department was recognized by the SHRM Colorado State Council with an award.
General Manager Washington advised that this diversity award is a testament to
our strategic leadership and is a great honor. He congratulated the RTD staff.
Director Hoy stated that a few weeks ago the Board had talked about pilot
programs for creative ways to dispose of excess property. He requested that the
Board get an update sometime soon.

D. Next Meeting Date - October 8, 2013
E. Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 6:59 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 26

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

C. Other Matters

6.C

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, September 3, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Larry Hoy

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Hoy called the meeting to order at 7:08 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:09 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Absent

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Present

7:05 PM
7:09 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Chair

Present
Present

7:01 PM
7:04 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Vice Chair

Present
Present
Present

7:08 PM
7:05 PM
7:07 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:01 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

7:08 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:04 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:07 PM

Packet Pg. 27

6.C

Director, District F
Director, District D

Present
Present

7:08 PM
7:02 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Michelle Brier, Rick Clarke, Ignacio Correa-Ortiz, John
Elias, Kevin Flynn, David Genova, Cory Granrud, Terry Howerter, Kate
Iverson, Austin Jenkins, Erin Klaas, Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Barbara
McManus, Patrick McLaughlin, Doug MacLeod, Brian Middleton, Mike
Millage, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp,
Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, Sean Vonfeldt, Phil
Washington

Others Present:

Matthew DuBose, ZJ Czupor, Gina Garcia-Balderas, Stan Gronek,
Sherman Hamilton, Susan Monard, Bill Mosher, Laura Rinker, Marta
Sipeki, Joe Triplett

B. Recommended Actions

• Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental
Agreement Amendment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third
amendment of an existing Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park
Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the
funding for the design, construction, and management of the infrastructure
that will support the Central Park PnR along the East Rail Line. It is also
recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or
designee, to execute the necessary documents to convey a certain amount
of RTD property for dedication as City and County of Denver ROW. The cost
maximum for RTD’s share of the infrastructure improvements has been
determined to be $5,564,325. Funding for this IGA is included in the 2013
Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle project budgets.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at the
September 17, 2013 Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs,
explained that as stated in the recommended action, this is an
Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro
District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc (PCMD). for the
construction of the infrastructure for the Central Park Park-nRide. This will replace the old Stapleton and also serve as the

Packet Pg. 28

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

6.C

Cory Granrud, Manager of Park-b-Ride Design, stated that in
the IGA when we acquired the properties to build this Park-bRide we agreed to help develop the infrastructure as part of
the project. The infrastructure improvements for which RTD is
responsible include: all or split portions of Smith Road (54%)
from approximately Syracuse to Xanthia Street; Ulster Street
from 37th Place to Smith Road (100%); Unita Street from 37th
Place to Smith Road (100%); and 37th Place from Ulster to its
easterly limits (50%). Corey Granrud said this would include
things like roadway, storm sewers, traffic signals, curbs, etc.
He stated that staff has been working on this project since
1996 and they are very excited to finally see the results.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that we are doing infrastructure
improvements just like any developer would do; sidewalks,
streets, curbs, gutters, etc. are items that the City does not
put in but are the responsibility of the developers. He stated
that RTD is just doing its part of the development process.
Director Lubow asked for clarification on the following section
of the recommended action:
“If the submitted proposals exceed RTD’s allowable funding
(%5,564,325), RTD will have no further payment obligation,
but PCMD may suspend work unless resolution is reached.”
Director Lubow wonders if this is boiler plate language in these
types of agreements and what this means for RTD in the longterm. She also asked if Board approval would be required if
the cost exceeds the amount approved with this recommended
action. Roger Kane, Associate General Counsel, explained
that RTD and PCMD could not foresee everything that would
happen in the future and therefore could not commit to items
that had not been anticipated. He said this is a way to get the
parties back together to decide how to proceed should the
need arise. Roger Kane stated that there is a 10%
construction contingency as well as an overriding 10%
contingency so staff does not anticipate this being an issue.
He said this is not broiler plate language but was something
Packet Pg. 29

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Park-n-Ride for the Central Park Station along the East Line.
Rick Clarke explained that this project would be brought to the
Board in stages. The first stage is for the infrastructure and
early next year there will be a separate action to build the
parking lot.

6.C

Director Deadwyler asked if staff was anticipating the cost to
go higher. She noted that she has not seen this type of
language since being on the Board. She also inquired if the
infrastructure or Park-n-Ride would be built first. Director
Deadwyler is concerned that if there is a stoppage in work
people will not have a Park-n-Ride facility available for use.
Roger Kane explained that this language was needed based on
the history of the site. He said there has been environmental
clean-up in this area; it has a clean bill of health but it is
possible so environmental issues could be found. Roger Kane
stated that RTD would still build the parking lot even if work
was stopped. The question would be how people get in and
out of the Park-n-Ride fi the roadways were not complete. He
said if there was a substantial issue with cost overrun RTD
would need to renegotiate with PCMD.
Director Menten inquired if PCMD had any ties to the Wal-Mart
that was developed adjacent to the Park-n-Ride. Roger Kane
stated that PCMD is a governmental entity like RTD. He said
staff is not aware of any ties they might have to Wal-Mart.
PCMD sold the land for development to Wal-Mart but staff
does not know of a further connection.
Director Lubow asked for further information on the history of
the property and associated environmental clean-up. Roger
Kane stated that RTD required our parcels to be cleaned-up
before we would buy them. He said that Asbestos was
cleaned up on our parcels which is actually easy to do. Roger
Kane noted that we do not own the property the roads will be
built on so there is the potential for an environmental issue.
Director Rivera-Malpiede indicated she was abstaining from the
vote due to a conflict of interest with Park Creek Metro
District because of their funding for the Stapleton Area
Transportation Management Association with which she is
associated.

Packet Pg. 30

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

that had to be written for this specific IGA. Rick Clarke
reiterated that staff feels very good about the estimate
especially with the contingencies in place; this is just to
address what happens if prices do come in higher than
budgeted. Rick Clarke confirmed that anything outside the
approved $5.5 million would require further Board action.

6.C

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [9 TO 4 WITH 1 ABSENTION]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Sisk, Tobiassen,
Walker
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow, Natalie Menten, Paul Solano
ABSTAIN:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley

• Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the
table below) to establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s
desire and intent to implement a “World Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in
the US 36 Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the implementation of these final
scope elements will effectively complete a model BRT in the US 36 Corridor.
Approval of this action will allow RTD to commit to the completion of the
US 36 BRT project through implementation of defined scope items, as RTD
does on every other project in the FasTracks program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Completion
Item

Description

Opening
Day

Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.

X

Station Security
Upgrades

Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.

X

Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel
time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)
Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.

Station Amenities

Passenger
Communications
improvements
BRT Vehicle Fleet

Post Opening
Day

X

X

X*

Packet Pg. 31

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

6.C

Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield parkn-Ride

Relocation of the Church Ranch
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on
each side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.

X

X

X

*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day
service will be dependent on the cost of the vehicle that can best
satisfy the corridor’s service requirements.
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the
September 17, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of Planning,
explained that in the scope of work for the Northwest Area
Mobility Study (NAMS), RTD and study stakeholders
established that the final commitment for Bus Rapid Transit
(BRT) on the US 36 Corridor would be completed within the
first 90 days. He noted the timeline was reiterated in the kickoff meetings in May. Bill Van Meter said that he is pleased to
inform the board that as a result of the NAMS efforts this was
accomplished within that schedule. He stated that on July
17th the HNTB Study Team reviewed the draft list of remaining
US36 project scope items with the NAMS Technical Advisory
Committee and then two weeks later it was presented at a
joint meeting of the Technical Advisory Committee and Policy
Committee. Bill Van Meter shared that in the past few days
staff has hear comments from stakeholders on several items
that are not included in the board report. He said these items
can all be dealt with outside this board action and staff still
supports its approval.
Bill Van Meter explained that two of these items are not near
term items. One would be a future Church Ranch parking
structure if and when the demand has grown enough to

Packet Pg. 32

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Church Ranch
Platforms

6.C

Bill Van Meter noted that RTD has already made a significant
funding investment in the Corridor which is outlined in the
board report. He stated that this gives RTD a top notch BRT
system.
Bill Van Meter stated that of significant importance is that this
action really addresses the concerns the Corridor stakeholders
have been articulating to RTD for years which is that the US
36 Corridor has never had a defined scope like other corridors.
This action definitely addresses that concern and was well
reviewed with the stakeholders.
Director Folska believes that the US 36 Corridor is critical for
linking Boulder to Denver. She knows many people that teach
on the Denver and Boulder campus on the same day. She also
knows that many people love to take their bikes. Director
Folska expressed that the buses get very full on the bottom
with all of the bicycles. She stated that bicycles are a really
important part of multi-modal transportation and would like to
see RTD putting a bike requirement in everything we do in the
future. She wants to insure we take a real, hard look at how
we can support cycling as part of our multi-modal system.
Director Sisk stated that these are important milestones. He
commended staff for identifying these items and taking the
necessary steps to move forward as he believes it is long
overdue. Director Sisk encouraged the Board to vote for this
item but indicated he would be voting no. He believes there
are still a few things left to address between now and the
Board meeting; however, he thinks we also have a chance to
work with the stakeholders and have them come to the Board
meeting to support this item. He reiterated that he
encourages the Board to move the forward but wants
everyone to understand why he is voting no today.
Packet Pg. 33

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

warrant it. The other is maintenance facility improvements
that might be required as our fleet expands to meet future
needs. He said the final request was to include bike shelters
instead of bike racks and lockers normally provided at RTD
facilities. Bill Van Meter shared that Nadine Lee, Project
Manager, has volunteered to work with stakeholders to
identify some areas at which we might be able to install
shelters. He stated that these shelters fall under station
amenities that not fall under BRT requirements; staff has
committed to work with stakeholders moving forward.

6.C

Chair Anderson stated that she is going to support this item.
She thinks it is a great milestone in the NAM Study. She
thanked Director Sisk for outlining some of the issues that are
left. Chair Anderson noted that there has been a great deal of
work done by a lot of people. She also noted that BRT was
part of the FasTracks plan when the voters approved it so she
will support this action.
Director Tobiassen asked for an explanation of what a bike
shelter is. Nadine Lee explained that this is a big cage that is
accessed with a swipe card; the bikes are then locked-up
inside the cage. She stated this was a suggestion that came
out of a First and Final Mile Study that was completed.
Nadine Lee shared that a bike shelter is being installed at the
Table Mesa Park-n-Ride to determine how they are utilized.
Director Tobiassen thinks the shelter at Table Mesa is a great
idea. He noted that the shelters were very popular at
University Hospital; when they relocated to Fitzsimons bike
shelters were not included and students were very unhappy.
General Manager Washington stated that the stakeholder
concerns are things that staff sees as not necessary for
opening day; we are trying to build the project and include
what makes a “World Class” BRT system. He noted that staff
is not saying there should not be bike storage; it should just be
racks and lockers that we do at other stations. He reiterated
that staff will work with the stakeholders once the system is
built.
Director Lubow commended staff for going the extra mile to
work with the stakeholders to create a defined scope. She
stated that she will be voting no, not because she thinks it is a
bad proposal but believes it useful to keep the item open for
further discussion.
Director Solano asked for clarification on the statement from
alternative number two that reads:

Packet Pg. 34

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Deadwyler stated that she agrees this corridor is very
important but she does not agree to all the amenities. She
believes the amenities should be standard like they are
throughout the system; as more funds are available then we
can add additional amenities throughout the entire system.

6.C

“Do not accept the NAMS Policy/Technical Advisory
Committee recommendation for these scope items deemed
necessary to establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor. This action
is not recommended since it could undermine the efforts and
credibility of the NAMS study.”

Director Folska shared that there is a bike shelter at the
Denver Athletic Club for anyone who is interested in seeing
one. She noted that on the Boulder campus last year 2,500
bikes were stolen. These were bikes that were tied up with
cables, locks, etc. but those are easy to cut. Director Folska
believes the riders are really in need of a safe place for their
bikes. Director Folska stated that in other areas along the
system there have been riders who wanted additional
amenities. One group found funding for shelters so that may
be something to consider in this Corridor. Director Folska
stated that she will be voting yes because this is very
important to keep FasTracks moving forward.
Committee Chair Hoy shared that he attended the last NAMS
meeting which had the Policy and Technical Committees meet
together. He stated that this was discussed at the meeting
and everyone had the opportunity to provide additional input;
however, the items mentioned by staff today were not
brought up. He also noted that there is nothing in the
recommended action that precludes RTD from doing any of the
additionally requested items. Bill Van Meter stated that was
correct. The project scope was reviewed at the July 17
Technical Committee Meeting then on July 30th at joint
Committee Meeting with a specific request for additional
critiques, additional information, etc. He stated that there is
nothing in the recommended action that would prevent
implementation of these additional requests.

Packet Pg. 35

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bill Van Meter explained that this was a key early action item
for gaining consent in the NAM Study. He stated that staff
believes this is not passed it could set a bad tenor and tone for
the rest of the Study.

6.C

RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [8 TO 6]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Rivera-Malpiede, Tobiassen,
Walker
NAYS: Deadwyler, Lasater, Lubow, Menten, Sisk, Solano
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley
Committee Chair Hoy declared the motion PASSED.

• Eagle P3 Project Update
Rick Clarke introduced Brian Middleton (FasTracks Program Manager), Greg
Straight (Project Manager, Engineering-Facilities), Ashland Vaughn (Project
Manager, Engineering) and Kevin Flynn (Project Manager, Public
Information). They reviewed a Power Point presentation with the Board that
is available in the September 3, 2013 FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Agenda Packet.
Director Daly thanked the team for a great presentation. He stated that
there is so much going on now and the project is really at such a critical
stage being half way finish. He said he is so proud of where RTD is now.
Director Lubow thanked staff not only for a good presentation but wonderful
construction. She noted that the presentation listed the concessionaire
equity at approximately $54 million out of a total budget of $2.2 billion.
She wonders what the terms of our agreement are to get this private
funding. She believes this issue is going to get more and more important as
we move forward with Public Private Partnerships and how RTD is bound by
them. Brian Middleton stated that there was a lot of effort put into
determining the terms and conditions of our agreement with Denver Transit
Partners (DTP); RTD wrote the contract and received a lot of feedback. He
explained that some ideas/suggestions were incorporated into the contract
and some were not as they were not in the best interest of RTD. Brian
Middleton said that the winning proposal came in under 300K of estimates
so staff was very happy with the agreement. He stated that looking forward
RTD will continue to get a good deal because DTP’s concession payments
are contingent on them doing an excellent job; this assures that not only is
the project well-built but it also assures that it will be well maintained for the
duration of the concession period.
Director Lubow noted the situation of the HOV lanes on US 36 and how
now they require a minimum of three passengers. She stated that there
were some very irate constituents and she does not want to be surprised by

Packet Pg. 36

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

C. Updates

6.C

a similar situation and RTD. Marla Lien explained that in this deal, unlike the
HOV situation, the RTD Board controls all the fare and schedules over time.
She said the concession agreement is over 1,000 pages and the Board spent
1.5 years approving it in sections. Marla Lien told Director Lubow she
would be more than happy to sit down with her and review the agreement.

Director Walker expressed that he understands from his other life how
difficult it is to coordinate with multiple agencies during construction and
believes staff is doing an amazing effort. He also said he is not too
concerned about the numbers from the open houses because there are so
many ways to communicate now. He stated that he has seen some of the
work and is thrilled to be part of it.
Chair Anderson thanked the team for making her job easier. She shared that
as she is out in the community she only hears good things. She said there
have been some issues but they have been handled very well. She feels this
is a great project; it took some foresight from previous Boards. She
remembers the hard work that the prior board have done to get this far. She
reiterated her thanks to the staff and DTP.
Director Solano asked for further information about Aviation Station. He is
wondering why we need to do an additional environmental evaluation. Greg
Straight explained that there were a number of parameters that had not been
identified at the time so it was not available for the initial environmental
evaluation. He indicated that RTD’s reevaluation indicated no significant
impacts to the initial EIS; FTA will make the final determination.
Director Folska stated that is it is a very complex financial equation that
staff put together for this project. Brian Middleton stated that JP Morgan
and Goldman Sachs acted as our financial advisors. He said they did a great
job getting the message out that RTD had a great project.
Committee Chair Hoy noted that at 71st and Irving there was a building being
razed. He wondered if this had something to do with FasTracks. He was
surprised to see that demolition already occurring. Ashland Vaughn said
that is probably part of the Westminster station demo.

Packet Pg. 37

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Lubow asked if RTD had a policy for guiding us in future Public
Private Partnerships. General Manager Washington explained that all PPPs
are different so they would need to be brought to the Board in detail. He
stated that they would never bring a PPP to the Board for approval without
explaining it in full to the whole Board.

6.C

D. Other Matters
Director Folska said that she got the impression from last week’s Study Session
that there would be a discussion of the naming rights at tonight’s meetings.
General Manager Washington clarified that will be presented at the September
Study Session.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 8, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 38

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 3, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Chair Hoy declared the meeting adjourned at 8:38 p.m.

6.D

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, September 10, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
5:31 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

5:13 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District N
Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent
Present

5:30 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:31 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Director, District G
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent

5:31 PM
5:39 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

5:11 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Present

5:05 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

5:17 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Vice Chair
Committee Chair

Present
Present

5:18 PM
5:05 PM

4:59 PM

Packet Pg. 39

6.D

Director, District D

Present

5:00 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Steve
Gieske, Mike Gil, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Lisa Trujillo, Phil Washington, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:

Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Lee Johnson, Stu Livensparger,
Cynthia Menge, Susan Monard, Ron Murphy, Laura Rinker, Marta
Sipeki, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions
There were no recommended actions.

C. Updates

• January 2014 Service Plan
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Planning, reminded the Board that
this is the first time we are going through the service changes under the
new process that was briefed at the August 13, 2013 Operations and
Customer Service Committee Meeting. He thanked the Board for giving
staff this latitude. Bruce Abel explained that this is helping staff talk to our
customer base earlier and therefore, more comprehensively. He pointed out
that as part of this new process, staff is including a section titled ‘Look
Ahead’; this is an opportunity to not only present the proposed January
service changes but to also provide a heads up of what staff anticipates for
May. Bruce Abel explained that staff is always looking ahead several service
changes and wanted to communicate that information to the Board. He said
that the look ahead is very germane right now because in May we are
opening Denver Union Station (DUS); while this may seem minor the
Downtown terminus will be changing for many routes. Bruce Abel stated
that the look ahead is something staff anticipates presenting going forward.
Bruce Abel explained that the new process will be that staff will seek public
comment, refine their recommendations, and come back to the Board in
October for approval of the final service changes.
Jessie Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling, stated that the
January 2014 service changes are relatively small. He noted there were
service reductions on Routes 54 and 89 as well as the discontinuance of
Route YL due to low ridership. Jessie Carter also stated that staff is
proposing to permanently close the 29th and Welton station. He said there
will be an increase of service on the HX, 105, and P and an extension of
Packet Pg. 40

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jeff Walker

6.D

Bruce Abel said that he wanted to reinforce one of the comments made by
Jessie Carter. He reiterated that part of the proposal is the recommendation
for the full time closure of the 29th and Welton station. He reminded the
Board that this was closed on a temporary basis to test on-time performance
for the corridor and system as a whole. Bruce Abel explained that staff has
seen the improvements that were modeled be realized with the station
closing which is why staff is recommending the full time closure. He stated
that at this time they are not recommending the removal of the
infrastructure because there are still several studies being conducted about
the mobility options in the corridor; a final decision about infrastructure will
not be made until the studies are completed. Jessie Carter stated that about
34% of all trips used to get delayed while trying to go up Welton; that has
been reduced to 17% with the closing of the station.
Director Daly noted that staff is proposing for the first eastbound Route CS
to operate five minutes earlier and for the Evergreen routes to depart eight
minutes earlier. He asked why there was a cost of $8,200 annually
estimated for the CS change but no cost impact anticipated for the
Evergreen change. He also asked why staff is proposing the change to the
Evergreen routes. Jessie Carter explained that on the CS the driver has to
pull out earlier; this means that the amount of time (5 minutes) would be
multiplies by 255 days per week to come up with the cost. He said that for
the Evergreen line we are able to pull the bus in earlier because it does not
cycle back so there is not extra time added overall. Jessie stated that
changing the Evergreen routes will allow for a better connection at the
Federal Center; many people have requested this change to make
connections to Tech Center routes and the W line.
Director Daly expressed that he is pleased that the Golden Call-n-Ride is
doing so well. He asked if the additional 12 hours of service would require
an additional vehicle. Jessie Carter said that was correct; this will be an
additional on-demand vehicle.
Director Folska asked for clarification between routine service adjustments
versus major service changes. Jessie Carter explained that routine service
adjustments are changes that are made in very small increments of time to
help improve on-time performance. Major service changes would include
things like changing frequency of a route from every 30 minutes to every 15
minutes, eliminating routes, etc.
Director Folska commented that there were several smaller bus routes and
Call-n-Rides that were funded by a 3rd party. She wondered how those
arrangements worked. She also wondered if the Englewood Art Shuttle was
Packet Pg. 41

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Route 66 service on Sundays and holidays. Jessie Carter stated that there
are a number of minor schedule adjustments as well.

6.D

Director Folska noted that staff is proposing the elimination of the flex route
for the Belleview Call-n-Ride yet it was stated that there were no cost
impacts associated with this proposal. She asked how there could not be a
savings when eliminating a route. Jessie Carter explained that on Call-nRide service we sometimes operate a flex route which mimics fixed route
service. He stated that instead of having one vehicle operate a flex route
and one provide on-demand service, both vehicles will now be offering ondemand service.
Director Menten commented that she only sees a cost savings on Route 54.
She asked if there were any other cost savings or only cost increases.
Jessie Carter stated she was correct; all other proposed changes would
result in a cost increase or no financial impact.
Director Menten asked for clarification on the statement for Route 323 that
says: “agreed upon with the City of Longmont in meetings held for Apr 13
service changes”. She noted that these were changed for January 2014
and the next service changes would be May 2014. She wonders where the
April timeframe is coming from. Jessie Carter stated that there were a
number of different on-time performance complaints related to delays from
the rail-road crossing. He said a staff member attended a meeting with the
City of Longmont to discuss the re-route during the April 2013 service
changes.
Director Bagley stated that he is very supportive of the closure of the 29th
and Welton station, especially if it will improve our on-time performance. He
noted the closure has already done that by reducing our delays form 34% to
17%. He asked if the four-car trains go all the way down Welton. Jessie
Carter stated that they do not.
Chair Anderson shared that she has heard from several people who have told
her the change from Market Street Station to DUS is going to add 15
minutes to their travel time. She is wondering where that information is
coming from. Bruce Abel believes that 15 minutes is their estimate. He said
with the terminus of bus lines at DUS instead of Market Street there will be
some additional travel time on either the Mall Shuttle or 18th/19th Circulator.
Packet Pg. 42

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

different from the other 3rd party services. Bruce Abel explained that for a
number of Call-n-Rides, RTD worked with municipal partners; these partners
sought Congestion Mitigation and Air Quality Improvement (CMAQ) grants
to implement the service. He said at the end of the three year
demonstration period RTD will evaluate the service to see if we will continue
it. He noted that many Call-n-Rides have been started this way. Bruce Abel
stated that the Englewood Art Shuttle was started this way as well. It
performed well so RTD put it into the budget and the City of Englewood
subsidized the Shuttle so it is a free service.

6.D

Director Lasater said that he has heard repeated complaints about buses on
Route 66. Arapahoe Road is nothing but bumper to bumper in the afternoon
and the buses do not get to stops according to the schedule because the
frequency of service is the same throughout the day. Jessie Carter stated
that at peak times we offer a lot more running time so it takes more
vehicles; however, Arapahoe Road is a special case because traffic on this
road is terrible. He said that we have made schedule adjustments and ontime performance has improved but there is a need for further adjustments.
He said that staff is continuing to monitor this route.
Director Hoy stated that both Route 0 and 105 service adjustments have
anticipated costs of $62,000 annualized. He asked for further information
about these costs because it seemed like more than a routine service
adjustment. Jessie Carter stated that these are both local routes and while
both have an increase of 6 operating hours per weekday; it will put an
additional vehicle on Route 0 and increase the number of trip on Route 105.
Bruce Abel explained that in order to maintain the current schedule an
additional bus was needed for Route 0 while the changes to Route 105 will
allow us to improve service frequencies during the day.
Director Rivera-Malpiede thanked staff for their diligent work on Route 52.
A new senior high rise was built at the corner of 46th and Zuni and staff
worked with Mr. Randall and the community to get this area serviced. She
believes this is a perfect example of RTD working with the community to
meet our constituents’ needs.
Director Solano asked for further information on the decision to combine the
Thornton/Northglenn Call-n-Ride and why there was no anticipated cost
impact. Bruce Abel explained that this was merely a change in operations.
He said that often people would transfer from one Call-n-Ride to the other
and this change will allow them to travel without a transfer. He stated that
there is no cost because instead of having one vehicle serve each route
there will not be two vehicles serving the combined routes. Director Solano
expressed his appreciation for the change.
Director Sisk noted that staff was proposing to push back the last evening
departure for Route AB. He said that there are a number of flights that get
in at 11:45 p.m. and those travelers would not be able to catch the last bus
still. He requested that staff look at moving the last trip back another 10
minutes to accommodate these flight times. Jessie Carter stated that his
team would look at that.
Packet Pg. 43

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Bruce Abel noted that most of the employment downtown is at the Civic
Center end; however, as we have started developing DUS this is
transitioning.

6.D

Director Walker believes the changes to Route 0 will really be appreciated
especially with all the development in Littleton and Englewood and upcoming
construction on Broadway.

Committee Chair Tobiassen asked how many spare buses we have in the
fleet. Bruce Abel stated that we have a 20% spare ratio which is in
compliance with FTA guidelines.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked what the increase in travel time from
Civic Center to Market Street Station was with the signal change. Jessie
Carter stated that the trip increased by 3 minutes.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if there was any update on the proposed
changes to Route 209. Jessie Carter explained that we were going to make
a change in August due to the addition of a signal; however, the signal will
not be installed to next year so the change has been postponed.

• 2013 Paratransit Customer Satisfaction Results - Executive Summary
Dennis Yaklich, Manager of Market Research, stated that there was an
Executive Summary of the 2013 Paratransit Customer Satisfaction Survey
included in the September 10, 2013 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Packet. He said earlier in 2013, 50% of the active Paratransit
User Database was invited to take part in a customer satisfaction survey.
He noted that the response was great with 21% of customers invited
completing the survey. Customers could respond by mail in a pre-paid
envelop, online, or over the phone. He noted that each format was also
available in Spanish.
Dennis Yaklich explained that the overall satisfaction ratings were 4.2 for
Access-a-Ride and 4.1 for Access-a-Cab based on a 5 point scale. He said
that both of these ratings are comparable to the most recent fixed route and
light rail customer satisfaction surveys.
Director Folska stated that there seems to be some incongruity with the
results if the overall satisfaction for Access-a-Ride was higher but later on in
the report it was noted that Access-a-Cab was rated more favorably. Dennis
Yaklich explained that participants were asked about their overall
satisfaction with their most recent trip as well as the service in the past six
Packet Pg. 44

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Menten asked how roundabouts affect RTD’s service and buses.
Jessie Carter stated that roundabouts replace the need to add a signal in
that area. He explained that a signal will cost a certain amount of time, the
roundabout is a quicker progression. Jessie Carter noted that design can
also have an impact as some are planned to accommodate large vehicles
while others are not. Overall, Jessie Carter thinks they are an improvement.

6.D

months; however, they were also asked to evaluate specific areas like seat
comfort, lift satisfaction, how safe they felt, driver’s knowledge of routes,
etc. He said in some of those areas Access-a-Cab was rated higher.

Director Folska stated that her understanding is that the Access-a-Cab
drivers do not complete the Paratransit training that is given to RTD’s
drivers/contractors. Bruce Abel said that the taxi drivers go through a
different training but we do not have control over the taxi driver training.
Director Folska shared that the thing that stood out to her is that the
majority of people who are using our Paratransit services are over 65 and
female; however, she believes the results show that this demographic
prefers Access-a-Cab. Dennis Yaklich stated that 56% of those using
Access-a-Ride and 69% of those using Access-a-Cab are 65 or older.
Approximately 67% of Access-a-Ride users are female and that number
climbs to 80% for Access-a-Cab. He said that he has not done an
intersection of age and gender so he cannot say for certain that 65+
females seem to prefer Access-a-Cab.
Director Folska asked if we prefer people to take Access-a-Cab versus
Access-a-Ride for our budget purposes. Bruce Abel stated that it is more
cost effective for people to use Access-a-Cab but that RTD does not have a
preference.
Committee chair Tobiassen asked if the survey data was available online.
Dennis Yaklich said that the reports are not posted but are available upon
request. He noted that we do not give out the raw data but there is a much
longer report. He stated that he would send it to Committee Chair
Tobiassen.
Committee Chair Tobiassen congratulated Larry Buter, Manager of
Paratransit Services, on the great results from the survey. He shared that
when he first became a Board member it was not that way.

• Special Services 2nd Quarter 2013 Report
Bruce Abel introduced Brian Matthews, Manager of Special Services. He
stated that the report was included in the September 10, 2013 Operations
and Customer Service Agenda Packet and Brain Matthews could answer any
questions.

Packet Pg. 45

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Folska asked for a breakdown of people requiring a lift between
Access-a-Ride and Access-a-Cab. Dennis Yaklich stated that 80% of riders
on Access-a-Ride needed a lift or used a mobility device versus 25% on
Access-a-Cab.

6.D

Director Bagley asked for a brief narrative of how the Belleview Call-n-Ride is
doing. He was excited to see that it was performing better and hopes that
can continue. Director Bagley believes this service is a great benefit to
Unincorporated Arapahoe County. Brian Matthews stated that the boardings
are much better. He thinks that adjustments made to the service as well as
efforts to educate the public have really been helping the service.

Director Hoy asked for further information on the Federal Heights Call-nRide. He stated that boardings appear to be going down so he was
wondering if staff was happy with this services performance or if they had
any plans to improve ridership. Brian Matthews stated that he was not
pleased with the performance. He said that he is working with marketing to
do another campaign in the area. Brian Matthews explained that this Call-nRide is grant funded but just has not produced. Bruce Abel noted that it is
not unusual in summer months for ridership to trend downward.
Director Bagley noted that the Longmont Call-n-Ride is the only service that
had a 50% decrease in boardings per weekday in June. Brian Matthews
explained that typically Call-n-Rides have a decrease in June because of the
students. He said there are a lot of students in Longmont that use the
service so that is what is happening in this situation.
Director Solano asked why each special service has different dates
associated with it. Brian Matthews explained that the dates listed are the
dates each service started.
Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that in the past we have discussed
cutting the Parker Call-n-Ride but now the boardings per hour seem to be
increasing. He asked if we are doing anything to improve ridership. Brian
Matthews stated that we are doing marketing for the service and that the
Town of Parker sponsors free service during the summer.

• Contracted Fixed-Route Quarterly Report – 2nd Quarter 2013
Bruce Abel introduced Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted
Services. He stated that the report was available in the September 10,
2013 Operations and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet and
Carolyn Conover could answer any questions.
Director Folska asked for additional information about the training the
operators complete with regard to working with passengers with various
Packet Pg. 46

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Daly noted that in looking at the Parker Call-n-Ride the average is
listed at 2.8 boarding per hour yet all the monthly numbers are much higher.
He asked how the average could be 2.8. Brian Matthews explained that the
average listed was for 2012 so that there was a point of reference.

6.D

Committee Chair Tobiassen commented that the wheelchair securement area
has been a hot button for the last few months. He asked for a brief status
update as to what refresher training had been completed so far. He also
asked if there is any way to measure success of the training. Bruce Abel
stated that the training began this week. He explained that every contract
must have each operator in for a one hour per month safety meeting; the
refresher training will take place during this month’s safety meetings; the
internal training is kicking in this month as well. Bruce Abel anticipates that
all the refresher training should be completed by the end of the month. He
said that staff has been tracking complaints before and after; they have also
identified routes with the highest number of complaints so they plan to
focus on these routes in the beginning.
Director Daly expressed that he is impressed with all of the performance
statistics except on-time performance. He noted that three of the private
contractors were in red. He stated that this is an ongoing issue. Directly
Daly wonders why this is an issue specific to private contractors and not
RTD. Bruce Abel stated that this has been an issue since the January 2012
Service Cuts. He explained that one of the anticipated impacts was
degraded on-time performance as more people are riding on fewer services.
He said that staff has been focusing our resources on individual routes.
Bruce Abel noted that in the first quarter even RTD was in red. He
reiterated that this is something staff is really focusing on and they are
seeing improvements even if the goal has not yet been met.

• Access-a-Ride 2nd Quarter Report
Bruce Abel introduced Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services. He
stated that the report was available in the September 10, 2013 Operations
and Customer Service Committee Agenda Packet and that Larry Buter could
answer any questions.
There were no questions regarding the Access-a-Ride 2nd Quarter Report.

• 2nd Quarter 2013 Security Statistics & Fare Inspection Summary
Packet Pg. 47

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

kinds of disabilities. Carolyn Conover stated that our contracts require each
operator to go through at least 8 hours of elderly and disabled training in
addition to on-the-road training. She explained that RTD is also embarking
on an ADA refresher training that all contractors and RTD drivers will be
required to complete; in addition to the refresher training, Carolyn Conover
said that her team is working with marketing on a campaign to educate our
passengers. Bruce Abel indicated that there would be a broader discussion
of the ADA refresher training as well as the outcomes at next month’s
Committee meeting.

6.D

Director Lasater shared that he has ridden the light rail quite a bit and often
he does not see any enforcement officers; if he does see an officer they are
riding the train but not checking any fares. He wonders if just their presence
wards off those who are trying to ride for free or if they really should be
checking for tickets. Chief Tarbert said that there are a couple reasons that
an office might be on a train but not conducting fare enforcement. He
explained that if a passenger or other officer needs assistance he may be on
the train to get to that person. The other reason would be that the handheld
fare device is not operating at that time. David Genova shared that a
uniform presence is a great deterrent in terms of people not having fare. He
stated that it is the expectation that when an officer is on the train they are
checking fare unless they are involved in some other type of activity.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked if a 911 call was initiated when someone
hits the emergency call button. Chief Tarbert stated that 911 is called
immediately and all cameras on the platform are turned to that location; our
command center may also contact the fire department, EMT and our Transit
Officers as needed.
Director Folska asked where the emergency phones are located. She also
asked if it would be possible to put a ping on the phones. Chief Tarbert
stated that every platform has an emergency phone. David Genova stated
that also there is a phone at every elevator entrance and within the elevator
itself. He said that staff has investigated the ping but has not seen anything
in the industry that has this functionality right now.

• Smart Card Project Status Update
Bruce Abel introduced Judy McMurphy, Project Manager. Judy McMurphy
highlighted that her team has trained 82 people on the new handheld Smart
Card media readers, 95% of whom were fare inspectors. She stated that
now we are able to start gathering metrics on the cards. Judy McMurphy
shared that over the past week there has been a huge increase in the
number of cards that are being scanned by the fare inspectors.
Judy McMurphy reminded the Board that there were a number of items from
Phase I that needed refinement and review with the vendor. She said that
her team has begun the process of working with Xerox to create a timeline
Packet Pg. 48

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

David Genova, Assistant General Manager of Safety, stated that the report
was available in the September 10, 2013 Operations and Customer Service
Committee Agenda Packet. He said that there were no exceptions observed
and that that he and Chief Tarbert could answer any questions.

6.D

Director Menten noted the installation of two additional Ticket Vending
Machines (TVMs). She asked for the cost of each TVM. Judy McMurphy
said that she did not have the figure off hand but would get the information.
She explained that currently RTD does have spare TVMs and those are the
TVMs that will be installed. Director Menten expressed concern that on the
light rail there may be validators not working but since there is not
interaction with the driver it might not get communicated to RTD. She is
worried that people may be classified as habitual fare evaders when really
the problem is with the validators. Bruce Abel explained that staff has been
working with Xerox to address the software issues that were causing the
validators to fail. He said that we will not put people into the system as
being an offender until we are 100% sure that everything is functioning as it
should.
Director Solano asked what the difference was between a v13 and v15
Handheld Smart Media Readers (HSMR). Bruce Abel stated that is a
reference to the version of software the HSMR is running.
Director Folska shared that everyone in her District is so excited about the
Smart Cards. She asked when Phase II will be implemented and what it
entails. Bruce Abel indicated that due to the efforts to focus on clean-up
and Q3/Q4 Eco and CollegePass renewals, Phase II will be implemented
sometime in Q3/Q4 of 2014. He stated that this will include RTD’s stored
value, monthly pass, and other pre-paid fare media.

• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update
Bruce Able introduced Eric Farrington, Project Manager. Eric Farrington
shared that all bus installations were completed on August 22 so staff beat
the August deadline. He said another highlight was that on Monday the
automatic stop announcements were started on 28 buses in Boulder (Bond,
Dash, Jump and Skip).
Director Hoy asked if the announcements were working properly. He also
asked when they would be implemented on the remainder of the fleet. Eric
Farrington said there was an issue on the first day as some of the files were
uploaded with an incorrect setting. He stated that all announcements are
working today. Eric said that the program will be launched on the remainder
Packet Pg. 49

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

by which the new improvements will be made to the web portal as well as
reporting and other functionalities. Judy McMurphy shared that to date
Xerox has replaced 20% of the faulty stanchions and should be done within
the next 8-10 weeks.

6.D

of the fleet on September 23. He that by testing the program on 28 buses
staff is able to work out any issues so there will be no problem with the
remainder of the fleet.
Committee Chair Tobiassen asked when the 450 MHz radios would be
turned off. Eric Farrington stated those were turned off on August 21st and
staff was decommissioning the tower sites this week.

Director Walker reminded the Board that the CDOT Annual Dinner will be on
Wednesday September 18th, 2013 at 6:00 p.m. He noted that the location has
changed to Brio Tuscan Grill.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 15, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:54 p.m. to the Financial
Administration and Audit Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 50

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

D. Other Matters

6.E

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit
Tuesday, September 10, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Walker called the meeting to order at 7:01 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Chair of the Board
Present

Arrived
7:01 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

6:54 PM

Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Present
Absent

7:01 PM

Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy

Director, District E
Director, District J

Present
Present

6:54 PM
6:54 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District A
Vice Chair
Director, District I

Present
Present
Absent

6:54 PM
7:01 PM

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:01 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede

Director, District C

Absent

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:01 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

7:00 PM
6:54 PM
Packet Pg. 51

6.E

Chair

Present

6:56 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Shirley Bennett, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter,
Rick Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Eric Farrington, David Genova, Steve
Gieske, Mike Gil, George Hovey, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Judy McMurphy, Doug
MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Brenden Morgan, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Greg Smith, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert,
Lisa Trujillo, Phil Washington, Dennis Yaklich

Others Present:

Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Lee Johnson, Stu Livensparger,
Cynthia Menge, Susan Monard, Ron Murphy, Laura Rinker, Marta
Sipeki, Larry Tenenholz, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• Authorization of RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”),
attached.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move
this item to the full Board at the
September 17, 2013 Board meeting.
Director Lasater seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Howerter advised the Board that he has reviewed the
2013 Investment Policy and that there are no changes to the
Policy that was approved last year. Mr. Howerter asked if
there were any questions.
Director Lasater asked Mr. Howerter if he knew what
percentage RTD is paying on our bond ratings. Director
Lasater mentioned that he assumed the interest percentage on
Bonds would be negotiable, similar to the interest rates which
homeowners pay on their home loans. He expounded that a
few years ago, a homeowner might think that a 10% interest
rate was a good interest rate; however, in today’s market,
good interest rates are averaging 3-4% and homeowners are
refinancing to get the lower interest rate.
Terry Howerter shared that RTD has had several bond issues
out, two on the base side for the TREX project and several for
FasTracks. RTD performed a refinance at 1.62% on $224
million dollars. RTD had another instance where we were able
Packet Pg. 52

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Jeff Walker

6.E

to refinance at 2.6%. Our debt rate does not fluctuate but is
a fix rate debt.

Director Sisk asked Mr. Howerter if RTD has ever had the
occasion where we have had to sell bonds because they’ve
fallen below the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) rating. Mr.
Howerter responded that RTD has not had that need or
experience; however, RTD does have the option to do so
should we determine that need prudent in the future.
Director Sisk inquired if we had any investments with any
firms or agencies that have gone through legal protection such
as bankruptcy. Mr. Howerter reported that this has never
happened during his tenure with RTD. He said that when you
look at policy, liquidity, rate, etc., RTD investments are very
safe.
Committee Chair Walker asked if any changes are anticipated
in our investment strategy in the next few years.
Brenden Morgan responded that RTD’s investment portfolio is
limited to the constraints of the State of Colorado Investment
Rules and Regulations. He said that currently our Investment
Policy is a little more on the conservative side of what the
State would allow us to do. Mr. Morgan stated that no
changes are anticipated at this point in time, but that RTD
always keeps an eye open for new investment opportunities.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Gary Lasater, Vice Chair
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Menten, Sisk,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Barbara Deadwyler, Judy Lubow, Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Committee Chair Walker declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• Second Quarter 2013 Performance Report
Terry Howerter stated that the Second Quarter 2013 Performance Report is
included in the September 10, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
Packet Pg. 53

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Brenden Morgan agreed that RTD currently has very good
rates. Most of RTD’s current
debt is below 3.5%at this time.

6.E

Jannette Scarpino noted that she wanted to piggyback on what Mr.
Howerter had advised on the initial report mailing; the footnotes had not
been updated in the original performance report. She stated that the Board
Report is correct, but the original report that was mailed out had been
missing the footnotes and asked that this be noted as an addendum to the
original report.
Ms. Scarpino advised that she reports on our Key Performance Indicators
(KPI) on a year-to-date basis, which shows the six months ended June 30.
The Board Report is a summary of the footnotes in the KPI report where
explanations are provided for any variances to goal. RTD exception areas
showed improvement in Quarter 2. Facility Maintenance complaints are
trending down from Quarter 1 and RTD’s On-Time performance improved
over 2012. Ms. Scarpino noted that the West Line is having an impact on
some of our response times in the Telephone Information Center (TIC). The
TIC call-wait time was up to 94 seconds. Final resolution on customer
complaints took one half day longer, but staff is taking steps to return to the
goals. She noted that many of the associated Assistant General Managers
were present to answer any questions. Ms. Scarpino stated that the next
report will be for Quarter 3, ending September 30, where staff hopes to be
able to show a return to goal and see continued improvement.
General Manager Washington mentioned that gas prices are beginning to
spike. He reminded the Board that it there had been a conversation about
gas prices a couple of Tuesdays ago. Staff has seen a spike since then;
right now diesel is at about $110/barrel. General Manager Washington said
that RTD is not looking to lock anytime soon for 2014 but staff will continue
to monitor the prices
Director Lasater stated that he has some concerns, specifically under section
3.1 where RTD shows that there has been a continual issue in on-time
performance with our contractors, First Transit-Commerce City and Veolia;
they underperformed in 2011, 2012 and now in 2013.
Director Lasater mentioned that within the State of Colorado, if a school is
in what is considered a turnaround period, the school has three years to
turnaround to get back to an average expectation. Veolia and First TransitCommerce City have not met their goal. The report indicates that the
numbers are better in 2013 over 2012, but they still are not meeting goals.
Packet Pg. 54

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Committee Agenda Packet. He stated that last Friday, an additional mailing
was sent with the same report but that the report had some very minor
changes. Mr. Howerter commented that in their departments learning of
Minutes Tracks, they had inadvertently picked up the wrong file. Mr.
Howerter then asked Jannette Scarpino to walk everyone through the
performance report.

6.E

Both First Transit and Veolia are operating 2 ½ to 3% below RTD’s
minimum established goals.

Director Lasater inquired if there have there been any discussions about a
change of vendor or vendors. He noted that First Transit-Denver is also
showing subpar standards. Director Lasater stated that he is curious as to if
anyone else considers this continued subpar performance disturbing; we are
not meeting goal with three of our vendors.
Mr. Howerter commented that the Financial Administration and Audit
Committee has not had conversations about redoing contracts based on
recent vendor performance. He said it is something that can be discussed
with the Board. Mr. Howerter stated that one thing that may relate to the
contractor underperformance was perhaps the age of the fleet 7.5 to 8
years.
General Manager Washington asked Mr. Bruce Abel to speak to this item.
General Manager Washington stated that there have been staff discussions
in the past and that RTD does look to campaign various issues if goals are
not being met. There are some provisions within the various contracts for
liquated damages and those types of things.
Bruce Abel first thanked Director Lasater for his comments and noted that
he understands Director Lasater’s concerns. Mr. Abel stated that there are a
few things to keep in mind. He reminded the Board that in 2012, when we
made our serious service reductions, staff communicated to the Board at
that time that it was anticipated that there would be a serious impact in ontime performance. The bottom line is, you can’t carry the same number of
people on fewer routes and not slow down performance. He stated that
staff predicted degradation in performance during 2012, and we have seen
that prediction occur right down the line.
Mr. Abel stated that he would not look to recommend vendor replacement
with an on-time performance of 87.7% when the goal is 88%. He said it
also should be noted that 88% is a very aggressive goal as the number
relates to communities of similar size. For instance, in Dallas, the on-time
goal is 80%. When San Francisco reached an on-time rate of 68%, they
celebrated. General Manager Washington added that when San Francisco
Packet Pg. 55

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Further, Director Lasater stated that traditionally in business, if you have
employees that perform below standard, they are released, especially after a
three-year timeline. He commented that as an RTD Board newcomer, he is
unsure of RTD policy on contractor performance, but Director Lasater
reiterated that he personally finds this trend highly disturbing. He stated
that three years of subpar performance seems inappropriate.

6.E

reached that 68% goal, their General Manager received a bonus. Mr. Abel
reiterated that RTD is seeing what was predicted.
Director Daly commented that he agrees that Director Lasater’s observation
of contractor on-time performance is valid. Director Daly pointed out that
RTD has consistently achieved goal while the contractors have consistently
not achieved goal. Director Daly stated that this is not a new discovery; he
remembered the Board having this same conversation 5 years ago.

Bruce Abel responded that RTD dos not contract out our regional service or
services that are operated by articulated vehicles. He said that in
determining service packages, staff looks at which routes make the most
sense for RTD to contract out. Staff determines where our major deadhead
expenses are, given our facility location and location of the routes. Mr. Abel
stated that packages are created that generate the most savings for RTD.
Director Walker stated that he guessed RTD has better routes/roads to get
around on.
Mr. Abel stated that he wouldn’t say contractor routes are more or less easy
than RTD routes.
Director Menten asked why RTD doesn’t contract out our articulated routes.
Mr. Abel replied that RTD does not contract out the articulated routes in an
attempt to maximize our cost savings; the more infrastructures and
maintenance that we need to pass along to our contractors will impact
overall costs.
Director Lasater commented for informational purposes that our Telephone
Information Center call wait time has increased primarily due to our West
Line coming online, which is understandable. Director Lasater posed the
question if the addition of one Line opening is causing the increase in
response time, what is 4 Lines operating going to do. Certainly we must
anticipate an increase of calls and we may need to look at how we prepare
to support the anticipated call increases, in terms of staff and space
requirements.
General Manager Washington reported that staff is already talking about
these operational concerns. General Manager Washington stated that RTD
have an Activation Team for each line we open. The Activation Team
begins review of these types of logistics about two years prior to any
change implementation or any opening. Public Information and TIC are part
Packet Pg. 56

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

Director Walker had a questioned and wondered if RTD contractors operate
in different regions.

6.E

of the Activation Team. The team work to anticipate any upticks such as
the West Line and Denver Union Station. General Manager Washington
confirmed that this action is part of RTD’s activation conversion and that
RTD fully expect fluctuations in our call times. He said we don’t want to
ramp up just to ramp back down, but staff is monitoring call center needs
and will respond as appropriate.

Terry Howerter stated that the July 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report is
contained within the September 10, 2013 Financial Administration and Audit
Committee Agenda Packet. He asked Doug MacLeod to step through the
presentation and the tax report.
Doug MacLeod pointed out that everything on the dash board is in green,
which is good. Sales tax estimates are at 8% which is above last July and
is our best month YTD. He noted that year-to-date RTD is at 3.4% over last
year, which is over $ 8.9 million. These are very strong results. He said
that ridership is also up due to our West Line.
Director Bagley mentioned that he had been taking with Jannette Scarpino
and he wanted to share with the Board that the University of Colorado Leeds
Group is coming in September or October.

D. Other Matters
General Manager Washington had a quick announcement. RTD had applied for a
federal grant for North Metro under the TIGER program. Those awards were just
announced and RTD did not receive a TIGER grant. The application we submitted
was for $4 million. There will be additional opportunities and we will apply again.

E. Next Meeting Date - October 15, 2013
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Walker adjourned the meeting at 7:33 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 57

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 10, 2013 5:30 PM (Committee Reports)

• July 2013 Monthly Financial Status Report

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

6.F

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
September 12, 2013 at 12:00 PM

I.

Executive Committee Agenda
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 12:05 p.m.
Committee Members Present:

Chair Anderson, 1st vice-chair Bagley, Secretary Daly
and Treasurer Walker.
Director Hoy arrived late.

General Manager Washington, Paula Perdue

Staff Present:

II.

September Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Anderson reviewed the agenda. She asked if there would be any updates by the
Chair of the General Manager Oversight & Performance Management Committee. Director
Bagley indicated that he plans to report out that the next GM Survey Monkey will start on
October 14th. Board members will have 2 weeks to complete. He asked Paula Perdue to
provide possible meeting dates for the Committee to begin looking at the General
Manager’s annual performance evaluation which will need to be approved by the full Board
in December.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the
September Board Meeting Agenda.
Director Daly seconded the motion.

Discussion:

General Manager Washington shared that some
of the concerns expressed by Board members on
the Park Creek District and Forest City Stapleton

Packet Pg. 58

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

6.F

General Manager Washington also shared that
there are three items that the US 36
stakeholders would like to see included in the
action item for the final scope elements for US
36 Bus Rapid Transit: bike cages, parking
structure at Church Ranch and inclusion of
maintenance facility. The reason staff is
pushing back on the bike cage is because this is
considered an enhancement or betterment
compared to what we consider standard across
the region. He met with the stakeholders and
agreed to include some language in the report.
The revised language in the Board report now
reads “The US 36 stakeholders have requested
RTD’s support to upgrade bike parking at the
stations in the form of bike shelters. Per the
final report from the First and Final Mile Study
conducted by the stakeholder group, 36
Commuting Solutions will take the lead with the
stakeholders on a grant writing and fundraising
campaign for the Bus then Bike facilities. It is
RTD’s intent to cooperate with the stakeholders
as they pursue such funding for both capital and
operations and maintenance of these upgraded
facilities.”

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed five in favor and zero against
to move the September Board agenda to the
September 17 Board meeting.
Chair Anderson declared the motion passed.

Packet Pg. 59

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

IGA had to do with the $5.6M cost. The issue
is what happens if we go over that amount.
General Manager Washington stated that staff
feels confident we have sufficient contingency
to cover the unexpected. There is some
environmental mitigation work that has been
done. His team will call the Board members to
explain.

6.F



Unanimous Consent
A.

Authorization of RTD Investment Policy

It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.

Recommended Action
B.
Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental
Agreement Amendment
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third
amendment of an existing Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek
Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the funding for the
design, construction, and management of the infrastructure that will support the
Central Park PnR along the East Rail Line. It is also recommended that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute the necessary
documents to convey a certain amount of RTD property for dedication as City and
County of Denver ROW. The cost maximum for RTD’s share of the infrastructure
improvements has been determined to be $5,564,325. Funding for this IGA is
included in the 2013 Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle project
budgets.
C.

Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36 Bus Rapid Transit

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the table below) to
establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s desire and intent to
implement a “World Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the US 36 Corridor. RTD
Staff believe that the implementation of these final scope elements will effectively
complete a model BRT in the US 36 Corridor. Approval of this action will allow
RTD to commit to the completion of the US 36 BRT project through implementation
of defined scope items, as RTD does on every other project in the FasTracks
program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Completion
Item
Station Amenities

Description
Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,

Opening
Day

Post Opening
Day

X

Packet Pg. 60

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)



6.F

bike racks/lockers, etc.
Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.

Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel
time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)
Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.
Relocation of the Church Ranch
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on
each side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.

Passenger
Communications
improvements
BRT Vehicle Fleet
Church Ranch
Platforms
Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield parkn-Ride

X

X

X

X*
X

X

X

*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will
be dependent on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service
requirements.

III.

Other Matters






Director Bagley shared some information with General Manager Washington from
his experience in London, England related to how they use smart card technology
and what happens to the left over funds.
Director Bagley apologized for missing the APTA Annual conference where General
Manager Washington will receive the award as outstanding General Manager for the
year. He will be attending a memorial service for his father in Connecticut.
General Manager Washington shared that October 8th will be an important date for
the Board where we will have an Executive Session to discuss some of the key

Packet Pg. 61

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

Station Security
Upgrades





IV.

elements from the North Metro proposal. Marla Lien will also review executive
session requirements/code of behavior.
General Manager announced that also on October 8th, the City and County of
Denver will host a 50-year capsule event. Mayor Hancock will attend and this date
is the only date that worked for his schedule. Chair Anderson asked what was
being included in the time capsule and if RTD would have anything. General
Manager Washington stated he would find out.
Director Daly noted that the City of Aurora has published their 2014 budget and he
sees where approximately $8M may be allocated to transit. General Manager
Washington indicated he is not sure where this money is being allocated but he is
aware of a number of things that the City of Aurora is looking at.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:35 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 62

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Sep 12, 2013 12:00 PM (Committee Reports)

6.F

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District

8.A

Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Natalie Menten, District M
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
August 20, 2013 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:33 p.m.

II.

Pledge of Allegiance
Chair Anderson requested everyone to stand to say the pledge of allegiance.

III.

Roll Call - Determination of Quorum
Paula Perdue called roll. There were 10 Board members present at roll call and 5 absent.
Director James arrived late and Directors Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present
5:28 PM
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Absent
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District N
Director, District B

Absent
Present

5:32 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

5:31 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

5:29 PM

Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present

5:55 PM
5:33 PM

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Present
Absent

5:33 PM

Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Chuck Sisk

Director, District C
Director, District O

Present
Absent

5:27 PM

Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District K
Director, District F

Present
Present

5:32 PM
5:31 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:26 PM

Packet Pg. 63

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

Board of Directors

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel, Susan Altes, Lacy Bell, Larry Buter, Jesse Carter, Rick Clarke, Carolyn
Conover, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Steve Gieske, Mike Gil, Lou Ha, Terry
Howerter, Robbie Hunter, Brian Iacono, Austin Jenkins, Jim Kelley, Mitch Kuharski, Erin
Klaas, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tara Miller, Kirk Nickerson, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Dean Shaklee, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Lisa Trujillo, Phil
Washington
OTHERS PRESENT
Marcellinus Andrew, Louis Apolinar, Belita Bennett, Brady Bratcher, Ed Bush, Scot
Cuthbertson, Doug Gragg, Stan Gronek, Sherman Hamilton, Douglas Howey, Don Hunt,
Ricky Martinez, Jeff Miller, Mike Newman, John Prosser, Kenny Shepard, Chris Taylor, Joe
Triplett, Jim Toweill, Gary Van Dorn, Monte Whaley

IV.

Retiree Awards
There were no retirees present for this meeting. Chair Anderson recognized Lloyd Nunley,
certified FM Mechanic with 25 years of experience. The Board thanked him for a job well
done.

V.

Public Participation
Chair Anderson welcomed Don Hunt, Executive Director for CDOT.
Don Hunt stated that on behalf of Governor Hickenlooper administration, he wanted to
express his appreciation to RTD for a partnership unmatched. He shared that RTD has
generated a level of excitement in transit and transportation that he believes has kept his
CDOT engineers engaged and founded.
Don Hunt shared that about a year ago when RTD was considering a sales tax, he had
talked with General Manager Washington about problems on the highway side too and if
they can do a joint effort. The timing proved not to be right for this venture. As he
traveled the state, he received feedback from others that they wanted to be included in
the efforts also. He has received the support from Governor Hickenlooper to educate and
stomp the weeds to see what kind of traction this idea might get. While there are many
challenges, MPACT 64 seems to be taking hold and has received support from various
groups like the Metro Mayors Caucus, and other large economic development in the state.
The Colorado Transportation Coalition did a statewide telephone survey and plan to do
another one in the fall. RTD enjoyed a positive approval rate of 70%. When they looked
at ways to fund transportation, people were highly opposed to a gasoline tax. They also
wanted something that would be inclusive in one package and not keep going out to the
taxpayers for a sales tax hike. The proposed sales tax with MPACT 64 would amount to
an additional penny and would sunset. It would be specific to a set of projects. Don Hunt

Packet Pg. 64

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A

provided information on how this tax would breakdown or be distributed. General
Manager Washington will follow-up with the Board on this distribution.
Don Hunt emphasized there are still a lot of things to be worked out and they have a long
way to go. He believes that MPACT 64 will be an initiative for the 2014 ballot.
Questions from Board Members:
Director Hoy requested a chart with the various breakdowns that are part of the MPACT
64.
Director Lubow asked two questions pertaining to CDOT:
1. She noted that there has been discussion about the idea of a rail north to
Loveland and Fort Collins. She asked if he could speak to that and how this
tax would affect the future of that train.
Don Hunt responded they are doing a study now looking at options for the
state to connect with the RTD System. There are several options out there
(North line to Loveland/Fort Collins, South line to Colorado Springs, and
West line into the mountains) but over the next 12 months, CDOT needs to
pick one and stick to it. No decision has currently been made at this point.
2. Director Lubow also commented about the HOV-3 discussion for US 36.
She is the Director who is receiving correspondence from lots of irate
customers. How did CDOT choose to communicate this issue and what can
they do to better communicate to their constituents? Don Hunt responded
his team had made the hard decision for a managed line to carry BRT
service. They had looked at the obstacles to be able to deliver this service.
They talked to and evaluated service triggers and inevitably made the
decision to go to HOV-3. The transportation Commissioners and HPTE were
in agreement that we need to look at HOV-3. This decision also brings with
it some financial benefits as well.
Director Solano commented on the I-70 overpass realignment and some of the other
construction jobs on the table, including RTD projects. He asked how this interface will
occur. Don Hunt responded there are a lot of schedules and work that each of these
organizations are doing. However, this is a coordinated effort and at the right points, all of
this will come together.
Director Solano inquired about the marijuana tax and if that could replace fuel tax. Don
Hunt responded that this would be a special tax that goes to support the regulation of the
product and the general sales tax would go into the state general fund. CDOT does not
receive any funding from the general fund.

Packet Pg. 65

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A

8.A

Director Folska inquired what penalties would be in place for violation of the HOV lanes.
Don Hunt stated they have not set any specific fines. Riders will have to use transponders
visible to the police, etc. and there will need to be controls.
Director Rivera-Malpiede commented she is interested in Transportation Demand
Management and asked if CDOT was focusing on the whole thing. Don Hunt responded
they look at a lot of things that included bicycle trails, US 36 HOV, and other pedestrian
avenues. It is CDOT’s culture to want to do projects. He has started a new division of
transportation system and operations. Their focus is to look for cost effective ways to get
more out of the system. As an example, they have started increasing information to
travelers using the I-70 corridor in the mountains. They provide information on peak
hours, traffic delays, best time to avoid traffic, etc. They have knocked down about 45
minutes on the delay coming from the mountains through this education process. There is
a CDOT global app that travelers can use as well.
Director Walker asked if the projects selected were all or nothing. Don Hunt responded
CDOT has a project list and will have a “B” list. RTD will need to have a project list as
well. Director Walker asked if there will be a theme. Dome Hunt responded the theme is
economic development and safety particularly rural road safety. There will be some
consideration for bicycle trails and pedestrian improvements. The Governor wants a clear
amount that will be dedicated to these efforts.
Chair Anderson thanked Don Hunt for speaking to the Board and enlightening them on
MPACT 64. We appreciate the great partnership with CDOT and look forward to working
with them on this issue.
Chair Anderson then opened the meeting up for public participation.
Jim Toweill, RMR Ironworkers, spoke about the current status of the RMR projects. He
shared there is another violation coming from the DUS project that shows this is a clear
consistent practice on RMR’s side. They have paid restitution each year since 2010 and
this indicates this is their business model.

VI.

Committee Reports
Planning & Development Committee – Chaired by Director James
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Hoy
Civil Rights Committee – Chaired by Director Rivera-Malpiede/Director Deadwyler

Packet Pg. 66

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

Director Deadwyler inquired what our gas tax was. Don Hunt responded we get 22 cents
for the state and 18 cents for the federal. He also stated that Colorado was near the
bottom on gas tax. We are down about 30%.

Operations & Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial Administration & Audit Committee – Chaired by Director Walker
GM Oversight & Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director James
CDOT – Director Walker
E-470 – Director Tobiassen
ACED – Director Solano/Director Hoy
Northwest Parkway – Director Sisk
Pension Committee – Director Lubow/Director Tobiassen

There were no changes to the committee reports.

VII.

General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Update
Committee Chair Bagley was out of town so there was no General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Report.

VIII.

Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of July 16, 2013
Motion:

Director Folska made the motion to approve the regular
Board meeting minutes from July 16, 2013.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Vote on Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
ACCEPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

Chair's Report




Chair Anderson shared that on August 8, Director Hoy had participated in the rider
appreciation day at the Westminster park-n-ride.
Chair Anderson, Directors Hoy, Lasater and Tobiassen attended the Eagle P-3
elected official briefing.
August 17, a number of Board members attended the light rail rodeo at the Elati
Maintenance facility: Chair Anderson, Directors Daly, Folska, Rivera-Malpiede,
Tobiassen and Walker. She was impressed with the dedication of the staff.

Packet Pg. 67

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A
















X.

August 19, Director Deadwyler was one of the keynote speakers for the Peoria
Crossing groundbreaking event. Other Board members in attendance included
Chair Anderson, Directors Rivera-Malpiede, Folska and Tobiassen. Mayor HancockDenver and Mayor Hogan-City of Aurora were also in attendance.
August 19, she spoke at the Boulder Depot Square TOD groundbreaking ceremony.
She and Director Lubow were in attendance. Both of these groundbreaking events
spoke to her of the good partnership that RTD has throughout this region.
The “halfway to opening day for Eagle P3 is August 22nd. She encouraged Board
members who plan to attend to take the bus.
August 23 is accident free day celebration at Platte Division.
September 14 is the bus and paratransit roadeo at District shops
September 18, the CDOT Commissioners will host a dinner meeting with the RTD
Board of Directors. This is an annual event and provides opportunity for discussion
of items on common ground.
Chair Anderson had the pleasure of serving on the APTA Nominating Committee for
Leadership roles with APTA. General Manager Washington was up for vice-chair so
she recused herself to avoid any appearance of conflict. General Manager
Washington was nominated by the committee as APTA vice-chair for 2014.
Chair Anderson had received feedback from some of her constituents about our
disposition of RTD property and assets. She wanted to reiterate that RTD has done
its disposition according to our disposition process. This involved sending out a RFI
on the disposition of tracks and the disposal of vintage rail. They received only 1
proposal for each. The proposal will not cost RTD any money and RTD will benefit
as we do not have to take care of the property.
Chair Anderson shared that she had the opportunity to give the welcoming remarks
at the Ethiopian Delegation visit this morning. She was impressed with the
professionalism of the engineering staff that provided the presentations. They
spoke to designing a project from ADA perspective and some of the lessons
learned. She was mindful of the statement made by Director Folska that systems
should be designed for the handicap or the most vulnerable rider and then it will
work for everyone else.

General Manager's Report




General Manager Washington reiterated the Ethiopian Delegation visit. He had
informed the Executive Committee last week of the meeting with dignitaries and
the technical type. The meeting was exemplary and focused on accessibility, ADA
and how do we provide service to the community of disabled riders. This group
was escorted by the State department and took a tour of DUS and a ride on the
West line. They had talked about establishing a sister transit agency relationship.
RTD will be hosting the Transit Chief Information Officers Consortium during
August 21-22. Phil will be speaking to this group next week.

Packet Pg. 68

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A





XI.

RTD is the recipient of Colorado Society of Human resources Diversity Award for
2013. They received this award for a number of their programs that include the
Leadership Academy, MAX, internship program, WIN, supplier-diversity relationship,
and inclusiveness council.
A couple of days ago, a RTD bus was involved in a fatal accident with a
motorcycle. According to our information, the bus was proceeding through a green
light when it was hit by a motorcycle that went through a red light. The accident
was fatal. He has contacted the driver and extended our concerns and support as
he normally does in these types of situations.

Unanimous Consent
Chair Anderson called for a motion to approve the unanimous consent agreement.

Motion:

Director James made the motion to approve the
Unanimous consent agenda, items A&B.

Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Bill James, Director, District A
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
A.

Donation of Vintage Rail

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to donate vintage rail, tie
plates and wooden ties for restoration purposes to Como Depot.

Packet Pg. 69

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A

8.A

Award of Access-a-Ride Call Center Services

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
provision of Access-a-Ride Call Center services with First Transit, Inc. This contract is for
three years, with two one-year options for a total 5-year amount not to exceed
$11,074,125. This proposal represents the most responsive and responsible proposal
received in response to Request for Proposals (RFP) 13-DH-026, to provide “Access-a-Ride
Call Center” Services. The contract to provide this service is scheduled to be effective
October 1, 2013.

XII.

Recommended Action
C.

Property Acquisition for the I-225 Project

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the I-225 Segment 2 Light Rail Project and authorize staff to proceed with
all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve item C, property
acquisition for the I-225 Project.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on the
Motion:

The motion Passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
ADOPTED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Larry Hoy, Director, District J
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
D.
Sublease Agreement (RTD Park and Ride Facilities) by and between Regional
Transportation District and Stadium Management Company, LLC
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Sublease Agreement for parking with the Stadium Management

Packet Pg. 70

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

B.

Company (SMC) on certain real property, commonly known as Sports Authority Field at
Mile High and certain parking lots proximate to the Stadium all located in the City and
County of Denver, State of Colorado. Said Subleased Premises will be leased for the
purpose of operating parking facilities for use by commuters. Funding for this lease in
2013 is included in the 2013 Amended Budget for FasTracks operations, and future year
funding will be included in future year FasTracks operating budgets.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to sublease agreement by
and between RTD and the Stadium Management Company
LLC.
Director Rivera-Malpiede seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Folska noted the slight increase of the parking space
usage from 25 to 47. She stated she was troubled about the
deferred maintenance that RTD will have to do as part of our
state of good repair. Her bigger issue is she feels we need to
be negotiating directly with the seller and should ask for a 99
year lease where we would have better control.
Chair Anderson stated she initially had some issues but she
better understands the agreement and understands that after 3
years, if reasonable usage has not occurred, we can
renegotiate the use of this space. The cost to build our own
would be cost prohibitive.
General Manager Washington stated that RTD committed to
this space as a condition to accept the FFGA on the West
Line. The cost to acquire land and for construction is cost
prohibitive. This was a win-win negotiation for RTD. All of the
costs were factored into the price including the improvement
for our patrons. We believe students will adjust their travel
patterns and the lot will be more heavily used.
Director Folska stated she understands and agrees with most
of the comments. Her issue has to do with who we are in
business with. She agrees with the parking location and all
that but she feels we need a direct relationship. RTD needs a
more aggressive relationship with the direct partners.
General Manager Washington asked legal counsel Marla Lien
to comment. Marla Lien stated the party with the lease-hold
interest right now is the Broncos so that is who RTD
negotiated with. She explained if we were going to condemn
out a leaseholder interest then we could work with the owner.

Packet Pg. 71

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A

Susan Altes provided clarification that SMC is a private entity.
We have already had discussion on having this direct
relationship and SMC said no. Our only remaining option to
work with the owner directly would be to condemn through
eminent domain.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 10 in favor (Anderson, Deadwyler, Hoy,
James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano, Tobiassen
and Walker) and 1 against (Folska). Directors Bagley, Daly,
Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [10 TO 1]
MOVER:
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
SECONDER: Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Claudia Folska
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.
E.

Award Contract to Supply 103 Cutaway Buses for access-a-Ride Service

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract
to Supreme Bus for the purchase of up to 103 new cutaway buses for the access-aRide service in the amount not to exceed $5,228,589, with an option to purchase up
to 350 additional cutaway buses over a five year period.
Motion:

Director Rivera-Malpiede made the motion to approve item E,
award contract to supply 103 cutaway buses for access-aRide.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

Packet Pg. 72

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Director, District C
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.
F.

Award Contract to Supply 52 – 60’ Low-Floor Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Service Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to award a contract to New
Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of 52 – 60’ low-floor articulated buses and
associated spare components in the amount not to exceed $34,636,614, with an option
to purchase up to 140 additional articulated buses over a five year period.
Motion:

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve item F,
Award contract to supply 52 -60’ low-floor articulated
buses.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed 11 in favor and 0 against. Directors
Bagley, Daly, Menten and Sisk were absent.

RESULT:
PASSED [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
SECONDER: Larry Hoy, Director, District J
AYES: Anderson, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lasater, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Kent Bagley, Bruce Daly, Natalie Menten, Chuck Sisk
Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED Unanimously.

XIII.

Old Business

XIV. New Business


Director Lasater thanked legal counsel Marla Lien for attending a meeting with the
HOA in his district. Unfortunately, he was not able to get into the meeting. He has

Packet Pg. 73

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A





XV.

communicated with all of the people. Marla was able to provide information on the
annexation process.
Director James spoke to the shooting incident at Civic Park and applauded the
Mayor for his effort to address the issues. He thinks the RTD effort to improve the
Civic Center Plaza will help in this overall improvement.
Director Rivera-Malpiede invited the Board members to participate in the walk
Denver’s NEWALK Fest this weekend. This is a transportation demand management
opportunity to walk with the community, the Mayor, the Chief of Police and others.
RTD will be providing information on the routes in the area, ADA, etc.

Executive Session

XVI. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:50 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

Packet Pg. 74

Minutes Acceptance: Minutes of Aug 20, 2013 5:30 PM (Approval of Board Meeting Minutes of August 20, 2013, 2013)

8.A

11.A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: September 5, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

September 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: September 17, 2013

Subject:

Authorization of RTD Investment Policy

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached.
BACKGROUND:
The Policy specifies the practices and procedures that pertain to the investment of RTD’s operating and
reserve funds. The Board last approved modifications to the Policy in September 2012. Section 10 of
the Policy states “The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the
policy, denoting any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.”
DISCUSSION:
The Policy, among other things, outlines the investment objectives, standards of care, eligible
investment securities, credit and maturity parameters and diversification parameters. It is conservative in
nature and identifies its principal objectives as: safety, liquidity and yield, in priority order. The Policy
specifies reporting requirements and requires a system of internal controls designed to protect RTD
against loss of funds due to fraud, employee error or imprudent actions by employees.
Staff is not recommending any changes to the policy at this point in time but will continue to look for
ways to refine and improve the policy.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
The Policy presents no negative financial impacts to RTD.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. The Board may authorize the Investment Policy Statement (the “Policy”), attached. This is the
recommended alternative.
2. The Board may further revise the Policy.
ATTACHMENTS:


Investment Policy 083013



2013 Investment Policy (PDF)

(PDF)

Packet Pg. 75

11.A

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

PASSED BY CONSENT VOTE [13 TO 0]
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Claudia Folska, Director, District E
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Gary Lasater
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 76

Investment Policy Statement
Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.a

Packet Pg. 77

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.a

Table of Contents

Section

Page

1.

Purpose ............................................................................1

2.

Scope ...............................................................................1

3.

Objectives ........................................................................1

4.

Standards of Care ............................................................2

5.

Authorized Investments ...................................................4

6.

Investment Parameters ....................................................7

7.

Safekeeping and Custody ................................................8

8.

Reporting Requirements ..................................................8

9.

Performance Standards ....................................................9

10.

Investment Policy Review ...............................................9

11.

RTD Investment Policy Summary ................................10

12.

Investment Policy Review & Approval.........................11

Appendix

Appendix 1- Authorized Personnel ...........................................12

Packet Pg. 78

11.A.a

Regional Transportation District
Investment Policy Statement

The purpose of this document is to specify the policies and procedures that support a prudent and
systematic program for investment transactions involving operating and reserve funds of the
Regional Transportation District ("RTD").
2. SCOPE
This investment policy ("Policy") applies to investment of all operating and reserve funds of the
RTD (collectively, the “Portfolio").
This Policy shall not restrict the ability of RTD to invest proceeds from the issuance of RTD
securities in financial obligations permitted through board-approved bond resolutions or
indentures of trust pursuant to which the securities were issued. The standards of care dictated
for investments of other RTD funds shall also pertain to the investment of such proceeds.
3. OBJECTIVES
The objectives, in priority order, of the RTD's investment activities shall be:
3.1 Safety
Safety of principal is the foremost objective of the investment program. Investments of RTD
will be made in a manner that seeks to ensure the preservation of capital in the Portfolio. To
attain this objective, RTD will endeavor to mitigate credit and interest rate risks.
Credit Risk: RTD will minimize credit risk, which is the risk of loss due to the failure of the
security issuer or backer, by:
•
•

Limiting investments to the types of securities listed in the Authorized Investments
section of this Policy.
Diversifying the Portfolio in accordance with Policy limits in order to minimize the
potential for losses from any one type of security or any one individual issuer.

Interest Rate Risk: RTD will minimize interest rate risk, which is the risk that the market
value of securities in the Portfolio will fall due to changes in market interest rates, by:
•

Maintaining Portfolio duration appropriate to the cash flow requirements of RTD,
thereby reducing the likelihood that securities would need to be sold on the open
market prior to maturity.

1
Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

1. PURPOSE

11.A.a

3.2 Liquidity
The Portfolio will remain sufficiently liquid to enable RTD to meet all cash flow requirements
which might be reasonably anticipated. This will be achieved through maturity diversification
and purchases of securities that have an established secondary market.

The Portfolio shall be designed with the objective of attaining a market rate of return throughout
budgetary and economic cycles, taking into account the investment risk constraints, liquidity
needs, and cash flow characteristics of the Portfolio.
4. STANDARDS OF CARE
4.1 Prudence
All RTD officers and employees involved in the investment of RTD funds, along with any
external investment advisors, shall adhere to the guidance provided by the “prudent investor”
standard to insure that:
“When investing, reinvesting, purchasing, acquiring, exchanging, selling, or managing
public funds, a trustee shall act with care, skill, prudence, and diligence under the
circumstances then prevailing, including, but not limited to, the general economic
conditions and the anticipated needs of the agency, that a prudent person acting in a like
capacity and familiar with those matters would use in the conduct of funds of a like
character and with like aims, to safeguard the principal and maintain the liquidity needs
of the agency. Within the limitations of this section and considering individual
investments as part of an overall strategy, investments may be acquired as authorized by
law."
RTD shall recognize that no investment is totally riskless and that the investment activities of
RTD are a matter of public record. Accordingly, it recognizes that occasional measured losses
are inevitable in a diversified portfolio and shall be considered within the context of the overall
Portfolio’s return, provided that adequate diversification has been implemented, and that the sale
of a security is in the best long-term interest of RTD.
Authorized investment personnel acting in accordance with this Policy and exercising due
diligence shall be relieved of personal responsibility for an individual security’s credit risk or
market price changes, provided that deviations from expectation are reported in a timely fashion
and appropriate action is taken to control adverse developments.

2
Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

3.3 Yield

11.A.a

4.2 Delegation of Authority

RTD may, in its discretion, contract with one or more investment advisers, registered with the
Securities and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, to manage a
portion of its Portfolio assets. Any such advisor shall comply with this Policy and such other
written instructions as provided by RTD.
While it is understood that the procedures and trading counterparties of a contracted investment
adviser may differ from those of RTD, contracted investment advisers must maintain internal
controls and compliance systems at least as extensive as those of the RTD in order to assure
adequate protection of RTD assets in keeping with the standards of prudence outlined below.
4.3 Investment Procedures
The CFO shall establish written procedures for the operation of the investment program,
consistent with this Policy, which shall include explicit delegation of authority to persons
responsible for investment transactions. No person may engage in an investment transaction
except as provided under the terms of this Policy and the internal procedures established by the
CFO. Persons who are authorized to transact investment business and wire funds on behalf of
RTD are listed in Appendix 1 to this policy.
4.4 Internal Controls
The CFO shall establish a system of internal controls, which shall be reviewed annually. The
controls shall be designed to prevent loss of funds due to fraud, employee error,
misrepresentation by third parties, or imprudent actions by employees of RTD.
4.5 Ethics and Conflicts of Interest
Investment activities shall be performed in accordance with RTD’s Code of Ethics and other
policies of RTD. Officers and employees involved in the investment process shall refrain from
personal business activity that could conflict with the proper execution of the investment
program, or which could impair their ability to make impartial investment decisions. Employees
and investment officials shall disclose to the General Manager any material financial interests in
financial institutions that conduct business with RTD, and they shall further disclose any large
personal/financial/investment positions that could be related to the performance of the Portfolio.
Employees and officers shall subordinate their personal investment transactions to those of RTD
particularly with regard to the timing of purchases or sales.

3
Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

RTD is granted legislative authority to invest its funds pursuant to Colorado Revised Statutes,
Section 32-9-119. Management responsibility for the investment program is hereby delegated to
the General Manager and his designees. The General Manager’s designee will hereinafter be
referred to as the Chief Financial Officer (“CFO”).

11.A.a

5. AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS

Credit criteria listed in this section refer to the credit rating at the time the security is purchased.
Rating categories defined by nationally recognized statistical rating organizations (“NRSRO”)
include intermediate rating categories. For example, the second highest rating category will
include bonds rated AA+, AA and AA- for Standard & Poor's and Fitch and Aa1, Aa2 and Aa3
for Moody's Investors Service. In the event that an issuer or security is downgraded below the
minimum rating level for any specific security that is held in the Portfolio, the CFO will review
the exposure of that security holding and will determine if it is advisable to sell such holding.
Maturity restrictions shall be calculated from settlement date to maturity date. Portfolio
percentage restrictions by security type and issuer are applicable only on the date of purchase of
the investment.
The Portfolio will be limited to an aggregate exposure of 50% for the following investment
types: Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, Commercial Paper, Time Deposits/Time Certificates
of Deposit and Banker's Acceptances.
1. U.S. Treasury Obligations. Obligations in the form of bills, notes, bonds or certificates
of indebtedness backed by the full faith and credit of the United States of America.
100% of the Portfolio may be invested in U.S. Treasury Obligations. The maximum
maturity for investments in U.S. Treasury Obligations shall be limited to five years.
2. U.S. Agency Obligations. Obligations issued by or fully guaranteed as to principal and
interest by those Federal Agencies or United States government-sponsored enterprises
described in 24-75-601.1(1)(b) (an ‘Agency” or “Agencies”). Eligible Agencies shall be
rated no lower than the highest category by any NRSRO. No more than 75% of the
Portfolio may be invested in Agency obligations with no more than 25% being invested
in a single U.S. Agency. Subordinate debt of any U.S. Agency is not authorized. The
maximum maturity for investments in Agencies shall be limited to five years.
In the event that one or more NRSRO rates such Agency obligations below the highest
rating category but no lower than one of the two highest rating categories, RTD's funds
may continue to be invested in Agencies if the maturity from the date of settlement to
maturity does not exceed three years. The diversification limit set forth in the prior
paragraph (no more than 75% of the Portfolio may be invested in Agency Obligations
with no more than 25% being invested in any one Agency) shall apply.
3. Municipal Bonds. Obligations of a political subdivision of any state, including bonds
payable solely out of revenues from a revenue producing property owned, controlled or
operated by the state or any local agency or by a department, board, agency or authority
4
Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

Authorized investments for RTD funds are specifically listed below. RTD recognizes that
investment risk can result from issuer defaults, market price changes or various technical
impediments leading to diminished liquidity or loss of capital. Portfolio risk management and
diversification are employed as a way to minimize the risks inherent in investing.

11.A.a

of the state or any local agency ("Municipal Bonds"), provided that the obligations are
rated in one of the two highest categories by a NRSRO.

With the exception of Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds (“Pre-Refunded Municipal
Bonds”) described below, no more than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested in
Municipal Bonds and Short Term Municipal Bonds with no more than 3% of the
Portfolio invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
Municipal Bonds shall be limited to three years.
No more than 40% of the Portfolio may be invested in Pre-Refunded Municipal Bonds
secured by an escrow of U.S. treasury securities or State and Local Government Series
securities, with no more than 5% being invested in a single issuer.
4. Corporate Bonds. Debt securities issued by corporations or financial institutions
organized and operating in the United States. Eligible corporate bonds shall be rated in
one of the two highest categories by at least two NRSRO. No more than 20% of the
Portfolio may be invested in corporate bonds and no more than 3% may be invested with
a single corporation; notwithstanding the book value limits of 24-75-601.1(1)(m). The
maximum maturity for investments in corporate bonds shall be limited to three years.
5. Commercial paper. Commercial paper issued by a corporation or bank that is organized
and operated within the United States. Investments in commercial paper must carry at
least two credit ratings from any NRSRO and must not be rated below “A-1”, "P1" or
“F1” by any credit rating agency.
Investments in commercial paper may not exceed 40% of the Portfolio and no more than
3% may be invested with a single issuer. The maximum maturity for investments in
commercial paper is 270 days.
6. Time Deposits/ Time Certificates of Deposit (CDs). Time Deposits/Time Certificates of
Deposit (CDs ) issued by a nationally or state-chartered bank or a state or federal savings
and loan association or by a state-licensed branch of a foreign bank. Eligible certificates
of deposit shall be rated in one of the two highest categories by a NRSRO. CDs shall be
exempted from rating requirements if the CDs are fully insured by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC).

For CDs in amounts in excess of the FDIC limit, the CD amount must be collateralized in
accordance with the Public Deposit Protection Act. No more than 10% of the Portfolio
may be invested in securities described in this investment category. No more than 3% of
5
Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

For short term or variable rate instruments ("Short Term Municipal Bonds"), the
securities must be rated “A-1”, "P1" or higher, or the equivalent, by a NRSRO.

11.A.a

the Portfolio may be invested in CDs of a single institution. The maximum maturity for
investments in CDs shall be limited to one year.

8. Repurchase Agreements. Repurchase Agreements concerning U.S. Treasury and agency
securities listed in items (1) or (2) above. Repurchase agreement counterparties must be
Primary Government Securities Dealers reporting to the Federal Reserve Bank of New
York and shall have either a) a long term rating in one of the two highest categories by a
NRSRO, or b) short term ratings not less than “A1”, “P1” or “F1” by any NRSRO.
The market value of collateral securities shall be marked-to-market daily. RTD shall have
specific written agreements with each firm with which it enters into repurchase
agreements.
No more than 50% of the Portfolio may be invested in repurchase agreements and no
more than 10% may be invested with a single counterparty. The maximum maturity for a
repurchase agreement shall be limited to 90 days.
9. Money Market Funds. Shares of beneficial interest issued by diversified management
companies that are money market funds registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Company Act of 1940 and meeting the maturity
requirements specified in rule 2a-7 of that Act. To be eligible for investment, these
companies shall have either: (i) attained the highest ranking or the highest letter and
numerical rating provided by one or more NRSRO or (ii) assets under management of
one billion dollars or more ($1,000,000,000). The investment policies of the fund include
seeking to maintain a constant share price. Additionally, the purchase price of shares of
beneficial interest shall not include any commission that these companies may charge. A
maximum of 100% of the Portfolio may be invested in money market funds with a single
fund constituting no more that 20% of the Portfolio.
10. Local Government Investment Pools. Any interest in a local government investment
pool organized under CRS 24-75-701 et. seq. A maximum of 100% of the Portfolio may
be invested in local government investment pools with a single pool constituting no more
than 20% of the Portfolio.
11. Any other investment permitted under CRS 24-75-601 et. seq.

6. INVESTMENT PARAMETERS
6.1 Sale of Securities
6
Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

7. Bankers’ Acceptances (BAs). Bills of exchange or time drafts that are drawn on and
accepted by a commercial bank. Eligible BAs shall be rated in one of the highest
categories by at least two NRSRO. No more than 20% of the Portfolio may be invested
in BAs and no more than 3% may be invested with a single institution. The maximum
maturity for investments in BAs shall be limited to one year.

11.A.a

6.2 Competitive Bidding
A record shall be maintained of all bids and offers for securities transactions to support RTD’s
competitive pricing process. Relative offerings shall not be required in the purchase of
obligations at their initial auction or offering. Typically, awards will be made to the bidder
offering the highest effective yield consistent with the Policy: however, transaction costs,
diversification requirements, extraordinary events and other factors may be considered when
awarding investments.
6.3 Portfolio Duration
The maturity of the securities in the Portfolio shall be managed with respect to the cash flow
needs of RTD and the Portfolio shall be managed to maintain a duration of three years or less.
6.4 Authorized Financial Dealers and Institutions
RTD will maintain a list of financial institutions authorized to provide investment services and it
shall be the policy of RTD to purchase securities only from those authorized institutions and
firms. Trading counterparties shall be limited to (i) primary dealers reporting to the Federal
Reserve Bank of New York, or (ii) broker/dealers that qualify under Securities and Exchange
Commission Rule 15c3-1 (uniform net capital rule).
6.5 Authorized Investment Advisors
RTD may engage the services of one or more professional investment advisory firms to assist in
the management of the Portfolio. Such investment advisors may be granted discretion to
purchase and sell investment securities in accordance with this Policy and may utilize their own
approved list of broker/dealers. Such firms must be authorized to conduct business in the State
of Colorado and shall be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the
Investment Advisers Act of 1940.

7
Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

RTD does not make investments for the purpose of trading or speculation, but, rather, with the
prevalent intent to hold securities to maturity. The prohibition of speculative investment
precludes pursuit of profit through unusual risk or conjectural fluctuations in market prices.
However, fluctuations in market rates or changes in credit quality may produce situations where
securities may be sold at a nominal loss in order to mitigate further erosion of principal or to
reinvest proceeds of sale in securities that will out-perform the original investment.

11.A.a

7. SAFEKEEPING AND CUSTODY

With the exception of collateral under repurchase agreements (discussed below), all investment
securities purchased shall be held in a safekeeping account or trust custody account at a
designated third party custodian. For safekeeping accounts, the institution shall issue a
safekeeping receipt for each security, listing the specific instrument, par value, rate, CUSIP and
any other pertinent information. In addition, the safekeeping or trust custody institutions shall
provide a statement on at least a monthly basis listing all securities held in account, including
book value and market value of holdings at month end.
For collateral (purchased securities) under repurchase agreements, RTD may utilize tri-party
repurchase agreements with an acceptable third-party custodian provided that RTD is satisfied
that it has perfected interest in the securities used as collateral, and that RTD has a properly
executed tri-party agreement.
7.2 Delivery vs. Payment
All investment transactions will be executed on a delivery versus payment basis
8. REPORTING REQUIREMENTS
Investment reports shall be prepared on a monthly, quarterly and annual basis. Transaction
summaries shall be maintained and available in the office of the CFO or other authorized
investment personnel. Quarterly investment reports shall be submitted to the Board of Directors
and shall outline RTD’s total investment return and compare the Portfolio’s performance to a
publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics.
Within 120 days of the end of RTD’s fiscal year, a comprehensive report on RTD’s investment
program and investment activity shall be prepared for the Board of Directors. The annual report
shall include quarterly comparisons of investment return and may suggest improvements that
might be made in the investment program. Such annual report shall include any other item of
significance which may enhance the understanding of the investment program. Each investment
advisor shall submit like reports in a timely manner based on the respective terms of each
contract and agreement
All securities holdings reports for RTD shall disclose the maximum maturity liability to RTD
(the stated maturity) as well as the first call date of each callable security held.

8
Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

7.1 Safekeeping and custody

11.A.a

9. PERFORMANCE STANDARDS

The current board-approved index for the liquidity tier of the Portfolio (cash and cash
equivalents) is the 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index as published by Bank of America Merrill
Lynch. For the enhanced cash portion of the Portfolio (securities maturing between 90 days and
5 years and with a target duration of 1 year), the designated performance benchmark is the
Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index.
RTD recognizes that bond proceeds must be invested in accordance with Section 1.148 of the
U.S. Internal Revenue Code, related to arbitrage rebate, which limits the investment returns
which may be achieved or retained by RTD on such proceeds investments. For purposes of this
Policy “bond proceeds” shall mean proceeds from the issuance of bonds, certificates of
participation or other financial securities issued by RTD.
10. INVESTMENT POLICY REVIEW AND APPROVAL
The CFO shall conduct a review of the Policy on an annual basis and present the Policy,
denoting any changes, to the Board of Directors for approval.

9
Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

RTD's Portfolio is managed with the objective of obtaining a market rate of return,
commensurate with identified risk constraints and cash flow characteristics. Because the
composition of the Portfolio fluctuates, depending on market and credit conditions, various
indices may be used to monitor investment performance.

11.A.a

11. RTD AUTHORIZED INVESTMENT SUMMARY

Security Type

Maximum
Portfolio %

Maximum
Issuer %

Maturity
Restrictions

Rating
Restrictions

U.S. Treasuries

100%

100%

5 years

N/A

U.S. Agencies1

75%

25%

5 years

AAA

Municipal Bonds
Pre-Refunded
Municipal Bonds
Corporate Bonds

20%

3%

3 years

AA-

40%

5%

3 years

AA-

20%

3%

3 years

AA-

Commercial Paper

40%

3%

270 days

A-1/P1

Time Deposit/CD

10%

3%

1 year

AA-

Bankers Acceptances

20%

3%

1 year

AA-

Repurchase Agreements

50%

10%

90 days

AA-

Money Market Funds
Local Government
Investment Pools

100%

20%

N/A

AAA

100%

20%

N/A

AAA

Note: The Portfolio will be limited to an aggregate exposure of 50% for the following
investment types: Municipal Bonds, Corporate Bonds, Commercial Paper, Time Deposits/Time
Certificates of Deposit and Bankers Acceptances.
1

In the event that one or more NRSRO rates such Agency obligations below the highest rating
category but no lower than one of the two highest rating categories, RTD's funds may continue to
be invested in Agencies if such investments mature in not more than three years from the date of
settlement., The diversification limit shall be set as follows: no more than 75% of the Portfolio
may be invested in Agencies with no more than 25% being invested in any one Agency.

10
Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

THIS PAGE IS PROVIDED FOR SUMMARY PURPOSES ONLY. PLEASE SEE SECTION
5 FOR A DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE AUTHORIZED INVESTMENTS.

11.A.a

12. INVESTMENT POLICY APPROVAL AND ADOPTION

Chief Financial Officer

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

Approved

Date

Adopted
Board of Directors

Chair

Date

Secretary

Date

11
Packet Pg. 89

11.A.a

The following persons are authorized to transact investment business on behalf of the Regional
Transportation District (“RTD”):
General Manager
Chief Financial Officer
Manager of Debt and Investments
Manager of Financial Reporting
Manager of Budget and Financial Analysis

12
Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: Investment Policy 083013 (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

Regional Transportation District (“RTD”)
Investment Policy Statement
Appendix 1
Authorized Personnel

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 100

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 101

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 102

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 103

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 104

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 105

Attachment: 2013 Investment Policy (1688 : Authorization of RTD Investment Policy)

11.A.b

Packet Pg. 106

12.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: August 29, 2013

From:

Richard Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

August 28, 2013

Board Meeting Date: September 17, 2013

Subject:

Park Creek Metro District & Forest City
Stapleton, Inc. Inter-governmental Agreement
Amendment

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or designee, to execute a third amendment of an existing Inter-Governmental
Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the
funding for the design, construction, and management of the infrastructure that will support the Central
Park PnR along the East Rail Line. It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the
General Manager, or designee, to execute the necessary documents to convey a certain amount of RTD
property for dedication as City and County of Denver ROW. The cost maximum for RTD’s share of the
infrastructure improvements has been determined to be $5,564,325. Funding for this IGA is included in
the 2013 Amended Capital Programs and the FasTracks Eagle project budgets.
BACKGROUND
In 1996, with the opening of DIA and the closure of the Stapleton Airport, RTD began operating a Bus
Transfer Facility and PnR at the previous parking site with surface and covered parking of over 1,000
spaces being provided through a license agreement between RTD and the City & County of Denver. In
August of 2010, RTD relocated its commuter parking to an interim gravel PnR at the northwest corner of
36th Avenue & Central Park Boulevard with approximately 1,500 surface parking spaces and an on-street
bus transfer operation on 36th Ave between Ulster and Central Park Boulevard.
During 2001, RTD received a CMAQ grant for the proposed relocation of the Stapleton PnR/Bus Transfer
Facility. Environmental clearances were initiated for the new permanent site between Smith Road /37th
Place and west of Central Park Boulevard. Several concept designs were proposed and coordinated with
the City and the developer over the years.
In July 2010, RTD entered into an IGA with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. for
acquisition, design and construction of public infrastructure improvements. Approximately 50% of the
identified Park-n-Ride site was acquired in late 2011. In the spring of 2012, a finding of “no further
action” was received for the environmental cleanup. This allowed RTD to acquire the remaining property
in July 2012, which gave RTD a total property ownership of approximately 20 acres on three individual
parcels that are separated by public ROW.
RTD amended this IGA twice with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City Stapleton, Inc. The first was
for early traffic signal and intersection design of Smith Road & Ulster Street ($39,279.00) to initiate
PUC applications by RTD’s Eagle team for the East Rail Line. The second was for implementation of
final design of the public infrastructure improvements ($150,000.00). These two amendments were
within the signature authority of the General Manager.

Packet Pg. 107

12.B

DISCUSSION
This will serve as a park-n-Ride for the new Eagle project Central Park Station. RTD committed to
provide 1,500 spaces as part of the Environmental Impact Statement.
The design of the infrastructure improvements was closely coordinated by the Park Creek Metro District
(PCMD) and its design consultant (URS). RTD staff and the project design consultant (FHU) reviewed,
commented, and ultimately approved the infrastructure design, and agreed with the proposed funding
share as described in the initial IGA and finalized in this 3rd amendment.
The infrastructure
improvements project was publicly bid and a negotiated best value was initiated by PCMD, and was
found to be within the guidelines of the Federal Acquisition Regulations and RTD’s procurement policies.
The construction of the infrastructure improvements is scheduled, and stated within the IGA, to be
complete four months prior to the opening day of the East Rail Line. The infrastructure construction will
be managed by PCMD. RTD will fund, oversee and approve the infrastructure improvements that are
adjacent to the RTD development site, including approval of any change orders over $50,000. PCMD is
completing a best value process and a construction contract is anticipated during the 3rd Qtr. 2013,
which will include a cost maximum value for RTD’s portion of the work that is part of this third
amendment to the IGA $5,564,325. If the submitted proposals exceed RTD’s allowable funding
($5,564,325), RTD will have no further payment obligation, but PCMD may suspend work unless
resolution is reached.
The infrastructure improvements for which RTD is responsible include: all or split portions of Smith
Road (54%) from approximately Syracuse to Xanthia Street; Ulster Street from 37th Place to Smith Road
(100%); Uinta Street from 37th Place to Smith Road (100%); and 37th Place from Ulster to its’ easterly
limits (located just west of Central Park Boulevard) (50%).
The infrastructure improvements for which PCMD is responsible include: all or portions of Smith Road
(46%) from approximately Syracuse to Xanthia Street; Ulster Street from 36th Avenue to 37th Place
(100%); Uinta Street from 35th Avenue to 37th Place . (100%); and 37th Place from Ulster to its’ easterly
limits, located just west of Central Park Boulevard (50%). The layout and overall cost sharing
responsibility is shown on the attached exhibit.
This infrastructure project will provide the roadway network and utilities to support the proposed Central
Park PnR having 1,500 surface parking spaces with 12 bus bays, which will connect to the Central Park
Commuter Rail Station along the East Rail Line. The Central Park PnR is currently in final design and
scheduled to be under construction in the spring of 2014 with an anticipated 3rd Qtr opening. A
separate construction contract for the PnR will be recommended for Board approval during the spring of
2014
FINANCIAL IMPACT
This total work of $5,564,325 is budgeted by the Eagle Project ($5,058,477) and the strategic budget
plan ($505,848).
The project includes a DBE component of 20%, which is being directed by PCMD.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute a third amendment of
an existing Inter-Governmental Agreement (IGA) with Park Creek Metro District & Forest City

Packet Pg. 108

12.B

Stapleton, Inc. for participating in the funding for the design, construction, and management of the
infrastructure that will support the Central Park PnR along the East Rail Line. It is also recommended
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or designee, to execute the necessary
documents to convey a certain amount of RTD property for dedication as City and County of Denver
ROW. The cost maximum for RTD’s share of the infrastructure improvements has been determined to
be $5,564,325. Funding for this IGA is included in the 2013 Amended Capital Programs and the
FasTracks Eagle project budgets.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as RTD has agreed in the initial
IGA to participate and to provide funding, of which we have already expended $189,279 toward the
project design.
3. Delay implementing the Recommended Action. This is not recommended because both design and
construction costs are anticipated to increase as the overall economy improves. Also, delaying this
action will jeopardize the opening of the Central Park PnR with the opening of the East Rail Line.
ATTACHMENTS:


CPS PNR BoardReport Exhibit_082813_22x34

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
ABSTAIN:
ABSENT:
AWAY:

(PDF)

PASSED [12 TO 0]
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Sisk, Solano,
Tobiassen, Walker
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Gary Lasater
Natalie Menten

Prepared by:
Stan Szabelak, Manager, Civil Engineering
Cory Granrud, Manager, Park-n-Ride Design
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 109

C E N T R A L P A R K S T A T I O N Pa rk - n- R i d e

UPR

EAST

RAIL

R

LINE

H

CENTRA

ROAD

L

PARK

STATIO

100’

200’

N

R

D

V

A

W ALMART

SMI T

0’

U

L

E

3 7 tthh P L A C E
STOP

DEVELOPMENT RESPONSIBILITY
PER IGA
RTD
PCMD

XANTHIA STREET

PA

CENTR

AL

UINTA STREET

ULSTER STREET

RK

B
O

STOP

3 6 tt hh A V E N U E

12.B.a

Packet Pg. 110

Attachment: CPS PNR BoardReport Exhibit_082813_22x34 (1682 : Park Creek Metro District and Forest City Stapleton, Inc. IGA Amendment)

12.C

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: September 11, 2013

From:

William Van Meter, Assistant General Manager,
Planning

GM

Date:

August 28, 2013

Board Meeting Date: September 17, 2013

Subject:

Approval of Final Scope Elements for US 36
Bus Rapid Transit

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors approve the
final scope elements (as illustrated in the table below) to establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is
RTD Staff’s desire and intent to implement a “World Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the US 36
Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the implementation of these final scope elements will effectively
complete a model BRT in the US 36 Corridor. Approval of this action will allow RTD to commit to the
completion of the US 36 BRT project through implementation of defined scope items, as RTD does on
every other project in the FasTracks program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Item
Station Amenities

Station Security
Upgrades
Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Passenger
Communications
improvements
BRT Vehicle Fleet
Church Ranch
Platforms
Westminster
Pedestrian Bridge
Broomfield park-nRide

Description
Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.
Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit at
each BRT station.
Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in RTD’s
Transit Signal Priority study which will
provide a potential travel time savings of
over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi, predictive
arrival time information, etc.)
Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
opening day service plan.
Relocation of the Church Ranch Station
boarding platforms closer to RTDdesignated parking.
Improvements for vertical circulation
(additional stairs and elevators) on each
side of the bridge.
Construct a park-n-Ride with structured
parking on the north side of US 36 at
the Broomfield Station for better access

Completion
Post Opening
Opening Day
Day
X

X

X

X
X*
X

X

X

Packet Pg. 111

12.C

to the station for residents north and
east of US 36 in Broomfield.
*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will be dependent
on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service requirements.
BACKGROUND
The 2004 voter-approved FasTracks Plan provided $204.1 million for BRT in the US 36 Corridor. The
original budget assumed $66 million for the RTD contribution for the HOV/Bus lanes (this was prio r
to the decision to pursue Managed Lanes) along with various upgrades to the corridor’s stations. The
remainder of the scope was left undefined. This budget has been adjusted with each Annual
Program Evaluation (APE) to reflect rises in the composite construction labor and materials costs.
However, unlike all of the other FasTracks corridors, RTD did not define a specific scope for the
corridor for the following reasons:




The joint CDOT/RTD Environmental Impact Statement (EIS) was not completed when the
FasTracks plan was under development;
It was unknown at the time of the FasTracks plan development how BRT would integrate with
CDOT expansion of the highway; and
It was assumed that construction would likely be led by CDOT since many of the anticipated BRT
elements would share the CDOT facility.

For these reasons, the FasTracks plan opted to create a budget which was deemed reasonable for
completing BRT in the Corridor. To date, RTD has completed the following improvements in the
corridor:










Construction of the McCaslin station platforms;
Construction of the McCaslin pedestrian bridge over US 36;
Relocation of the Church Ranch park-n-Ride;
Construction of the Church Ranch station platforms and slip ramps;
Relocation of the Broomfield park-n-Ride;
Construction of the Broomfield station platforms and slip ramps;
Construction of the Broomfield pedestrian bridge;
Construction of the Table Mesa pedestrian bridge; and
Construction of the Table Mesa eastbound station platform and slip ramp.

Additionally, RTD has also committed funding to CDOT and the High Performance Transportation
Enterprise (HPTE) for ongoing US 36 Managed Lanes construction. The US 36 Managed Lanes
project will construct the shared guideway (managed lanes) for travel time savings and reli ability,
install new station canopies, a fiber-optic communications network, and programmable information
displays for customer information. The managed lanes project also includes construction of the US
36 bikeway from the US 36 EIS. With the completion of all these projects, approximately $75
million (2015 dollars) remains in the FasTracks US 36 BRT budget commitment.
DISCUSSION
Many of the corridor’s stakeholders have expressed concern that, unlike every other FasTracks
corridor, the US 36 Corridor has not included a defined scope and, they have advocated that RTD
instead work with the stakeholders to define a BRT scope for the corridor and establish the
corresponding cost for the necessary capital items required to complete that scope in future
budgeting efforts. Through the Northwest Area Mobility Study (NAMS) process, the study’s project

Packet Pg. 112

12.C

team has worked with the stakeholders to determine the remaining capital elements that should be
included in the scope. At the July 30, 2013 NAMS Joint Policy/Tech nical Advisory Committee
(PAC/TAC) meeting, the PAC/TAC members agreed that, with the completion of the Phase I BRT
improvements and the completion of the Managed Lanes project, the following remaining scope
items should be implemented as part of US 36 BRT:
Remaining Project Scope Items
Item

Description

Completion
Post Opening
Opening Day
Day

Upgraded and standardized furniture,
X
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.
Station Security
Security devices such as cameras,
Upgrades
X
emergency telephones and conduit at
each BRT station.
Transit Signal
Implementation of TSP at key US 36
Priority (TSP)
interchanges as documented in RTD’s
X
Transit Signal Priority study which will
provide a potential travel time savings of
over two minutes.
Passenger
Improve data accessibility for
Communications
passengers on US 36 (WiFi, predictive
X
improvements
arrival time information, etc.)
BRT Vehicle Fleet Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
X*
opening day service plan.
Church Ranch
Relocation of the Church Ranch Station
Platforms
X
boarding platforms closer to RTDdesignated parking.
Westminster
Improvements for vertical circulation
Pedestrian Bridge
X
(additional stairs and elevators) on each
side of the bridge.
Broomfield park-n- Construct a park-n-Ride with structured
Ride
parking on the north side of US 36 at
the Broomfield Station for better access
X
to the station for residents north and
east of US 36 in Broomfield.
*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will be dependent
on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service requirements.
Station Amenities

Staff has determined that the first five elements on the list – station amenities, security upgrades,
Transit Signal Priority, Passenger Communications improvements, and vehicles (depending on vehicle
cost) – can be funded and in place by opening day. The US 36 stakeholders have requested RTD’s
support to upgrade bike parking at the stations in the form of Bus then Bike Shelters. Per the final
report from the First and Final Mile Study conducted by the stakeholder group, “36 Commuting
Solutions will take the lead with the stakeholders on a grant writing and fundraising campaign for
the Bus then Bike facilities.” It is RTD’s intent to cooperate with the stakeholders as they pursue
such funding for both capital and operations and maintenance of these upgraded facilities.

Packet Pg. 113

12.C

As shown in the table below, depending on the final cost of the remaining capital it ems, and
depending on the chosen BRT vehicle, the remaining cost for establishing BRT could vary between
$58 million and $79 million. Funding for these items could potentially come from the FasTracks
Internal Savings Account (FISA) and potentially from outside grants. In any case, staff is in
agreement with the stakeholders that, in order to establish BRT in the corridor, RTD should focus on
completing the required scope listed above rather than defining the project through the FasTracks
remaining commitment.
Cost to Complete Remaining Items
Cost in $millions
Item

Low

High

Capital Items Requested for BRT Completion

$25

$28.5

Buses

$33

$50.45

Total

$58

$79

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Depending on the final cost of the remaining capital items and the chosen BRT vehicle, RTD could be
required to allocate up to $4 million more than originally anticipated for the corridor. As noted above,
potential funding sources for these items could come from the FISA or other potential outside grant
sources.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors approve the final scope elements (as illustrated in the table below) to
establish BRT in the US 36 Corridor, as it is RTD Staff’s desire and intent to implement a “World
Class” Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) in the US 36 Corridor. RTD Staff believe that the implementation of
these final scope elements will effectively complete a model BRT in the US 36 Corridor. Approval of
this action will allow RTD to commit to the completion of the US 36 BRT project through
implementation of defined scope items, as RTD does on every other project in the FasTracks
program.
Remaining Project Scope Items
Item
Station Amenities

Station Security
Upgrades
Transit Signal
Priority (TSP)

Description
Upgraded and standardized furniture,
including benches, trash receptacles,
bike racks/lockers, etc.
Security devices such as cameras,
emergency telephones and conduit
at each BRT station.
Implementation of TSP at key US 36
interchanges as documented in
RTD’s Transit Signal Priority study
which will provide a potential travel

Completion
Opening
Post Opening
Day
Day
X

X

X

Packet Pg. 114

12.C

time savings of over two minutes.
Improve data accessibility for
passengers on US 36 (WiFi,
X
predictive arrival time information,
etc.)
BRT Vehicle Fleet Procure fleet sufficient to meet 2016
X*
opening day service plan.
Church Ranch
Relocation of the Church Ranch
Platforms
X
Station boarding platforms closer to
RTD-designated parking.
Westminster
Improvements for vertical circulation
Pedestrian Bridge (additional stairs and elevators) on
X
each side of the bridge.
Broomfield parkConstruct a park-n-Ride with
n-Ride
structured parking on the north side
of US 36 at the Broomfield Station
X
for better access to the station for
residents north and east of US 36 in
Broomfield.
*Note: RTD’s ability to provide the full fleet required for opening day service will be dependent
on the cost of the vehicle that can best satisfy the corridor’s service requirements.
Passenger
Communications
improvements

2. Do not accept the Recommended Action. Do not accept the NAMS Policy/Technical Advisory
Committee recommendation for these scope items deemed necessary to establish BRT in the US
36 Corridor. This action is not recommended since it could undermine the efforts and credibility
of the NAMS study.
RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:

PASSED [13 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
Anderson, Bagley, Daly, Deadwyler, Folska, Hoy, James, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede,
Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Natalie Menten
Gary Lasater

Prepared by:
Chris Quinn, Project Manager, Planning
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 115

