Nov 13 2018 0330 PM GM Oversight & Performance
Management Committee
[AUDIO AND VIDEO OUT]
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yet we still scheduled it for 3:30, which is pretty doggone early.
Now, those of us without a car, without anything, have to sit around here for an hour, an hour
and a half, doing nothing. So I just hope that you all, next year, would be more considerate.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, but there's something to be said for having a meeting at the same time.
Because in the back of your mind, that's when that committee meets. And you're going to end up
late or early, or whatever, when you change it around.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Well, I don't know if there's anybody else coming on the Board
that's like me. I don't like to be late and I don't like to sit and do nothing.
LARRY HOY: We could have talked about this for an hour, though. We don't know how long
this will [INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yeah.
LARRY HOY: There could've been-BARBARA DEADWYLER: You guys [INAUDIBLE].
LARRY HOY: Director Menten could have said, well, I want a change, and then we couldn't
have gone on for another hour [INAUDIBLE] locate the survey people.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: But just looking at the agenda, and we've already voted on this in a
committee meeting, and it's obvious everything is done. So it's obvious like that. I wasn't even at
the meeting where y'all voted on it, but I looked at this agenda and said, OK. It's a quickie. Yeah.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, it was. But there's always a possibility that they can-- we've seen tons of
them. I've seen eight years, or seven years of them. I'm sure you've seen eight years of them,
where a short agenda-- three or four items turns into two or three hours. Point is well taken.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Well, and what I do is I listen to the-- I listen to the recording from
the previous year to see how the discussion goes before I determine timing. And that's what I did
for this one. It was a 35-minute discussion on benchmarking last year in this meeting. So yeah,
there's no way to tell. There's no good formula.
JEFF WALKER: Right. Right. And there's always-- I mean, there's always an option to call in to
these meetings that count for [INAUDIBLE] comments and [INAUDIBLE] whether a person is
in the room or not. Mrs. McManus had something to say, and then Director Tisdale.

BARBARA MCMANUS: The Chair can go first.
JEFF WALKER: OK. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: I was just going to say if we talked about benchmark-- if the committee
talked about benchmarking for 35 minutes last year, [INAUDIBLE] you're saying, OK, what am
I missing? Maybe there was something good here that I missed. I mean, was it just, essentially,
setting up which agencies and the format and stuff?
BARBARA MCMANUS: We had a lot less response last year, so I think this year gave a better
snapshot than we've had in the past. That's what I attribute it to. But I don't really know.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, and we talked about so much last year, and maybe [INAUDIBLE].
Because there's so many numbers that have returned since last year-- all of them. There might
not have been-- there might not have been as much to discuss as last year. But like I said, you
never know. So you budget for the unknown. Anybody else?
BARBARA DEADWYLER: That was just a thought.
JEFF WALKER: No, thank you. And whoever's here-- whoever's sitting in this seat next year,
they'll have the benefit of these notes to go back and find out what happened. I did that when I-when Chair Tisdale appointed me, I looked at some of the meetings from last year to see what
could be improved, hopefully. But time will tell. Mrs. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So I would just like to ask that if anybody has any comments about
the process this year, or the timing, generally, we try to have three or four meetings at the
beginning of the year, and three or four meetings at the end of the year. This year, we had a
couple of extra. We had the amendment to Dave's contract. But if anybody has any suggestions
on how we can streamline, or something they'd like to see or not see, if you would get those
comments to me when I'm setting up this meeting for next year, which will be soon, I can take
those into consideration and go over them with the new Chair of the Board, and the new chair of
the committee at the correct time.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah. And I was going to say that I think that we had planned, what, five, six-six meetings, I think, at the outset. We had a few more meetings than that, mostly because we-because of the comments that we received at-- totally because of the comments that we received
from the mid-year survey, and the follow-up questions that-- or phone calls that Chair Tisdale
and I made. So I think that amendment to the contract is what added the number. That won't be-probably won't be a consideration next year. I guess it could be. But probably won't be. So it
should be back to the six.
BARBARA MCMANUS: And I think it was helpful this year that, in the board meeting, in the
GMOC (General Manager Oversight & Performance Management Committee) slot, that the
chair of this committee also spoke to the full Board about what's happening in this body so that
they were-- if they weren't part of the meeting, and they didn't review the minutes that, at least,
they were more in tune to what was going on on a regular basis. So I think that was helpful.

JEFF WALKER: All right. Anybody else? Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have a question of Dave. Is there anything in this process that you would
find more helpful?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, I was going to ask to speak and just thank all of you about-- because I
know that-- I know this is very time-consuming, and it's a considerable process, and it's a lot of
work. And I've read everything and I'll be making adjustments where I need to adjust. I
appreciate all the information, and the comments and the input. It's very valuable to me and to
our team.
So I think the improvements we've made in the survey are very meaningful because they're
attached very directly to the goals and objectives that are approved and adopted by the Board. So
I think we've made some really good improvements in the tool, and it's-- and particularly, the
comments are really valuable to me. The general comments and things like that. And so I think
the format is good. And I think, overall, it's a good process.
PEGGY CATLIN: That's [INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Well, good. I didn't want you to think we were picking on you.
[LAUGHTER]
LARRY HOY: But he didn't say you didn't [INAUDIBLE]
[LAUGHTER]
DOUG TISDALE: But you didn't quite go that far.
[LAUGHTER]
NATALIE MENTEN: I would like to add something.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Just so we can have chips in time. That was a joke. With the comments
regarding the-- there's one specifically mentioned about the CFO (Chief Financial Officer) is one
individual whose-- the CFO, head of HR (Human Resources)-BARBARA DEADWYLER: What page are you on? [INAUDIBLE].
NATALIE MENTEN: I am on packet page 57. It would be-DAVE GENOVA: I remember. I think I know which one you're reading.

NATALIE MENTEN: --ninth comment down on packet page 57. It talks about the CFO, which
would be Heather, it is also the head of HR. And it said both CFO and CIO, and I don't think-BOB BROOM: Chief Information Officer.
NATALIE MENTEN: I don't think-- is she the CIO?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, she's over IT. So information technology-NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Since there isn't one.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: Reports up through it. So that department-- so Heather is the Chief Financial
Officer, but she's also Assistant General Manager within the administration. So reporting up
through administration, or all the finance aspects-- HR, IT, Treasury-- those are the main groups
that report up through there.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: And it's pretty common. That's pretty common amongst a lot of different
agencies, whether they're transit or not, that that administration function has that set of divisions.
[INAUDIBLE]
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And along that line, then, with Scott Reed's retirement, what is the
current status of the change in-- adding somebody in that role?
DAVE GENOVA: In the Assistant General Manager role?
NATALIE MENTEN: Well, Communications.
DAVE GENOVA: In Communications? So the recruitment, or the posting for the Assistant
General Manager, has closed. And so I'll be getting that packet from Human Resources here very
shortly. We are in the midst of a recruitment for Senior Manager of Media Relations and Public
Affairs. So that will be the primary media person. I'm getting close to doing interviews for that
recruitment.
And then, there was a position where we converted a Senior Manager to a Deputy AGM. I've
changed that back to a Senior Manager. That job's not posted yet, but that will be Senior
Manager of Marketing and Public Relations. And I'm working on that job description and the
materials for that posting now. And I just had somebody else resign in that group.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

That's Tiffany Angell. So she's the Manager of the Digital Group. And then, of course, Dennis
Yaklich, he used to be our Manager over at Market Research, is in the Asset Management
Group. And that's under recruitment now, too.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And I'm wondering about measurement with our Marketing
Department. If we were in a typical type of company, there would be some sort of measurement
on what is, and we've got the Lamar tied into that, too, the advertising firm. What sort of
measurement is there on how much we are making, and then getting-- Lamar, I believe,
[INAUDIBLE] get a minimum, and then we're going to get something that's [INAUDIBLE].
When do we get some sort of a measurement on how we're advertising?
DAVE GENOVA: The advertising contract?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: Well, actually, we're getting ready to put out a new RFP (Request for
Proposals) for digital advertising and the static advertising. And so that will come out-- the
digital will come out this year. Whether it's going to-- whether we're going to have it at the same
time of the static advertising and allow vendors to bid full package or separate packages, we're
still working through that.
So the digital is brand new. So I kind of have a concept of how that's going to work. And the idea
behind that would be that whoever we select to do the digital would do all the investments. So it
would be a form of a P3, really, because they would do the investment and all the information
displays, all the network, the power, conduits. All the costs associated with standing that up
would come out of the advertising revenue for the digital.
And so, this has been-- it's been done very well in about a half a dozen or so transit markets that I
know of. And the way those are appeased. I've seen some differences in those, where there's a
share of the revenue after the costs are paid. And sometimes, that scale slides. So most of those
costs could be recovered at the beginning. And then there is a larger revenue share as the contract
grows. And those contracts are typically a little longer term. It would probably be a five-year
with a five-year option, or maybe even a 10-year contract, depending on what kinds of proposals
we receive.
JEFF WALKER: OK.
DAVE GENOVA: And the static contract has always worked on a guaranteed minimum. And
then, when they hit a certain trigger in advertising funds, then we get a revenue share. But I don't
what it is off the top of my head. But I want to say it's around $3 million, somewhere in that
range. That's the guarantee that we get from Lamar.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, and then, the long, ongoing questions and issues about Union Station
and the wayfinding, and the amount of time that our security spends directing people. Is going to
be in the Conduent? Because I think we need Conduent changes over there to add these things in.
Is that not part of your vision with this new contract going out, and the fixes at Union Station?

DAVE GENOVA: With the digital advertising? Originally, that was part of it. I actually have the
IT group looking at doing some of that separate because it just seems-- it's simpler to handle-- it's
simpler to split the digital advertising from RTD information. So the networks are separate. You
don't get any crossover in that, and we have the most flexibility with the digital advertising
package.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Still, at times having spent-- when we've had certain events and
doing a volunteer shift over there, and watching the amount of the public that-- we're customer
service, but the security team-- is a little bit-- it's hard to say that they're part of that-JEFF WALKER: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: So that's just been a concern for a while. Thank you for that information.
DAVE GENOVA: You're welcome.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Mrs. McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I just wanted to add that, as the recommendation from the Board that
came out of this year, we have changed the Government Relations Committee to
Communications/Government Relations, and the Communications department will be reading
out on an as-needed basis as part of that committee going forward, starting in 2019.
PEGGY CATLIN: I was going to ask about that.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah, there's a lot of good information to share. I think that will be helpful.
JEFF WALKER: All right. Anybody else with anything else?
LARRY HOY: I have a question.
JEFF WALKER: Director Hoy.
LARRY HOY: So maybe it went right over the top of my head. This is directed director at Dave.
What about the marketing of our stations and our facilities? Train lines, bus lines, whatever. Did
you address that in your comments, or is that another, separate contract we need to deal with?
DAVE GENOVA: That's a separate-- that's going to be a separate RFP which we're going to
[INAUDIBLE] redo. Because that contract expires. The firm didn't want to engage in an option.
There was an option that the contract [INAUDIBLE], and they didn't want to engage that option.
So we've been putting it on new contract [INAUDIBLE]. That would be the naming rights and
things like the University of Colorado A Line.

LARRY HOY: I think the naming rights were [INAUDIBLE]. Look at Mile High Stadium. What
would be better than to have your name on the top of Mile High Stadium, and they can't even sell
it? So whoever it is-DOUG TISDALE: Perhaps if the team started winning, it might be easier to sell.
[LAUGHTER]
DAVE GENOVA: We'd have to be more aggressive with it. And we have to look at how we're
valuing those, as well.
LARRY HOY: But I think we did a heck of a job, we got a million a year from CU (University
of Colorado), great deal. They were looking for something to put their name on, that was great.
What we really need, more than anything else, was-- we know there are people out there that
would be interested in some stations. I think they've been reluctant because of the cost.
And I don't have any clout next year, so I'm just talking to the crowd here. It seems, to me, you
got to sell one. It's like a new subdivision in real estate. The first house has to get sold so the
second guy says, well, there's people buying. You need-- anybody have the [INAUDIBLE]?
Anyway, I just want to make sure that we're working on [INAUDIBLE]. That's found revenue.
That's brilliant.
DAVE GENOVA: And that's why we want to do an RFP instead of doing in-house because we
just think we need to be more assertive with it, and we just don't have the capability, with time or
bandwidth, to be doing that in-house.
BARBARA DEADWYLER: Yeah. I was wondering who established those prices because I had
several inquiries over the last couple of years about wanting the station named after their
community. And I'm not sure-- I think it was Scott Reeds that just thumb's-downed it right away.
It's like, they can't afford it. And I'm like, well, how do know what they can afford and what they
can't afford? Well, send them to me and I'll tell-- I'll let them know it's going to be very
expensive. So who set those prices?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, we did an inventory of all of our assets, essentially, that we thought
would be candidates for naming. And it was our consultants that worked through that process
with us, as far as assigning a value range for different kinds of packages, whether it's a whole
line or whether it's a station or something else. But I think we need to review-BARBARA DEADWYLER: So we're still getting $1 million a year for [INAUDIBLE]?
DAVE GENOVA: We are, yes. That was originally a five-year contract, and it has a five-year
option. That was 2016, so we're just in the third year right now.
LARRY HOY: Well, I saw the stations were priced at $80,000 a year or something, and there's
not very many people who are going to step up to pay it.

BARBARA DEADWYLER: Communities can't.
BOB BROOM: Does the Elitch Garden station have an official name? Or is that just-DAVE GENOVA: That is Pepsi Center Station, I believe.
BOB BROOM: It's called Pepsi Center Station.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: If you get in the elevators over there, I don't know that somebody wants
to really take ownership of that one.
DAVE GENOVA: Those aren't ours. Those are-NATALIE MENTEN: I know.
[LAUGHTER]
BOB BROOM: They're pretty [INAUDIBLE].
DAVE GENOVA: But that's all going to get developed, that whole [INAUDIBLE]. Yeah, I think
we need to look at the value and see if there's opportunity to maybe lower those, and get a little
bit more activity. But still price them to where we're getting something of value from them.
JEFF WALKER: Does anybody have any thoughts? OK. So Director Tisdale and I did talk with
Mr. Genova individually because I got tied up. Anyway, we did talk to him. We went over-- I
briefly went over the comments with him, asked for any input. He signed off on our paper that
we says we talked about it. But I think Mr. Genova, like he stated earlier, has a better idea of
what is expected, gaps to fill, hills to knock down, et cetera, in his way forward.
And that's, I think, because of the comments that we received last year and what we got this year.
So thank you all, and all the folks who aren't here, in providing that info. If there's nothing else
from anybody else, I'll wrap up and say I really enjoyed this process. I liked all of the comments
that I've gotten, the discussions that I've had with everybody. The critiques, the criticisms, the
tongue lashings and the [INAUDIBLE] all the same.
[LAUGHTER]
It has been extremely helpful for me as a person, as a Board member. Hopefully, it has shown up
this year, and hopefully, it'll show up in the coming years, the last few years I have here, and in
other parts of my life. So thank you all for this.
Thank you Mrs. McManus and her staff for helping me out, and point me back in the right
direction when I get off track. To Mr. Genova for making this easy, and the rest of the staff I had

the pleasure of dealing with during this process, Mr. Tranguch, also Mr. Yaklich for the first half
of it.
Nobody else has anything? Going once, going twice. All right. We're good. Let's call the meeting
closed, and thank you all very much.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

