Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
June 22, 2017 at 12:00 PM

Executive Committee Agenda
I.

Call to Order
Chair Hoy Called the meeting to order at 12:00 p.m.

II.

Committee members in attendance:

Chair Hoy (remote), 1st Vice-Chair
Francone (remote), 2nd Vice-Chair
Deadwyler (remote), Secretary Walker,
Treasurer Menten (remote)

Other Board members present:

Director Tisdale (remote)

Others present:

General Manager Genova, Executive Manager
Barbara McManus, Board Office Administrator
John McKay

June Board Meeting Agenda Review
Chair Hoy reviewed the Board Meeting agenda for June 27, 2017. He noted the
large number of retirees for June and asked whether they would all attend the
meeting.
General Manager Genova said that only a few would be in attendance.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, said that the confirmed
attendees would be included in the Chair’s script.
Chair Hoy noted that operator John Deschner would be recognized during a special
segment of the Board Meeting, because he was unable to attend the previous
month’s recognition of APTA Bus Roadeo participants. He also noted the section of

the agenda regarding the public hearing process for the 2017 amended budget. He
asked whether there were any expected issues with the items on the unanimous
consent agenda.
Ms. McManus said there were no known issues and stated that the corrections had
already been made to certain items contained in the draft Board Packet.
Director Menten asked whether any Directors had voted no on Item D on the
Unanimous Consent Agenda.
General Manager Genova said that his notes showed that item having passed by a
10 to 0 vote in committee.
Director Francone said that she would abstain from voting on the approval of a
contract for Via Mobility, because one of her family members works for the
company.
Motion:

Director Deadwyler made the motion to approve moving
the June 27th, 2017 Board agenda to the full Board.
Director Walker seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:

III.

The motion passed with 5 in favor (Hoy, Francone,
Deadwyler, Walker, Menten), 0 opposed.

Other Matters
Director Menten asked why General Manager Genova’s quarterly press conference
had been canceled.
General Manager Genova said that the press conference had been scheduled for
Monday, June 19, 2017, but was canceled due to conflicting meetings with the
Federal Railroad Administration (FRA), the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC), and the Federal Transit Administration (FTA). He said he was working with
the Communications Department to reschedule the meeting for the following week.
Chair Hoy mentioned that he and Director Walker recently had a discussion about
expense reports. He said that Director Walker, in his role as Secretary, was the
primary person to sign expense reports. He stated that it is in the Chair’s
prerogative to bring certain expense reports before the Executive Committee and
that he would ask Director Walker to discuss one report in particular.

Director Walker said that, after his discussion with Chair Hoy, he had further
questions that would help determine the validity of expenses and had sent an email
to Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, asking for his interpretation. Director Walker said
that he would like to defer speaking to the expense report until such time as he
could gather more background information.
Chair Hoy agreed and said that the discussion item would be brought up again at a
later date.
Director Deadwyler asked whether the discussion would take place at the next
Executive Committee Meeting.
Director Walker agreed to the discussion at the next month’s meeting but said the
expense report in question might not be part of that discussion.
Director Deadwyler asked Director Walker to clarify whether he was seeking
justification for an expense.
Director Walker said that Directors’ expenses are intended to be for RTD-related
business. He said he is not exactly clear on which items can be considered
business, such as involvement in certain community events.
Chair Hoy clarified that the question at hand was a matter of interpretation and
determination where the line is drawn.
Director Walker agreed and said he would like to know what kinds of expenses to
watch for. He said that he wants a measure of certainty if he is to give his approval
to expense reports.
Director Francone said that she would like to know the outcome of any discussion
on the matter. She said the entire Board should be apprised of the outcome for the
purpose of guidance.
Director Walker agreed.
Chair Hoy said that the topic would be thoroughly discussed but noted there would
always be gray areas.
Director Walker said that the expense report in question was an outlier.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Hoy adjourned the meeting at 12:19 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

