Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Tuesday, February 10, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Tom Tobiassen

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 8:45 p.m. He introduced
Director Menten as the Committee Vice Chair and thanked Director Walker, who served as
Committee Chair for the past couple of years.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Arrived
Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta

Director, District L
Director, District C

Present
Present

8:47 PM
8:48 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Director, District B

Present
Present

8:45 PM
8:45 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Present

8:46 PM
8:47 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

8:45 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

8:47 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow

Director, District G
Director, District I

Absent
Present

8:48 PM

Natalie Menten

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

8:44 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

8:44 PM
8:45 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Committee Chair

Present

8:44 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

8:46 PM

Director Lasater was absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jeff Becker, Lacy Bell, Larry Buter, Jessie Carter, Rick
Clarke, Carolyn Conover, Lee Cryer, Nathan Diaz, Martell Dyles, John
Elias, Terry Emmons, Steve Gieske, Dave Genova, Mike Gil, Lou Ha,
Kim Heldman, Ann-Marie Isaac-Heslop, Erin Klaas, Sheri Le, Nadine
Lee, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Eric Miller, Vivian
Morales, Brenden Morgan, Amanda Murray, Dave Ober, Linda Ober,
Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Jan Ross, Zamy Silva, Greg Smith,
Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington

Others Present:

Audrey DeBarros, Adrina Gibson, Joni Goheen, Sherman Hamilton,
Eugene Howard, Tina Jaquez, Daryl Kinton, Mica Maniece, Elizabeth
Murphy, Dan Pearsall, Dave Sacks, Marta Sipeki, Faye Tate, Joe
Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Dace West

B. Recommended Actions
No recommended actions were presented.

C. Updates

• Fourth Quarter 2014 Internal Audit Report
Ann-Marie Isaac-Heslop, Manager for Internal Audit, referred the Directors to
the Fourth Quarter 2014 Completed Audit Summary Statements and the
Follow – Up Report as included in the February 10, 2015 Financial
Administration & Audit Committee Agenda packet. The summary
statements included were:
 Allied Barton Security Services LLC Audit
 Carter Burgess/Jacobs Engineering Group Inc. Audit
 CDW (Computer Discount Warehouse) Government Contract Audit
 Contract and Temporary Employees Audit
 Dataman USA LLC Audit
 Denver Transit Partners – DIA (Continuous Monitoring)
 IGA and CAM Agreements Audit
 Kiewit Infrastructure Company – I225 (Continuous Monitoring)
 Purchasing Card Audit – Information Technology
 Smart Card Stored Value Development Process Audit
 Veolia Transportation Services Fuel Audit.

Director Hoy noted that he had to sign a couple of checks for Allied Barton
Security Services, LLC., which were very complicated. He said that staff
and auditors are doing a great job.

• Cybersecurity Update (MacLeod/Heldman)
Doug MacLeod, Acting Chief Financial Officer, introduced Sheri Le, Manager
for Cybersecurity and Kim Heldman, Senior Manager for Information
Technology (IT). Sheri Le reviewed the Cybersecurity presentation included
in the February 10, 2015 Financial Administration & Audit Committee
Agenda packet. The presentation included the top 6 areas Directors need to
pay attention to regarding Cybersecurity:
 Cybersecurity Framework
 Cybersecurity Risks
 Employee Cybersecurity Awareness
 Cybersecurity Threat Analysis
 Security Governance
 Incident Response
The presentation also included Future Focus, Hot Topics, and Key Take
Aways.
Director Bagley said he assumes there are conferences and discussions with
other transit agencies about Cybersecurity and best practices. He
wondered, given the recent Cybersecurity issues with health care facilities, if
there are any threats specific to transit agencies defined in the past couple
of years. Sheri Le said that so far there is not anything specific to transit.
However, transit needs to be aware of other types of threats, such as data
breaches like the one in New York, which compromised personnel
information in early 2014.
Director Folska mentioned that it was comforting to know that Sheri Le is in
charge of Cybersecurity and that there is a plan looking forward. She added
that the Directors were recently given a presentation of the “Internet of
Things”(IoT). She also saw a 60 Minutes episode related to the IoT about
the Department of Defense (DOD) and DARPA’s hacking into cars to prove
automakers are not securing them. Director Folska wondered if RTD is
vulnerable to those kinds of attacks. Sheri Le replied that those types of
attacks require a very sophisticated attacker. RTD would be fooling itself by
believing that no one would attack as anything is possible. Sheri Le noted
that there are multiple, simpler layers to address before avoiding an attack of
that magnitude. She said that her original research when she first started at
RTD involved investigating highly sensitive threats, such as if an outside
program could move a train. Her conclusion was that it could happen but it
is not easy. She pointed out that her job is to add as many layers and doors
as possible in order to stop an attacker as early as possible.

Director Hoy recalled the breach of Point of Sales (POS) machines last fall at
a couple of light rail stations where customer credit card information was
compromised. He pointed out that RTD could be a target for many reasons,
including the security of the Front Range and the operation of the City and
County of Denver and other Metro area cities. Director Hoy wondered if
there have been any outside breaches at RTD. Sheri Le replied that there
have been breaches but nothing has precipitated to a safety issue that might
harm individuals. Director Hoy pointed out that a lesson to learn from those
attacks is to change shields. Sheri Le added that once an attack happens
RTD needs to engage in incident response: stop the attack, notify the
appropriate parties and authorities, assess what needs to happen, and
assess the damage. She said that the next step after mitigating the attack
would be to figure out how to prevent such attacks from happening. The
final step would be to do a forensic assessment on how they got into the
system. She pointed out that as a defender the goal is to make access
difficult so the attacker can be stopped as they approach before they get to
what is really valuable.
Committee Chair Tobiassen noted that Cybersecurity is what he has been
doing with the DOD for the past 20 years. He pointed to the Snowden case
as a watershed moment for the DOD. He is glad to see Sheri Le on the
team as she brings serious expertise in this area. Committee Chair
Tobiassen would like to instill Cybersecurity as a priority for Senior
Management and the Directors in order to provide all the necessary
resources. He thanked Sheri Le and her team for their work and for starting
to develop a culture of security at all levels.

• Fourth Quarter 2014 Investment Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer, introduced
Brenden Morgan, Manager of Debt & Investments. They referred the
Directors to the Fourth Quarter Investment Report included in the February
10, 2015 Financial Administration & Audit Committee Agenda packet.
Committee Chair Tobiassen pointed out that it seems to be a good time to
borrow money. He added that the funds are not making a lot of money due
to low interest rates.

• December 2014 Monthly Financial Status Report
Doug MacLeod, Controller and Acting Chief Financial Officer, presented the
unaudited December 2014 Monthly Financial Status Report as included in
the February 10, 2015 Financial Administration & Audit Committee Agenda
packet. He pointed out the variance on the 16th Street Mall Shuttle, which
is attributed to the Free Metro Ride, the variance on the West Line, and the
variance of Fare Revenue.

Director Bagley noted that the Fare Revenue has gone down significantly.
He speculated it could be due to the reduced cost of gas. He asked the
Directors to take this into consideration as the Board works to balance the
budget as well as the Fare Study recommendations. Director Bagley asked
Doug MacLeod when the CU-Boulder Leeds School of Business would
present to the Board next. Doug MacLeod noted that they are scheduled for
the March Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting.

D. Other Matters
No other matters were presented.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 17, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 9:10 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

