PlanningCapital Programs _ FasTracks
Committee - 4-6-2021
SHELLEY COOK: OK if everybody's ready, I'll go ahead and call to order the Planning, Capital Programs,
and FasTracks Committee as of 7:10 Mountain Daylight Time, and I would respectfully ask everybody
attending the meeting to be sure you're still muted unless you're recognized to speak. Just in case the
committee meetings are posted separately, I always like to read the first part of the script.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety,
and welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via
Zoom. It will be audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of
the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and
scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to the Board of Directors page.
And I would note also that the Communications Team have now been posting-- via YouTube-- the
meetings so they're more instantly accessible. And thank you all for that. Thanks for the suggestion that
gave that.
So, on our committee meeting tonight we have three recommended actions. The first one is the Aurora
CELO Annexation, and I'll read that first. It's for the Board of Directors to approve the revised boundary
map of the Regional Transportation District and authorize the Board Secretary to certify the boundary
map and description. It's further recommended that the newly annexed area to RTD, pursuant to the
provisions of CRS 32-9-106.61B, be included in Director District F, that is Director Broom's district. Do I
have a motion?
BOBBY DISHELL: So moved, Dishell.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second, Rivera-Malpiede.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Motion and a second. And then I have a presentation here by Chris Quinn, it looks
like. Is Mr. Quinn on the line?
CHRIS QUINN: Yes I am. Can you hear me?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please go ahead.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you. First of all, my apologies. My power went out just a few minutes ago. Rarely
ever happens. So if I do disappear, my apologies in advance. This is a relatively straightforward action
that we're requesting from the Board. As the Board report indicates, since 1992, any time a local
jurisdiction that's on the edge of the RTD boundary-- any time they annex new territory, that territory
automatically comes into the district. In this case, we're talking about approximately 20 acres that's been
annexed into the city of Aurora. Far and away the closest Director District as indicated in the report is
Director District F, Director Broom's. So our recommendation would be that the new area be assigned to
his district.
So that's really essentially what we're asking for. I'd be happy to respond to any questions that you may
have.

SHELLEY COOK: OK. I don't see any hands so far. Anybody have any questions of Mr Quinn? Looks like
Mr. Rosenthal. Go ahead, Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. And so what is being planned for that piece of property, that 20 acres?
CHRIS QUINN: The zoning that's associated with the annexation is R2 zoning, which in Aurora allows
single family, duplex, and, I think, even some limited multifamily residential, as long as there's a minimum
lot size of 3,000 square feet per unit associated with that. Doing a real rough calculation, that would
permit approximately-- once roads and other open spaces are accounted for, that would allow for
approximately 10 plus units per acre. But it is residential with very limited commercial uses. The property
has not yet been platted or subdivided.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And finally, do you think there's an expectation that there would be bus service to
that area?
CHRIS QUINN: Currently, there is-- we have no services anywhere near there. I believe the nearest
service would be roughly the P, quite a bit to the east, so. I would think in the near term, probably no
expectation-- this is me speculating-- probably in the near term no expectation for service, given just how
far out it is from the rest of the metro area.
SHELLEY COOK: Any other questions, Director Rosenthal. OK, good deal. Then we have Director
Broom. Go ahead, please.
BOB BROOM: I think I'm unmuted now. When will the census information come out, and when will the
redistricting process commence?
CHRIS QUINN: Well, ordinarily it would be coming out around now. There has been some delays in the
release of the information, and we think that it may possibly not be released until September 30. We are
right now in the process of hiring a consultant to help us with the redistricting effort. In fact, we received
last week, I believe it was, four or five proposals for that effort. And the selection committee will actually
be meeting tomorrow. One of the things we want to do is once we get a new consultant-- once we get the
consultant on board, is start strategizing how we will be able to meet the deadline of, I believe, March 5 of
next year, given the delays in the release of the data. We have a couple of ideas ourselves but we, also
want to, like I said, get input from the consultant. And then we would likely come back to the Board as
well for your input, because it will be a challenge to meet the March 5 deadline of 2022.
BOB BROOM: Thanks. I got redistricted out of my old city council district. So everybody needs to watch
this.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I agree.
CHRIS QUINN: In the past, one of the guiding principles we have used is that no sitting Director can be
redistricted out of their own district. So we're assuming that will continue.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. Hey Chris, one question that I have is
understanding that this whole new census is really delayed, is the software package that we are going to
have to have in place to make sure that we're able to navigate all the plats and stuff that are necessary in
order to look at the redistricting. Is that part of the RFP?
CHRIS QUINN: At least on my end you kind of broke up a little bit. Did you say plans? I didn't quite hear
all of that.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: No, I said is this is there going to be a software package as part of the
consulting to make sure that we have everything in place to do our job expediently?
CHRIS QUINN: Oh, yes. Recognizing the challenges we're going to have, whoever is selected, like I said,
we will have to sit down with them and come up with some kind of strategy to see how we can move
forward. And obviously we would bring that to you as well for your input but given the constraints that we
have, we're going to have some real challenges.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah. OK, thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, I don't see any other hands. We had a motion by Director Dishell and a second by
Chair Rivera-Malpiede. And it looks like it's a pretty straightforward issue. And so what I do is ask if there
is anybody opposed to the motion, please say your name. OK, it looks like we have unanimous approval
on that one. Thank you, Mr. Quinn. Appreciate it.
CHRIS QUINN: Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: All right our second one is about the RTD Reimagine guiding principles. So let me go
ahead and read the recommended action. It's for the Board of Directors to adopt guiding principles to
create a framework for decision making for the mobility plan for the future element of the Reimagine RTD
project. We had a presentation on this a while back and had indicated then that these would be coming
forward. So I will go ahead and see if there's a motion for approval.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So to move.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. All right. We have a presentation here it looks like both General Manager and
CEO Debra Johnson and Assistant General Manager Bill Van Meter. Go ahead, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook. Debra Johnson, General Manager and CEO.
As you stated in your opening remarks, we had the opportunity to have a discussion around the guiding
principles as it relates to Reimagine RTD, which is more or less a comprehensive operations analysis.
And in relationship to the guiding principles, since the time in which we presented this there's been ample
discussion that was had amongst our Advisory Committee and Technical Working Committee, which Mr.
Van Meter will speak to. At this juncture, I just want to briefly remind you all of the guiding principles and
the intent for supporting principles, relative to those being the foundation upon which decision making
should be had when we look at our various aspects of planning our core business function.
So when we talk about mobility, for all intents and purposes, relative to what that really means, we're
trying to look at it from the vantage point of enhancing the quality of life. When we speak about equity in
this sense, I want to be clear and what the intent here is, which is more or less public transit-- if I can
speak, public transportation being the great societal equalizer. As we know a lack of public transportation
can have a disproportionate impact on working in low income communities. And so when we talk about
public transport, it is the vehicle in which can provide people to higher educational opportunities and
places of business and things of the like.
When we talk about the financial aspect, we're looking to be good stewards of taxpayer dollars and
leveraging our resources in a prudent manner. More or less partnerships are paramount, be they public or
private. As we look to leverage this going forward, we need to look through the lens of seeing things as
being complementary and not competing, as we look to enhance service to our entire region.

And then work force. As you know Ms. Tonilas spoke about, in the previous meeting, the whole aspect of
our People Moving People Campaign. Well that's what constitutes this organization. Without people
moving people, we couldn't serve other people. And so as we go down this road, we have to ensure that
we are leveraging the great ideas. And we're taking that first and foremost top of mind as we leverage
various options, as we look at our components of service delivery. And last but not least, sustainability
should be top of mind as well as we look to ensuring that we are doing our part and reducing the carbon
footprint. So with that as the backdrop, wanted to ensure that we were cognizant of those facts because
that basically for me and my role are the key foundations-- the key foundation that we should be utilizing.
So with that as a backdrop, I will yield the floor to Mr. Van Meter, who could speak more specifically about
he and his team's work relative to our respective groups in reference to reimagining the Regional
Transportation District. Thank you very kindly. Mr. Van Meter.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you, General Manager Johnson. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General
Manager for Planning.
So as noted in the Board report, the Reimagine RTD Technical Working Group and the Reimagine RTD
Advisory Committee reviewed the draft guiding principles on March 10 and 11. We received favorable
feedback about the proposed principles at both meetings. Most of the discussion and comments centered
around an interest for more details or specificity to be added to the guiding principles. The team's
response is that this can and will be accomplished in the future through the development of specific
outcomes strategies and metrics for each guiding principle, which are future steps once the guiding
principles are established.
Just to give you a recap of some of those specifics and topics that were discussed at the Technical
Working Group and Advisory Committee: topics that were discussed included efficient and fast service,
service coverage, economic growth, development, and access to employment centers, goal or desire to
increase transit mode share, and interest and concern about workforce health and well-being. There was
also a suggestion that we could consider adding an additional guiding principle on economic
development. And some members perceived some potential conflict or tensions between some of the
guiding principles.
So the teams approach to addressing those specifics is that, one, we do not see a conflict between the
principles of our attention. And we're confident that these guiding principles set a framework that will, as I
noted, allow us to develop specific outcomes strategies and metrics to address the topics that were
discussed. And we do not think that adding a separate guiding principle on economic development is
necessary or appropriate. The issue of access to large employment centers, which was the primary issue
that was raised at the Technical Working Group meeting, can be addressed under the mobility and other
guiding principles. We're not saying ignore it, it just doesn't rise to the level of a guiding principle.
So in summary, we received favorable feedback on the guiding principles and have a plan to address the
specific comments received within the Reimagine process as we proceed. So, wanted to make sure you
heard those comments and input from those two working group and committee. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. OK. Open it up for discussion. Any directors have any questions
or certainly the Reimagine members if you have anything you'd like to add to the discussion already
presented. Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm not a Reimagine member so I'm happy to offer the floor
to those folks, if they'd like to chime in first.

SHELLEY COOK: Nobody else is raising their hand yet. So go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, great. This is just a quick comment, because we have the opportunity to hear
from the CAC this evening. I hope that we might be able to utilize the CAC and the two disability
committees that we have to maybe help us get to that level of specificity that the Technical Working
Group and the Advisory Committee might have reference for these principles. I just think that'd be a really
great opportunity for us to better engage the committees that we have currently, that meet on a regular
basis. Other than that, I don't have any questions.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Mr. Van Meter or Ms. Johnson, do either one have anything to add to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very, much Director Cook. I support the comments that Director Lewis
outlined and have spoken with Mr Van Meter and the team about leveraging our constituency, specifically
our advisement committees in this capacity. So thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. Director Buzek. Oh sorry, Bill, did I cut you off? Go ahead.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Sorry. Thank you, Chair. Bill Van Meter, AGM planning. And no, I was just going
to say something very similar to General Manager Johnson's comments. We have reached out to the
CAC and other advisory committees and intend to and will continue to do that for feedback throughout the
process.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you very much Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And I just want to ensure that certain things will be covered within
these guiding principles. They're pretty broad, and so I would imagine a lot of topics not specifically
delineated will continue to be addressed. For me, the concept of geographic equity and coverage is
important as that concept is embodied in the last three words of our mission statement. And also as new
land use and developments in the central metro district begin to take hold and continue to spread, that
results in communities of color, marginalized communities, and economically challenged communities to
relocate and move outside of the core metro area to suburban areas. And many of these people are
transit dependent. So I want to make sure that as we consider all of these things, there's still this concept
of geographic equity and coverage to ensure that the people that need the coverage the most, that don't
happen to be located in the core of the Denver area, will also be considered. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Mr. Bill Van Meter or CEO Johnson, either one of you care to comment
there?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So as we talk about the concept of geographical equity-- and I appreciate the
comments by Director Buzek-- I think that's embodied within mobility because as we look at mobility
options collectively for the entire service area, that speaks to that. So as we look at equity, as I said in my
other-- in my previous comments, that is the social equity aspect of removing barriers, provide access to
people, places, and things, right. And so those comments aren't lost but I think that's a broader discussion
as relates to the Board, because as we look at the guiding principles, for all intents and purposes, we
want to ensure that the communities that are marginalized do have access to public transport. As we
know that helps stimulate the economy by getting people to work, and things of the like.
But it's not lost on us as it relates to the conversation that has ensued amongst this body, relative to
providing transit services holistically to the region, because nobody's just traveling within one specific
local jurisdiction. You're generally traversing various boundaries. So I put that out there to you all as the
response, as it relates to the notion behind what geographic equity is. I don't want to go down a rabbit
hole here, but recognizing when we talk about geographic equity, if that was the case, that everything

would be the same. And equity really is about fairness, and equality is about having the same. So when
you say geographic equity, it's sort of oxymoronic in that regard. So that's why I qualified my statement
around mobility, providing options for the entire region. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. And, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: My question is for Director Buzek. I just want to make sure that I'm hearing and
understanding your concerns properly. Would you mind defining geographic equity in the way that you
use it and understand it?
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Mr. Van Meter.
VINCE BUZEK: We have a discussion, Madame Chair. Do you want me to respond?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh he was asking you, forgive me.
VINCE BUZEK: I think he asked me. I think he asked me the question.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Director Buzek. You're the one who used the term. I just want to make sure I'm
understanding it.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure, go ahead, please.
VINCE BUZEK: Sure. And I thought I made it clear with the rest of my comments, but in case I didn't, let
me be more clear. That there are marginalized communities, economically challenged communities in
places all over the RTD, not just in the core of the Denver area. And so my goal is to make sure that we
address the transit needs of those people that may not be geographically centered in the district. That
help?
BOBBY DISHELL: That helps. Yeah. Sounds like if it's about people's needs and making sure people
have what they need. That sounds a lot like social equity. Thank you for clarifying that for us.
SHELLEY COOK: OK Thank you both. And Director Davidson, you were next.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair. I just wanted to, first of all, make a comment. I said at the
Reimagine meeting, there were some really great discussions about specific strategies, and what it
sounded like to me is there was a lot of desire for a lot of folks to get into those strategies, which starts to
suggest that we're on the right track with the principals here, that there's some consensus and its
triggering ideas. Mr. Van Meter, I was wondering if you could just kind of comment on the next steps with
strategies, the timeline, the engagement, the communication of those, sort of what comes next in terms of
the definition of those strategies and how they'll be developed within and outside of the Reimagine group.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Thank you. This is Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager planning. So, with
the establishment-- or presumed establishment of these guiding principles and endorsement by the
Board, we will then be able to use those guiding principles and start discussing with the Advisory
Committee and the Technical Working Group specific metrics and measures and strategies, and start to
test them and the tensions and the natural tensions that may arise and trade offs and start having those
discussions. The intent would be to start that process in the May-June time frame, and to engage, as to
Director Lewis's point earlier, our disability committees, our Citizens Advisory Committees, other engaged
stakeholders, as well as the Advisory Committee and Technical Working group, and to keep this body
apprised of those discussions through the summer. So that's a bit on timing and process and next steps.
Did that answer your question?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. And Chair Rivera-Malpiede, you had your hand up. Nope,
you're still muted.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Sorry Thank you, Madam Chair. I put it down because I think the discussion
has been very good. But the piece about-- that I'm hearing Director Buzek talk about is gentrification, in
terms of the folks who have been pushed out of the city and into the further parts of the region to relocate.
So I just wanted to put that in there. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Dr. Guissinger. You're muted.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis was next.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, sorry about that. Director Lewis, forgive me.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's all good. Thank you Director Guissinger. Thank you, Madam Chair. I was
actually going to say something very similar to Director Rivera-Malpiede. And I'm sure Mr. Van Meter is
familiar with this term, because you talked about it quite a bit with communities being displaced from their
neighborhoods. And so there might be an opportunity for us as a Board to be provided with, or to provide
ourselves with, an understanding of the suburbanization of poverty, because I think that's what we're
talking about here. And so to your point, Director Buzek there might be some-- I don't know if it comes
within the Reimagine RTD process, or if it's education that we present on our own, but I do know that Mr.
Van Meter and his team is quite familiar with that term and how that might apply as we are moving
forward and being able to offer transit to the residents within the Regional Transportation District.
And then the second one is, I was able to locate-- through the city of Oakland-- a geographic equity
toolbox. And so the Geographic Equity Toolbox is actually quite different than how we might think about
how we define that. And so I'm happy to send that around to the Board, because it really does touch on
the misunderstanding of social equity and removing access to barriers. And in fairness, quite specifically,
I'm for a myriad of different identities and different demographics. So it might be helpful for us as a Board
as we move forward. That's it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. And, Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I think there's some really good comments. I've been thinking
about this idea of geographic equity a little bit in the last couple of weeks, because the idea had come up
earlier but it conflicts with social equity. And I guess this is just a placeholder. I think this is a discussion
we need to. Have I'd like to see us not call it equity-- equity has a meaning-- it's a term that does mean
really social equity and deals with those issues. It may be something else. But just a placeholder that at
some point, we should have a discussion about what we're talking about. Is it a geographic fairness? It is
it something else? Vince gave a good definition, but it's something to be looked at in the future. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you much. And, Director Lewis, your hand is still up. OK, good. Any other
questions or comments? I guess I'd add a couple of things. One, I'm glad to the approach of the use of
principles-- guiding principles. It was something that was a little bit different for us when we faced that the
problem of the reduced revenues last year. And it turned out to be really helpful. So I'm glad that you're
using that as a framework for moving ahead with Reimagine. Thank you for that. And I really appreciated
Director Shontel Lewis's finding that geographic equity tool, because I'd also run across it.
And what that made me realize is that I think of it in two ways. I think of it in the way that the geographic
equity toolbox or toolkit anticipates, where you're looking at whether there are disparate impacts of
investments or services, and so forth. And that's in keeping with what Director Buzek had said. But then I
think there also is this question of fairness that goes to expectations and whether or not-- how we make
sure that we address the coverage versus ridership question, and where we are on that spectrum. So I
just I'm hoping that within the Reimagine that there is a way to take that up, at least part of it. And maybe-

- if it's to be outside of it-- maybe one thought is to engage the CAC. I could see that group having some
really interesting thoughts about how we define that and how we address that question and balance it
with these other interests. So when Director Lewis said we could engage them directly I thought, well,
there is one that would be a really important and interesting and meaty topic that maybe we could take
advantage of the brainpower there and the experience, and so forth.
So, OK. If there are no other questions or comments, I'd like to go around and get everybody's vote, if I
may. We had a motion by Chair -Malpiede and a second by Director Bouquet. So I'll go ahead and get
votes, please. Director Bouquet, how do you vote?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And, Director Williams? She's absent, so we'll note that. Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: And I'm a yes. So with a vote of 14 present voting yes, one absent, that passes
unanimously. Thank you and congratulations on that one.
So we have one more action item. Switch back and forth to my agenda. This one is regarding the
Triunity/Hill Joint Venture contract extension and value increase. I'll read the recommended action. It's for
the RTD Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager to approve a contract amendment to
exercise all remaining option years of the Triunity/Hill Joint Venture agreement, for construction
management support consulting services for FasTracks and based system operations, extending the
contract end date to July, 13 2024 and increasing the contract value by $3 million, to a total not-to-exceed
value of $37,400,000.

And I'll first see if we have a motion for approval.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Whitmore.
BOB BROOM: Second, Broom.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you very much. And I'll go ahead to Henry Stopplecamp, AGM for Capital
Programs. Go ahead, Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you, Madam Chair. Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital Programs. So
before you tonight is a request for the approval of the Triunity/Hill Joint Venture contract extension and
value increase. It's pretty much spelled out within the Board report. But back in April of 2014, the RTD
Board approved the selection of Triunity/Hill as extension of staff, with the funding coming from the
individual project. So we're not funding it a separate line item, that's being funded out of the projects that
have been approved by the RTD Board.
This was for a six year contract with four one year options. We've exercised the first option. But now we're
in the closing phase of several of the FasTracks corridors, and it's critical to retain the team that worked
through the process, so we can close out those projects expeditiously with the right information.
Triunity/Hill also provides base system support on some of the base projects, and we'll continue to do that
over the next couple of years. As I've mentioned the original contract was funded from the individual
projects. This will continue the same way. So the bottom line is the request for the approval for exercising
the option years into 2024 and increase the contract value by $3 million. With that, any questions?
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Dishell, go ahead.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. And I have a few questions. First is, I'm assuming that they need
to stay on because our other projects ran late. And in that case, are we receiving liquidated damages or
other offsets from those developers, so that we don't need to keep coming out of pocket for the sense of
$3 million?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: May I, Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Oh, yes. Please go ahead.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: OK, great question. Some of it is tied into contracts running longer. The big
one is the North Metro, so Triunity/Hill has been a key member of our team on that project. We are
tracking the costs associated with it, but unfortunately on that particular project the liquidated damages
are only $300,000 for the entire project. But we are tracking and if we can regain those funds we will be
doing so. But as of right now, this is just a continuation to close out the projects. A lot of the activities
would have happened a couple of years ago or now. It's the same activity. We don't get paid for an
annual salary for the individuals, only the work that they provide. So there has been some that have
dropped off the project and have come back on to the project.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, a follow up question, which is-- we had original not to exceed our GMP of $15.1
million, and now we're at over 100% of that with this increase to $37 million. And maybe General Counsel
Snyder could talk about this. But what are we doing to sort of prevent these-- what I view as cost
overruns? Especially as we start thinking about larger projects, a cost overrun of 100% is, I don't think
fiscally there.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well I would say that it's not necessarily cost overrun, it's adding additional
work to the contractor as far as other projects. There has been definitely cost overrun on the North Metro
corridor, but overall this is adding additional work. And that's what it was entailed for as extensions of

staff. So whether we provided the work to-- or they provided the services to us or we go out in the street,
we still needed the additional support for the RTD staff.
BOBBY DISHELL: My last question, which might just be my inability to count. We had a six year contract
at 2014. We approved a one year extension last year, which was in 2021. So is this action asking us to
authorize and exercise the three remaining options to get us to 2024?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That's what we're asking for: the three remaining options so we don't come
back to the Board next year for probably another $900,000. It works out about a million dollars a year to
clean up these projects. But it's a step just to go ahead and wrap it up, so we don't come back to the
Board. The Board does approve all the budget for the individual projects. So the Board does have a say
in that aspect.
BOBBY DISHELL: And I know I said the last one was the last one. These funds you said are coming from
the project that's already budgeted. So just so I'm understanding, this money is coming from-- to the
extent it's not already in that budget, it would be coming from FISA account. That this is a FasTracks
project, is that correct?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: No it's actually already in the budget. So North Metro, for example, has a
budget that will cover this portion of work. If you approve working on Northwest Rail, for example, and we
need to bring in additional support, the budget that's set up for the Northwest Rail will also take care of
our RTD staff and a little bit of this proj-- staff on here. There are some planning aspects that are already
budgeted in the overall RTD budget, and those items offset the-- or they don't offset, but they fund this
contract as needed.
BOBBY DISHELL: OK. Nothing further. Thank you so much. I really appreciate it. Thank you also to the
staff about-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Director Dishell actually asked the first part of my question,
regarding the six year contract with the four year-- with the four one year options. And I was curious as to
why-- I think in the past we've approved the one year options each time as a Board. This is a bit different
and I'm just curious as to why the difference.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: The difference-- we can come back each one year. We figure that as we're
wrapping up the projects and closing them out, we'd like to reduce the dependency on the contractor. But
it's a more of a procedural than anything else. You're already approving the budget for the various
projects. So we thought that this may be a way to speed up the process and take one more thing off of
your plate. But we can do a one year option and bring it back every year if that's the desire of the Board.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I don't know what the Board desires. But I do have one follow up question for you,
Henry. Well you said to Director Dishell's question that it was more work that was being added to the
contract. And so is the assumption that in the years that we would preapprove that work would remain
steady? Or are you leaving room within the contract in the event that more work is needed? I'm just
wanting to better understand.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So what we did is looked at the next three years of projects that we know we
need the support from and projects that we believe that may arise. Northwest Rail is one example. So we
have put some funds aside. And if those projects happen, then we will use that project budget to pay
Triunity for the support. One of our challenges we've had in the past as we've reduced staff and close our

projects-- we've had to rely on, especially Triunity for a document control scheduling and claim support for
a couple of our projects. But with the looking ahead, I do not believe we'll have to come back to the
Board. And our goal would be to-- depending on the workload in a couple of years, to go ahead and go
back out on the street for another support contract.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Understood. And so you said that the project in the next three years would be winding
down, but that the ask right now is for three years as though that would stay steady? Am I understanding
that correctly?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: It's contract authority. So we sit down with our contractor every year-- the
consultant every fall, and we look at the workload that is needed for the following year. And we do a
change order to their contract, based on the needs going forward. And so as far as that goes it is not
steady. Most of the work should be completed on North Metro and closed out this year. There are some
before and after studies that may be required. There's some in here for TOD support. We've got some
line items in there for Northwest Rail if we need it. If we don't use the contractor to do-- if we don't do a
particular task, the contractor does not get paid for that task. So this is a not to exceed on a work order
type contract.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. Henry, how many more lines do we have to close out? I know
the R Line still needs to be closed out. But how many lines are there that still need work?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So the R Line we're down to a little bit of right of way-- for exchange of right of
away, and then that project is closed out. The Eagle project, there are a couple open items on the
construction side and balancing out the grant funding. Putting the appropriate line items where they need
to be and closing that out for the construction. And then that kind of rolls into the operations side. And
then we've got SERE, Southeast Rail Extension. We are actually talking with the contractor for final
acceptance in the next month or so. And a couple IGAs, and that one should be wrapped up. And then
we've got I think we're down to about 10 punch list times on the North Metro. Some as builts need to be
turned over, document control. And that will be closed out probably within the next six months.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Lewis, your hand's still up. Do you have any other questions? OK, and
that's good for you, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: All right. With no further discussion, I would go ahead and proceed to the vote. And let
me just ask if there are any opposed, please announce your name. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, opposed.
SHELLEY COOK: OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
SHELLEY COOK: And Director Lewis. Let me just go through since we do have-- it looks like it will be a
split vote. So, going from the end. Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Sloan?

MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: No.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm a yes.
SHELLEY COOK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and I'm a yes also. And so with 14 present, 12 voted yes, two voted no, the
dissenters being Director Lewis and Director Dishell. So that passes 12 to 2. Thank you very much
everybody. All righty, that's it for our action items. We move on to discussion items. And the first one is
emergency preparedness. And this is in the wake of the Texas, loss of power Director Broom requested
an update about our own emergency preparedness in that event. So the staff have gone ahead and
prepared a good update for us. Go ahead, Mr. Henry Stopplecamp.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Once again, thank you, Madam Chair. Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital
Programs. As the Chair mentioned, this is to address the question that Director Broom brought up on the
February 9 customer service meeting, dealing with the cold snap that we had here in Colorado and down
in Texas. So what I tried to do was put together a outline that is provided in the Board packet-- starts on
page 89. And I'll go through it real quick, and then open up for discussion.
Basically the design parameters for Texas and Colorado are different. They have their own highs and
lows on temperature, for example. We go a lot cooler and not as high as Texas. Wind loads or a little bit
higher down Texas than here. So, different regions have different design parameters but we did look
through staff-- did some research on design criteria down in Texas. And the conditions for temperature for
us, we design minus 30 to 110 degrees. This is what we do on a regular basis. So we routinely operate
below 0 degrees. We have our resources that are trained to support the engineer-- the agency's core
function.
Within the Capital Programs department we've got 65 FM mechanics that are responsible for preventive
maintenance and also dealing with non scheduled work emergencies. We've got licensed electricians,
plumbers, carpentry individuals. We've got heating and ventilation. They deal with our boilers. And then

we also have a team of engineers and construction folks to provide support as needed. So RTD has
backup generators across the system. So all our facilities have backup generators. They are serviced
weekly. What I mean by service-- we actually run them and check them out. We've got a building
automation system that's going out there across the system. Most of our generators are already tied to
the building automation system. It sends a signal to the FM supervisor's phone and computers saying that
the generator has been turned on and tested. If there's any problems we get our FM mechanics out there
to look at it and take care of it. The boilers across the system-- in our bus facilities, our boilers are actually
set up to handle natural gas and diesel.
So during that cold spell, Xcel reached out to us ahead of time and said, could you transfer from natural
gas and go on to diesel. We have diesel storage tanks out there. The backup generators to cover the
fueling for the buses and the generators. So we switched over, had no problems. So the boilers,
generators, uninterrupted power supplies are all set up for our critical systems. And then along with the
team of professionals we've got on call contractors that can help out as needed. But we have over 100
vehicles from pull vehicles, Jeeps, light, heavy duty trucks, snow removal, front end loaders. The Capital
Programs FM side does all the snow removal at our fixed facilities. And then we contract it out and our
park and rides and stations. But we do have a lot of equipment and trained operators for that equipment.
And it's all backed up by several documents that outline the roles and responsibilities. We've got a FM
facilities maintenance plan, a snow plan, and we do also have a Capital Programs standard operating
procedure for emergency situations.
So with that information are there any questions?
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom. Your hand's up. Nope, you're muted.
BOB BROOM: There I go. This satisfies my basic question. And the thing I would point out is the one
thing that we don't have backup for is for the rail side. We don't have backup generators to keep rail
going. So the bus system could stay intact, except that they would have to go out and pick up people that
were stranded on the rail if the grid went down for any period of time. But it's too expensive to have that
kind of backup or batteries or whatever it might entail. Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: And if I may, we do have substations that are fed by different districts. Now if
the whole town goes down and Xcel stops providing power to all our substations, then we have some
challenges in place. But we do have a pretty good working relationship with Xcel. So if there was going to
be a massive shutdown or a rolling blackout, we would be notified and at that point would be pulling our
trains into the stations and stopping at that point.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I guess the big concern I would have is not so much Xcel, but somebody getting on
the Xcel system from Scandinavia or someplace, and shutting the thing down. And then taking a
considerable period of time to bring the whole system back up.
SHELLEY COOK: Mr. Stopplecamp, any comment there?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: On that one there, I can't control those that may shut down Xcel. I will say that
we do have backup plans. We have evacuation routes. We know how to get our buses into the system.
And so, our goal would be to pull our patrons off the train in a safe, reliable manner. But on this particular
one, we really can't control that aspect.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Any other questions, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: No Thank. You.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Davidson.

ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Director Broom, for asking the question
about rail. That was one of the questions I had. Mr. Stopplecamp, thanks for the presentation and going
through this. I think it was not long after Director Broom asked me this question that we had that big
snowstorm. And great job to the team and everybody at RTD for everything that was done there, that was
living proof. I think you touched on it at the end there, Mr. Stopplecamp, but do we maintain a series of
updated process maps for all of the different types of disasters, basically flowcharts that the team follows?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I'd have to turn that over to Mike Meader on the emergency response side.
That's our COOP plan. So there is a COOP plan that talks about emergencies. As far as every scenario, I
would say we probably don't have for every scenario, because as soon as I say yes, you'll say what if.
And we may or may not have that. But we do have procedures in place, cell phones communications
back and forth. So it looks like Miss Johnson would like to say something, or Mike Meader.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp and Director Davidson, for your question.
In reference to Mr. Stopplecamp's comment, as it relates to a COOP for those that aren't familiar, it's a
continuity of operations plan. And having spoke with Mr. Meader, we do have opportunities to leverage a
continuity of operations plan and work with our jurisdictional partners. We've yet to have it at a place
which I would deem satisfactory, but in reference to what has been outlined by Mr. Stopplecamp. If, in
fact, we were to have a winter emergency or some other inclement aspect, we would be able to weather
the storm, pun intended in my remark.
So as we look at continuity of operations going forward, we are going to leverage that and work toward
something more efficiently whereby we can actually do in-service drills relative to working with emergency
responders, and things of the like. So we would be at the ready and have an understanding. I'd pose
questions as it relates to government emergency telephonic system, what we call GETS cards, working
with satellite phones and all those other aspects of which we need to work towards here at this
organization. But I think this is an area of opportunity for us as we proceed. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Any other questions or comments on this item? OK, and thank you again, Henry,
for bringing-- following up on Director Broom's request at this time [AUDIO OUT] importance. Appreciate
that very much.
OK. Next item under discussion is the Northwest Rail update. And this stemmed from our study session
on February 9. And you'll recall, we talked about the Northwest Rail and the need perhaps for updated
figures and ridership and that was where the agreement coalesced. And I think in CEO GM Debra
Johnson's words, we have a changed landscape. And given all the interest around this it made sense to
revisit it with studies that bring it up to the 30% level or something. If I'm misstating that forgive me. But I'll
go ahead and turn it over to you all and thank you again for following up. DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you
very much, Madam Chair. And once again good evening to all of you.
As a follow up to our February 9, 2021 study session focused on the Northwest Rail corridor, which was
the first of many conversations about how we can create a path forward, I committed to this body I would
work in earnest and engage with our stakeholders, elected leaders, representing the corridor, the
governor, and our congressional delegation. Hence several interactive sessions have taken place since
this Board last discussed this project back in February. I along with Bill Van Meter, the Assistant General
Manager of planning, met with the Chair and Vice Chair of the Front Range Passenger Rail Commission,

and offered that we could enter a memorandum of understanding iterating our commitment to work in
collaboration as we collectively identify solutions.
Please note for the record no such MOU has been leveraged at this time. Mr. Van Meter and I took part in
a meeting convened by Governor Polis's office to discuss this project, which included the BNSF Front
Range Passenger Rail in addition to CDOT. Several engagement sessions were held during the month of
March with jurisdictional stakeholders that include Mr. Van Meter, Mr. Stopplecamp, as well as Vice Chair
Guissinger and Director Davidson contingent upon the jurisdiction in which we were meeting, as well as
myself. The culmination of these engagements, along with input from the Board, has helped map out our
path forward, which will be shared with you this evening.
I am joined by Bill Van Meter and Henry Stopplecamp who will give the presentation regarding our path
forward. I want to publicly thank them both and their respective teams for the hard work put forth in
developing this path forward in the presentation you're about to receive this evening. I would ask all of
you to hold your questions until after Mr Stopplecamp's presentation, as to enable a more robust and
engaged dialogue. Thank you in advance for your cooperation. And now I will yield the virtual floor to Mr.
Stopplecamp. Thank you very much.
SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Henry.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're on mute, Henry.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Sorry about that, I got ahead of myself. I needed to share my screen and when
I did that, I lost my picture to get myself out of mute. So thank you very much, General Manager Johnson.
And we will share the screen. And what I'm going to do is pull up the-- should be screen 3, and you
should be able to see the step presentation coming up. So what we've got, before we get into the
PowerPoint starting on page 93 of the Board packet-- and I'm just going to use the Board packet is the
easiest document to keep everybody together. But there's a two page summary of the presentation. But
I'll just go straight into the PowerPoint itself. So I will focus on the PowerPoint and talk about the peak
service plan and where we came out of the February 9 meeting. And then afterwards General Manager
Johnson and Bill Van Meter and I will be available to answer questions. So this should take probably less
than 15 minutes.
But before I get started, we are looking at the request for additional information on the potential for the
next steps to provide peak service along the Northwest Rail corridor. Conversations will deal with the
peak service impacts, the mitigations, and the capital and O&M cost for implementing the peak service.
The source of funding and full service plan-- that's actually a separate project, we can talk about that a
little bit.
But let's go to slide 2 and it looks complicated, but it really isn't. Just want to emphasize that this isn't an
all inclusive list, and all these items on this page are needed to understand what are the implications to
the corridor, the impacts. How do we mitigate and how do we develop a 30% plan and an operating plan
going forward to come up with a good cost estimate going forward.
So if you look at this drawing we've got six different boxes. The orange box on the far left is the will of the
people. That was the FasTracks vote. We've got Board engagement in there, stakeholder engagement,
elected officials, local municipalities. All that's fed into what was developed back in 2002, 2003 that was in
the vote of 2004 the environmental document and then updated in 2010. In the silver, planning and
approvals. We need to update the travel forecasting, identify the travel market, work with the
municipalities on the crossing, station location, the Front Range MOU that General Manager Johnson

mentioned, an item to look at. Interface with the FTA, FRA, United States Army Corps of Engineers. So
we've got those items that we need to look at.
On the operations side in gold, facility maintenance, a location for that, vehicle technology, peak
operating plan, so that includes the peak and full service. As I indicated that we're looking really at the
peak service, but we don't want to do anything in this exercise to preclude the full service buildout. So we
need to have the basic understanding of that, who's going to operate the corridor, what type of vehicles
we're looking at. All of these things need to be answered. And they will feed into the end product of this
exercise. Also we need to look at what agreements are out there, the staffing, the property rights that we
need, funding-- which we'll talk about in a minute-- and the procurement process.
In green, you've got the BNSF. They are a key player in this exercise. We're looking at operating over
their corridor. We need an agreement in place for operating rights, the location of the passing tracks. We
had a really good meeting with them a year ago, February, in Fort Worth. They've done some modeling
for us. We need to update the modeling, talk about corridor maintenance. And then on the funding side,
this exercise isn't necessarily going to come up with the sources, but identify some of the key elements.
So as we go forward, we know what we've got out there and what are the partnerships that we can
leverage.
So with that-- prior to 2010, as mentioned the landscape has changed. So we started putting together the
major investment study in 2001, generated the FasTracks plan, several different studies before 2010. So
if you think about it, we're 16, 17 years out of the original assumptions on the US 36 or the Northwest Rail
corridor. So, with that, takes us into 2010 when we developed the environmental evaluation. That was the
outline going forward. But we didn't have the funds to move the project forward at that time. We did sit
down with the BNSF in 2011 and 2013 and prepared plans for the quarter, for the full buildout. This
included a double track scenario from Denver all the way to Longmont. We still didn't have the funds and
we entered into the NAM study, the Northwest Air Mobility study, which was a joint venture between the
corridor stakeholders and RTD to look at what could be done along the corridor.
Still, in 2016, we didn't have a path forward. The peak period service concept emerged as a
recommendation from the community. And the questions were asked, how do we minimize the overall
cost? How do we keep the BNSF improvements down to a minimum? And so that's kind of what we're
going to talk about a little bit more today and that you saw on the 9th. Things that have happened,
technology changes, demographics, noise and vibration, the traffic modeling, the travel shed, the ADT on
the arterials, the at-grade crossings, that's all changed since 2010 and we need to reevaluate.
So in a nutshell, the peak service concept-- this was brought up back on the 9th-- but just to get
everybody on the same sheet of music, we're looking at three trips in the morning, from Longmont to
Denver, And in the PM, three trips from Denver to Longmont. We currently have nine miles currently in
operation between Denver and Westminster at the 72nd station. There's 35 miles remaining. And then the
travel time from Denver to Longmont is anywhere between 60 and 70 minutes, depending on the number
of stations, the vehicle technology, and any improvements we make on the BNSF alignment to increase
the speeds. And we are looking at diesel technology on this corridor.
So we've got partners in regional collaboration-- opportunities out there and folks that we need to include
as part of this process. The communities along the corridors, the BNSF, the US Army Corps of Engineers
will probably have to do the environmental clearance, and then the wetlands through the Army Corps of
Engineers, FTA, FRA, CDOT. Then we've got the Front Range Passenger Rail commission and Amtrak.

And on the right hand side of the page, you can see the corridor that they're looking at for those two
projects. And we'll get into that a little bit more.
But the big exercise we've done throughout March, as Ms. Johnson pointed out, was the jurisdictional
stakeholder outreach. So we reached out to several jurisdictions along the corridor, met with them for
about an hour each. And the frequently heard themes, pretty much from most of the jurisdictions, the first
one is the frustration. They've paid into the FasTracks program, but no Northwest Rail. Activity's schedule
is to complete the activity's timelines. They want to know what it takes to implement service on the
corridor. What are the key activities? And when will it be taken care of? Peak service and BRT along
Highway 119, Highway 7, and 287 is not interchangeable with a full rail buildout. That came up in the-are not saying that the peak service and BRT replaces full rail. They're still looking at that commitment.
Strategic investments and interests along the corridor. How do we improve BRT and the rail? What does
it look like?
And then the last two on here-- this gets back to the FISA that I believe one of the Board members
mentioned, that the corridor would like to see RTD leverage the FISA funds to pay for the 30%
engineering work and the environmental work. And then the last one is the corridors would like the RTD
Board to support the BNSF alignment as the preferred alignment for the Front Range Rail Service. So
that takes us back to this slide that covers the key elements that we need to understand in order to talk
about the impacts that the communities will face with the-- and when I say impacts, for example, quiet
zones. What does that look like? What do we do for at grade crossings? What are the modifications? If
we put up noise walls where are the impacts associated? So we're looking at impacts and mitigations.
And then also, what is the ultimate cost for peak service, and then the O&M cost and then the
involvement through the various elements.
And this all feeds into-- with the local jurisdiction comments-- into slide 9. This is the options going
forward. We've got some key elements: the planning and environmental review, the engineering and
project development, the level of community engagement-- how much we're going to spend as far as
effort reaching out to the community-- the schedule, and then the ultimate funding needs. So the level 1 is
basically taking what was put out in the original 2004 and 2010 environmental evaluation and the BNSF
plans that were received through 2011 through 2013, and develop a peak service off of that. Very low
level of community outreach for dusting off the environmental. The timeline for that is somewhere
between 12 and 18 months from the notice to proceed.
The next level would be dusting off the environmental, looking at noise and vibration, the demographics,
the station locations, how things have changed, look at that. And also a very high level of public
involvement which then feeds back into the environmental that goes into the design and makes the
modifications for the design. So, for example, one of the key elements we found out last February, BNSF
on their four sidings they need for the peak service. One of the sidings for example is across baseline
road. Well if they're going to park a train there for 10, 15 minutes as we go by-- it shuts down baseline
road-- do we grade separate or do we move the crossing? What are the impacts associated with it? So
those are the things that on the level 2 we'll dive into and try to mitigate as many of the issues that are
brought up by the community. The schedule for that would be about an 18 month to two year process
from notice to proceed.
And then the level 3 would really be reevaluating the whole corridor, and doing a full fledged update on
the environmental documents, look at all the assumptions, and figure out where we're going along for that

corridor. So along the bottom is the funding needs. About $2.5 million to $5 million for level 1. On the level
2 about $5 million to $8 million. And then on level three, $8 million to $13 million. And those are ranges
that will be fine tuned over the next couple of months, as we define the scope of work for a consulting firm
to come on board to help us answer the questions for the community and finish off the 30% plans, and
then come up with an overall cost estimate.
So the scope of work going forward to develop the RFP. We want to formulate a communication plan,
develop a detailed schedule, identify the major tasks, the dependencies, the implementation for a
timeline, staffing. What do we need for our staff, reaching out to local communities, municipalities. We're
going to ask for them to be part of the process all the way through. We're going to identify the various
risks, and try to do the mitigation up front before we bring a consultant on board. All this gets put into a
solicitation for bid. And then we will evaluate and make the award. The goal is to have the municipalities
be part of the selection process, get it as transparent as possible.
So the next steps as we go forward is formulate the scope of work, identify the support that we need from
the communities and internal, come back to the Board with a scope work framework in the summer of
2021. So this summer come back to you guys with a detailed schedule, the planning requirements that
were proposed in outline, the engineering levels and the key elements, and then include the
recommendation to use the FISA count to fund this effort. And at that point, we should have a better
understanding of the dollar amount needed to fund that level of work. So with that, I would like to open it
up for questions.
And Chair Cook, you're on mute.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. I was saying, everybody please raise your hands in slow motion
so that I can keep track of the order. But Director Davidson was first. I believe that Director Dishell was
second. Actually I'll just go down the line at this point. Go ahead, Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you very much to CEO and General Manager
Debra Johnson and Mr. Stopplecamp and Mr. Van Meter. The outreach that you did is very, very much
appreciated. And I really thank you for doing this in a short amount of time. There's a lot to do and a lot
going on right now. So thank you for taking the time to make that happen and to get that feedback. Thank
you for the recommendations here. I think, to me that this seems like a prudent next step. I had a couple
of questions, and I'll just keep it maybe the two for now I can come back around.
Mr. Van Meter, this may be more for you given the involvement with Front Range Passenger Rail, but
earlier tonight we saw the Amtrak map. And I think at this point we're all familiar with the Biden proposal
and the $80 billion we were talking about before. I wondered if you could just comment on the level 1,
level 2, level 3 different plans. What may or may not be reusable with a partner, if we were to enter into
some type of agreement, or an MOU that Ms. Johnson mentioned before, with Front Range Passenger
Rail or if we were an operational partner over time with Amtrak. What if anything is reusable and, maybe
second to that question, how do we make sure that we're working alongside them and stay aligned to
maximize our opportunity for federal dollars if those should materialize?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair Cook, this is Bill Van Meter AGM planning, may I respond?
SHELLEY COOK: Please go ahead.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah so Thank you. So I posit and intend for the work in any of the levels, but
particularly levels 2 and 3. The intent would be for their design to be usable and shareable with potential
partners at CDOT and the Front Range Rail Commission as well as Amtrak, to your point. To that and the

Project Manager for CDOT's work and the lead staff person for the Front Range Passenger Rail
Commission-- Southwest Chief in Front Range Passenger Rail Commission and I have convened biweekly meetings over the past few weeks to discuss that very topic. Because CDOT will be leading a
similar, although less robust planning effort moving forward approximately concurrently. And our concern
is that our two teams share information. A robust level of communication and coordination happen
between the two teams, so that from everything from public engagement and communication to the
technical aspects of those two efforts can be well coordinated. Now ours will be a larger, more intense,
and focused effort just on this corridor, while that effort is looking at the full Front Range corridor. But, to
that end, the point being we've already started those discussions and agreed that we need to have that
coordination.
The other thing that I would note is we've mentioned it. General Manager Johnson has referenced the
discussions that have not led to a formalized MOU yet, but there is discussion and intent and a first draft.
Internal staff in the offing of that referenced MOU between those parties to formalize the intent that I just
described that we've already engaged and embarked upon.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you very much. I really, really appreciate that. It's very helpful. Madam
Chair, if I may, just one more question, different line than I'll yield the floor to my fellow directors.
SHELLEY COOK: Sure. Please go ahead.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. The other thing I just would note, to me, the biggest thing that jumps out on
this slide with the levels 1, 2, and 3, is the level of community engagement. I mentioned when we had our
study session that we have some big major trust issues, and we have a real opportunity to resolve those.
I think we're well on the way to that. And again that's why I thank you for the outreach here. I think to me,
level 1 is kind of dusting off what we have, and I don't know that it's really worth doing without the
engagement of the community. So I think level 2 and up is where we need to be from a stakeholder
engagement, from a community engagement, having the discussions like things around baseline or how
things have changed.
Along those lines, one of the biggest questions that comes up has to do with ridership and the ridership
models that we get from DRCOG, and recognizing that the ridership models for rail have specifically have
changed drastically and that they've been decreased since the 2004 vote by more than half. And there's a
lot of questions about that. I think there's different varying levels of understanding. Does it have to do with
going from the 15 minutes to the 30 minutes, for example, with the bottleneck at Union Station? Is it
because of changing development plans and so forth. But given that it's a major question that comes up, I
wondered if you could just comment-- and I know the benefit of Mr. Van Meter, you'd kind of filled me in a
little bit on this. So this may be a question for you. What would happen at level 1, 2, and 3 with regards to
that planning and approvals, the silver bucket there, in terms of looking at the travel market, ridership,
other jurisdictions that may be involved. Could you just kind of comment on what the trade offs are
between the three different levels as it pertains to ridership?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yes. Chair Cook, Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager planning again. So
under a level 1, we would do travel demand forecasting using the Denver Regional Council of
Government's travel demand model platform structure and input. And we would look at that basic service
level and the kind of pre-existing conditions that Mr. Stopplecamp described during his presentation. We
would not have many resources to do much what if or iterative processes. Under a level 2 analysis, we
would spend some time looking at those changes in the travel market, that you just discussed. And

getting a better understanding of that, we would spend more time making sure that the model inputs that
we're using are well calibrated and validated to current conditions and which are changed, and spend
more time iterating through the processes Mr. Stopplecamp described in general. Taking the information
that we have regarding vehicle technologies and alternatives and using that to refine and update our
forecasts.
We would have more capacity to address one of the issues that we hear from stakeholders, which is a
concern that the DRCOG model, while it does include all of Boulder County and southern Weld County,
doesn't include all of the North Front Range. And so we would be able to spend some effort identifying
and understanding those markets and informing our ridership forecasts.
Under level 3, it would be a similar robust approach. Both of those would need to be consistent with the
federal requirements and the DRCOG model for air quality conformity purposes and other avenues of
exploration. But we would have much more robust resources to address the concerns and the interests
that we hear from many of our stakeholders.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. Thank you very much for commenting on that. Level 2, level 3 allows us that
opportunity to look at those numbers. And perhaps even given the Front Range Passenger Rail, maybe
more holistically with how that changes if we're looking at Pueblo through Cheyenne. I think that's an
important one, getting that common set of ridership numbers for folks I think is important, before we can
agree on subsidies, and before we can agree on frequency and service. And so that's very helpful to
understand. Thank you for the time. And thank you, Madam Chair. I'll yield the floor to the fellow directors
here.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Dishell, you're next.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you so much. And thank you, Director Davidson, for your questions and also
staff for getting this together, and I know on a tight timeline. First, just want to comment that the FISA
money is money that was originally intended by the voters in the will of the people for the base system
[AUDIO OUT]. I believe is how we ended up with that money, put into a separate account. Which brings
me to my question, which is taking a holistic approach on the Northwest Rail, we currently have a form of
BRT Flatiron Flyer-- which is lovely-- that runs in that area. And I know that BRT is not a substitute for rail,
but it was a part of FasTracks. It's not usually talked about when we talk about our unfinished corridors.
And it is a much more economically efficient way to move more people in a more equitable manner.
So I'm curious. Is busses and both our current BRT and possibly proposed BRT going to be a part of this
plan, or is this really just looking at the rail when we're talking about numbers?
SHELLEY COOK: Henry Stopplecamp? Is that you?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. Henry Stopplecamp, AGM Capital Programs. This exercise that we're
looking at is just peak service. So we have done studies looking at the BRT-- the NAM study-- for the 119,
287, and Highway 7. And we've done some BRT studies. Mr. Van Meter's team looked at them across the
district. But this exercise that we're proposing is just for the evaluation of the peak service plan. We don't
plan on reaching out and looking at different alternatives, different alignments, different technologies.
We're still looking at providing just peak service along the BNSF alignment.
BOBBY DISHELL: On the technology piece, is there an alternative to diesel for commuter rail?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: There is a alternative to diesel. The EMU, the electric mobile unit. There is
some folks that are looking at battery operated. But as of right now, the only proven technology we really
have besides diesel is the electrification. So if you want it to electrify this entire corridor, we would have to

open up the environmental document. This would be more of a level 3 evaluation. And then the cost
would drastically increase, because we would have to electrify the entire BNSF alignment. And one of our
biggest challenges is the structures that we have going over the BNSF alignment. Most of those just meet
the bare minimum for the PUC, 23 foot, 6 inches. The wire has to be at that level. So we'd end up
replacing several of our structures. So that was looked at originally through the environmental process in
2004 and 2010.
But there are alternatives out there. But with the peak service, we are still looking at diesel technology. If
we want to open it up, then that really gets more into the option 3 scenario.
BOBBY DISHELL: My last question is, can we expect to see a similar dedication of time and resources
and energy to the other unfinished portions of FasTracks including the buildout of the system? Or is this
really-- I mean no disrespect towards any political leaders-- but is this really a political exercise? Is that
why we're here in [AUDIO OUT], making sure that our communities that might not have as much political
gusto, are still waiting on FasTracks programs, are given that same level of attention?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I'd like to just hit one thing and then turn it over to the General Manager
Johnson. The BRT, the 119, the 287, those were non-FasTracks corridors. So that is part of the base
system work. Now as far as going forward and dedicating staff, I will turn that over to General Manager
Johnson.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, GM and CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Cook. And to answer Director Dishell's question,
relative to what we were doing here this evening and what predicated the discussion on February 9, is I
posed the question in various forms relative to where we were with Northwest Rail, recognizing that in
order for us to have an informed decision, we need to speak from a common set of facts. Hence, this is
where it gets us to speak from the common set of facts, as opposed to purely having a speculative
conversation where we're dealing in abstract. So I wouldn't qualify this as a political exercise. I qualify this
as providing information so you all can make an informed decision about what the path forward should be
as this body, relative to being policymakers. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Nothing further.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Thank you. And thank you all for taking the time. I just wanted to start off with
just saying that the level 1 plan, from my opinion, would go against what our guiding principles are-- what
our goals of guiding principles are-- by not having the community engagement that we were hoping for as
an agency. And I'd also like to thank Director Davidson for taking the time to speak with me earlier
regarding the Northwest line.
But my real question-- has there been a discussion about when this would be implemented? And so if we
were going to go with level 2 or level 3 plan, would that be implemented this summer? What would be the
process of when this implementation would happen? Has there actually been a discussion about that, and
has that discussion geared toward-- we still are in a recovery process with COVID-- and how will that
impact the future with that?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If I may?
SHELLEY COOK: Please, go ahead.

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Henry Stopplecamp. So, the process for bringing on a consultant will happen.
I've already started working with my team putting information together. But the goal would be to have
somebody on board by the end of this year. And then that gets into the overall time frame, the 12 months
to 18 months or 18 to 24, that's from notice to proceed. So if we can define the scope, have everybody
agree upon what is included in the outreach, the environmental evaluation, the engineering work, and we
can all agree on the scope, or we get-- I shouldn't say all agree-- we get direction from the RTD Board,
where you would like us to go with that. We'd be putting it out on the streets this fall and soliciting a firm to
come in and help guide us through the process.
So the time frame-- or the timeline that is on the slide on your screen is from a notice to proceed. And so
that's kind of what we're looking at, based on what we're thinking the scope looks like today. Now when
we come back in the summer and we outline in more detail what we're looking at, if the Board's desire is
to remove some of the scope or add to the scope, that may change the ultimate schedule, depending on
what the impacts are, and the requests from the Board to generate the packet. So this is just really a high
level. And great question, but it's from the notice to proceed from a consultant on board to help RTD
guide through this process.
JULIEN BOUQUET: OK. No further. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. Director Rosenthal.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And so, this is not a criticism in any way, but it seems to
me the amount of time that we'll be taking in order to generate these studies-- 18 to 24 months, for
example, for level 2, and even more for level 3 possibly up to three years, is quite a bit of time. Much as I
believe level 2 or level 3 is probably where we need to go as we consider peak service-- and I think we
should seriously consider peak service, and I think the folks at the Northwest Rail area have been
delayed as to how much as to getting any type of rail service. I think we owe it to them. So, I'm certainly in
favor of a level 2 or 3. But I am concerned about how long it will take to even get this study done. And
then after that, what sort of studies need to be done to even begin a peak rail service? So how much
longer after the study is done to where the first rail can actually go down the track? So we're talking two,
three, four years.
And that does concern me because there was a matter of politics brought up. And we have to be very
well aware of that, as I also mentioned that folks in the Northwest they've been waiting time, and I don't
know how much we can count on their patience. So I guess it's sort of a concern and a question all rolled
up in one.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If I may take the first stab at it, and then maybe General Manager Johnson.
Yes it is a length of time. If we look at the environmental work, most of it's sequential. And so the original
environmental evaluation-- that was a 10 year process. By the time it went out, the community came
back, looked at the challenges, the mitigations. We kept making the loop around to accommodate the
needs of the community. So the challenge we have, we can't take care of the environmental impacts until
we've got the first wave of comments in from the community. Then we can try to mitigate that and get into
the engineering work to clean that up.
And then our intent right now is once we hear from the community, dust off the environmental to make
that work, go into the engineering, come up with a plan and then present that back. If everything works
out the way everybody expects, then that brings the window down. But if we bring back an option that the
community says, no we cannot live with, we want you to make modifications, then we start that process

again. So station location, for example. The original station location for Westminster was 104th. They
would really like to see 88th right now. So we had to do some environmental work around that. Some of
the areas that we had station locations that were open lots back in 2004 have been developed. And so
how do we fit into that footprint.
So those are the challenges we have and why it drags out. Now in the same process, we're hoping to
bring BNSF online with us, and then figure out what level and how do we get the agreements in place to
go forward and speed that process up. Our biggest challenge is going to be the rolling stock, trying to
figure out how do we procure the rolling stock and we can't do that until we know the platform
configurations, locations, the maintenance facility site. So that's all part of that exercise. So there's a lot of
things in there. We will have a detailed schedule that we can share, and if we can figure out a way to
shrink it down we definitely want to. General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Stopplecamp. I believe you outlined that fully. And in
reference to just adding on to Director Rosenthal's question-- what we've heard when we've met with
people-- we need to manage expectations, and not have some kind of deadline or timeline that's way out
in the future. So recognizing that we have to do our due diligence and also recognizing that work hasn't
been done on this for a period of time and in reference to what Mr. Stopplecamp outlined, it's incumbent
upon us to do our due diligence as we forge ahead not letting expediency get in the way of doing this in
an appropriate fashion and recognizing the environmental impacts. Relative to what has changed over
the course of the past several years, it's incumbent upon us to do what we can in the best manner in
which we can do that. So, I thank you for your question.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: If I could follow up. Thank you, both responses. So let's just assume if we went with
the level 2, and it took two years to conduct the study. And as you mentioned, BNSF and other
stakeholders are participating in all this process. So they're also preparing on their ends any number of
actions that potentially might be taken by RTD. So that if we decide at the end of it-- at the end of the two
years we get a report-- you say OK. Let's go for it. Let's light up the service. Hopefully by then we'll have
the rail-- the train prepared and everything like that.
So how long would it take? And I think GM Johnson's probably-- from her response, it sounds like you're
resisting putting a timeline on it. But I'm just trying to get some idea of what happens afterwards. How
much time will it take to launch the peak service? Is it a year? Two years? I guess I'm pressing again on
that issue.
DEBRA JOHNSON: First if I can respond and I'll defer to Mr. Stopplecamp. Please know that I am not
resistant to presenting a timeline. Right now I'm dealing in abstract. I don't know what I don't know. So it
would be negligent on my part to try to provide a timeline relative to us not doing our due diligence. We
have yet to leverage a consultant to have the subject matter expertise to conduct the scope, so we don't
know what we're dealing with. And until we have that understanding, we can't engage with BNSF as
relates to an operational plan. So I just want to be clear, I am not trying to skirt the question I'm trying to
speak from a place of facts and that's why we're having this dialogue. So we can all be operating from the
same rulebook as we go forward.
So with that, I'll yield the floor to Mr. Stopplecamp with his expertise to try to quantify the timeline relative
to seeing a train go down the track if, in fact, that is the desire of the Board. Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Thank you very much. And to piggyback on General Manager Johnson's
comments, we are working-- and realize we're 40 days since we said we'd come up with a path forward.

We have put together some draft schedules, not only up to the point of award but also what we believe is
the schedule that we will receive from a consultant and their milestones. So we've kind of put our
consultant hat on trying to figure out what it will look like and what they will provide.
Through this process, if we look back at the complex diagram in the purple area, we've got agreements in
there. One of the things we learnt through the FasTracks program is have the agreements in place with
the municipalities, know what the commitments are going to be up front, as far as drainage traffic, any
extra stuff we want to know up front. We're also looking at the operating rights, and trying to figure that
out with BNSF. BNSF was very rigid back in about 2013 or '14. They want to know what the operating
plan is, the impacts to themselves, what is the time frame of implementation, and where is the money
coming from. So those are the four things that they want before they'll sit down and typically put together
an agreement.
Now Mr. Van Meter has talked to DJ Mitchell for the Front Range study. I plan on talking to him tomorrow
morning. But we've had those conversations over the last year. He has committed the BNSF's resources
last February to look at the operating scenarios. And we do have some pretty good documents in place
that took a number of years to develop, but we plan on using those same techniques going forward. So
we're not at ground zero with the railroad.
So now it gets into how long will it take. We're doing everything we can to speed it up, but we are going to
need funding. And then the ordering of the fleet and then building the maintenance facility. Those two
items, I think, are going to be the critical path. Now if we can figure out how to lease a fleet or use a
locomotive haul coach consist, that would speed that process up. The corridor was very adamant. They
don't really want to see locomotives hauling a coach. But that equipment's on the shelf right now.
So we just have to work through that process. I would love to give you a schedule. We're working on it
internally. But it's going to come down to providing a fleet, the operator of the fleet whether it's RTD,
BNSF, DTO, we have to work out that agreement, and the building the maintenance facility. Those are, I
believe, the driving factors once we have a plan going forward.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And Madam Chair, just if I can wrap up real quick. I just want to say thank you to
GM Johnson and Mr. Stopplecamp for helping me flesh out next steps and bigger picture, where this is all
going. My line of questioning is not meant to be a personal attack or anything. It was just more me being
sort of frustrated about not knowing how this all fits together. So I just want to put that in perspective. But
also, that I do support either a level 2 or level 3 proposal. And so that's where I'll leave it. Thank you,
everybody for your comments.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Can I piggyback on one thing-SHELLEY COOK: Go ahead, Henry. Yes, please.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I would just like to say that as we go forward, if there are questions from any of
the Directors, please reach out to Mr. Van Meter or myself or General Manager Johnson and we can go
into more detail. There is a lot of detail that we've already developed in the last few weeks. We've dusted
off stuff we've gathered over the last 20 years developing the corridor. But we are more than willing to sit
down and go through and answer detailed questions-- not necessarily in this setting-- but if you want-- we
can do in the setting too, but if you have those questions, please give me a call, send me an email, and I'll
reach out to you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Catlin, you were next.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you to GM CEO Debra Johnson and Henry
Stopplecamp and Bill Van Meter for their work on this. The level 2 approach would be an approach that
could evolve into a level 3. There wouldn't be any throwaway. Is that correct? Henry?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I would say, not really throwaway. If we decide to go into a level 3, and we're
going to change the technology or something on the environmental that we'll have to redress the
engineering, it may start the clock over. But the goal is not to have any throwaway that we can build upon.
And that's one reason we want to identify the full buildout for the operating plan. So as we go forward, we
know-- we don't want to preclude, but there may be some changes. So if you change the operating
scenario on moving from a level 2 to level 3, and you change something we all agreed on, it may change
the ultimate design.
The location of the passing tracks, for example. How do we bring it into Denver Union Station? Some of
those things may change. But the nice thing is this exercise is really to come up with the 30% plans, and
then a cost to implement. And then through the 100% plans, the final configuration is a separate exercise,
and you shouldn't lose a whole lot of the work that you set up through this exercise.
PEGGY CATLIN: I have a couple of concerns. It's been 11 years, correct, since the last environmental
update was done, right?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: The environmental evaluation was done in 20-- it was completed in 2010. So
the information that generated were a couple of years-- So yeah, we're 11 to 12, 13 years out.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So my concern would be-- because really implementation, to Director Rosenthal's
point, is dependent on funding. And if it takes another 11 year-- 10 or 11 years to secure the funding that
we needed to implement this, then we may be looking at an environmental impact statement that would
need to be refreshed again, if there is a delay in the funding. And so-- Yes, I mean that's a possibility. And
so it seems to me that if you focus on level 2 with a high level of community engagement, then you could- as you look at a reasonable expectation of funding, which is required of NEPA-- then you could move
into a level 3 with relative ease. But if you do level 3 right now without that reasonable expectation of
funding, you may be facing-- a number of years down the line-- the need to redo the environmental work
and the clearance based on NEPA. Am I understanding that correctly, or is my knowledge of NEPA stale?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: You probably got more knowledge of NEPA than I do, but you're absolutely
right.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I guess I just would be cautious about going full bore with the environmental
impact statement when there's-- we do not have a reasonable expectation of funding at this point. So
that's all. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes. This is a follow up on the great remarks of both Director Catlin and Rosenthal.
My thought is that one of the reasons we are looking at this right now is there's a bright spot in the
prospect of funding, and that we need to have a plan together-- at least enough to satisfy the funders in
the next two years I should think-- because they're going to want to show the advantages of the funding
that they have made possible.
And for this reason, it seems like level 2 is the preferable way to go, because it's my understanding that
PEL could actually be incorporated into NEPA. And level 1 would not be of much value in seeking funding
if we had a low level of community engagement and a limited study of environmental and planning. I think

all of us are focused on the timing of this because of the reasons that we're looking at this at this point.
And it seems like level 2 would be the most economical way of going at this point.
But I really appreciate all the discussion tonight and the background that we've gotten from staff. It's
brought a lot of issues to light. And I think this site says options going forward-- this is showing us going
forward and how to do it in the best way. So thank you all.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Director. Director Lewis? And by the way, thank you, Director Lewis, for
cueing me in on the Zoom feature that it already prior-- sets in order-- chronological order the people who
raise their hand. I really appreciate that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a few questions. One clarifying question
for you, Henry, on the level of community engagement for each one of them. I didn't necessarily hear
specifically what engagement might look like for each of these, and low-high and highest is kind of vague.
And so I'm curious as to what that looks like in execution.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well I will start and then pass it over to Mr. Van Meter. But the low intent is-- I
mean if you've got community involvement and engagement, you should respond back to the community
and address their concerns. So the level 1 was really to answer to Rosenthal's question and some other
Board members in the past. How fast can you go ahead and build something? Well, that'd be the level 1,
but what we're building may not be what you want. It was based on what the landscape looked like back
in 2004 and 2010. So very little community engagement because we're not doing a whole lot of changes
The level 2 and level 3, very similar, but a very robust community involvement. So Bill Van Meter's group
has put together the environmental side and the first impac-- or the first look at what the communications
would look like. But it falls really closely to some of the NEPA processes we've had. So Mr. Van Meter?
WILLIAM VAN METER: Yeah. Thank you, Henry. That was a good introduction, not a lot to add. So level
one, as Henry said, low engagement and involvement because we aren't soliciting and looking actively for
feedback on our plans. We're saying we're taking the plans as they were 11 years ago, dusting them off,
looking at what would be required for implementing three trips in the morning, and from Longmont to
Denver three trips and the PM. Not having a feedback loop and a robust level of engagement, because
we aren't changing things and we're trying to minimize the costs for that alternative.
Level 2 and 3, we would be able to go both to stakeholders and to citizens, and as Henry described,
present options, hear feedback on options, use that information to help us understand pain points,
impacts to communities, and mitigation measures. And in a much more iterative and-- process that allows
us to optimize for the current conditions, based on what we're hearing from both citizens and
stakeholders, local governments and business communities, and other partners in the corridor.
So, since we would be opening up and working to really optimize and address many of the issues that
Henry's talked about along the way, of necessity we would have a more robust level of community
engagement. And that would be to-- I would assert-- to the benefit of our understanding of the project and
capacity to deliver that project. The difference between level 2 and 3 is relatively minimal. There are more
procedural to stay within federal rules and regulations regarding announcing the initiation of scoping and
things like that, that we could streamline some in a level 2.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. So a follow up for the different levels is would these levels change-- would
these levels change, if you were to apply them to the other unfinished corridor-- or the other unfinished
projects? Or would you apply it the same, if we as a Board had given staff the direction to do so?

HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I believe that it would look a little bit differently. The big unknown with this
corridor is the BNSF, and it's a long corridor with a lot of changes over the last 11 years. We really have
a-- really good understanding on the North Metro corridor, for example, the last five miles, five miles
versus the 35 miles here. It really hasn't been developed on those last five miles, so we've got a pretty
good understanding for that. The alignment layout for the Southeast Rail-- Southwest Rail extension, we
know the right of way. We've got our portion of that right of way underhand, that's two miles. And then
we've got the Downtown Loop connecting to the A line. And that's less than a mile. So different
characteristics.
We would go more into probably between level 1 and level 2 for those three corridors, because we know
what we've got. The Northwest Rail corridor is definitely a changing landscape over the last 11 years.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. That's helpful to know. And in terms of engagement-- I'm thinking about
engagement at this step of the process. If you all had the opportunity-- and this question can be for you
as well General Manager Johnson-- the opportunity to take these to interested stakeholders-- I know you
try to get this to the Board first, but I think about the inquiries we received from high ranking elected
officials, and if this is something that we presented to them and that they might be aware of.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you asking-- if I could clarify, are you asking is that what has happened or is that
what they would do going forward?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm just curious if they've had any engagement at this point on these three levels with
any of the folks who have had an interest in this discussion.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Madam Chair, if I may address Director Lewis's question. At this juncture we
have not. I mean, I have talked in generalities about what the pain points are relative to this project not
coming to fruition as outlined, relative to what you heard from Mr. Stopplecamp, regarding peak service.
We talked about that. And that's what garnered the recurring themes, recognizing the levels of
engagement, having worked on major capital projects in different parts of the country.
I believe the response that was given by Mr. Van Meter is on point. But there is a myriad of different
aspects of community engagement. You can have community working groups, while people are intimately
engaged with what's happening. So there's a myriad of different aspects. And I think when we get to that
point, we can basically work with the stakeholders in the jurisdictions to ascertain what level of
engagement would be best suited relative to stakeholders i.e., elected officials or people living along the
alignment, or folks that are anticipated to utilize the system relative to the actual wording. So there is a
myriad of different ways in which we can engage and discern what would be the best path forward for that
level of engagement. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And then as a follow up, because I see someone circling the will of the
people, and all the things that are attached to that. And it makes me wonder, what discussion if any has
been had around what precedents this might set, as we move forward understanding that there are other
unfinished projects within FasTracks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Director Lewis, that's a very good question. And that's why I sound like a broken
record. So I don't mean to dismiss your inquiry, but all of these things here as identified are certain
elements. It's not an all inclusive list, but for all intents and purposes to leverage the aspect of success,
we can't do one without another. So we do have to have the will of the people, that ultimate engagement.
We have to identify funding. We have to work with the BNSF because that's the right of way that we need
to leverage, right?

And so I'm not going to go through each and every one of those, but as we go forward that's what we
have to discern. And in reference to any other project, I come from the vantage point that all these things
need to happen recognizing that we need to engage with people to ascertain what it is because we're
here representing them in providing services to. So I think all of this is intertwined as you all as a policy
body engage and make a decision about what that path forward is. And we as staff will provide the data,
the research in conjunction with leveraging our stakeholder, our jurisdictional partners in reference to that
to be as open and transparent as we can be with this process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And finally, it might be a combination of a question and a comment. Going from that
concern I have around what precedence we might set here, but also in managing expectations because
the completion of either of these. Level 1, level 2, or level 3 isn't necessarily going to result in the
execution and implementation of a train, or any project of any sort. We would still need to grapple with not
having the money to be able to fund these projects while also balancing-- the list of projects that we have
that are unfunded and continuing to pay for operations.
And so I just-- maybe for my own edification I needed to say that out loud. But I think it is important for us
as we are moving forward that we are doing a really good job of managing expectations in the completion
of this, especially because, I think, what was the-- 12 months, a year, was the least amount of time we
might spend. And I understand that people's memories can be a bit short. And so we get to the end of this
project, and then folks like, great. We have all the things that we need, go ahead and build it. And that
comes at the cost of other things within the Regional Transportation District, and maybe even in conflict
with the principles that we all say that we agree to.
And so I'll stop pontificating, but I do think it's important to just say that out loud. And I want to make sure
that we are all as elected, but also as staff, managing expectations and being aware of what precedents
this sets because my constituents have already reached out to me about the central rail extension. And
that's what happens. That's the conversation that begins to occur when things come about this way.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Thank you. And, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Appreciate the discussion. It is an important one.
Our FasTracks reaffirmation resolution back in 2018 committed this agency, and every single member of
that Board, to take all reasonable steps to complete FasTracks. And the first step that we identified was to
proceed with the peak service plan. The time for talk is over. The time for action is now. We have a
window of funding that is available to us now, a window that could very easily close in November of 2022.
So I submit that we should commit to going forward with level 2 as it's outlined on page 103 of the Board
packet. And I guess what I'm saying is, can I get an amen. Thank you, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: I'll work on that. Thank you. Director-DIRECTORS BUZEK AND ROSENTHAL: Amen! [LAUGHTER]
SHELLEY COOK: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. That was my amen, by the way, along with Paul Rosenthal. So
a couple of things just to begin. Along with Directors Davidson and Director Guissinger, I also participated
in the stakeholder outreach because as everyone knows the end of line of the Northwest Rail currently
lives in my district, in Westminster. And I have one more unfinished stopped just in my district. So I took
part in that as well, and appreciate the mayor, city manager, and others of Westminster to be involved in
that.

Moving forward. I've got a couple of questions. I'm not sure who can help me with this. So diesel
technology is on page 99. Currently all of Northwest Rail is electrified, right? But I understand there are
challenges to electrifying the whole route to Longmont. So that's why diesel technology is proposed. My
understanding is if we snapped our fingers and Northwest Rail, the B line, was complete end to end, we
wouldn't use that electric line anymore, and then have people get of the electric train and jump on to a
diesel train. We just run diesel end to end, is that fair to say?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If it was the full service, that is fair to say. So the original plan was the entire
corridor was going to be diesel, multiple units. But since we were only going to 72nd, it didn't make sense
to have two separate fleets. And so we were able to interchange the fleet with the Eagle and the G line.
So that's why we electrified that first segment. Now for the peak service our goal would be still to run
trains to 72nd, the electrified trains, and then interlace the three peak service trains. And so it would be a
one seat ride into Denver. And that's part of the modeling exercise, we're going to have to go forward
with, and see how we can slide those three trains in to make that happen.
And so your statement is correct. It would be diesel the whole way, if it was back in 2010. And if we're
going to do a full service as of right now, depending on the budget, it would probably be diesel. If we want
electrification then we'd have to look at the impacts associated with that.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Do we have any information, or will we get information on the impact of the diesel
technology on greenhouse gas emissions?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: It's not written into the scope as of right now. But we will be looking at the
additional three trains and see what the impacts are. This is clean diesel. The information we've seen on
the DMUs in the past-- they're pretty close to bus emissions, and the three trains not a big impact. But the
entire corridor we do have-- this is where it gets into that level 3 understanding with a full buildout. That
environmental portion would have to be dusted off.
VINCE BUZEK: Good, OK. Next question or comment, I suppose, has to do with the stakeholder
outreach on page 101 and seeing if the Board at some point is going to be willing to support the BNSF
alignment as the alignment for Front Range Rail. And I know that communities along the alignment-- of
the BNSF alignment-- would be in favor of that. But my district is kind of split. I've got US-36 and I-25
going through my district. Most of the communities on North I-25 and those East of I-25 would not support
the BNSF alignment as the Front Range Rail alignment. Would not make sense for them. It would not
allow them connections to a major regional rail line unless it went up by I-25. So just that is kind of a
caveat just to keep that in the back of everybody's minds. So something to think about as we move this
thing forward.
And then as we get into this options going forward-- and thank you, Director Catlin, for talking about
NEPA and reasonable expectation of funding, and how that impacts the options that we need to look at.
And as we all know, the PELs and EIS only have a certain shelf life, and they don't last forever. And you
have to spend-- it's pricey. And if you have to redo them because you've done too much work and it's
getting dusty, that is problematic. And I agree with Director Tisdale as well that the level 2 is what we
need to do moving forward.
Finally, I'll leave it at this. One of the things that was brought up is using the FISA funds to pay for this
next step, to see where we're going and what is going to be involved. There's a comment on page 105 of
the packet that says a recommendation to use FISA account to fund this effort. And I'm hoping that
means the effort of option 1, 2, or 3, and not just using all of the FISA funds that currently exist to help

build out Northwest Rail. Because as was mentioned there are other FasTracks projects that are
unfinished, and I would hate to use all the FISA on this when there are other ones.
Although, as Director Tisdale said, we made a commitment in 2018 that this was the next one to go. And
it makes perfect sense. If you take the miles of unfinished rail corridors in FasTracks leaving out
Northwest Rail, you've got five or six miles. This is 35 miles of unfinished rail. They have waited long
enough. They have been promised this for long enough. This is the one that needs to happen next.
Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: So was that a question of Henry, Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: So it was it was a question, and then a comment. So the question is I want to make sure
that the statement on page 105, recommendation to use FISA account to fund this effort-- we're just
talking about the options, correct, 1, 2, or 3, at this point?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: That is correct, Director Buzek. We're looking at using the FISA for developing
the RFP and-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: --work. So that-- we're not looking at pulling down all the FISA. Whatever the
budget we need for this-- and that's why the FISA was set up. So that's where we like to pull it from.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I just want to make that clear. And if you want me to repeat my other comments,
I'd be happy to. But-SHELLEY COOK: Think we're good. Thank you very much, though. Director Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great, thanks. I'll give it an amen to you too, Director Buzek. Thanks. This is, I
think, a really good conversation. I think that, as Director Tisdale and Director Sloan and others have
pointed out, it's important to remember what Patty Doersch said earlier tonight that Amtrak has, I think,
slated to get-- proposed to get $80 billion, potentially in the upcoming legislation. And they currently get
about $2 billion a year. That's over an eight year period. So there's money there and there are people
competing for that money all around the country. So I think that this is a step that really makes us serious
and puts a stake in the ground.
At the same time, I appreciate the concern about other unfinished corridors and the fact that we don't
want to raise expectations that this is-- we're going to get to the end of this and have the money. But I
agree with others that this is the moment. This is an opportunity. I don't know how long a shot it is but it is
an important moment. I also think that-- I want to say thanks first of all to Henry and to Mr. Stopplecamp
and Ms. Johnson and Mr. Van Meter for the efforts that they put in so far putting this together, but also the
early engagement because the engagement is so critical. As Debra said, we need a common set of facts.
And that includes the ridership, the costs, all the pieces, the sidings, what these different pieces will do
and in the various areas. And one of the most important things is that people accept those facts because
then we can have the conversation from there.
And we don't have the money. We don't have the money. But one thing that I think Erik and I have both
been doing, and others may be as well, is saying, hey help us if you want this to happen. Let's talk to our
federal delegation. Let's talk to our state delegation and those that want it to happen to help us out with
this, that's a longer term issue.
I think that level 2 provides the kind of engagement. It's hard to tell at this point, but it looks to me like that
provides the kind of engagement without going too over the top, as Director Catlin pointed out, to move

this forward in a very open way and get us the answers we need. So I encourage us to move forward with
that level. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. Director Broom. You're muted, sorry.
BOB BROOM: OK. I guess I'm unmuted now. I support either level 2 or level 3. I'm kind of on the position
that level 3 probably makes the most sense in the long run, because you're going to end up with
unanswered questions, if you only go to level 2. And then that's going to extend the timeline even more
than what it shows on that schedule. The other questions I had were, can Union Station accommodate
more than just RTD, if one of the other lines get approved? And then the other question I had was, have
we talked with our federal lobbyist about the likelihood of funding coming to Colorado? $80 billion sounds
like a lot of money, but that could easily be sucked up in California in projects that they currently have
under way. And you know they're shovel ready out there with that one project for sure. And there's
probably some other lines back East that are shovel ready, and we're still you know just getting our feet
wet.
But we do need to move with speed and have Board action to start this process underway, so that we're
not in the middle of next year before we're hiring a consultant. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. OK. Henry, did you have a-HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes, I'd like to answer the question on Union Station. We can handle the B line
extension peak service into Union Station. Originally when we laid out Union Station and put the light rail
out at the consolidated mainline, we brought it in far enough that there is a siding on the BNSF alignment
that lines up with our light rail platform. So a Front Range passenger operation originally that was
visioned would actually not come into Denver Union Station, but come in and drop off at the-- right next to
light rail. And then you'd transfer to the light rail or you go down the concourse to into Union Station.
To take a train into Union Station, you end up basically calling a Y operation. And you end up reversing
the ends of the locomotive. That little exercise to come in and go out could take almost 20 minutes. So
that really hits the travel time, if you're going from Pueblo to Fort Collins. So the intent was to-- any
through trains would stop out on the consolidated mainline, transfer into Denver from there. And then the
train would continue going north or south.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: And are we going to be in competition with these other people or-- is that the way this is
going to turn out? I mean, we're talking now about cooperating with each other, but it sounds to me like
we may be in competition.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Mr. Van Meter.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Chair Cook, this is Bill Van Meter, AGM Planning. Director Broom, that's certainly
not the intent. The intent is one-- were multiple projects to be able to advance, ours and either an Amtrak
or a Front Range Rail-- that in terms of both construction opportunities and savings and operational
integration, that we would work together. And then in terms of how that service looks, a Front Range
service would have limited stops through the metro area and presumably be priced differently, such that
our market and who we would be serving would be a different market than the inter-regional service that
those other projects could and would serve.
And we have been consistent in discussions with stakeholders-- with CDOT and with the Front Range
Passenger Rail folks-- to let them know that our intent would be that our ridership wouldn't suffer, but

rather the two projects, if they coincide, would have the opportunity to be synergistic and feed passengers
to each other.
BOB BROOM: Then we would be both be using BNSF rail lines.
WILLIAM VAN METER: Certainly presumably BNSF right of way, and accessing their rail lines and
places. Also potentially, depending on the level of service-- and these are some of the things we'd have to
question-- adding additional infrastructure and track that would also be shared by passenger service, as
well as freight services.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Director Broom, thank you. And that was helpful, Bill, thank you. I'd like to go to Chair
Rivera-Malpiede next because she hasn't had a chance to speak. And then I'll come back to you, Director
Lewis. OK, Chair, please go ahead.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You know what, I want to thank everybody for this discussion because it has
just been so robust. It really has touched all the points that everybody's been looking at since our last
conversation around this. I want to take this opportunity to really say how grateful I am to Mr. Van Meter,
Mr. Stopplecamp, and our new General Manager who've done yeoman's work in putting this presentation
together for all of you to take a look at and really think about how we move forward together as a Board of
Directors.
But I also want to take this opportunity to thank First Vice Chair Guissinger, Secretary Buzek, Director
Davidson for their work in the community because there has been a lot of discussion and a lot of
groundwork that's been worked on. I cannot tell you how many hours I've had this discussion in and
around the community with the Front Range Rail folks. And we are at a most opportune time for an
opportunity and collaboration like we've not seen before. And from 2004 to 2021, the world is very
different.
And I believe we need to do at least a level 2, if not a level 3. But what I'd like to do if I might, Madam
Chair, is ask people if they are interested in level 2. I heard people saying it, but maybe a thumbs up to
see how many people would be interested in level 2? And then we can move forward because it's now
9:30, and our staff has been working since 7:15 this morning. I'm afraid we're going to kill them. So-SHELLEY COOK: Let me, Chair. I agree, and in fact, we have one more speaker. But I heard four amens
and several verbals. And it's pretty clear to me that most people favor level 2. And I'm wondering if the
staff would be happy knowing that the sense of the Board is at least level 2, probably level 2. But allowing
for a little bit of added developments here in the next few months as they push up that scope of work.
Does that sound good, Henry?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: It does. And we will bring back the scope, like the presentation pointed out, I
mentioned the summer. So if there's elements that you believe is too robust we can always pull out. And if
there's elements that you want to add into it, we can look at that and see how to make that fit. I think
we've got a pretty good understanding of where the Board would like to see this project go forward.
SHELLEY COOK: Is everybody good with that? You can do that thumbs up if you like with that. OK,
great. Thank you very much and, please, with the wrap up, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. The first thing is I realized that I hadn't told you which level
that I prefer, after I had all my questions in. I do have a preference. I prefer not to do any of these. But if I
must choose, I'd prefer to do level 2. And the second question I have-- and this is probably a question
better suited for Director Tisdale, Guissinger, or Director Buzek. Specifically for Director Tisdale, he stated

that there is money currently. And I know that Director Tisdale probably stay more plugged in to these
things than I do. And so I'm just curious. As we are talking about managing expectations, I don't want
folks who are listening to think that there is funding in the event-- after we get to the end of this that it's
guaranteed. And so I'd love for us to maybe state battle records so that that's clear to those who are
listening in, that it doesn't change where we are financially as a agency, unless there's something again
that Director Tisdale or the other directors might have access to that I don't. And I'm open to learning and
understanding.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. Director Tisdale, do you care to respond?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, I'd be happy to. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. The principal thing relative
to the statement that there is a window of funding available to us, relates to, among other things, the
Senate parliamentarian's ruling today concerning the proposal for the infrastructure bill and the fact that
the same can go forward as a reconciliation measure. That would not trigger any possibility for a filibuster,
so that if the House were to pass it-- which it is inclined to do-- that the Senate could then muster the
necessary votes if it keeps all the Democrats in line to achieve that end.
That funding provides for an almost unprecedented level of expenditure in public transportation. And
that's what I refer to. There is not a separate earmark. I don't know that our delegation has been
successful in even considering the question of an earmark for this project. But there could be an earmark,
and there definitely will be funding available.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Tisdale. That's what I wanted to clarify, that specifically the
earmark, because I just don't want folks to think that there are more guarantees than there actually are.
And so I really appreciate that clarity That's it, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. In line with our wise General Manager's interest always in
reminding us that we need to be careful about managing expectations. So thank you I just add my thanks
to everybody. I thought it was a really good discussion. And I appreciate all the work that went into getting
it to this point, including among our directors and, but also the staff sure and the stakeholders. So moving
on. Anybody have anything to bring up under other matters?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Madam Chair?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please go ahead, Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And I apologize. I know it's really late, but I just wanted to talk very briefly
about an issue that seems to be bubbling up every day. More and more I'm receiving emails from
constituents about what's happening around Union Station, and folks not feeling very safe. And what I'd
like to do is ask the General Manager if she could talk a little bit about what RTD has been doing to deal
with this issue. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair, for the opportunity to speak on this
matter. Recognizing that, yes, there has been some less than favorable activity, of what you all are fully
cognizant of in and around Denver Union Station. Recognizing that the crown jewel has now been utilized
for a myriad of different other activities. But recognizing that public transportation is the fabric interwoven
into any community, this is not an issue that solely rests with public transport. It's more or less a quality of
life issue. And in reference to that, it's something that we have been working in tandem with our partners
on.
So more specifically as I speak to this, just last week we leveraged a meeting with the city and county of
Denver, with the mayor's office specifically, Denver code enforcement, whereby there was a walkthrough

that was done. We have had our own Police Chief engage with Denver Police Department as well. We
looked at increasing patrols and things along those lines. But more specifically, as we look at the issue
that's prevalent, it's not a crime to be unhoused. So what we're trying to do is leverage coordination with
the city and county of, Denver due to the fact that they have clinicians that are geared toward dealing with
individuals that have mental health issues that are prevalent. And more specifically as well that we are in
the process of a peer review with the American Public Transportation Association, specifically on safety
and security, and there's recommendations that spawning out of that. So recognizing that I don't have a
silver bullet that's going to address this issue, trust and believe that we have been working in all due
diligence to mitigate some of these aspects, looking at our partners looking at the tenants of Union
Station to stay apprised, and have a path forward as we all have to have some skin in the game because
collectively, we're going to address the problem. But I just wanted to share that all the things that you are
hearing about, it's something that we continue with on a daily basis as we try to clean up different articles
of clothing or other debris that's there, to make it more enticing as an intermodal hub should be. So with
that, I'll yield my comments and we can keep you all apprised as we go forward. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. That's all I have, Madam Chair.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thanks for that on the Union Station side. I really
genuinely appreciative that too. Any questions or other comments? OK any other-BOBBY DISHELL: I think Director Broom's hand is up.
SHELLEY COOK: Sorry, Director Broom. Go ahead please.
BOB BROOM: Are we finished now with the Northwest Rail?
SHELLEY COOK: We are. We're on other matters. Sorry if I didn't make that clear.
BOB BROOM: OK. I do have a question. I think I read in the paper that the town of Parker is considering
an election to de-annex from RTD. And I'd like to get some legal guidance from our Counsel on what that
process is as far as getting in and out of RTD is concerned. I know how it works for metro districts and
that type of thing. But I'm not sure how it works as far as RTD is concerned, because we have a separate
statute.
SHELLEY COOK: Are you asking for a memo from Melanie Snyder?
BOB BROOM: That would be helpful. Yes.
SHELLEY COOK: General Counsel Snyder. Hello. Would that be possible?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes absolutely. And Director Broom, there is a bill that is-- that we are aware of. And
so I can certainly address the framework of that bill as well.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you very much. Anything else?
BOB BROOM: No.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: This question is sort of based on Director Broom's question, which is there a
mechanism to de-annex without a statute by the legislature? Can they just do it on their own, either by a
vote of city council, or the vote of the people?
MELANIE SNYDER: And [AUDIO OUT] that as well.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you. Director Guissinger, also a hand?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just very briefly. We had a very good discussion on the sub-regional service
councils. Got some good feedback. I have not-- I've just been buried, haven't had a chance to spend
much time with it. I think what the best thing to do is just some verbal feedback based on the memo and

on what we heard at the meeting. And I'll try to perhaps work with our General Manager and Chair and
Director Whitmore and get something out that summarizes that before next week. Thanks.
SHELLEY COOK: Sounds good. OK. I think we're really close here. So next meeting date is June 8,
2021. And I'd entertain a motion to adjourn.
DIRECTORS: So moved.
SHELLEY COOK: I think Director Guissinger, and then Director Buzek. But any objections? OK, then we'll
call it adjourned. Thank you, everybody very much.
DIRECTORS: Night.

