Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, February 9, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:26 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status

Arrived

Lorraine Anderson
Ernest Archuleta
Kent Bagley

Committee Chair
Director, District C
Director, District H

Present
Present
Present

7:20 PM
7:24 PM
7:25 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District B
Director, District E
Director, District N

Present
Absent
Present

7:20 PM

Larry Hoy

Director, District J

Present

7:25 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

7:25 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present

7:24 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:25 PM
7:24 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

7:25 PM

7:27 PM

Jeff Walker

Committee Vice-Chair

Present

7:21 PM

Directors Folska, Lasater and Lubow were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Larry Buter, Gina Callahan, Jessie Carter,
Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, Heather Deckard,
Martell Dyles, Phil Eberl, Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina
Gibson, Doug Gragg, Erin Klaas, Russ Larson, Marla Lien, Doug
MacLeod, Barbara McManus, Doug Monroe, Brenden Morgan, Mike
Nabhan, Paula Perdue, Jennifer Ross-Amato, Zamy Silva, Henry
Stopplecamp, Mindy Swaney, John Tarbert, Monika Treipl-Harnke,
Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Gary Forbes, Sherman Hamilton, Wendy Londa, Dan McKeehan,
Brenda Mosby, Tom Peters, Susan Spry, Larry Tenenholz, Leslie
Thompson, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn, Greg Yates

B. Recommended Actions

• Access-a-Ride Eligibility Assessments
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his
designee, to enter into a contract with Easter Seals Colorado for the
provision of ADA paratransit eligibility functional assessments.
Performance under the contract is for a five year period and shall not
exceed $2,490,070.
Motion:

Director Bagley made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the February 16, 2016
Board Meeting.
Chair Tobiassen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
stated that RTD currently contracts with Easter Seals Colorado
to provide the functional assessments for Access-a-Ride
eligibility. The contract with Easter Seals Colorado will expire
on March 31, 2016. On November 6, 2015, RTD issued a
Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price
proposals to provide eligibility assessments. Proposals were
due on December 18, 2015. Only two firms submitted follow
up questions, which were responded to by November 27th. As
a result, only one proposal from Easter Seals of Colorado was
submitted. He indicated that the evaluation committee
deemed they were proficient and the price was reasonable.

Therefore, staff is recommended entering into a new five year
contract.
Director Solano asked staff how they compared the cost of
the Easter Seals proposal with that of other competitors or
what other non-profit agencies pay for similar service.
Bruce Abel explained that since there was only one
proposal, staff compared the dollar amount proposed with
what RTD pays today and what staff expected given
inflation and additional tasks Easter Seals was asked to
perform.
Director Francone noted in the Financial Impact section of
the Board report it reflected a higher proposed cost and
asked for additional clarification. Bruce Abel stated that
the cost proposed by Easter Seals was slightly higher than
what was originally budgeted. He believes funds will be
available through a transfer or staff will come back to the
Board through the amended budget process. Director
Francone asked how much higher the Easter Seals costs
were compared to the budget. Larry Buter, Manager of
Paratransit Services, said he would get back to the Board
with that information.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
MOVER:
Kent Bagley, Director, District H
SECONDER: Tom Tobiassen, Director, District F
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Menten, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
NAYS: Tina Francone, Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations, explained we
have a number of commuter rail services opening in the Denver region. The
first milestone was the Flatiron Flyer that opened in January of 2016. Last
year the Board approved the rail line service between DIA and Denver Union
Station (DUS). However, tonight’s focus will be on the upcoming Gold Line
(G Line) and Northwest Line (B Line) corridors. He mentioned to the Board
that the information provided in tonight’s Board packet was not the full plan

but focused on the changes made to the plan since the last Board meeting
as a result of the stakeholder and public input process.
Doug Monroe, Service Planner and Scheduler, started with the Northwest
Line (B Line) rail service. Doug stated his team expected the commute time
to be 11 minutes from Westminster to DUS. He said peak period service
would be every 30 minutes, which is slightly different from other rail lines
which have 15 minute frequencies. The Gold Line (G Line) line will run
from DUS to Wheat Ridge/Ward in approximately 25 minutes. Doug stated
the two main bus services being replaced by the Gold Line are the 55L and
72L. Currently, there are no plans to replace any bus routes with the
Northwest Line.
Doug Monroe explained that new bus routes were also being introduced to
enhance the mobility in both corridors upon the opening of the Gold and
Northwest rail lines. These routes are:
 Route 53 – replaces Route 51 north of US 36 & Sheridan Station
 Route 55 – new service to operate between Olde Town Arvada
Station and Arvada Ridge Station
 Route 99 – replaces alignment previously served by Route 100 south
of Federal Center Station
 Route 125 – new service from Federal Center Station to 64th/Quaker
via Wheat Ridge-Ward Station
Public Hearings were scheduled in November at Blake Street, South
Westminster, Arvada, and West Arvada. Overall the feedback was positive
but there were concerns about discontinuance of Route 92 west of Sheridan
and Route 72L.
Doug stated the Gold and Northwest Resources Plan is revenue neutral and
the change in service hours is less than 1%.
Doug updated the Board on the timeline. He explained that most of the
steps had been complete. Staff will be asking the Board to approve the final
service plans in March with implementation of the Northwest Line in summer
followed by the Gold Line in fall of 2016.

Bruce added his team has briefed the Board periodically to keep them up-todate on the service plan revisions. He plans to seek Board approval at the
March Board of Directors meeting.
Committee Chair Anderson commented on the process and how the G Line
plan has been thoroughly vetted with all the transportation committees in
Arvada and through the public hearings. She said she is very enthusiastic

about this plan because it is going to serve people who have not been
served before. Committee Chair Anderson noted there was some angst
about the changes in the community, but she believes once people get used
to the new plan they will see it serves the area better than previous plans.
Director Hoy wanted to know if staff had discussed the changes with the
City of Westminster. Doug said they met with Barbara Opie, Assistant City
Manager, last September and she is aware of the changes.
Director Francone asked how many parking spaces are at the 41st and Fox
and Arvada Ridge Park—Rides as she anticipates the majority of people will
access those stations by car. Jessie stated he did not have this information
tonight, but would provide to the Board tomorrow.
Chair Tobiassen was curious about the Paratransit service and wanted to
know if there would be a negative impact to existing riders because of
changes to the current service. Bruce said the new service up in the
Northwest area may add some Paratransit service that is not currently
provided. Doug explained that the coverage area is actually about the same.
There is the discontinuous of a small area of fixed-route service but only one
Paratransit rider used Access-a-Ride during the previous year. The changes
to the overall plan are not increasing or decreasing, but rather are
strengthening the core routes.
Committee Chair Anderson stated there are some at risk populations and
now we will provide them with more transit service. She feels this is a huge
and positive change. In her mind, it will provide a safer and better way to
access the bus services and is much more convenient.
Chair Tobiassen thanked Committee Chair Anderson for her feedback.
Director Solano asked if Route 92 was discontinued in conjunction with the
Flatiron Flyer opening. Doug stated that it was not actually discontinued. In
developing the Gold Line service staff reviewed the entire Northwest area in
Jefferson and Adams County. He said that because of Route 92’s proximity
of the Westminster station staff initially proposed cancelling it but has since
revised the proposal. Jessie Carter asked everyone to keep in mind Route
92 has a lot of turns, which provides challenges. He explained that staff
had wanted to streamline it but has since decided to see how it performs
with the G Line opening before making changes.
Director Solano asked why staff decided to keep Route 92. He wondered if
it was due to pressure from the constituents. Doug stated that was correct.

Director James wondered what the expected ridership was for the
Northwest Line and Gold Line. Doug said it would be between 700-800 for
the Northwest Line and on the Gold Line to be roughly 12,000.
Committee Chair Anderson stated this will provide great connections not just
north and south but east and west as well.

• CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report
Bruce Abel stated in 2014 RTD entered into a Settlement Agreement with
Colorado Cross Disability Coalition (CCDC). This agreement related to
concerns with access to our fixed-route buses for those using mobility aids.
Part of the settlement was implementation of a tracking mechanism for
when a person with a mobility aid was denied access to our fixed-route
services and provide the Board with this information annually.
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services, stated 2015 data
showed 83% of passengers with mobility aids trying to utilize our buses
were passed up due to the securement area being full with other passengers
using mobility aids. She went on to say we are seeing improvements with
our bus operators showing more empathy toward passengers with mobility
devices. Carolyn Conover stated operators are required to complete
paperwork to track these passengers who are passed up. To ensure that
operators understand the importance of completing the paperwork, every
operator is required to meet with management for each incident where a
form is not completed or turned in, and the operator is addressed as needed.
For the private contractors, RTD issues Liquidated Damages if the paperwork
is not provided to RTD.
RTD’s bus operators went through an ADA refresher training. The training
served to raise operators’ awareness of the needs of passengers with a
variety of disabilities and mobility challenges. Additional ADA refresher
training will be given to all operators in 2016.
Carolyn Conover stated last year we noticed several bus mobility device lifts
were inoperable. One positive thing is the majority of these busses with the
lifts will being retired and replaced with low-floor ramp equipped buses.
Overall, from what the data states our new procedures are having a positive
impact on our bus operators.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for providing them with this annual
report. She thought it was very easy to read and understand.
Chair Tobiassen asked if, as part of the original settlement agreement, RTD
would pay a fee per incident or violation. Bruce Abel stated we would if we

did not follow policy. A recent analysis found RTD has not had any policy
violations.

• Recruitment and Hiring Update
Bruce Abel stated in the last Committee meeting the Board requested an
update on where we are with Recruiting and Hiring. He mentioned training
has been put in place to occur every other week. He provided two
spreadsheets outlining information such as the number or people schedule to
start training, number who actually started, people who began driving, etc.
for both bus and rail. The training is a six week program. There is a
seventh week added if the person will be driving the Mall Shuttle or
mountain routes. Bruce Abel pointed out that entering 2015 the number of
people entering a training class was in the single digits to low double digits.
He mentioned three years ago we were losing about 15 people a month. He
said over the past year it has gone up to about 25. Over the next 3-4
months staff wants to hire 20 people every two weeks, meaning we need to
put 30 people in each training session.
Bruce Abel mentioned on the retention side, we are offering referral bonuses
and implemented hiring bonuses to be paid out over an 18 month period.
Staff also introduced a split-shift differential for employees working shift
splits. His thought was, if we can keep an employee for a year, this should
increase our odds in retaining the employee long term.
Director Hoy wanted to know if all RTD bus drivers start at the same hourly
wage. Bruce Abel said yes, they all start at $15.64 an hour.
Director Solano asked what the average age of new hire was. Bruce Abel
indicated he could not provide an average age; however, he can say we are
not appealing to the younger folks. He said there are many people who are
coming to RTD as a second career.
Director Menten asked if there was a difference between the starting pay for
RTD employees and contractors. Bruce Abel said there was. He indicated
that contractors start in the vicinity of $12 per hour.

• Lost Service Update
Bruce Abel stated at the last Committee meeting there were questions about
lost service. He indicated that detailed information was provided to the
Board in the February 9, 2016 Operations and Customer Service Committee
Agenda Packet. He reminded the Board that late in 2014 to early 2015 we
were missing around 10 hours of service per day out of over 10,200 total
hours. In the summer it was up to 40 or 50 and in November of 2015 it
went all the way up to over 500 hours. He pointed out that since December

this figure has been trending down but is not sure what February will hold
with the recent snowstorm.
Bruce Abel noted that the Board was provided with an analysis of dropped
service by route. He explained that this information is also broken down by
operating division. He said from his experience this seems to be cyclical as
even though First Transit Commerce City is one of the divisions with the
highest lost service last month, back in April they were helping us to pick up
our dropped runs. He stated that this is analyzed as one complete system
(RTD and contractors) as everyone deploys resources as best we can to best
serve our customers.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff for this detailed report.
Director Menten commended Gina Callahan, Acting Deputy Assistant
General Manager of Bus Operations for her assistance with customers that
have experienced hardships.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley stated the Board should recognize the extraordinary work our staff
provided to our customers during the recent blizzard. He is really pleased with the
efforts with the staff across the board.
Committee Chair Anderson also thanked RTD for their efforts today because of
their efforts for the Denver Broncos parade even though there were long waits.
Director Sisk stated we performed in a spectacular way, stepping up and providing
services for our passengers.
Several members of the Board stated David Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO, made a great decision to provide free service on buses and light rails until
8:00 p.m. Interim General Manager Genova stated it was a combined effort and
kudos went out to the entire team. Today was an extreme special event situation.
Bruce Abel mentioned there were between 750-800K people lining the streets
today for the Bronco Parade and we were operating at maximum capacity.
Director Deadwyler extended Kudos to the RTD staff and stated the crowds were a
mess. She was disappointed we did not get mentioned by any of the local news
channels regarding RTD’s efforts.
Director Solano extended his Kudos out to all of RTD staff.

E. Next Meeting Date - March 22, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b) conference with an attorney for the local public body for the
purpose of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions - pending litigation.
Motion:

Committee Chair Anderson made the motion to
move into executive session for the purpose to
discuss C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b) conference with
an attorney for the local public body for the
purpose of receiving legal advice on specific
legal questions - pending litigation.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

RESULT:
PASSED [10 TO 0]
MOVER:
Lorraine Anderson, Committee Chair
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Francone, James, Menten, Sisk,
Tobiassen, Walker
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow
AWAY:
Larry Hoy, Paul Solano
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.
The Board moved into executive session at 8:20 p.m.

G. Adjourn from Executive Session
The Board adjourned from executive session at 8:54 p.m.

H. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 8:55 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

