Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

AGENDA
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, February 9, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Access-a-Ride Eligibility Assessments
C. Updates

• Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan
• CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report
• Recruitment and Hiring Update
• Lost Service Update

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - March 22, 2016
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(b) conference with an attorney for the local public body for the
purpose of receiving legal advice on specific legal questions - pending litigation.

G. Adjourn from Executive Session
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: February 3, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 3, 2016

Board Meeting Date: February 16, 2016

Subject:

Access-a-Ride Eligibility Assessments

RECOMMENDED ACTION
RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract with Easter Seals
Colorado for the provision of ADA paratransit eligibility functional assessments. Performance under
the contract is for a five year period and shall not exceed $2,490.070.
BACKGROUND
RTD requires all potential applicants for Access-a-Ride services to participate in an in-person
functional assessment.
Formal functional assessments allow RTD to base an individual’s
determination/certification for eligibility for ADA paratransit services on the three categories of
eligibility under the ADA; the functional inability to get to or from the bus stop or light rail platform;
the ability to board and alight the bus or light rail car; or the ability/inability to understand how to
travel on fixed-route bus or light rail due to cognitive limitations.
Since its inception in 1992, the Access-a-Ride program has certified nearly 100,000 users. Of those
certified, approximately 15,000 individuals have used the service in the past year. RTD is currently
providing, on average, 2,800 Access-a-Ride trips per weekday.
The total number of assessments, which include re-certifications and new applications, for the last
five (5) years are as follows:
2015
2014
2013
2012
2011

-

4296
4547
4054
4357
3897

RTD currently contracts with Easter Seals Colorado to provide the functional assessments for
Access-a-Ride eligibility. The contract with Easter Seals Colorado will expire on March 31, 2016.
On November 6, 2015, RTD issued a Request for Proposals (RFP) soliciting technical and price
proposals to provide eligibility assessments. The RFP was downloaded from the RTD website by the
following firms:
MTM, Inc.
IPS Lynx

Easter Seals, Colorado
Innovative Paradigms

First Transit

Packet Pg. 3

1.B.1

Two of the firms submitted follow up questions which were responded to by November 27th. The
proposals were due on December 18, 2015.
DISCUSSION
One proposal was received in response to the RFP for eligibility evaluations. The Proposer was the
incumbent eligibility contractor, Easter Seals Colorado.
An evaluation committee was formed to evaluate the proposal based on the following evaluative
criteria: understanding of the RTD’s requirements and objectives (35%), experience (35%), and cost
(30%). The evaluation team consisted of Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager of Contracted Services,
Larry Buter, Manager of Paratransit Services and Carol Coe, Paratransit Services Coordinator. Each
member of the evaluation team individually reviewed the technical proposals submitted and assigned
a score for “Understanding of RTD’s requirements” and for “Experience.” Based on the average of
the individual scores received in these categories, Easter Seals of Colorado was deemed technically
qualified for an award. The score for the “Cost” element was calculated by RTD procurement staff
and was then added to the technical score of the proposal to determine the overall total score or
rating.
Easter Seals Colorado’s experience with providing eligibility evaluations for RTD and the experience
of their staff were key elements of their proposal. Proposed pricing was based on an estimated
amount of assessments provided by RTD in the RFP. These estimates were based on historical data.
The first year numbers are as follows:
Re-certifications
In person assessment
Indoor assessment
Outdoor assessment

1243
103
2334
948

The negotiated first year rates proposed by Easter Seals for the rebid of eligibility assessments are as
follows:
Re-certifications
In person assessment
Indoor assessment
Outdoor assessment

$17.42
$84.64
$102.78
$151.16

The five-year contract price is $2,490,070. It was the consensus of the evaluation team that Easter
Seals, Colorado presented a proposal which successfully addressed their understanding of the
project, proposed management team, and approach to delivering the requested service. A variety of
factors influenced their costs to come in slightly higher than the current contract plus inflation.
These factors included, increased administrative functions, an increase in time to complete the
assessment process per applicant, as well as an increase of costs for goods and services such as
language interpreters.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for 2016 are currently available and budgeted. Due to the higher proposed costs, it may be
necessary to request additional funds for 2016. If additional funds are required, staff will make that

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

request through the amended budget process.
approvals.

Subsequent years are subject to Board budget

ALTERNATIVES
1) Award the contract to Easter Seals Colorado as recommended.
2) Extend the current Easter Seals Colorado contract and resolicit the eligibility assessments RFP.

Prepared by: Carolyn Conover, Sr. Manager, Contracted Services
Larry Buter, Manager, Paratransit Services
<<Enter Recommended Action Here>>
<<Enter Remaining Information Here>>

Prepared by:
Larry Buter, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: February 4, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 4, 2016

Board Meeting Date:

Subject:

Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan

ATTACHMENTS:


Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan



Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point

(PDF)
(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

Final Gold & Northwest Corridors
Service Plan

February 2016

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Packet Pg. 7

Contents
1
Introduction ............................................................................................... 4
1.1
Background and Focus .......................................................................... 4
1.2
Study Area .......................................................................................... 4
1.3
Relevant Studies .................................................................................. 7
2
Existing Conditions ................................................................................... 15
2.1
Market Assessment ............................................................................ 15
2.2
Existing Market Conditions................................................................... 16
3
Service Evaluation .................................................................................... 26
3.1
Service Fundamentals for Transit Design ................................................ 26
4
Existing Service Conditions ........................................................................ 28
4.1
Transit Route Network ........................................................................ 28
5
Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan .................................................... 42
5.1
Gold and Northwest Bus Service Recommendations................................. 46
5.2
Resource Impacts ............................................................................... 51
6
Process ................................................................................................... 52
Tables
Table 1 - G-Line Planned Operations ..................................................................... 8
Table 2 - B-Line Planned Operations ................................................................... 11
Table 3 - West Corridor Service Plan Recommendations and Straegies .................... 13
Table 4- Current Gold Corridor Bus Routes .......................................................... 29
Table 5- Current Northwest Corridor Bus Routes .................................................. 29
Table 6 - Current Gold Corridor Transit Route Network ......................................... 31
Table 7 - Current Northwest Corridor Transit Route Network ................................. 32
Table 8 - RTD Service Standards ....................................................................... 34
Table 9 - RTD Average Farebox Recovery by Service Class.................................... 38
Table 10 - Gold Line Corridor Bus Route Performance Metrics ................................ 40
Table 11 - Northwest Corridor Bus Route Performance Metrics .............................. 40
Table 12 - Gold and Northwest Corridors Bus Service Levels ................................. 46
Table 13 - Gold and Northwest Corridors Bus Service Requirements ....................... 52
Figures
Figure 1 - G-Line Projected Average Daily Boardings ............................................... 8
Figure 2 - G-Line Mode of Access, 2030 ............................................................... 9
Figure 3 - B-Line Mode of Access, 2035 ............................................................. 11
Figure 4- Downtown Denver Commute Choice, 2013 ........................................... 12
Figure 5- Gold Corridor Bus Routes, Subsidy per Boarding, 2012 ............................ 34
Figure 6 - Northwest Corrdor Bus Routes, Subsidy perBoarding 2012 ..................... 35
Figure 7 - Gold Corridor Bus Routes, Boardings per Hours, 2014 ............................ 36
Figure 8 - Northwest Corridor Bus Routes, Boardings per Hours, 2014 .................... 37
Figure 9- Gold Corridor Bus Routes, Farebox Recovery 2012 ................................. 38
Figure 10- Northwest Corridor Bus Routes, Farebox Recovery 2012 ....................... 39

2
Packet Pg. 8

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Map 1 - G-Line Alignment ................................................................................... 5
Map 2 - B Line Alignment ................................................................................... 6
Map 3- Station Boardings, Mode of Access to Stations, Passenger Volumes Between
Stations ......................................................................................................... 10
Map 4- Westminster Station Transit Oriented Development ................................... 14
Map 5 - Population & Employment Density in 2015 .............................................. 20
Map 6 - Minority Population Density in 2012 ....................................................... 21
Map 7 - Minority Population - Density in 2012 ..................................................... 22
Map 8 - Zero Vehicle Households, Density in 2012 .............................................. 23
Map 9 - Senior Citizens Density in 2012 ............................................................. 24
Map 10- Service Plan Recommended Network Map .............................................. 47

3
Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Maps

1.C.1.a

Introduction
1.1

Background and Focus

As part of the overall FasTracks program to enhance rail service in the Denver region,
the upcoming Gold Line and Northwest Line also known as the G-Line and B-Line
respectively will represent significant milestones in achieving improved connectivity
and travel times for RTD customers. Both projects are likely to stimulate residential,
retail, and commercial growth and contribute to increases in ridership within the
corridors. The Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan contains recommendations for
developing a restructured bus network capable of meeting the demand and mobility
needs generated by the expansion of commuter rail and light rail services.
Recommendations in this study were formulated based on a comprehensive
assessment of existing conditions, service area demographics, transit market research,
route performance and analysis, and stakeholder input. Data collection activities
included both on-site field work and stakeholder meetings held with RTD and
FasTracks personnel.
1.2

Study Area

The study area of this project is defined by the RTD West Line to the south, the US 36
& Broomfield Park-n-Ride to the north, Interstate 25 and downtown Denver to the east,
and the City of Golden to the west. The study area includes the cities of Arvada,
Denver, Thornton, Westminster, and Wheat Ridge, as well as unincorporated areas in
Denver and Jefferson Counties.

4
Packet Pg. 10

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1

1.C.1.a

The G-Line is a future 11.2-mile commuter rail line that will run along the BNSF
Railway and Union Pacific Railroad right of way from Denver Union Station (DUS) to
the City of Wheat Ridge. The G-Line will serve eight stations, including DUS, 41st/Fox,
Pecos Junction, Clear Creek/Federal, 60th & Sheridan/Arvada Gold Strike, Olde Town
Arvada, Arvada Ridge, and Wheat Ridge/Ward. The G-Line is expected to open in
2016. Total travel time between DUS and the Wheat Ridge/Ward terminal station is
approximately 25 minutes.

5
Packet Pg. 11

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Map 1 - G-Line Alignment

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 2 - B Line Alignment

6

Packet Pg. 12

The B-Line is a future 41-mile commuter rail line from Denver Union Station (DUS) to
Longmont, passing through the Cities of Westminster, Broomfield, Louisville, Boulder,
and Gunbarrel. Portions of the B-Line are adjacent to the US 36 BRT project. The first
6.2-mile segment from DUS to south Westminster is expected to be completed in
2016 and will be the focus area of this study. This segment will serve two stations
including Denver Union Station and Westminster/71st Ave. The remaining segment of
the project, from Westminster north to Longmont, will require additional funding before
construction can begin.
1.3

Relevant Studies

The following review highlights the key findings from previous planning studies and
publications relevant to the study area, which include:
• Gold Line Corridor Transit Operations Plan (2009)
• Northwest Rail Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (2010)
• West Corridor Service Plan (2013)
• Downtown Denver Commuter Survey (2013)
• Arvada Transit Station Framework Plan (2007)
• Westminster Station Transit Oriented Development
• Wheat Ridge Northwest Subarea Plan (2013)
Arvada Transit Station Framework Plan (2007)
The Arvada Transit Station Plan envisions the development of a transit oriented district
surrounding the station of Olde Town Arvada on the G-Line. The plan creates two
distinct downtown mixed-use development districts: Olde Town and New Town. New
Town would include an increased mix of land uses, including medium density housing
and commercial/office space, while the historic character of Olde Town would be
preserved by maintaining the existing scale of development.
Gold Line Corridor Transit Operations Plan (2009)
The Gold Line Corridor Transit Operations Plan contains bus and rail operations plans
related to the environmental benefits, costs, and impacts of the proposed service
alternatives. Existing transit service descriptions and characteristics of the corridor and
corresponding routes are provided. Two alternatives for transit service are presented
within the bus operations plan, including the “No Action” and “Baseline” alternatives.
The “No Action” alternative assumes no new major transit investments with only the
existing plus committed facility and operating improvements assumed. The “Baseline”
alternative contains operating improvements designed to improve transit access,
circulation, and travel time within the study area.

7
Packet Pg. 13

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

The rail operations service plan includes the following proposed service levels on the GLine:

G-Line
Peak Periods
4:00 AM to 1:30 Midday
AM
Evening
Late Evening/Early Morning
4:00 AM to 1:30 Midday
AM
Late Evening/Early Morning
4:00 AM to 1:30 Midday
AM
Late Evening/Early Morning

Weekday

Saturday
Sunday/Holiday

15 minutes
15 minutes
15 minutes
30 minutes
15 minutes
30 minutes
15 minutes
30 minutes

G-Line vehicles will be electric multiple unit (EMU) commuter rail cars with maximum
operating speeds of 70 miles per hour. Travel time simulations resulted in an average
one-way trip time of 19.5 minutes; however, this time is likely to change based on the
final track alignment and implementation.
Ridership estimates were developed for the G-Line based on DRCOG modeling
scenarios that accounted for various transit investments and incorporated the factors
of land use, development, parking, fare structure, and vehicle load standards. Other
inputs included demographic information such as projected population, employment,
and income. The model projected average daily boardings by station for the initial year
of operation in 2016 and for the future year of 2030. The stations of Olde Town
Arvada, Wheat Ridge & Ward, and Clear Creek & Federal are expected to generate the
greatest ridership.
Figure 1 - G-Line Projected Average Daily Boardings

G-Line Projected Average Daily Boardings
Projected Boardings (2016)

3500
3000

2,200
1,700

1500

1,500
1,300

3,000

2,900

2,800

2,700

2500
2000

Projected Boardings (2030)

2,400
1,900
1,600

2,400
2,000
1,400

1000
500
0

41st/Fox

Pecos Junction

Clear
Creek/Federal

60th &
Olde Town Arvada
Sheridan/Arvada
Gold Strike

Arvada Ridge

Wheat
Ridge/Ward

8
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Table 1 - G-Line Planned Operations

Additionally, mode of access to each station was projected to determine the method
by which rail passengers are expected to arrive at the station. 41st & Fox and Arvada
Ridge stations are the only stations projected to have more the 50% of passengers
accessing the station via automobile, while passengers at all other stations access the
station by walking or taking transit.
Figure 2 - G-Line Mode of Access, 2030

G-Line Mode of Access, 2030
41st/Fox
Pecos Junction

Walk
Bus
Drive

42%

46%

52%

44%

12%
5%

Olde Town Arvada

14%

Arvada Ridge

13%

27%

48%

25%

Clear Creek/Federal
60th & Sheridan/Arvada Gold Strike

89%

7%

37%

49%
61%

27%

Wheat Ridge/Ward

47%

51%
0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90% 100%

Projected 2016 daily boardings for the G-Line are estimated to be approximately
13,000 and are subsequently projected to increase to 16,800 by 2030. Station
ridership is projected to be highest at Clear Creek/Federal, Olde Town Arvada, and
Wheat Ridge/Ward, where average daily boardings are expected to exceed 2,000.
Ridership is expected to grow by an average of approximately 550 boardings per
station between 2016 and 2030.

9
Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Northwest Rail Corridor Final Environmental Evaluation (2010)
The Northwest Rail Corridor Environmental Evaluation contains bus and rail operations
plans related to the environmental benefits, costs, and impacts of the proposed service
alternatives. The bus operations plan summarizes the existing transit service in the
corridor including current routes, service frequencies and facilities, while the rail
operations plan provides a description of the proposed service including of hours of
operation, service frequency, and stations served.
The Northwest Corridor is envisioned to serve a potential of eleven total stations when
fully constructed; however, only seven of these stations have received FasTracks
funding. Of these seven stations, Westminster/71st Avenue is the only station that will
be operational when the line opens for service in 2016 as part of Phase 1 of the
project. Future phases constructed beyond Westminster/71st Avenue would share a
Right-Of-Way (ROW) with freight operations and would therefore require an operating
agreement with BNSF Railway Company. Due to the interaction with freight trains, the
B-Line will be operated with diesel multiple unit (DMU) commuter rail cars that have the
flexibility to operate on a shared ROW.

10
Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Map 3- Station Boardings, Mode of Access to Stations, Passenger Volumes Between Stations

1.C.1.a

Table 2 - B-Line Planned Operations

Weekday

4:00 AM to 12:00
AM

Saturday

4:00 AM to 12:00
AM

Sunday/Holiday

4:00 AM to 12:00
AM

Peak Periods
Midday
All Day
Late Evening
All Day
Late Evening

30 minutes
50 minutes
60 minutes
120 minutes
60 minutes
120 minutes

Projected 2035 daily boardings for the Westminster/71st Avenue station are estimated
to be 795 when all FasTracks funded stations are included in the ridership model. Of
these average daily boardings, 65% are expected to access the station by bus route
identified as either Routes 31 or 72 in the evaluation report. There will be a total of
925 parking spaces at Westminster/71st Avenue station, which is more than any other
FasTracks funded station in the corridor.
Figure 3 - B-Line Mode of Access, 2035

B-Line Mode of Access, 2035

South Westminster/71st Ave.

15%

65%

20%

Walk to Station
Bus to Station
Drive to Station

0%

10%

20%

30%

40%

50%

60%

70%

80%

90%

100%

Downtown Denver Commuter Survey (2013)
Each year, the Downtown Denver Partnership surveys employees working in
downtown Denver to examine the commuting patterns and trends of downtown
commuters. The survey found that transit and driving alone are the two most
commonly used ways that commuters travel to work.

11
Packet Pg. 17

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

B-Line

1.C.1.a

Figure 4- Downtown Denver Commute Choice, 2013

Transit
Drove alone
Carpooled

46%

38%

5% 5% 4%

Biked
Walked
Other

0%

20%

40%

60%

80%

100%

Survey respondents have an average one-way commute of 14 miles with the majority
working in the Commercial Core neighborhood of downtown. Other findings conclude
that employer-provided transportation benefits, age, office location, and commute
length all play a role in determining commute choice. Note that this survey predates the
opening of the new Denver Union Station.
West Corridor Service Plan (2013)
The West Corridor Service Plan was developed to restructure the bus network prior to
the implementation of the West Rail Line, which provides light rail service from
downtown Denver to the City of Golden. Lessons learned from this report will help
inform the design of the Service Plans for the Gold and Northwest Corridors. Key
findings in this report include the discovery that the majority of the West Corridor
boarding activity occurs within the inner and middle segments of the corridor, with the
outer segment showing a significant decrease in activity. The final bus service plan
recommended alternative service delivery methods in the outer segment and a
reinvestment of resources in the core grid network, where they could benefit a higher
number of riders. Additionally, an out of direction model was run to determine whether
bus routes should be deviated to serve rail stations off the main corridor. This will be
an issue that has to be addressed in preparation for the opening of the Gold and
Northwest Rail project. The chart in the following page relates to routes studied in the
West Corridor.

12
Packet Pg. 18

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Downtown Denver Commute Choice, 2013

1.C.1.a

Table 3 - West Corridor Service Plan Recommendations and Strategies
Service Type

Recommendations and Strategies
- Preserve high frequencies to promote spontanous use

North-South

- Provide high capacity connections to LRT
- Introduce new Limited service to facilitate LRT-based travel
See Routes 31, 51, and 76Ltd

Downtown to
Wadsworth Blvd
East-West
West of
Wadsworth Blvd

- Preserve frequencies to promote spontaneous use
- Maintain the core grid network to preserve strong network connectivity
- Focus line haul travel on LRT
- Rationalize low-performing route segments
- Introduce alternative service delivery options in limited demand markets
See Routes 20, 28, and 32
- Replace routes duplicative of LRT

Express

- Restructure into first mile/last mile LRT feeder services
- Focus line haul travel on LRT
See Routes 2X, 5X, 87X, 93X, and 100X

Regional

- Leave as is to avoid transfers for very long distance trips
See Routes GS, EV, and CV
- Introduce in low demand markets

call-n-Ride

- Allow for flexible demand-based trip making
- Fulfill role for first mile/last mile LRT feeder with scheduled LRT station timepoints
See Golden cnR, Wadsworth cnR, Green Mountain cnR, and Applewood cnR

Wheat Ridge Northwest Subarea Plan (2013)
The purpose of the Northwest Sub-area Plan is to establish a vision that will guide
future development around the G-Line station of Ward Road in the City of Wheat
Ridge. The plan establishes the need for higher density, mixed-use development around
the transit station with a focus on employment-supporting land uses in the area. Wheat
Ridge voters exempted the area from the height and density restrictions in the City
Charter, which creates an opportunity for high density development along the
Interstate 70 corridor.
Westminster Station Transit Oriented Development
The Westminster Station Transit Oriented Development project is envisioned by the
City of Westminster as a vibrant, mixed-use, high intensity development district, which
will include a community park and open space amenities. The district will be anchored
by the station of Westminster/71st Avenue on the B-Line. A policy framework plan is
in development for land use, urban design, and circulation that will support transit
ridership and revitalization around the station is expected to be adopted in late 2014.

13
Packet Pg. 19

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

- Reinvest available resources in service improvements on the strongest core grid routes

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 4- Westminster Station Transit Oriented Development

14

Packet Pg. 20

1.C.1.a

Existing Conditions
2.1

Market Assessment

The Denver region is growing rapidly. In order to provide the best possible service, the
Regional Transportation District (RTD) must continually adjust and keep pace with
those changes. The purpose of this market assessment is to examine the underlying
conditions in the communities that will be served by the Gold Line and Northwest Line
corridors and assess the trends as they relate to the demand for transit service and the
types of services that best match the demand.
The following market characteristics are key factors that influence the demand for
transit and are critical elements of a market-based approach to transit planning:
• Population and Employment Density
• Customer Demographics
• Development Patterns
• Street Patterns
• Market Typologies
This information will be used in subsequent phases of the development of the bus
operations performance analysis to inform the design of transit service improvements.
Market Fundamentals for Transit Planning
The aforementioned market fundamentals are key factors that affect the demand for
transit and are critical elements of a market-based approach to transit planning. Transit
success cannot be attributed to one market factor alone; rather, these fundamentals
combine to form a series of push and pull factors that act as incentives or disincentives
for transit use. Together they identify what is necessary for transit to succeed within a
market context and will be used to create a composite picture of where service is most
likely to generate ridership. Use of the market-based indicators serves to inform
decisions about transit service location and supply.
Population and Employment Density
Population and employment density identifies the location and concentration of
residents and jobs within an area. The distribution of people and jobs significantly
influences the effectiveness of transit. A community with a concentrated mix of uses
will allow transit to serve more customers and trip purposes than an area with a more
dispersed pattern of development. In addition, transit agencies should view local
residents and employees as a base of prospective customers. Higher densities are
positive market indicators for transit, assuming that the preference for riding transit is
consistent across a service area; routes in low-density areas will be limited in their
ability to generate a substantial level of ridership given the smaller base of customers
from which to draw.
Customer Demographics
In practice, customer preferences are not static across a service area. Preferences vary
from community to community based on local mobility needs. Demographic data such
as income or personal vehicle access provides additional information about the
population that can be used to further identify where the strongest market
opportunities for transit exist. In a market-based approach, understanding different

Packet Pg. 21

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

2

rider market segments will help transit agencies better match transit service products
to serve a particular customer market segment. In addition, a market analysis of
customer characteristics supports RTD’s responsibility to comply with Title VI federal
regulations which aim to identify and mitigate disproportionate and disparate service
impacts to low-income and minority households respectively.
Development Patterns
In evaluating the market for transit, agencies must consider how the configuration of a
community will influence service design. Higher density developments with varied land
uses are typically indicators of more sustainable developments where active modes of
travel (i.e., walking and biking) together with transit, become viable alternatives in
completing for all types of trips. Transit-oriented developments promote multimodal
travel and maximize access to public transportation through features such as enhanced
pedestrian and bicycle facilities, as well as pedestrian-scaled street design. The
multimodal amenities, mix of land uses, and closer proximity of activity centers entices
residents and visitors to complete more of their trips via transit, foregoing the use of
private vehicles.
Street Patterns
The shape and design of the street network profoundly impacts transit opportunity and
success. It is important to remember that the majority of transit trips begin and end as
pedestrian trips, making strong pedestrian connections vital for transit success. Areas
that prioritize pedestrian access are characterized by multiple points of entry, functional
sidewalks, good lighting, a grid-like street pattern, short blocks, and direct alignments
between destinations. Street design factors such as street width and alignment
influence pedestrian and vehicle access, travel time, and safety. Areas with
discontinuous and non-linear streets present barriers to pedestrian circulation and
provide a disincentive to use transit.
Market Typologies
Market typologies serve as generalized characterizations of the varying market
conditions within the region. Each typology incorporates findings from population and
employment densities as well as development and land use patterns. Each market
typology presents different opportunities and challenges for transit and serves as a
guide to inform transit service decisions. Utilizing typologies ultimately offers an
efficient method for categorizing community mobility needs and identifying the best-fit
solutions.
2.2

Existing Market Conditions

The following market assessment presents an overview of the population
demographics and characteristics of each corridor and was used to identify areas that
are more prone to transit use. Demographic characteristics incorporated into this
assessment include income, race, car ownership, and senior populations. Additionally,
the population and employment densities within the corridors were used to determine
the location of high density trip generators and potential ridership patterns.
Population and Employment Density

16
Packet Pg. 22

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Generally, higher population and employment densities are more conducive to transit
usage. In the Gold and Northwest Corridor service areas, high population densities are
found in the neighborhoods immediately surrounding downtown Denver, Westminster
and the area between Olde Town Arvada and Arvada Ridge. Areas located immediately
north of the West Line show particularly strong population densities, which can be
attributed to their proximity to Colfax Avenue, a major arterial road with strong retail
and residential developments that have resulted in higher densities. Heading north from
the West Line and away from the City of Denver, population densities begin to
diminish. The City of Wheat Ridge is a low density community with a small
concentration of higher density development located just south of Interstate 70.
Between Interstate 70 and the G-Line, population densities are reduced as the land use
transitions to commercial and industrial developments with fewer residential areas. The
City of Arvada, which possesses two stations on the G-Line, exhibits higher densities
in areas along the G-Line between Wadsworth Blvd. and Kipling Street. Population
densities begin to diminish upon heading north away from Olde Town Arvada until
reaching the City of Westminster. Westminster maintains two medium density
corridors along 88th Avenue and 92nd Avenue that lead east to US 36 and the planned
Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) corridor. East of US 36, population densities substantially
increase in the City of Thornton, especially between 84th Ave and 104th Ave to the
west of Interstate 25. This area exhibits some of the highest densities outside of
downtown Denver.
Similar to population densities, employment densities in the Gold and Northwest
Corridors are highest in downtown Denver and the immediate surrounding areas.
Outside of downtown, employment densities are highest along the arterial roadways
including the east-west roads of 44th Ave., 84th Ave., 88th Ave., and the north-south
roads of Federal Blvd., Sheridan Blvd., and Wadsworth Blvd.
• 44th Avenue is characterized by various strip retail centers located along the
western portion of the study area, as well as a Walmart that sits adjacent to the
Lakeside Amusement Park. Development along this corridor often changes from
residential to retail with a distribution of retail centers scattered throughout the
residential areas.
•

84th Avenue is characterized by higher density residential development, including
some three story apartment buildings, and several employment centers, which
include St. Anthony North Hospital and the North Valley Tech Center. The
concentration of apartments would be expected to generate above average
ridership on routes serving this segment.

•

88th Avenue contains several large employment centers including the seasonal
Waterworld Water Park, North Suburban Medical Center, and numerous big box
retail stores. In addition, there is a connection with the US 36/Sheridan BRT Station
and the Thornton Park-n-Ride, with each providing several transit connections to
the greater RTD network. The mix of residential and retail development should
make this corridor a strong market for transit.

•

Federal Boulevard is characterized by varied land uses with portions of residential,
strip retail, commercial and industrial developments along the corridor. Residential

17
Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

•

Sheridan Boulevard is similar to Federal Blvd. with a mixture of varied land uses but
its employment densities are also supplemented by big box retail locations and a
greater intensity of industrial development.

•

Wadsworth Boulevard is characterized by dense, mixed-use development with retail
nodes located at major intersections. Big box retail stores contribute significantly to
the employment density in this corridor and anchor other retail stores nearby.
Additionally, Wadsworth Blvd. passes through Olde Town Arvada, which is
comprised of retail developments in the historic district. See Map 3 for population
and employment densities.

Customer Demographics
Income
In order to comply with the Federal Department of Transportation’s Title VI regulations
under the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the Federal Transit Administration (FTA) under
C4702.1B requires transit service providers to conduct a service equity analysis with
minority and low income populations when a major service change has been proposed.
As established by RTD, this analysis includes provisions that an adverse impact, as a
result of the proposed changes, may not be borne by low-income persons by more than
10% above non-low income populations. Care must be taken to ensure that the
proposed recommendations do not result in a disproportionate burden on low income
populations.
Low-income persons are defined by the US Census as persons living in households
with a total family income of less than or equal to its poverty threshold. This threshold
is calculated based on the size of the family and how many children under the age of
18 live in the household. These families are more likely to use transit of necessity,
being less able to afford other forms of transport with some or all of the household
using transit as their primary mobility mode.
Downtown Denver has the greatest concentration of low-income persons in the study
area. Outside of downtown, there is a significant low-income population adjacent to
the G-Line station of 41st & Fox, as well as north of the Westminster/71st Ave station
on the B-Line. Excluding these areas, there is not a significant concentration of lowincome persons in either corridor. See Map 4: Population in Poverty.
Minorities
Similar to the low-income population, Title VI recognizes areas with a high
concentration of minority populations, as care must be taken to ensure that an adverse
impact, as a result of a major change, is not disproportionally borne by minority

18
Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

development remains the most dominant form of land use with limited commercial
and strip retail developments spread out through the corridor. Major attractions
along this corridor include the Denver Bronco’s stadium, which generates strong
seasonal ridership.

communities. The proposed recommendations should not result in an impact greater
than 10% above majority populations.
Downtown Denver and the surrounding areas possess the greatest concentration of
minority persons in the study area. In the Gold Corridor, the minority population is
lower with the greatest population near the stations of 41st & Fox and 60th & Sheridan.
Alternatively, the Northwest Corridor possesses a considerably larger minority
population, particularly in the area between US 36 and Interstate 25, which falls within
the market capture of the service. It is important that these communities are
recognized and taken into account when developing major changes in the transit
network. See Map 5: Minority Populations.
Vehicle Access
Persons with limited access to a vehicle for work-based or personal trips are more
likely to account for a higher share of transit use. Typically, an area has a vehicle
access deficient population if there are two or more persons (of driving age) per vehicle
or four or more households per acre without access to a car. Neighborhoods with
deficient automobile access generally lie within areas of concentrated low income,
senior, or college-aged populations, where car ownership is either unnecessary or
results in financial burden.
Similar to the other demographic findings, reduced vehicle availability is concentrated
in downtown Denver and adjacent to the station of 41st & Fox. The remaining study
area population does not have a high concentration of persons with limited access to a
vehicle suggesting that the majority of the population will have a competitive means
other than transit to complete their trips. See Map 6: Zero Vehicle Households.
Senior Population
When older adults lose their ability to drive, they also risk losing their connections with
their community and to vital services and activities. The senior population, defined as
persons age 65 and older, is generally more dependent on transit for shopping,
medical, and other personal trips when compared with other age groups. The study
area does not contain any notable concentration of seniors which will need special
mobility consideration. See Map 7: Senior Citizens.

19
Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 5 - Population & Employment Density in 2015

20

Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 6 - Minority Population Density in 2012

21

Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 7 - Minority Population - Density in 2012

22

Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 8 - Zero Vehicle Households, Density in 2012

23

Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 9 - Senior Citizens Density in 2012

24

Packet Pg. 30

Development Patterns
Single-family residential housing is the dominant land use in the study area. While often
associated with urban sprawl and automobile centered development, single family
residential land uses can vary from low to medium densities depending on the street
pattern. A more compact street network often contributes to higher densities of
housing, which are more supportive of transit use. Some multi-family residential
housing exists in the study area but is typically centered around downtown Denver
where higher density condominiums, apartments, and townhomes are more prevalent.
Outside of downtown, multi-family residential land uses are scattered throughout the
study area and often located along major roadways. Commercial and industrial land
uses are concentrated along the existing rail lines, particularly in the area immediately
north of downtown Denver. Retail development is typically confined to shopping
centers located throughout the study area at major intersections. No single retail
location is significantly more influential than the others. However, the presence of large
value oriented retailers will make some locations better candidates for supporting
transit use.
Street Patterns
The Denver region was established with a grid street plan characterized by intersecting
perpendicular roadways oriented to the four cardinal directions, excepting downtown.
Major roadways intersect every one-half mile which is more or less a ten minute walk.
Closer to downtown Denver, the street network is more compact, with block distances
less than 300 feet, allowing for higher densities of residential development. A strong
grid network is maintained heading west until Wadsworth Blvd. After Wadsworth
Blvd., non-linear streets become more prevalent with greater distances between
blocks. The non-linear and cul-de-sac street types found in this area are the result of
subdivision developments and are naturally prohibitive to transit use due to their
minimal access and lack of focus on the pedestrian environment. Even greater barriers
to transit exist continuing northwest to the outskirts of Standley Lake where the
presence of parks, lakes, golf courses, and subdivisions have further disrupted the
street pattern.
Market Typologies
Market typologies in this study area include urban core, core, suburban, and industrial.
The urban core market constitutes downtown Denver and surrounding areas heading
west to Wadsworth Blvd. and north to Interstate 70. As shown in the
population/employment density and the demographic maps, the higher densities of the
urban core and close proximity to key destinations make transit more effective in this
area.
North of Interstate 70, the study area transitions into a core market with medium
densities and several Park-n-Rides, which signify more auto-centric developments. The
core market lends itself to peak oriented commuters traveling further distances to
employment centers. The ability to attract ridership depends upon the ability to
compete with automobile travel times.
The suburban market is defined as the area west of Ward Rd. where development is
characterized by non-linear street patterns, minimal pedestrian facilities, and low
density single family housing. Suburban markets tend to have high concentrations of

25
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

car ownership and a limited market for transit as travel distances are greater to and
from the population and employment centers making transit less competitive compared
with the automobile.
An industrial market currently surrounds portions of the G-Line alignment from
downtown Denver to Arvada with various facilities occupying large areas of land
limiting the diversity of land uses. The industrial market often requires transit service
during non-traditional hours with demand to these areas depending on parking
availability and transit access. Limited residential development and retail opportunities
are likely to affect potential immediate ridership gains in this area.

3

Service Evaluation
An assessment of the existing transit service is essential for understanding a route’s
role within the larger transit network and for analyzing individual route performance
against the service standard metrics. Included in this assessment is a ridership review
that helped to identify boarding activity and ridership trends.
3.1

Service Fundamentals for Transit Design

Service fundamentals provide a framework for evaluating transit performance and
identifying opportunities for improvement. Service fundamentals are divided into two
categories: Service Design Decisions and Performance Metrics. Performance metrics
show how a route performs while service design decisions provide explanations for
why a route performs the way it does. When analyzing market demand for transit and
service performance no one metric or design decision provides a complete story of a
route’s performance; but when considered as a whole, a clear picture of existing
performance is generated.
Service Design Decisions
Transit agencies can make a number of important service design decisions that
positively influence a customer’s decision to ride transit. This section details the impact
that decisions such as service frequency, span, speed, reliability, approachability, route
alignment, and network role have on ridership levels.
• Service Frequency – Frequency is one of the most effective service design
characteristics that influence transit trial and ongoing use. Routes with
spontaneous-use frequencies (service every 15 minutes or better) benefit
passengers by reducing their out-of-vehicle wait times. At these service levels,
passengers typically do not need to consult schedules nor time their arrival at bus
stops. Higher bus frequencies also provide a better connection to more frequent rail
services which maximizes network benefits by facilitating the transfer experience.
• Service Span – Service span is the hours and days of operation of a route. It
affects ridership by limiting when passengers can travel and often affects both ends
of a trip even though half of the trip occurs during regular service hours. Greater
service span provides more travel flexibility and improves the customer experience,
but excessive time span coverage like geographic coverage can be excessively
unproductive.
• Service Speed – Faster operating speeds benefit both the customer and the transit
agency by reducing in-vehicle travel times for passengers and resource

26
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

•

•

•

•

•

•

requirements for the agency. Out-of-direction travel (deviations), excessive stop
dwell time (stops too closely spaced or long delays at stops), unsynchronized travel
signal delay, and traffic congestion will be identified for possible mitigation.
Reliability – On time performance impacts a passenger’s ability to rely on a service
to get them to their destination in a timely and consistent manner. Service reliability
(daily delivery of service as scheduled) is the most important metric in retaining
existing transit customers.
Alignment – The alignment refers to the operating path of the transit route.
Alignment design should balance customer access (walk distances) with service
directness (fast travel). Direct service normally results in higher ridership (deviations
deter upstream customer use) and lower operating costs (shorter round trip travel
times often require fewer resources). One typical impact of introducing bus
connections to rail stations occurs when the bus must leave the natural direct
alignment to reach the station. The number of patrons riding through the station on
the bus versus the potential ridership at the station must both be considered and
are influenced by the length of the deviation (impact on through riders per new
station rider) 1.
Round Trip Cycle Time – The cycle time’s relationship to the frequency is the
principal factor in service design efficiency. For instance, a round trip cycle time of
56 minutes 2 can be easily rounded to 60 minutes, which efficiently divides into 60,
30, 20, 15, 12, and 10 minute frequencies. One of 65 minutes presents major
efficiency issues, where operation of any of the preceding frequencies would
require the inefficient use of one extra bus. Consequently, the route alignment and
operating speed should be both considered in assuring that routes have efficient
round trip cycle times whenever possible.
Route Spacing – Routes should be spaced to maximize effective network access.
Services placed too close together or too far apart become issues in network cost
effectiveness (unproductive competition) and synergy. Typical spacing is no closer
than ½ mile and no farther apart than one mile where the necessary densities are
present. These distances are heavily influenced by the street network and the mode
and service level (consumer research has found that customers will walk further to
better service). 3
Network Role – While the design of individual routes is important, how they come
together into an efficient and effective network is critical to attracting transit use
for a variety of trip-making purposes by a broad cross-section of the community
(transit lifestyle design: “live-work-play” mobility).
Approachability – The approachability of a system refers to how easy it is for a
passenger to navigate and understand a system. Systems that are approachable

1

The industry best practice out-of-direction model measures the minutes of out-of-direction
travel for the deviation times the number of through-riders divided by the number of new station
riders. A ratio of 2 to 5 minutes is the acceptable range of impacts with 2 minutes a good
trade-off and 5 minutes as the highest acceptable impact.
2
The round trip cycle time is also known as revenue time and includes the in-service running
time plus terminal recovery time to ensure the on-time departure of the next trip.
3
Typical consumer walk distances are ¼ mile for regular bus transit (80% of the riders travel ¼
mile or less – 5 minute walks), while the 80% consumer walk shed for rail and enhanced bus is
½ mile (10-minute walk).

27
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

make customers comfortable with using public transit and reduce uncertainty.
Excess complexity can negatively affect both route and more importantly network
attractiveness. This is a qualitative assessment that considers issues such as line
branching, short/long lines, trippers, deviations, corridor alignments, and service
frequencies.
Performance Metrics
Performance indicators provide a way of quantifying the strength of a route’s
performance and comparing it with others in the system. The magnitude of a
performance indicator is directly related to the number of passengers who ride a given
route or service unit. Performance indicators are an important route evaluation tool
because they allow routes that vary greatly in boardings, service levels, and costs to
be compared directly to one another and are part of RTD’s Service Standards program.
The performance metric inputs are defined as:
•
•
•
•

•

4

Boardings – Unlinked passenger trips; includes transfers as boardings.
Revenue Hours – In‐service plus recovery time, but not including non-revenue time
(deadheading movements and pull-time to/from service garage).
Operating Revenues – Cash, ticket, electronic fare media, and tokens allocated by
route by farebox recorded boardings plus other revenue directly attributable to
service operation (e.g., vehicle and shelter advertising).
Operating Cost – All operating, maintenance and administrative costs for providing
current service. RTD’s cost allocation model allocates costs to each route based on
its miles, hours, and peak vehicles and varies between in-house and contracted
operations. Individual accounting line items are assigned to the most relevant
service unit variable by the model.
Subsidy – Operating revenue minus operating cost minus fare revenues.

Existing Service Conditions
4.1

Transit Route Network

RTD services are divided into various service classes depending on service type, route
alignment, and frequency. Each service class has its own service standards derived
from the performance of all routes within each class. RTD conducts an annual route
review using the performance indicators of subsidy per boarding and boardings per
hour.
Routes in the Gold and Northwest corridors fall into one of the following service class
categories: Central Business District (CBD) Local, Urban Local, Suburban Local, or
Express. The majority of routes in the study area provide local service, characterized by
frequent stops to allow convenient access to destinations along major and minor
streets. Local service routes are categorized as CBD Local, Urban Local, or Suburban
Local. CBD local routes operate to and from downtown Denver. Urban Local routes
predominantly serve urban areas which have higher residential and/or employment
densities. Suburban Local routes predominantly serve suburban areas which have low
to medium residential densities, offering transit coverage to less developed
communities in the far reaches of the service area. Limited routes supplement local
routes during peak periods of travel demand or throughout the day but are not
28
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

operating within the study area at this time. Express routes provide commute-oriented
service primarily during peak periods between major origins and destinations in the
region. Express routes make fewer stops, can operate on highways, and provide faster
service to destinations compared with local or limited routes. Express routes represent
a premium service with fares that are generally higher than local or limited routes.
Gold Corridor Bus Routes
Table 4- Current Gold Corridor Bus Routes

Service Class
CBD Local
Urban Local
Suburban Local
Express

Routes
6-8-32-38-44-52
31-50-51-76
72-100
55X-72X

Northwest Corridor Bus Routes
Table 5- Current Northwest Corridor Bus Routes

Service Class
Urban Local
Suburban Local
Express

Routes
31
72-80-92-100-104
31X-40X-80X-86X

Transit Service Levels
Transit service levels include frequency and span. Frequency refers to how often a
route runs and span refers to the hours and days of operation. Transit service levels are
often dictated by a number of factors, the most important being actual usage, i.e.
market demand. Increased demand for transit often translates into an increased supply
of service with better frequencies, longer spans, and multiple days of operation.
Similarly, less demand usually translates into less service. Other contributing factors
that influence transit service levels include connections to key destinations, historical
precedent, regional significance, and operating agreements.
Frequency
In the RTD route network, frequency is broken down into three categories:
spontaneous-use (15 minutes or less), coordinated (30 minutes), and lifeline (60
minutes or more).
• Spontaneous-use frequencies minimize passenger wait times and eliminate the need
for passengers to plan their trips in advance around the schedule which ultimately
attracts more riders making routes more cost-effective. CBD Local and Urban Local
routes often possess frequencies that facilitate spontaneous use.
• Coordinated frequencies require passengers to coordinate their trips in advance to
arrive and depart in a fashion that will minimize wait times and reduce their overall
travel time. Coordinated frequencies are often found on routes that cannot support
spontaneous-use frequencies but have enough demand to support greater service
levels than the lifeline frequencies.

29
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

•

Lifeline frequencies provide transit coverage to areas that cannot support higher
frequencies. These services are often used to expand the transit service area to
provide access to outlying communities. Focusing efforts on lifeline coverage does
not typically grow ridership but can provide critical mobility for many passengers
located in low density markets. Suburban Local routes often have lifeline
frequencies. Routes that provide “trips” rather than a regular frequency are often
the result of commute oriented travel patterns where transit demand is not
sufficient enough to warrant midday service or regular service frequencies.

Gold Corridor
In the Gold Corridor, spontaneous use frequencies are found south of Interstate 70 on
three east-west CBD Local routes. These are Routes 32, 38 and 44 which serve the
City of Wheat Ridge and downtown Denver. Other spontaneous use frequencies are
found on the two major north-south arterial roadways of Federal Blvd. and Wadsworth
Blvd. All other routes in the Gold Corridor possess coordinated frequencies and are
concentrated in the areas north of Interstate 70 and on the remaining north-south
arterial roadways.

30
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Gold Corridor Frequency and Span of Service
Table 6 - Current Gold Corridor Transit Route Network

Route

6
8
32

Description

East 6th Avenue
/ North Pecos
North Broadway
/ Huron
West 32nd
Avenue / City
Park

Weekend
Frequency

OffSaturday
Peak
CBD Local Routes

Span of Service

AM
Peak

PM
Peak

15/30

15/3
0

30

30

30

30

30

60

60

60

15/30

15/3
0

30/6
0

60

60

Sunday

38

38th Avenue

15/30

15/3
0

30

30

30

44

44th Avenue

15

15

30

30

60

52

W 52nd Avenue
/ South Bannock

15/30

15/3
0

30

30

60

Weekday

Saturday

Sunday

4:46a11:29p
4:57a10:06p

5:42a11:30p
6:02a8:04p

6:12a11:04p
8:02p8:05p

5:02a8:17p

7:05a8:07p

7:05a8:07p

4:39a1:51a
4:40a12:44a
4:37a12:14a

4:49a1:48a
4:52a12:43a
4:50a12:14a

4:49a1:48a
4:53a12:43a
5:55a8:47p

4:13a2:04a
5:45a7:15p
4:43a1:15a
4:26a2:00a

4:17a1:58a

4:17a2:00a

–

–

5:15a1:15a
5:57a1:58a

6:18a1:15a
5:56a2:02a

5:28a9:09p
5:02a11:13p

8:39a6:38p
6:39a8:39p

Urban Local Routes
31

Federal Blvd

15

15

30

15

30

50

Lakes
Crosstown

30

30

30

–

–

51

Sheridan Blvd

30

30

30

30

30

76

Wadsworth Blvd

15

15

30

30

60

Suburban Local Routes
72

72nd Avenue

30

30

30

60

–

100

Kipling Street

30

30

30

60

–

–
–

Express Routes
55X

Olde Town
Arvada

15

15

–

–

–

72X

Quaker St. via
Ward

30

30

–

–

–

6:11a8:16a /
3:55p6:17p
5:22a8:51a /
3:01p7:10p

–

–

–

–

Northwest Corridor
In the Northwest Corridor, routes generally provide either coordinated or lifeline
frequency services as a result of operating at a greater distance from the urban core
where population and employment densities are lower and ridership demand is less.

31
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Weekday Frequency

1.C.1.a

Route 86X provides a spontaneous use 10-minute frequency but only operates during
the peak hours, while other Express routes provide service on a per trip basis.
Table 7 - Current Northwest Corridor Transit Route Network

Route

Description

31

Federal Blvd

72
80
92
100
104

72nd
Avenue
80th
Avenue
92nd
Avenue
Kipling
Street
West 104th
Avenue

Weekday Frequency
Weekend Frequency
PM
OffAM Peak
Saturday Sunday
Peak Peak
Urban Local Routes
15/3
15/30
15/30
15/60
30/60
0
Suburban Local Routes
30

30

30

60

–

60

60

60

–

–

30

30

30

30

60

30

30

30

60

–

60

60

60

–

–

Span of Service
Weekday

Saturday

Sunday

4:13a2:04a

4:17a1:58a

4:16a1:14a

5:28a9:09p
5:47a7:10p
4:52a11:14p
5:02a11:13p
5:50a7:43p

8:39a6:38p

–

–

–

7:15a11:12p
6:39a8:39p

8:14a8:12p

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

–

Express Routes
31X

North
Federal
Express

40X

3 trips

3
trips

–

–

–

North
Colorado
Express

4 trips

4
trips

–

–

–

80X

West
80th
Express

2 trips

2
trips

–

–

–

86X

Westmi
nster
Center
Express

10
min

–

–

–

10 min

5:54a7:36a /
4:15p5:55p
5:54a8:20a /
3:47p5:57p
6:18a7:35a /
4:57p6:10p
6:10a9:16a /
3:49p7:19p

Span
Span of service in the RTD network often varies by service class and is based on
service policy and ridership demand. A wider service span gives passengers greater
flexibility when planning their trips and encourages ridership at different hours of the
day to meet varying passenger needs, but conversely increases cost.

32
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Northwest Corridor Frequency and Span of Service

•
•
•

CBD Local and Urban Local routes typically begin weekday service between 4:00
AM to 5:00 AM. The end of service, however, varies greatly with some routes
ending service around 8:00 PM and others ending service at 2:00 AM the next day.
Suburban Local routes typically begin weekday service between 5:00 AM and 6:00
AM with service ending between 7:00 PM and 11:00 PM.
Express routes provide peak-only service typically between 6:00 AM and 9:00 AM
and again at 3:00 PM to 7:00 PM to meet the demand of commuters traveling to
and from large employment centers.

The Gold Line Corridor is served primarily by CBD and Urban Local routes with greater
frequencies and spans. The corridor is intersected with Routes 31, 51, 76, and 100
which travel north-south and provide service along the major arterial roads of Federal
Boulevard, Sheridan Boulevard, Wadsworth Boulevard, and Kipling Street. None of
these routes serve downtown Denver but they do connect with the West Rail Line
further south of the G-Line. The Gold Line corridor is also served by two Express
routes, 55X and 72X, operating on Interstate 70, which do provide service to
downtown Denver from the Olde Town Arvada and Ward Road Park-n-Ride facilities.
These routes have 15 to 30 minute frequencies during the peak periods and 30 to 60
minute frequencies in the off-peak periods. They serve primarily as commute supply for
workers travelling to downtown Denver.
The Northwest Corridor is served predominately by Suburban Local routes and Express
routes. Express routes operating on US Highway 36 and Interstate 25 provide peakonly service to and from downtown Denver. Suburban Local routes in this corridor
typically operate at frequencies of 30 or 60 minutes throughout the day. This corridor
is also served by Urban Local Route 31 which travels on Federal Blvd. and serves the
US 36/Sheridan BRT Station.
Performance
Route performance is essential in developing appropriate service plan recommendations
as resources need to be invested to optimize performance and maximize ridership.
Performance is measured in productivity; how efficient the service is provided in
regards to expenditure and how effective the service is at accomplishing its intended
objectives. Productivity increases as market demand begins to match the current
supply of service and productivity decreases when the supply of service exceeds the
market demand. Although the market for transit cannot be controlled 4, poor market
conditions can be mitigated through service and network design choices. Matching
transit service levels, including frequency and span, with the transit market demand is
one way to strengthen service productivity.
RTD Service Class Service Standards

4

RTD through collaboration with its member cities and counties can support changes that
influence mobility choice. For instance, current RTD support of sustainable community Smart
Growth initiatives that foster transit oriented development develop “transit lifestyle” markets
where transit, biking, and walking play stronger roles in public mobility.

33
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Table 8 - RTD Service Standards

Subsidy per Boarding
Average
10% Cutoff 5

Boardings per Revenue Hour
Average
10% Cutoff

CBD Local

($2.88)

($5.31)

34.6

23.55

Urban Local

($3.27)

(8.21)

29.5

19.17

($6.61)

($11.76)

17.7

10.77

($3.11)

($7.06)

47.8

13.13

Suburban
Local
Express

Subsidy per Boarding
RTD conducts an annual route review using performance indicators such as subsidy per
boarding. The subsidy per boarding measurement determines the portion of the
operating cost, after subtracting fare revenues, that RTD pays on a per passenger
boarding basis. Routes with a higher subsidy per boarding cost more to operate and
therefore, perform worse than routes with a lower subsidy per boarding. Potential
methods to improve subsidy per boarding include lowering operating costs by reducing
route frequency and span. This will decrease the number of buses, drivers, pay hours,
and service miles required to operate a route but can also reduce ridership. Another
method to improve subsidy per boarding is to increase ridership and revenue through
route realignment, route consolidation, or route deviation. Additional ridership and
revenue can also be generated by marketing the service, improving operating
characteristics such as on-time-performance, safety, reliability, and route network
integration with other transit services. Improvements in scheduling can often result in
reduced operating costs, improved service efficiency and reliability.
Figure 5- Gold Corridor Bus Routes, Subsidy per Boarding, 2012

Gold Corridor, Subsidy per Boarding, 2012
$0
($1)
($2)
($3)
($4)
($5)
($6)
($7)
($8)

CBD
Urban
Suburban
Express
Average

5

Based on RTD Service Standards, the bottom 10% performing routes by each service class
are evaluated for possible consolidation, realignment or improved marketing.

34
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Service Class

1.C.1.a

Figure 6 - Northwest Corrdor Bus Routes, Subsidy perBoarding 2012

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Northwest Corridor, Subsidy per Boarding, 2012
$0
($1)
($2)
($3)
($4)
($5)
($6)
($7)
($8)
($9)
($10)

Urban
Suburban
Express
Average

35
Packet Pg. 41

Boardings per Hour
RTD also uses the boardings per revenue hour metric to measure route performance.
The boardings per revenue hour calculation measures the average number of passenger
boardings per hour of revenue service. Routes that generate higher boardings per hour
represent more productive routes where market demand (boardings) is balanced with
the supply of service (revenue hours). If demand increases, but supply remains the
same, then productivity will increase. If supply increases, but demand remains the
same, then productivity will decrease. By balancing the supply of service with the
market demand, transit providers can generate the greatest return on their investment
by reducing operating costs and associated subsidies – RTD has service standards
policies that address both high and low performing routes. Following is service
productivity for bus routes within the Gold Line and Northwest Line corridors.
Figure 7 - Gold Corridor Bus Routes, Boardings per Hours, 2014

Gold Corridor, Boardings per Hour, 2014
60
50

CBD
Urban
Suburban
Express
System

40
30
20
10
0
38

6

52

44

8

32

55X

72X

72

100

31

76

51

Within the Gold Line Corridor, CBD Local bus routes have below average boardings per
revenue hour of service. The CBD Local transit routes average 42 boardings per hour in
the entire RTD Service Area, while CBD Local buses average only 31 boardings per
hour in the Gold Line Corridor. Route 32 is the worst performing CBD Local line in the
study area with just 23 boardings per revenue hour. Route 32 travels south of the Gold
Rail Line primarily in low density residential neighborhoods. The Express services within
the Gold Corridor also underperform compared to the RTD average. While the 55X
Express line performs well with 55 boardings per hour, the 72X Express Line only has
33 boardings per hour. The RTD system wide average for an Express line is 54
boardings per hour. The variance between the two lines may have to do with the fact
that the 55X line is mostly express and has a short spur into Olde Towne Arvada as a
local route whereas the 72X line has a longer spur into residential and commercial
neighborhoods Arvada which would decrease route productivity. The Urban Local and
Suburban Local routes in the Gold Line Corridor are more in line with the averages for
overall service area.

36
Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Figure 8 - Northwest Corridor Bus Routes, Boardings per Hours, 2014

90
80
70
60
50
40
30
20
10
0

Urban
Suburba
Express
System

86X

31X

80X

40X

92

72

80

100

104

31

Within the Northwest Corridor, the Express lines and Suburban Local lines have about
average productivity for their service type in the region while the Urban Local Route 31
performs above the RTD average for Urban Local services. There is significant variation
between the Express lines in the corridor however. For example, the 86X Express line
which travels from Sheridan/US-36 in Westminster to DUS has an average of 85
boardings per revenue hour which is much higher than the system-wide average of 54
boardings per revenue hour for Express services. This is likely due to the 86X Express
line having very little locally running service (park-n-rider access) while the 31X, 40X,
and 80X all have significant local walk-up access which would bring down their
averages. 6
Farebox Recovery
Farebox recovery is the ratio of fare revenue to operating costs. It indicates the
percentage of operating costs covered by passenger boarding revenue. The higher the
farebox recovery, the lower the subsidy a route requires to operate, leaving more
funding available to operate more service. Routes with a high farebox recovery ratio
have the greatest share of the operating cost paid by passengers. Express routes
represent the most productive service class in terms of farebox recovery in this
category due to the strong ridership, higher fare of $4.00 instead of the local fare of
$2.25, and focused operating costs as a result of providing peak-only service. Farebox
recovery for the entire RTD system was 23.8% in 2012.

6

RTD conducted a test over a decade ago regarding whether park-n-ride or community walk-up
access would provide better mobility and attract more riders, more productively. The test
conclusively found that park-n-ride express service performed significantly better than the local
running alternative and could deliver more service for the same operating cost.

37
Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Northwest Corridor, Boardings per Hour, 2014

1.C.1.a

Table 9 - RTD Average Farebox Recovery by Service Class

CBD Local
Urban Local
Suburban Local
Express

Average Farebox
Recovery
27.1%
25.6%
14.7%
44.6%

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Service Class

Figure 9- Gold Corridor Bus Routes, Farebox Recovery 2012

Gold Corridor, Farebox Recovery, 2012

50%
45%
40%
35%

CBD
Urban
Suburban
Express
System

30%
25%
20%
15%
10%
5%
0%

38
Packet Pg. 44

1.C.1.a

Figure 10- Northwest Corridor Bus Routes, Farebox Recovery 2012

70%
60%
50%

Urban
Suburban
Express
System

40%
30%
20%
10%
0%

Productivity Analysis
CBD Local and Express routes generate the best performance statistics due to the
number of people carried on these services. The performance of Urban Local routes is
next, while Suburban Local routes generate the weakest performance of all the route
types. Identifying which routes are the most costly to run can help result in a more
efficient allocation of resources. Routes with strong financial effectiveness are
candidates for additional investment, while routes with weak financial effectiveness
may be candidates for service reduction or realignment.
RTD service standards state “the least productive 10% of routes based on either
subsidy per boarding or boardings per revenue hour need to be evaluated for marketing,
revision, or elimination.” These are noted below in Red.

39
Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Northwest Corridor, Farebox Recovery, 2012

1.C.1.a

Gold Rail Line Corridor

Route

Subsidy per Boarding
Average

6
8
32
38
44
52

($3.03)
($4.83)
($7.26)
($3.30)
($4.62)
($3.71)

31
51
76

($1.96)
($2.95)
($2.74)

72
100

($4.60)
($6.75)

55X
72X

($2.95)
($4.96)

10% Cutoff

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Table 10 - Gold Line Corridor Bus Route Performance Metrics

Boardings per Hour
Average

CBD Local Routes
($5.31)
35.84
($5.31)
26.82
($5.31)
22.63
($5.31)
39.37
($5.31)
27.05
($5.31)
30.72
Urban Local Routes
($8.21)
42.37
($8.21)
29.82
($8.21)
36.50
Suburban Local Routes
($11.76)
22.87
($11.76)
16.41
Express Routes
($7.06)
54.62
($7.06)
32.53

10% Cutoff
23.55
23.55
23.55
23.55
23.55
23.55
19.17
19.17
19.17
10.77
10.77
13.13
13.13

Northwest Rail Line Corridor
Table 11 - Northwest Corridor Bus Route Performance Metrics

Route

Subsidy per Boarding
Average

31

($1.96)

72
80
92
100
104

($4.60)
($6.30)
($5.34)
($6.75)
($9.49)

31X
40X
80X
86X

($9.38)
($3.24)
($8.89)
($1.63)

Boardings per Hour

10% Cutoff
Average
Urban Local Routes
($8.21)
42.37
Suburban Local Routes
($9.30)
22.87
($9.30)
18.10
($9.30)
24.02
($9.30)
16.41
($9.30)
11.57
Express Routes
($7.06)
30.79
($7.06)
15.31
($7.06)
19.71
($7.06)
85.00

10% Cutoff
19.17
10.77
10.77
10.77
10.77
10.77
13.13
13.13
13.13
13.13

40
Packet Pg. 46

Gold Corridor Route Performance
The Gold Corridor is primarily served by CBD Local and Urban Local routes, which are
typically more productive due to their high frequencies and strong ridership. In the
corridor, Routes 6, 31, 38, 76, 51, 52, and 55X each have a subsidy per boarding of
less than $4.00. The system wide subsidy per boarding is $3.31 for Year 2012.
Routes 32, 100, and 72X require a subsidy greater than the group average. Routes 32
and 100 exceed $6.00 subsidy per boarding and will require further analysis. All routes
generate more than 15 boardings per hour.
Of all the routes in the Gold Corridor, only Route 32 fails the subsidy per boarding 10%
service class standard. Route 32 currently operates on a 15 minute peak frequency and
a 30-minute off-peak frequency and serves downtown Denver and the VA Medical
Center located east of downtown. This medical center is expected to be replaced by a
new VA Hospital in Aurora in May 2015. When this happens, this route’s performance
is expected to decline further requiring additional marketing, revision, or elimination.
Northwest Corridor Route Performance
The Northwest Corridor is served mainly by Suburban and Express routes, which often
require a greater subsidy to operate. Five routes exceed the $6.00 subsidy per
boarding figure compared to two in the Gold Corridor. The higher subsidies are a result
of the less productive suburban market ridership as compared with Urban Local routes.
All Suburban routes in this corridor exceed 10 boardings per hour with the exception of
Route 104, and all Express routes exceed 20 boardings per hour.
Of all the routes in the Northwest Corridor, only Routes 31X and 80X fail the subsidy
per boarding 10% service class standard. Route 31X operates express from downtown
Denver to the 70th & Broadway Park-n-Ride, with service continuing on to Federal Blvd.
Service operates weekday only with three AM trips and three PM trips. Route 80X
operates express from downtown Denver to West 80th Ave. Service operates weekday
only with two AM trips and two PM trips.

41
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan
Building upon RTD’s significant investments in transit, the addition of rail service in the
Gold and Northwest corridors is another major step forward in developing a
comprehensive and seamless transit network for the people of the greater Denver area.
However, rail service is only part of the overall transit improvements envisioned for
these corridors. The bus network which carries the vast majority of transit riders was
evaluated and recommendations were made to complement the additional rail service
with direct and convenient access to the new rail stations. Recommendations were
also made to the bus network to enhance intra-corridor mobility and to strengthen
connectivity to urban and suburban regional destinations while improving operational
efficiency and the rider’s experience.
Plan Framework and Strategies
To fully ensure that the transit network makes the most effective use of limited
operating resources, it was imperative that the recommendations were congruent with
RTD’s vision for a regionally integrated transit network that will improve mobility,
enhance economic competitiveness, reduce congestion and pollution, and will
ultimately retain existing riders while continuing to attract new ones. The service
recommendations not only focus on enhancing operating efficiency and improving
transit network effectiveness, but also aim to make transit the region’s mode of
choice.
The Existing Conditions findings from the ridership analysis, service performance, and
market conditions also informed the development of guiding principles which served as
the framework for the service plan. The framework and strategies guided the
development of the plan recommendations from both a “top-down” network-level
perspective as well as a route-level “bottom-up” perspective.
Network Design Strategies
Transit system success is built over a network, not by individual bus route or rail line.
The critical goal for the Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan is to build a simple,
easy-to-use network that is comprised of a family of bus and rail service tiers, all
focusing on delivering the overall network experience desired by existing and potential
customers.
Leverage Rail Investment
RTD has made a significant investment in new rail alignments to improve regional
mobility. These investments will help shape land use patterns, enhance the competitive
advantage of the region, reduce congestion and pollution, and improve the livability and
vibrancy of the area. However, new rail infrastructure alone can’t accomplish these
goals. Investments in rail infrastructure must be leveraged and seamlessly integrated
into RTD’s larger network of transit services. By serving as the transit corridor
backbones, rail service offers several advantages over other modes of travel to include
larger carrying capacities, and faster and more reliable service. To leverage these
advantages, many of the adjacent or intersecting bus routes were realigned to serve
the new rail stations, resources of duplicative bus service were reallocated, and bus
route alignment changes were made to refocus network coverage. Through these

42
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

5

1.C.1.a

Strengthen Bus Service Tiers
RTD has a number of bus tiers which are defined by their target markets and service
characteristics. The Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan further differentiates the
network and corridor target markets between “transit lifestyle” and “coverage”
markets. Service designed for sustainable lifestyle consumers focuses on spontaneoususe frequencies of 10-15 minutes throughout the day and week that allow consumers
to walk-up and catch the next trip without planning their arrival at the stop. These
spontaneous use corridors will form the top tier of arterial bus transit and are good
candidates for future infrastructure investment to enhance the wait (upgraded stops)
and travel experience (reduced delay; improved reliability) for customers.
Lifestyle areas require development densities high enough to sustain these service
levels productively (meeting RTD standards) together with community orientation that
facilitates transit, walking, and biking active mobility. Coverage transit markets are
those where densities and community design are focused on automobile travel, which
makes significant transit mode penetration not possible and/or cost-effective. The
proposed plan focuses increased service frequency investment to network areas and
corridors that support lifestyle transit while tailoring transit options for coverage service
areas.
Route Spacing and Prioritization
Where multiple routes operate along shared or parallel corridors, route consolidation or
prioritizing was evaluated in order to create a more robust transit service with greater
frequency that adds value to riders and supports spontaneous network use. Routes
operating along the same or adjacent corridors usually compete for the same riders,
reducing the effectiveness and increasing the net cost of service of each route. By
consolidating or prioritizing routes, limited resources can be reinvested within the
transit network to provide more direct, faster, and reliable service. For example,
instead of operating three 20 minute service routes in parallel, the plan looks to operate
one at 10 or 15 minutes with the other two at 30 or 60 minutes. 7 In many instances,
the middle route operates on a major arterial and can be a candidate for infrastructure
enhancement to reduce delay and improve the customer experience - this investment
has more ridership and performance return on streamlined corridors with higher service
levels.
Alternative First/Last Mile Transit
In most cases, network transit mobility is best served using regular fixed route bus
service. In some cases where the mobility needs are more limited (e.g., work or school
commuting; senior mobility) or where development intensity is too low to productively
support regular fixed route bus service, alternative mobility options are appropriate.
The Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan considered more cost-effective
7

Research in many cities has documented that corridor prioritizing generates more overall
ridership for the same resource cost because more consumers are attracted. They walk further
to better bus transit with the average access for basic local bus at ¼ mile (80% of riders) while
for enhanced frequent bus this walk shed increases to ½ mile attracting more riders.

43
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

actions, an integrated transit network is proposed that will attract riders, reduce
operating costs, and strengthen regional and community mobility.

alternatives in such instances including Call-n-Rides, station-based vanpools or carsharing, home-to-work vanpools, or private shuttles. Existing express services should
be reconfigured as first-mile connectors to the nearest rail station where current
ridership is low or where the rail connection offers improved service frequency and/or
travel time. RTD should consider remote PnRs rather than walk-up access to improve
performance of these first-mile replacement services.
Route Design Strategies
To fully ensure that the transit network makes the most effective use of its operating
resources, it is important to ensure that not only is there a coherent vision for a
complete transit network, but that individual routes can attract ridership as well. The
following route design strategies focus not only maintaining high operating efficiency,
but providing an improved customer experience that will attract more riders and
operating revenue, thus improving effectiveness as well.
Route Streamlining
Deviating routes from the main transit corridors reduces the walking distance and
makes transit more attractive to small numbers of riders but makes it significantly less
attractive to large numbers of riders using the main corridor. The result is fewer total
riders at higher operating cost. 8 The Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan calls for
limiting deviations to just areas that can justify the additional travel time and costs by
high ridership on the deviation – areas such as rail stations, transit hubs, and major
destinations in order make individual routes, as well as the transit network, more
productive and attractive to riders. In cases where the deviation was providing needed
lifeline coverage, alternative service was proposed while also proposing streamlined
corridor bus transit.
Short-Lining
Routes often vary in terms of ridership and performance along the length of their
alignments. Generally, areas with higher population and employment densities generate
more ridership than areas with lower densities. For example, Route 76 serves the
Wadsworth Boulevard corridor where ridership is much stronger between the Olde
Town Arvada and Lakewood City Commons. Cost-effective short-lining has been
proposed in such instances using either an interior short-list (long-line running the full
length with the short-line between Olde Town and Lakewood) or a pattern overlap
(north terminal to Lakewood and south terminal to Olde Town) depending on the offpeak ridership pattern and customer through-riding.
Stop Consolidation
One of the greatest sources of operating delay and on-time performance impacts is
dwell time at bus stops. While closely-spaced bus stops increase the ease in which
riders can access the transit system that convenience comes at the expense of
operating speed and service reliability. Closely spaced stops not only impact route
8

RTD’s out-of-direction standard calls for deviations to have less than 3 minutes increased
travel time impact to through-passengers for each rider served on the deviation to avoid total
route ridership loss. Also, deviations typically cost more to operate due to increased mileage
and slower off-route operating speeds.

44
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

performance, increase stop maintenance costs, and accelerate bus maintenance costs,
but they can significantly reduce the competitiveness of the service. By finding an
optimal balance of stop spacing to maintain convenient access to transit service while
reducing potential for delay, the efficiency and effectiveness of transit can be
increased significantly. While stop consolidation is not proposed per se as part of the
Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan, it is recommended that RTD continue is stop
consolidation program throughout the bus network.
Corridor Segment Consolidation
In some instances where multiple routes serve the same corridor at different points, it
is more intuitive for the customer to have one streamlined route that serves the
corridor continuously. If general travel patterns on the corridor show a higher degree of
through travel relative to local mobility, routes that link complimentary origins and
destinations together were consolidated to increase rider convenience by eliminating or
reducing transfers required to complete their trip along a natural transit corridor. In
some cases this results in restructuring the corridor into routes with consistent roles:
one is streamlined to serve the main arterial with frequent service while one or more
are designed to serve the neighborhood interior with less direct service where walk
access to the main corridor is not feasible.
Route Segmentation
In contrast to the segment consolidation strategy, where routes exhibited a very high
proportion of rider transfer activity at a single point, the benefits of separating those
routes into two distinct routes at that point to improve schedule adherence or
scheduling efficiency were evaluated. This was primarily due to the low number of
riders remaining on the bus and traveling through the point in question. These actions
also resulted in routes with more balanced service levels on either side of this midpoint
based on demand.
Low Performing Service Replacement
If a route or route segment performed poorly and the potential to improve performance
appeared to be limited within the existing configuration, then alternatives to fixed route
service were considered. These alternative mobility options included Call-n-Rides,
special shuttles (destination), service routes (tailored for specific trip-making, e.g.,
seniors), or commute oriented programs (e.g., station vans, car/bike sharing). These
options maintain service coverage mobility while reducing RTD’s net subsidy.

45
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Gold and Northwest Bus Service Recommendations

Service recommendations were informed by previous Gold and Northwest Corridor
planning efforts and additional market and service analyses conducted as part of this
study. The following recommendations follow the network and route design principles
discussed above and were developed to enhance mobility in both corridors upon the
opening of the Gold and Northwest rail lines.
Service frequencies are provided in the table below. Route recommendations are
organized by primary cardinal direction (north-south and east-west). The key findings
from the market and service analyses are presented together with the specific route
alignment, schedule, and operating recommendations.
Table 12 - Gold and Northwest Corridors Bus Service Levels
Weekday
Route

Route Name

Existing

Saturday
Proposed

Peak

Off-Peak

Peak

Off-Peak

Sunday

Existing

Proposed

Existing

Proposed

6

East 6th Avenue/North Pecos

30

30

-

-

60

-

60

-

8

North Broadway/ Huron

30

30

30

60

60

60

60

60

17

Red Rocks College

30/60

30/60

-

-

-

-

-

-

19

North Pecos

-

-

30

30

-

60

-

60

31

Federal Boulevard

15/30

15/30

15/30

15/30

15/60

15/30

30/60

30/60

50

Lakes Crosstown

30

30

-

-

-

-

-

-

51

Sheridan Boulevard

30

30

15/30

15/30

30

30

30

30

52

52nd Avenue/ South Bannock

15/30

30

15/30

30

30

30

60

60

53

North Sheridan Boulevard

-

-

30

60

-

-

-

-

55

South Arvada

-

-

30

60

-

-

-

-

72

72nd Avenue

30

30

30

30

60

60

-

-

76

Wadsworth Boulevard

15

30

15/30

15/30

30

30

60

30/60

80

80th Avenue

60

60

30

60

-

-

-

-

92

92nd Avenue

30

30

30

30

30

30

60

60

99

South Kipling Street

-

-

30

30

-

60

-

-

100

Kipling Street

30

30

30

30

60

60

-

60

125

Youngfield/Ward

-

-

30

30/60

-

-

-

-

31X

North Federal Express

30

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

55X

Olde Town Arvada Express

15

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

72X

Quaker Street via Ward Express

15

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

80X

West 80th Express

30

-

-

-

-

-

-

-

Multiple frequencies in one cell indicate route with shorth and long service patterns with more
frequent service on the trunk portion

46
Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

5.1

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

Map 10- Service Plan Recommended Network Map

47

Packet Pg. 53

With commuter rail serving as the structural spine of the Gold Line and Northwest Rail
corridors, connecting north-south routes will provide the underlying support network
for the collection and distribution of rail riders through these communities. The
performance of the Gold Line and Northwest Rail Line will be directly related to the
effectiveness of these intersecting bus routes; as such, the plan utilizes the following
service design strategies to ensure strong north-south connections:
• Improve service headhways to foster spontaneous-use travel and improve frequent
grid transfer connections to commuter rail service.
• Improve midday service levels to provide additional spontaneous use of transit for
all-day trip purposes.
• Transition any east-west route segments to new commuter rail trips where
appropriate.
Once completed, the Gold Line will attract the majority of east-west line haul travel into
Downtown Denver, deemphasizing the need for high capacity east-west bus routes in the
Gold Line and Northwest Rail Corridors. As line haul travel transitions to commuter rail
service, east-west bus routes in the Gold Line and Northwest Rail Corridors will function
primarily for local trip needs and network completion.
Route 8 – North Broadway/Huron
• Deviate route to serve the new 41st/Fox Station on the Gold Line.
• Revised: Route is is no longer proposed to increase service to 30 minute
frequencies weekday middays.
Route 17 – Red Rocks College
• Route 17 will be merged into the new Route 125. Frequency and span of service
between Federal Center Station and Red Rocks College will remain the same as
Route 17.
Route 19 – North Pecos (formerly Route 6)
• Route 6 will be be split into two routes in April 2016. Route 19 will be the new
designation for the portion between Downtown Denver and 106th & Melody
Transfer Center.
• Deviate from Pecos Street to serve the Pecos Junction station.
• Eliminate out of direction travel to Ura Lane.
• Establish southern terminal location in the vicinity of the Colorado Convention
Center at 13th/Welton.
• Revised: It is no longer proposed to reroute service to operate on Pecos Street
between 33rd Avenue and 46th Avenue.
Route 31 – Federal Boulevard & Route 31L – North Federal Limited
• Operate two service patterns: one terminating at the Westminster Station and
another continuing to Front Range Community College.
• Provide service every 15 minutes between 71st Avenue (Westminster (Rail)
Station) and Federal/Evans and every 30 minutes between 71st Avenue and Front
Range Community College.
• Deviate from Federal Boulevard to serve Clear Creek-Federal Station.

48
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

•
•
•

Discontinue service to US 36 & Sheridan Station. Alternative service proposed on
future Route 95.
Discontinue Route 31X with alternative service provided by Routes 19, 31, 72, and
80 connecting to the Gold Line, Northwest Rail Line, and Thornton Park-n-Ride.
Close 70th & Broadway Park-n-Ride.

Route 51 – Sheridan Boulevard & Route 50 – Lakes Crosstown
• Merge Routes 50 and 51 between 44th Avenue and Dartmouth Avenue, retaining
Route 51 designation. Discontinue portion of Route 50 between Sheridan Boulevard
and Olde Town Arvada Park-n-Ride.
• Increase weekday service on Route 51 to every 15 minutes between 60th &
Sheridan-Arvada Gold Strike Station and Sheridan/Dartmouth.
• Deviate from Sheridan Boulevard to serve 60th & Sheridan-Arvada Gold Strike
Station.
• Discontinue Route 51 service north of US 36 & Sheridan Station; to be replaced
with a new Route 53.
• Discontinue deviation around the former Westminster Mall.
• Revised: Route 51 is no longer proposed to discontinue the deviation to Harlan
Street between 44th and 48th Avenues.
Route 52 – West 52nd Avenue/South Bannock
• Discontinue service west of Ward Rd to Hwy 93.
Route 53 – North Sheridan Boulevard – New Route
• New service on the alignment previously served by Route 51 north of US 36 &
Sheridan Station.
• 30 minute peak frequency, 60 minute off-peak. No weekend service.
Route 55 – South Arvada – New Route
• New service to operate between Olde Town Arvada Station and Arvada Ridge
Station. Service would operate on Allison St, 52nd Avenue, Garrison Street, 49th
Avenue, and Kipling Street.
• 30 minute peak weekday frequency, 60 minute off-peak (revised). No weekend
service.
Route 55L – Olde Town Arvada Limited
• Discontinue service; alternative service provided by Gold Line commuter rail.
Route 72 – 72nd Avenue
• Deviate from 72nd Avenue to serve Westminster (Rail) Station.
• Reroute in the South Arvada area to serve Independence Street, 57th Avenue, Carr
Street, 52nd Avenue, and Allison Street between Ralston Road and Olde Town
Arvada Station. Ralston Road would continue to be served by Route 52.
• Retain two weekday Route 72W trips in each direction, one each direction for
school start and end time at Westminster High School. Remaining trips would all be
Route 72.

49
Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Route 76 – Wadsworth Boulevard
• Provide weekday midday 15 minute frequency between Lakewood Commons and
Olde Town Arvada Station.
• Revised: Route 76 is no longer proposed to extend existing peak hour trips to
Southwest Plaza from current terminal at Wadsworth & Hampden Park-n-Ride to
provide 15 minute peak hour service between Southwest Plaza and Olde Town
Arvada.
Route 80 – 80th Avenue & Route 80L – West 80th Limited
• Discontinue service on Route 80X.
• Provide two-peak hour, peak-direction trips on Route 80 between Simms Street and
US 36 & Sheridan Station.
Route 92 – 92nd Avenue
• Revised: Route 92 is no longer proposed to discontinue service west of Sheridan
Boulevard. No changes are proposed to Route 92.
Route 95 – South Westminster – New Route - Deferred
• This service is deferred until development occurs at the former Westminster Mall
site.
o New service on the alignment of the Route 31 branch between Westminster
(Rail) Station and US36 & Sheridan Station.
o Proposed 30 minute weekday service. No weekend service.
Route 99 – South Kipling Street – New Route
• New service on the alignment previously served by Route 100 south of Federal
Center Station.
• Maintain existing Route 100 span of service and frequency.
Route 100 – Kipling Street
• Split Route 100 into two routes at Federal Center Station. Northern portion to be
Route 100, southern portion to be Route 99.
• Deviate from Kipling Street to serve Arvada Ridge Station.
• Discontinue out of direction travel to Ridge Road by remaining on Kipling Street.
• Discontinue out of direction travel to Oak Station by remaining on Kipling Street.
• Revised: Hourly Sunday service is will operate on Route 100 between Federal
Center Station and Ralston Road.
Route 125 – Youngfield/Ward – New Route
• New service to operate on the current alighnment of Route 17 between Federal
Center Station and 6th/Indiana. From 6th/Indiana, route would operate on Indiana St,
Denver West Blvd, Denver West Pkwy (serving NREL in peak hours), Youngfield St,

50
Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Route 72L – Quaker Street via Ward Limited
• Discontinue service; alternative service provided by Gold Line commuter rail and
feeder Route 125.

•

5.2

44th Ave, Ward Rd (via Wheat Ridge-Ward Station), and 64th Ave to a terminal at
Quaker/64th.
30 minute peak frequency on the entire line. 30 minute midday frequency between
Federal Center Station and Red Rocks College, 60 minute frequency between Red
Rocks College and 64th/Quaker. No weekend service

Resource Impacts

These recommendations encompass 357,000 annual revenue hours and 84 peak
buses. Table 13 summarizes the existing and future resource impacts of the Gold and
Northwest Corridor Bus Service Plan.
The plan includes notable changes in RTD bus operations:
• An increase of less than 1,000 service hours making the changes effectively
resource neutral.
• An increase of 800 Saturday annual service hours, representing a 2 percent
increase and an increase of 2,300 Sunday service hours, representing a 10 percent
increase.
• A decrease in overall weekday service hours and a decrease in the peak bus
requirement by 10 due to the elimination of peak hour express services with high
resource requirements. Midday weekday service is improved on core routes.

51
Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.a

Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridor Bus Service Resource Impacts
Proposed
Existing
Proposed
Existing
Description
Hours
Hours
Peak Buses
Peak Buses
Wk Sa Su Wk Sa Su Wk Sa Su Wk Sa Su

Route
6

E 6th Avenue/North Pecos

-

-

-

87

56

36

-

-

-

5

3

3

8

North Broadway/Huron

64

27

23

64

27

23

6

3

3

6

3

2

17

Red Rocks College

-

-

-

16

-

-

-

-

-

1

-

-

19

North Pecos

87

56

36

-

-

-

5

3

3

-

-

-

31

Federal Boulevard

174

135

101

208

151

117

9

9

5

13

11

8

31X

North Federal Express

-

-

-

7

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

50

Lakes Crosstown

-

-

-

63

-

-

-

-

-

5

-

-

51

Sheridan Boulevard

182

110

85

142

100

78

13

7

6

9

7

6

52

113

100

54

123

88

42

10

7

5

11

6

6

26

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

-

-

-

55

52nd Avenue/South Bannock
North Sheridan Boulevard
Shuttle
South Arvada

20

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

-

-

55X

Olde Town Arvada Express

-

-

-

12

-

-

-

-

-

4

-

-

72

72nd Avenue

69

30

-

69

20

-

5

4

-

5

2

-

72X

Quaker Street via Ward Express

-

-

-

26

-

-

-

-

-

5

-

-

76

Wadsworth Boulevard

165

104

74

147

104

62

13

7

5

12

7

4

80

80th Avenue

18

-

-

14

-

-

2

-

-

1

-

-

80X

West 80th Express

-

-

-

4

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

92

92nd Avenue

75

59

22

75

59

22

5

5

2

5

5

2

99

South Kipling Street

47

23

-

-

-

-

3

2

-

-

-

-

100

Kipling Street

69

26

24

121

50

-

5

2

2

8

4

2

125

Youngfield/Ward

60

4

-

-

53

*Resources for Route 19 reflect splitting Route 6 prior to corridor opening.

6

Process

RTD has developed this service plan in concert with state, county, municipal and other
transportation stakeholders and customer and public input on the following schedule:
• Preliminary Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan – June 29, 2015 COMPLETE
• Stakeholder meetings to review preliminary service plan – June 29 – July 24, 2015
COMPLETE
• Revise Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan – August 4, 2015
COMPLETE
• Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan to RTD Board Operations
Committee – August 11, 2015 COMPLETE

52
Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

Table 13 - Gold and Northwest Corridors Bus Service Requirements

•
•
•
•

Conduct public meetings on Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan –
November 2015 COMPLETE
Revise Proposed Service Plan based on input – January 29, 2016 COMPLETE
Board approval of Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan – March 29, 2016
Implement service plan – Summer 2016 (Northwest Line) and Fall 2016 (Gold Line)

53
Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan (2696 : Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan)

1.C.1.a

1.C.1.b

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

Final Recommended
Gold & Northwest Corridors
Service Plan

Operations and Customer Services
Committee - February 9, 2016
1 Packet Pg. 60

RECOMMENDED SERVICE PLAN

2 61
Packet Pg.

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

1.C.1.b

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

B Line Alignment
• 6.2-mile segment from DUS to
south Westminster
• Two stations including Denver
Union Station and
Westminster/71st Ave
• Estimated travel time between
Westminster and Downtown is
approximately 11 minutes

Packet Pg. 62

B-Line Planned Operations

Weekday

Weekend

5:00-6:00 AM
6:00-9:00 AM
9:00 AM-3:00 PM
3:00 PM-6:00 PM
6:00 PM-10:00 PM
6:00 AM-10:00 PM

60 Minutes
30 Minutes
60 Minutes
30 Minutes
60 Minutes
60 Minutes

Packet Pg. 63

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

1.C.1.b

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

G-Line Alignment
• 11.2-mile commuter
rail line
• 8 stations including
DUS
• travel time between
DUS and the Wheat
Ridge/Ward
terminal station will
be approximately 25
minutes

Packet Pg. 64

G – Line Planned Operations
4:30-5:30 AM
Weekday
5:30 AM - 6:30 PM
6:30 PM - 12:30 AM
4:30-5:30 AM
Weekend/Holiday 5:00 AM - 6:30 PM
6:30 PM - 1:30 AM

30 Minutes
15 Minutes
30 Minutes
30 Minutes
15 Minutes
30 Minutes

Packet Pg. 65

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

Service Plan Recommended Network

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

Routes replaced by Gold Line
• Route 55X/55L – Olde Town Arvada Express
• Route 72X/72L - Ward Road Express

Note: no route services are replaced by the B –Line
Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

New Bus Routes
Route 53 – replaces Route 51 north of US 36 &
Sheridan Station
Route 55 – new service to operate between Olde
Town Arvada Station and Arvada Ridge Station
Route 99 – replaces alignment previously served
by Route 100 south of Federal Center Station
Route 125 – new service from Federal Center
Station to 64th/Quaker via Wheat Ridge-Ward
Station.
Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

Stakeholder Meetings
Arvada
• Added Route 125 to plan to address lack of service in
West Arvada

Wheat Ridge
• Removed proposal to discontinue Route 51 deviation to
Harlan Street

Westminster
• Removed Route 95 from plan until Westminster Mall
redevelopment is substantially underway
Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

Public Hearings
November 9, 2015 – Blake Street
•

Opposed to Route 92 discontinuance west of Sheridan

November 11, 2015 – South Westminster
•

Opposed to Route 92 discontinuance west of Sheridan

November 13, 2015 - Arvada
•

Generally in favor of plan

November 18, 2015 – West Arvada
•

Opposed to Route 72L discontinuance
Packet Pg. 70

Gold and Northwest Resource Impacts
Route

Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridor Bus Service Resource Impacts
Proposed
Existing
Proposed
Existing
Description
Hours
Hours
Peak Buses
Peak Buses
Wk Sa Su Wk Sa Su Wk Sa Su Wk Sa Su

6

E 6th Avenue/North Pecos

87

56

36

8

North Broadway/Huron

64

27

23

64

27

23

17

Red Rocks College

-

-

-

16

-

-

19

North Pecos

87

56

36

-

-

-

31

-

-

-

-

6

-

3

5

3
-

3

3

3

2

1
3

-

5

13

-

-

-

-

Federal Boulevard

174

135

101

208

151

117

-

-

-

7

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

50

Lakes Crosstown

-

-

-

63

-

-

-

-

-

5

-

-

51

Sheridan Boulevard

182

110

85

142

100

52

52nd Avenue/South Bannock

113

100

54

123

53

North Sheridan Boulevard Shuttle

26

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

-

-

55

South Arvada

20

-

-

-

-

-

2

-

-

-

-

-

-

12

-

-

-

-

55X
72

Olde Town Arvada Express

-

78

13

42

10

88

-

72nd Avenue

69

30

-

69

20

-

Quaker Street via Ward Express

-

-

-

26

-

-

76

Wadsworth Boulevard

165

104

74

147

104

62

80

80th Avenue

18

-

-

14

-

-

4

-

72X

80X

9

3

6

North Federal Express

31X

9

5

7
7

5
2

West 80th Express

-

-

75

59

22

75

59

22

5

5

99

South Kipling Street

47

23

-

-

-

-

3

2

100

Kipling Street

69

26

-

5

2

125

Youngfield/Ward

60

50

-

4

-

4

-

5

-

5
5

2
2

2

-

-

7
-

2

-

5

4
-

5
-

8

6
-

-

1

-

6

6

12

-

8

7

11

-

92nd Avenue

121

-

-

9

5

7

92

24

-

4
-

13

-

6

11

2
-

4

2

-

Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

1.C.1.b

1.C.1.b

•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Preliminary Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan – June 29, 2015 COMPLETE
Stakeholder meetings to review preliminary service plan – June 29 – July 24,
2015 - COMPLETE
Revise Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan – August 4, 2015
- COMPLETE
Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan to RTD Board
Operations Committee – August 11, 2015 - COMPLETE
Conduct public meetings on Proposed Gold & Northwest Corridors Service
Plan – November 2015 - COMPLETE
Revise Proposed Service Plan based on input – January 29, 2016 –
COMPLETE
Operations & Customer Service Committee Briefing – February 9, 2016.
Board approval of Final Gold & Northwest Corridors Service Plan – March
29, 2015
Implement service plan – Summer 2016 (Northwest Line) and Fall 2016
(Gold Line)
Packet 13
Pg. 72

Attachment: Final Gold and Northwest Corridor Service Plan Power Point (2696 : Final

Timeline

1.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: February 3, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 3, 2016

Board Meeting Date: February 9, 2016

Subject:

CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report

As you are aware, RTD and the Colorado Cross Disability Association (CCDC) entered into a joint
Settlement Agreement in March of 2014 in an effort to resolve issues related to availability of the
securement area on board RTD buses for passengers who use mobility aids. One of the requirements of
the Settlement Agreement was for RTD to adopt a policy to ensure individuals who use mobility aids,
including wheelchairs, have access to its buses and to the securement area. The key components of the
Policy are as follows:






Large items cannot block the aisle of the bus
Large items must be collapsed prior to boarding, and non-disabled passengers must use the seats
behind the securement area for themselves and their items
If large items cannot be collapsed and stored behind the securement area, non-disabled
passengers will not be allowed to board the bus with those items
Large items must be readily moveable and stowed behind the securement area
Passengers with mobility aids, such as wheelchairs, will be given priority boarding at bus stops

Starting with the effective date of the Policy (March 22, 2014), RTD has been tracking 1) each incident
in which a bus operator reported passing up a passenger using a mobility aid and 2) each incident in
which a passenger complained that an operator had not followed the Policy. In accordance with one of
the reporting requirements of the Settlement Agreement, RTD is to present a report summarizing the
data noted above on an annual basis to the Board of Directors and to the CCDC. The report is also
shared with the Denver Regional Mobility Access Council (DRMAC) for posting on the DRMAC website
and it is also posted on the RTD website. This report provides a summary of the securement area issues
data for the period of January through December of 2015.
The data collected for this report is generated in three ways – 1) the operator presses a pre-programmed
message button (“ADA PAX PASS-UP”) on the CAD/AVL radio system, 2) the operator makes radio
contact with RTD Dispatch using another button on the CAD/AVL radio system, or 3) a customer files a
report with the RTD Customer Care Division. Each incident generated by the above means is
investigated and tracked. The investigation includes a review of video from the bus (if available), a
review of the audio file documenting the conversation between the operator and the dispatcher, and a
report from the operator which includes a copy of the “ADA PAX PASS-UP” form given to the
passenger. Based on the results of the investigation, the securement area incident is assigned a code as
follows:
DUP

Duplicate – this indicates that the operator pressed the “ADA PAX PASS-UP” button
multiple times for the same incident

NPI

Not a Pass Up Incident – this indicates that one of the following occurred
 The passenger was accommodated on this bus

Packet Pg. 73

1.C.2






The passenger boarded the following bus which was right behind this bus (no wait
time)
The passenger left the area
The operator pressed the button in error
The operator was asking a question about the policy or procedure

LIFT

Lift Inoperable – this indicates that the lift or ramp on the bus was not functioning as
required

2 W/C

2 Wheelchairs – this indicates that 2 passengers in wheelchairs were already occupying
the securement area

W/C+OMA

Wheelchair and Other Mobility Aid – this indicates that one passenger in a wheelchair and
a passenger using another mobility aid were already occupying the securement area

2 OMA

2 Other Mobility Aids – this indicates that 2 passengers using other mobility aids were
already occupying the securement area

PXO

Passenger Overload – this indicates the bus was standing room only and no one was
willing or able to move to make room

OTHER

These incidents include things like two passengers in wheelchairs want to travel together
but there is already one passenger in a wheelchair in the securement area or the flip seat
will not flip up

CSR

Customer Service Report – this indicates a customer contacted RTD Customer Care to
report an issue related to the Policy

PENDING

The investigation into the incident is still in process

NO DATA

There was insufficient data available to verify that a passenger in a wheelchair or other
mobility aid was passed up

For the period of January through December of 2015, the breakdown of incidents is as follows:
1116 Total incidents recorded
-65
Duplicate entries
-167 Not a “pass up” incident
49
passenger was accommodated after button had been pressed
7
passenger boarded the following bus with no wait time
8
operator had a question regarding the Policy or the procedure to follow
100 operator pressed the “ADA PAX PASS-UP” button in error
3
passenger left area before operator could share information
-26

Customer contacted RTD Customer Care with concerns regarding the Policy:
6
operator did not board passenger with disability first
5
operator allowed non-disabled passengers to store personal items in securement area
5
passenger boarded with unfolded stroller (most claimed they were disabled or their child
was disabled)
4
heavy passenger loads – passenger with mobility aid unable to board

Packet Pg. 74

1.C.2

2
2
1
1

operator did not complete “ADA PAX PASS UP” form or attempt to make room for
passenger with disability
passenger claimed pass up – video evidence did not show a pass up
complaint about a passenger with a walker in the securement area
operator unable to raise the seats in the securement area

Each customer contact above was investigated and operators were addressed as needed. In those cases
where it was determined the operator did not follow procedures, the operator was disciplined and/or
retrained.
858

Actual Pass Up incidents
591 2 passengers in wheelchairs already occupying the securement area
80 1 passenger in a wheelchair and 1 passenger w/other mobility aid already in the
securement area
37 2 passengers w/other mobility aid already in the securement area
26 passenger overload (usually standing room only on the bus) – not specifically noted if
securement area taken by passengers w/mobility aids
84 lift inoperable
40 Other
-majority of these incidents indicated 2 passengers in wheelchairs wanted to ride together
and there was already one passenger in a wheelchair or with another mobility aid on the
bus
0 Investigation pending
0 No data available

The 858 pass-up incidents equate to an average of 71.5 incidents per month. Of the 858 pass-up
incidents, 708 (83%) were due to the securement area being full with passengers using mobility
devices.
For the period of March through December 2014, RTD operators reported 605 pass-up incidents, an
average of 60.5 per month. Of the 605 pass-up incidents, 474 (78%) were due to the securement area
being full with passengers using mobility devices.
RTD does not currently track ridership by passengers that use mobility aids. However, a comparison of
the securement area data from May through December 2014 and January through December 2015
showed the following:
In 2014 there were 10 incidents recorded where a passenger with a mobility device was not able to
board because a passenger with an unfolded stroller or grocery cart was in the securement area. In
2015 there were only 6 incidents, and in 5 of those incidents the passenger with the stroller either
claimed they had a disability or their child had a disability.
In 2014 there were 7 incidents recorded where a passenger was allowed to lift the seats in the
securement area to store personal items. In 2015 there were only 5 incidents. In all incidents, the
operators were addressed by management and retrained on the requirements of the Policy.
As noted above, RTD recorded 84 “lift inoperable” incidents in 2015. The data shows that for all of the
“lift inoperable” incidents, the passenger either boarded the following bus or another bus was dispatched
to accommodate the passenger. The majority of passengers were accommodated within 0 to 10
minutes.

Packet Pg. 75

1.C.2

RTD and the private contractors continue to require operators to cycle the wheelchair lift or ramp at pullout to ensure the equipment is working properly. Whenever a lift or ramp is reported as not working, a
trade bus is dispatched as soon as possible and the bus with the inoperable equipment is returned to the
garage where the maintenance department completes a diagnostic check and necessary repairs. Over
half of the lift/ramp issues reported in 2015 were on the 2000 series Orion buses, which are currently
being replaced with low-floor ramp equipped buses.
Of the 858 pass up incidents in 2015, RTD received a completed “ADA PAX PASS UP” form from the
operator for 78% of the incidents. For the period of May through December of 2014, RTD received a
completed “ADA PAX PASS UP” form for only 64% of the incidents.
Some of the reasons provided by operators for not completing or turning in the “ADA PAX PASS UP”
form are as follows:
 Passenger boarded the following bus which was right behind the other bus (passenger did not
have to wait)
 Passenger advised operator he/she did not want the form
 Operator forgot to turn in the form
To ensure that operators understand the importance of completing the “ADA PAX PASS UP” form, every
operator is required to meet with management for each incident where a form is not completed or turned
in, and the operator is addressed as needed. For the private contractors, RTD issues Liquidated
Damages if the “ADA PAX PASS UP” form is not provided to RTD.
One additional statistic RTD tracked was the number of times an operator pressed the lower priority
“Request To Talk” (RTT) button in order to contact Dispatch regarding a passenger pass up instead of
the high priority “ADA PAX PASS-UP” button. During the reporting period of January through December
2015, operators used the RTT button 188 times (22%). For the period of May through December of
2014, operators used the RTT button 59 times (12%).
For each of the incidents where the operator failed to use the higher priority “ADA PAX PASS-UP”
button the operator was addressed by management regarding the proper procedures.
The routes generating 20 or more pass-up incidents for the period of January through December, 2015,
were as follows:
Route 0 – 84 incidents (9.8% of total)
Route 3 – 21 incidents (2.4% of total)
Route 15 – 89 incidents (10.4% of total)
Route 15L – 45 incidents (5.2% of total)
Route 16 – 64 incidents (7.5% of total)
Route 20 – 22 incidents (2.6% of total)
Route 31 – 41 incidents (4.8% of total)
Route 38 – 24 incidents (2.8% of total)
Route 48 – 168 incidents (19.6% of total)
Route 52 – 39 incidents (4.5% of total)
Route 76 – 20 incidents (2.3% of total)
Route 105 – 28 incidents (3.3% of total)
As noted above, the Route 48 experienced a high number of pass up incidents. RTD staff discovered a
homeless shelter near 29th and Brighton was experiencing overcrowding due to another shelter in the

Packet Pg. 76

1.C.2

area being closed. Many of the individuals at this shelter use mobility aids and all individuals leave the
shelter at the same time each morning. This was causing passenger overloads on the Route 48. RTD
immediately assigned additional resources to assist with service on this Route and now keeps additional
resources on stand-by to assist when needed.
RTD and the private contractors provided ADA refresher training for all operators in 2014 and 2015.
Additional ADA refresher training will be given to all operators in 2016. The curriculum for the past and
future ADA refresher training is shared with members of the Colorado Cross Disability Coalition for input
and approval. This training continues to reinforce RTD policies and procedures regarding
accommodating passengers with disabilities on RTD buses. It also serves to raise operators’ awareness
of the needs of passengers with a variety of disabilities and mobility challenges.
It appears from many of the incident comments that operators and passengers, as well, are making an
effort to ensure that passengers using mobility aids are accommodated on RTD buses. RTD
management staff will continue to address operators individually when it is verified that they did not
follow the Policy. In addition, annual refresher training and periodic Transportation Bulletins will help
reinforce the requirements and expected compliance with the Policy for all operators.
ATTACHMENTS:


2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Carolyn Conover, Senior Manager, Contracted Services
Alice Osner, General Superintendent, Transportation
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 77

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

1/2/2015

5:23 PM

9324

15L

16

1/2/2015

2:47 PM

2019

121

10

1/4/2015

10:11 AM

2166

0

11

1/5/2015

4:28 PM

5137

0

2

1/5/2015

8:31 AM

5054

48

12

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

COLFAX AVE &
QUEBEC ST
S ULSTER ST & TUFTS
AVE (NB)

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

17TH ST/LARIMER ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

BROADWAY & SPEER
ADA PAX
BLVD
PASS UP
BRIGHTON BLVD &
ADA PAX
29TH ST
PASS UP
SABLE BLVD & COLFAX
CSR# 295678
AVE
W 46TH AVE & NAVAJO
ADA PAX
ST
PASS UP
W COLFAX AVE &
ADA PAX
SHERIDAN BLVD
PASS UP
W COLFAX AVE &
ADA PAX
SHERIDAN BLVD
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
W COLFAX AVE & HIGH
PAX PASS
ST
UP
RTT- ADA
W COLFAX AVE &
PAX PASS
DAYTON
UP
RTT- ADA
CURTIS ST & 16TH
PAX PASS
STREET MALL
UP
HAMPDEN AVE & S
ADA PAX
VERBENA ST
PASS UP

1/5/2015

2:50 PM

9372

15L

8

1/6/2015

9:35 AM

5112

52

1

1/6/2015

2:07 PM

9349

16

6

1/6/2015

2:09 PM

9349

16

6

1/6/2015

1:55 PM

2084

15

34

1/6/2015

2:26 PM

9302

15L

15

1/7/2015

2:37 PM

6032

48

2

1/7/2015

6:35 AM

3926

35

2

1/8/2015

12:00 PM

5185

6

0

NOT GIVEN

1/8/2015

12:49 PM

6020

28

6

29TH & MONACO

1/8/2015

2:22 PM

6061

15

4

W COLFAX & FILLMORE

1/9/2015

4:50 PM

6020

48

12

CURTIS ST & 19TH ST

1/9/2015

4:38 PM

6020

48

12

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

1/10/2015

3:53 PM

6011

48

1

CURTIS & 18TH

1/10/2015

1:28 PM

2303

121

3

PEORIA ST & 40TH

1/10/2015

2:07 PM

2302

121

3

PEORIA ST & ILLIFF

1/10/2015

9:00 AM

2004

105

4

HAVANA ST &
ALAMEDA

1/14/2015

10:48 AM

6068

105

6

HAVANA ST & 1ST AVE

1/15/2015

10:17 AM

5079

10

3

HALE PKWY & DAHLIA
ST

1/15/2015

12:36 PM

6054

38

4

BRUCE RANDOLPH
AVE & STEELE

Y
Y

Y- TURNED

Y
Y
N
y
Y

Y- CASE
#15000365
N- CASE
#15000269

N

Y- CASE
#15000508
N-CASE
#15000505
Y- CASE
#15000378
Y - BROOKS
15-01
N- CASE
#15000588

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SEC AREA FULL- 2 W/C

2 W/C

Y-VIDEO

N

N/A

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT INOPERABLE- BUS TRADE

LIFT

LIFT

Y- LIFT

Y

Y

0 MIN

Y

Y

N

N

LIFT STUCK. TRIED SENS. EDGE OVRIDE.
NO GOOD RTN TO PL FOR NEW BUS.
RESP DUS. ADA PAX GOT ON NEXT BUS.
TURNED ADA PAX PASS UP ON 4/19/15

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SEC AREA FULL- ADA PAX WILLING TO
WAIT FOR NEXT BUS.

2 OMA

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SEC AREA FULL- 2 W/C

2 W/C

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

N/A

N

Y

N

Y

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

Y

N-CASE
#15000577

Y-VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N

Y

Y- CASE
#15000590

N

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE
#15000993

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

CSR# 299340

N/A

N

Y - NO VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

NA

N/A

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15000804

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE
#15001004

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y
N

Y- CASE
#15000985
Y- CASE
#15000987
Y- CASE
#15003312

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
SEC AREA FULL- 2 W/C- ADA WILLING TO
WAIT FOR RTE 6

N

DUP

Y

TRACKING
CODE

N

DUP

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
#8 MECH
PROB: VEH
OUT OF
SERV
ADA PAX
PASS UP

COMMENTS

ALL ADA PAXS WERE ACCOMMODATED ,
OTHER PAX GOT OFF BUS TO MAKE
ROOM
PASSENGER ACCOMODATED ON
FOLLOWER - NO WAIT (DIRECTLY BEHIND
THIS BUS)
SECUREMENT AREA FULL
BUS WAS FULL, 3 NON-ADA PAX UNABLE
TO BOARD
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
ADA PAX HAVING BRAKE ISSUES WITH
THEIR MOBILITY DEVICE. PAX
ACCOMMODATED

REASON

CSR
2 W/C

NPI

PAX ACCOM

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C
NPI

ERROR

CSR
NPI

ERROR

NO EVIDENCE VIDEO OF ADA PAX
PASSUP

NPI

PAX ACCOM

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

N

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y

N- CASE
#15004171

Y-LIFT/VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT INOPERABLE

LIFT

Y

N- CASE
#15004171

Y-LIFT/VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT INOPERABLE

LIFT

Y

N- CASE
#15004172

Y-LIFT/VIDEO

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

N

LIFT INOPERABLE- BUS TRADE

LIFT

Y

N- CASE
#15001912

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT INOPERABLE

LIFT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y KENDRICK
5079 1/15/15

N

Y

N

N/A

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE
#15004169

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 78

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

1/15/2015

12:59 PM

9190

15L

2

E COLFAX
AVE/QUEBEC ST

1/15/2015

10:48 AM

6034

3

17

FEDERAL CENTER

1/16/2015

9:14 AM

5113

31

21

1/16/2015

9:24 AM

5113

31

21

1/16/2015

10:33 AM

9179

15L

3

1/16/2015

3:10 PM

9307

15L

4

1/17/2015

12:39 PM

2024

15

4

1/18/2015

12:01 PM

9357

16

9

1/18/2015

12:04 PM

9357

16

9

S FEDERAL BLVD & W
LOUISIANA AVE
S FEDERAL BLVD & W
ALAMEDA AVE
COLFAX AVE & PEORIA
ST
W COLFAX AVE &
XANIDU
COLFAX AVE &
FILLMORE ST
DECATUR / FEDERAL
STATION GATE H
DECATUR / FEDERAL
STATION GATE H

1/19/2015

2:18 PM

2057

105

2

CO-30)/HAVANA

1/19/2015

1:26 PM

6087

15

11

ST / E 6TH AVE

1/20/2015

3:23 PM

5052

48

15

W COLFAX AVE &
BDWY

1/20/2015

5:40 PM

2100

0

14

W 38TH AVE & IRVING
ST

1/20/2015

2:51 PM

5061

38

2

CO-30)/HAVANA

1/22/2015

8:05 AM

6043

48

99

BROADWAY & COLFAX
AVE

1/22/2015

1:04 PM

2097

0

9

COLFAX AVE & HIGH
ST

1/22/2015

4:01 PM

2051

15

32

CURTIS & BDWY

1/24/2015

10:55 AM

6019

0

6

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE
LINCOLN ST &
ELLSWORTH AVE

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

PRTT-ADA
PAX PASS
UP
#8 MECH
PROB: VEH
OUT OF
SERV
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

N- CASE #
15001354

Y-VIDEO

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL W/C LEFT AREA
BEFORE RECEIVING FORM

2 W/C

Y

N

Y-LIFT/VIDEO

Y

Y

22 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT INOPERABLE- BUS TRADE

LIFT

Y

Y FTCC-15-2

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

NA

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y

Y FTCC 15-2

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

NA

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y

N- CASE
#15001498

Y-VIDEO

N

N

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

y

N- CASE
#15001491

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

0 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- NEXT BUS
PULLED UP.

2 W/C

N

N

N/A

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 OMA

Y
Y

Y- CASE #
15001490
N- CASE
#15001913

REASON

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

N- CASE
#15001372

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 OMA

Y

N- CASE
#15004168

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

STANDING ROOM ONLY- ADA PAX
WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT BUS.

PXO

Y

N- CASE
#15001061

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 OMA

Y

N- CASE
#15001491

Y- VIDEO

N

N/A

N/A

N

N

N

Y

ADA PAX WANTED TO WAIT FOR THE
NEXT BUS THEN LEFT THE STOP

NPI

PAX LEFT
AREA

N

Y EL-AMIN
5061 1/20/15

N

N

N

NA

N

N

N

Y

PAX WANTED THE NEXT BUS, OP
PRESSED 12 PRIOR TO GETTING STOP

NPI

ERROR

Y

N- CASE
#15004151

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 OMA

Y

N-CASE
#15001817

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y- VIDEO

N

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- NEXT BUS
PULLED UP.

2 W/C

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C
2 OMA

Y
Y

N-CASE
#15001915
N-CASE
#15003761
Y- CASE
#15001916

N

N- PASS

N/A

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- ADA PAX LEFT
THE SCENE

N- CASE
#15001903

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA FULL/ I PAX WITH STROLLER SAID IT
IS ADA AND 1 PAX WITH WALKER/ PAX
PASSED HAD A WALKER/ BUS 2064

2 OMA

Y

N- CASE
#15004149

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASSUP/FORM TO
PASSENGER/FOLLOWER IN 15 MINUTES

2 OMA

N

Y- CASE
#15002086

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

N

Y

Y- CASE
#15001924

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

NA

N

N

NA

Y

1/25/2015

4:56 PM

6067

20

3

1/26/2015

12:54 PM

5262

20

3

COLFAX AVE &
BROADWAY

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

1/26/2015

2:05 PM

2090

3

17

AURORA CT & 16TH
AVE (STOP)

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

1/26/2015

6:39 AM

6067

15

8

1/26/2015

5:28 PM

6028

0

6

1/26/2015

4:06 PM

6025

38

14

1/26/2015

5:19 PM

40

23

5041

18TH AVE &
CSR# 298027
WASHINGTON ST
W ALAMEDA AVE (COADA PAX
26)/S FEDERAL BLVD
PASS UP
(CO-88)
ADA PAX
COLORADO & BAYAUD
PASS UP
E 18TH AVE/EMERSON
Inccident
ST
Form

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

Y

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
DISREGARD- OP HAD ISSUES WITH LIFT
BUT ALL ADA PAXS WERE
ACCOMMODATED
PROBLEM DEPLOYING LIFT, MOVED BUS
& ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE PAX
OP PASSED PAX STATING SHE WAS
CAUSING A DISTRUPTION

CSR
NPI

PAX ACCOM

NPI

PAX ACCOM

OTHER

Packet Pg. 79

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

1/27/2015

9:02 PM

6015

48

2

1/27/2015

1:32 PM

6050

0

4

1/27/2015

7:20 PM

5014

31

10

STOP NAME

BRUCE RANDOLPH
AVE & JACKSON ST
HIGHLANDS RANCH
TOWN CENTER PNR
GATE B
31ST & BRIGHTON
FEDERAL BLVD & W
29TH AVE
BROADWAY & W 5TH
AVE

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003763

N

N- PASS

N/A

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 OMA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE
#15003273

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- ADA PAX
WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT BUS

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

PAX WANTED THE NEXT BUS, OP
PRESSED 12 PRIOR TO GETTING STOP

NPI

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/CA

2 W/C

Y

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

OPERATOR PRESSED CODE 12 IN ERROR

NPI

Y

N- CASE
#1503869

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 OMA

Y

N- CASE
#15003764

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2- WC ON BUS; PASSING 1WC;NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY;FOLLOWER 6007
ACCO ADA @ 152PM

2 W/C

N

Y

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL 2 PAX WITH
WALKERS IN THE ADA AREA/ UNABLE TO
MOVE/ PAX IN W/C WILL BE ACCOM BY
BUS 6044/ DVR

2 OMA

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR

2 OMA

2 OMA

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

1/28/2015

5:01 PM

5161

8

32

1/28/2015

1:03 AM

1406

15

42

1/29/2015

7:50 AM

5034

48

99

COLFAX AVE &
CLARKSON ST

1/29/2015

1:40 PM

6015

8

14

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003291

N

N

2/2/2015

12:56 PM

5054

0

5

BROADWAY & W
COLFAX AVE

2/2/2015

10:28 AM

3849

208

23

VALMONT RD &
AIRPORT RD

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH SECAREAS
WERE FULL / OP FILLED OUTPASS UP
BOOK / OFFERED PAX TRANSF/
FOLLOWER WILL BE BY IN 10 MIN
SECUREMENT AREA FULL

NPI

2/3/2015

8:35 AM

5030

48

12

HAVANA ST & 1ST AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

2/3/2015

8:29 AM

5030

48

12

COLFAX AVE &
YOSEMITE ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

2/3/2015

11:40 AM

9310

15L

12

(US-287

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE
#15003285

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/3/2015

11:20 AM

6099

105

1

S)/LINCOLN ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003286

N

Y

N

9 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/3/2015

8:18 AM

5030

48

12

31ST ST/RINGSBY CT

CSR# 298972

Y

N

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

2/3/2015

8:44 AM

2049

15

10

E COLFAX AVE

Y

N

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2/4/2015

8:00 AM

5030

0

4

BRIGHTON BLVD/ 29TH

Y

N

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2/4/2015

4:11 PM

9355

16

9

31ST ST & RINGSBY CT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003281

N

N/A

N/A

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2/5/2015

3:22 PM

5035

21

32

COLFAX AVE & FULTON
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

N

N/A

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

2/5/2015

12:47 PM

6098

15

32

17TH & CALIFORNIA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003279

N

Y

Y

4 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/5/2015

1:30 PM

5257

31

7

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE ST

Y

N

Y

N/A

15 MINS

N

Y

N

NA

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

2/5/2015

1:30 PM

5257

31

7

Y

Y

N

Y

N/A

15 MINS

N

Y

N

NA

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

2/5/2015

12:31 AM

5185

31

5

Y

N

Y

N/A

15 MINS

N

Y

N

NA

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

FEDERAL BLVD & W
56TH AVE
W COLFAX AVE &
TELLER ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

2 PAX W/C ON BUS; PASSING 1WC NO
ROOM; ADA PAX OKAY WAITING FOR
FOLLOWER;CALLEDFOLLOWER
HAVE 2- WC ON BUS; PASSING 1 WC; NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY;FOLLOWER 2063
ACCO ADA PAX @1129AM OK
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
PASSED WC AT COLF BDWY;PICKED UP
BY FOLLOWER AT 849
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2
WALKERS- ADA PAX DIDN'T WANT PASS
UP FORM.
SECUREMENT AREA NOT FULL, ADA PAX
WANTED WANTS RT 16 GOING TO
GOLDEN
BDWY CURTIS; HAD 2-WC ON BUS;
PASSED 1WC PAX NO ROOM; OPER
SAIDADA PAX LEFT AREA.
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS;PASSING 1WC;
ADVPOLICY; FOLLOWER 5025 ACCO
@1251PM OK.

REASON

ERROR

ERROR

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C
CSR
PXO

2 OMA

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

2/5/2015

12:00 PM

5185

6

0

2/5/2015

1:33 PM

5257

31

7

STOP NAME

S Federal Blvd & W
Harvard Ave (STOP)
BROADWAY & W
COLFAX AVE

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

CSR #299340

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N/A

N/A

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

CSR

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP
NPI

PAX ACCOM

PAX ACCOM

2/5/2015

8:03 AM

2143

0

4

BROADWAY/24TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003284

N

N

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

BUS FULL ADA WAS PICKED UP BY
FOLLOWER. ADA PAX DIDN'T WANT PASS
UP FORM.

2/5/2015

6:40 AM

6058

48

2

W 112TH AVE &
LEGACY RIDGE PKWY

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003196

Y-VIDEO

N

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL NEXT BUS
PULLED UP, ADA PAX GOT ON FOLLOWER
ROUTE 44 BLOCK 27 BUS 2093.

NPI

2/6/2015

1:10 PM

6045

0

9

56TH & FEDERAL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y-VIDEO

N

N/A

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- ADA PAX WITH
WALKER PASSED; INC REP REQ
DVR;FOLLOWER 15 MIN- PASSENGERS
WILLING TO WAIT FOR FOLLOWER.

2 OMA

2/6/2015

1:12 PM

6045

0

9

17TH ST & CHAMPA ST
X STOP

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003171

Y-VIDEO

N

N/A

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- ADA PAX WITH
WALKER PASSED; INC REP REQ
DVR;FOLLOWER 15 MIN- PASSENGERS
WILLING TO WAIT FOR FOLLOWER.

2 OMA

2/6/2015

7:46 AM

6006

48

3

LINCOLN ST (N
LINCOLN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003277

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

2/6/2015

1:09 PM

9377

15L

13

FEDERAL BLVD & W
56TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE# 15003276

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

4 MINS

N

2/6/2015

2:57 PM

3976

27

3

ST)/*E 5TH AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N

N

N

N

NA

N

2/7/2015

3:29 PM

5029

0

2

W ALAMEDA AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003308

N

N

N/A

5 MINS

N

2/7/2015

10:43 AM

1407

15

22

LINCOLN ST (N
LINCOLN

ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

ST)/*E 7TH AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

2/7/2015

3:20 PM

5102

3

2

N

Y

N

NA

N

2 WC ONBOARD AND 2 WC WAITING /MLX
10 TO ACCOM- ADA PAX DIDN'T WANT
PASS UP FORM.
HAVE 2 WC ON BUS; PASING 1 WC;NO
Y
N
Y
ROOM; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
9370ACCO ADA @ 113PM
OP PASSED PAX WITH W/C AT ENG STA
/OP DID NOT FILL OUT PASS UP BOOK /OP
DID NOT CALL DISPATCH OR DIV / TD /ST
Y ADDRESSED
N
BY MANAMGMENT
N
SUP WILL MEET OP IN RTE / OP TO DORPT
/ DVR / OP SAID HE DID NOT KNOWADA
POLICY / ST
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGERS. THE FOLLOWER WILL PICK
Y
N
Y
UP. ADA PAX WILLING TO WAIT. ADA PAX
HAS BUS PASS.
2 W/C ON BUS ALREADY. PAX
Y
Y
Y
REFUSEDPASS UP FORM. I CALLED
FOLLOWER TOACCOMMODATE 9206
N

Y

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y-CASE
#15004059

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

2/7/2015

4:29 PM

6030

48

4

W COLFAX/COLORADO

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

2/7/2015

3:28 PM

5102

3

2

WELTON ST & 13TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y

N

Y

N

NA

N

N

Y RETRAIING

Y

2/7/2015

2:53 PM

6008

0

6

(CO-26)/S PIERCE ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003293

N

Y

Y

14 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/7/2015

8:22 AM

6030

48

4

MANSFIELD PKWY

ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

Y

Y-CASE
#15004059

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

Y

N

N

Y

A PASSENGER IN A WHEELCHAIR WILLBE
PASSED UP BECAUSE THESECUREMENT
AREA IS ALREADYOCCUPIED WITH TWO
CHAIRS. THEFOLLOWER BLOCK 5 WILL
PICK UP.
A PASSENGER WITH A WALKER WILL
HAVE TO BE PASSED UP BECAUSE
THESECUREMENT AREA IS OCCUPIED
WITH 2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS. THE
FOLLOWERWILL PICK UP.
AN INDIVIDUAL WITH A WALKER WILL
CATCH THE FOLLOWER BECAUSE THE
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL WITH 2 PAX
IN WHEELCHAIRS.
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1 WC
NOROOM.ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER
2303ACCO @ 307PM. OK.
SECUREMENT AREA FULL 2 W/C- MLX
SENT TO ACCOM- ADA PAX

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

OTHER

2 OMA

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

2/7/2015

5:13 PM

5184

20

2

*W HAMPDEN AVE/*W

2/8/2015

12:58 PM

5261

15

9

W ALAMEDA AVE

2/8/2015

1:47 PM

5029

38

21

(CO-26)/S KENDALL ST

2/9/2015

10:57 AM

5252

52

3

WB
MONTVIEW/COLORADO

2/10/2015

9:15 AM

2199

48

2

BROADWAY & W 13TH
AVE

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

Y

Y

N

Y

NA

NA

N

NA

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE
#15003420

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

Y

N

N

N

NA

N

N Y - RETRAINING

NA

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

N

N

9 MINS

N

Y

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

COMMENTS

A PASSENGER IN A WHEELCHAIR
WASPASSED UP BECAUSE THE BUS
ISOVERLOADED AND WILL BE PICKED
UPBY THE FOLLOWER.
2 W/C ON BUS. I WILL CALL
FOLLOWER2073.
2 W/C ON BUS. OP CONTINUE. I
CALLEDFOLLOWER 5032 TO
ACCOMMODATE
COLF BDWY / 2 WC PAX ONBOARD/ PAX
WITH WALKER BOARDING SAID SHE WILL
WAIT ON THE NEXT BUS/ BUS 5173 TO
ACCOM/DVR
OP PASSED W/C PAX / BOTH W/C
SECAREAS WERE FULL / OP FILLED
OUTPASS UP BOOK / PAX HAD PASS
/FOLLOWER WILL BE BY 9:29A TO
ACCOMPAX

TRACKING
CODE

PXO

2 W/C
2 W/C

W/C +OMA

2 OMA

2/10/2015

12:54 PM

5142

9

5

BROADWAY/24TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y

N

Y

N

NA

N

N Y - RETRAINING

Y

HAVE 2WC ON BUS; PASSED UP 1WC;NO
ROOM AT CFX/BDWY.ADV POLICY;OPER
SAID THERE WERE ON ADA PASSUP
FORMS ON THE BUS; OPER DIDN`TPRESS
#12 HE SAID HE DID NOT KNOWWHERE
THE #12 WAS? ADV.FOLLOWER2303

2/10/2015

2:35 PM

5076

1

17

S LINCOLN ST &
CENTER AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N

N

NA

NA

NA

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP WCPAX:WHO STATED HE WOULD
WAIT FORTHE FOLLOWERS BUS

2 W/C

2/10/2015

11:26 AM

2269

15

6

BLVD

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

N

N

0

N

Y

Y

Y

TIED DOWNS FULL THE FOLLOWER
WASABLE TO ACC THE PAX WHO IS
WAITINGFOR A BUS:

2 W/C

Y

OPERATOR CALLED IN FALLBACKSTATING
SHE HAS TO PASS UP AN ADA IN A WC ON
FEDERAL @26TH. SHESTATED HER BUS
WAS SO PACKED SHEWOULD HAVE TO
HAVE PASSENGERSGET OFF THE BUS.
INSTRUCTED TO DOFORM

PXO

2/10/2015

3:27 PM

5128

31

10

COLFAX AVE & HIGH
ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y

N

N

N/A

15 MINS

N

N

N

2/10/2015

7:42 AM

5152

20

21

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/11/2015

12:20 PM

6041

0

15

W 14TH AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

Y

Y

9 MINS

Y-rte11

Y

N

N

2/11/2015

3:52 PM

5126

100

9

ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N

Y

Y

Y

NA

N

N

N

Y

2/11/2015

12:15 PM

6002

0

7

E COLFAX AVE (US-40

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

PAX IN WC WAITING TO BOARD.
ADASECTION IS ALREADY FULL
WITHPASSENGERS IN MOBILITY
DEVICES.OPERATOR ASKED THE
PASSENGERS IFANYONE COULD FOLD
THEIR MOBILITY DEVICE, BUT NONE OF
THEM CAN. FOLLOWER IN
PASSED PAX WITH W/C BOTH SECAREAS
WERE OCCUPIED / OP FILLEDOUT PASS
UP BOOK / PAX HAD BUSPASS /
FOLLOWER WILL BE BY IN 8-9 MIN/
FOLLOWER WILL ACCOM / ALSO RTE
11WB WILL SERVICE STOP
ST/ OPERATOR STATED SHE CANNOT GET
HER LIFT OUT MANUALLY, ADA PAX
WANTING TO GOT TO PARFAIT/ TO TD,
WILL BE MET AT SW PLAZA BY MAINT.
PAX TO FOLLOWER 5133/
LUBRICATIONADDED TO THE LIFT
DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR.

REASON

2 W/C

W/C +OMA

2 W/C

LIFT

NPI

ERROR

Packet Pg. 82

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2/11/2015

11:32 AM

5264

15

1

15TH ST/STOUT ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003424

Y-VIDEO

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N/A

N

Y

OPERATOR STATED HE HAS 2 PAX IN WC
ON THE BUS ALREADY AND CHOSE TO
BOARD THE 3RD PAX BECAUSE ANOTHER
PAX WILL BE EXITING IN 2 STOPS. SO NO
PASSUP AT THISLOCATION

2/11/2015

7:32 AM

5035

48

3

W 13TH
AVE/*CHEROKEE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003519

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

0 MINS

Y-rte 44

Y

N

N

OPERATOR STATES THAT SECUREMENT
AREA WAS FULL WITH ADA PASSENGERS
3RD PARTY BOARDS ROUTE 44

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2/11/2015

11:21 AM

3958

327

1

BROADWAY/E 14TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - VIDEO IS
NOT ON THIS
SERIES

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

PAX SCOOTER WOULD NOT RIDE UP THE
RAMP - PAX RODE 3 BLOCKS AWAY TO
DEST.

NPI

LEFT AREA

2/11/2015

8:43 AM

6047

48

12

17TH ST/WELTON ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15005574

N

Y

N-pass

20 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPER SAID ADA PASS SAID HE DOESN?T
WANT THE YELLOW PAPER; OPER TOLD
TO FILL IT OUT AND WRITE REFUSED

W/C +OMA

2/11/2015

8:35 AM

6047

48

12

W)/HUMBOLDT ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15005575

N

Y

N-pass

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/12/2015

5:33 PM

9105

3L

87

COLFAX AVE & SAINT
PAUL ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE
#15003734

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2/12/2015

6:42 PM

5107

31

24

AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

NA

N

N

N

Y

2/12/2015

8:30 AM

6039

48

12

LOUISIANA AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE
#15004039

N

UNK

UNK

30 MIN

N

Y

Y

Y

2/12/2015

7:43 AM

1402

48

3

LASHLEY ST & E
LONGS PEAK AVE

Y

N

N

Y

N

5 MIN

N

Y

Y

Y

2/12/2015

5:48 PM

2221

0

10

S BROADWAY/W

Y

N-CASE
#15003737

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MIN

N

Y

Y

Y

2/12/2015

5:52 PM

2200

0

4

LINCOLN ST & 4TH AVE

N

N

Y

11 MIN

N

N

N

Y

AN ADA PASSENGER WILL BE PASSEDUP
DUE TO A FULL BUS. THE FOLLOWERWILL
PICK UP. NO LX TO ASSIST AT THISTIME.
THE 0L BLOCK 73 WILL ASSIST.

W/C +OMA

Y

AN PERSON IN A WHEELCHAIR WILL
BEPASSED UP BECAUSE
THESECUREMENT AREA IS FULL
ALREADY.THE FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

W/C +OMA

Y

BDWY/ALAMEDA; PASSED 1WC; NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY; PER 9374 THE
FOLLOWER 9335 ACCO ADA APPX 3MIN
LATER.

W/C +OMA

Y

THIS TRIP IS HEAVY. MLX ASSIGNED
TOTAKE ANY OVERFLOW PASSENGERS IN
MOBILITY DEVICES. ASSIGNED MLX ALSO
IS FILLED. CCLX2170 TO LOCATION TO
ACCOMMODATE PASSENGERS. S32
ADVSD. DVR REP REQ

W/C +OMA

2/12/2015

2/12/2015

2/12/2015

4:15 PM

5:32 PM

7:54 AM

6058

9374

2123

0

0L

48

15

91

1

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

ADA PAX
Y- CASE
INC REPORT NO Form on Bus
PASS UP
#15003735

BROADWAY/CURTIS

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

SANTA FE DR/*W 13TH

ADA PAX
PASS UP

FED/26TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE
#15004037

Y

Y-CASE
#15004162

Y

Y-CASE
#15003757

N

N

N

Y

N

N

Y

N

N

13 MIN

3 MIN

0 MINS

N

N

Y-MLX

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP WC
PAX:FOLLOWER TO ACC THE PAX:
HAD TO PASS UP A ADA PASSENGER
ATBROADWAY/ALAMEDA DUE TO A FULL
BUS, BUT THE REGULAR 0L DID
ACCOMMODATED THIS PASSENGER.
HAVE 2WC ON BUS;; PASSED UP 1 WC;
OPER SAID ADA WAS UPSET AND LEFT
THE AREA. ADV DVR.
PASSENGER IN MOBILITY DEVICE IS
BEING PASSED AT LOCATION. ADA
SECTION IS FULL WITH PASSENGERS
USING MOBILITYDEVICES AND UNABLE TO
COLLAPSE. FOLLOWER IN 6047 WILL
ACCOMMODATE THE PASSENGERS. DVR
REP
SECUREMENT AREA HAD 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
FOLLOWER
AT BROADWAY/JEWELL, AN ADA
PASSENGER WAS PASSED UP DUE TO A
FULL BUS.

W/C +OMA

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

PXO

Packet Pg. 83

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

2/13/2015

3:14 PM

9361

16

7

FEDERAL BLVD & W
3RD AVE

2/13/2015

1:44 PM

2163

0

15

S BROADWAY & W
ALAMEDA AVE

2/13/2015

2:59 PM

2175

20

32

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE ST

2/13/2015

8:31 AM

6004

48

12

W COLFAX AVE (US-40

2/13/2015

8:29 AM

6004

48

12

E)/OAK ST

2/13/2015

8:29 AM

6004

31

24

2/13/2015

8:31 AM

6004

31

24

2/14/2015

1:00 PM

2119

1501

2/14/2015

1:10 PM

2119

2/15/2015

1:16 PM

2/15/2015

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

BRIGHTON BLVD/38 ST
ST
BRIGHTON BLVD/35 ST
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

1

S LINCOLN ST/E
ALAMEDA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003861

N

Y

N

15 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL-2 WC PAX
ONBOARD/ UNABLE TO 0:00ACCOM WC
PAX AT PEARL/ BUS2269 TO ACCOM/DVR

2 W/C

1501

1

AVE (CO-26)

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE
#15003866

N

Y

N

15 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL-2 WC PAX
ONBOARD/ UNABLE TO 0:00ACCOM WC
PAX AT PEARL/ BUS2269 TO ACCOM/DVR

2 W/C

5096

3

6

BROADWAY & W
CENTER AVE

N

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8:26 AM

6071

15

8

31ST ST/RINGSBY CT

Y

Y-CASE
#15005219

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2/18/2015

12:53 PM

2059

121

10

31ST & BRIGHTON

Y

N

N

N

N

NA

N

N

N

Y

PASSENGER LEFT AREA

2 W/C

2/18/2015

2:19 PM

5101

76

3

S BROADWAY/W

N

Y

N

Y

Y

4 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C
2 W/C

2/18/2015

8:31 AM

6010

4812

12

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST
ST

2/18/2015

9:02 AM

2160

48

2

MISSISSIPPI AVE

2/19/2015

7:59 AM

5031

48

1

BROADWAY/E SPEER

2/19/2015

3:50 PM

5102

3

43

18TH & EMERSON

2/19/2015

5:13 PM

5137

48

2

31ST AND BRIGHTON

2/19/2015

7:55 AM

6050

48

99

31ST AND BRIGHTON

2/19/2015

5:47 PM

2042

44

55

S BROADWAY &
JEWELL AVE

2/19/2015

11:33 AM

6078

105

6

FEDERAL BLVD & W
98TH AVE

2/19/2015

4:43 PM

2042

44

55

S FEDERAL BLVD & W
KENTUCKY AVE

2/20/2015

1:45 PM

5247

76

11

W HOLDEN
PL/FEDERAL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE
#15004064

N

Y

Y

10 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

2 W/C ON BUS. OP PASSED I
CALLEDFOLLOWER TO ACCOMMODATE
9338.

2 W/C

Y

N

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

2 WC PAX ON BOARD/ UNABLE TOACCOM/
BUS 2106 TO ACCOM 200 SBDWY

2 W/C

N

NA

Y

UNK

NA

NA

UNK

UNK

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y

Y-CASE
#15004065

Y- RADIO

Y

Y

16 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

Y

Y-CASE
#15004066

Y- RADIO

Y

Y

16 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

N/A

N/A

Y- RADIO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION

NPI

N/A

N/A

Y- RADIO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

EQUIPMENT MALFUNCTION

NPI

1 WC ON BOARD BUS,2 ADA PAX WERE AT
THE STOP, THEY WANTED TO RIDE
TOGETHER
FULL BUS STANDING ROOM ONLY
UNABLE TO LOAD W/C PASSENGER
BOARDS FOLLOWER

PXO

Y

Y-CASE
#15004134

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS

2 W/C

Y

N-CASE
#15004973

N

Y

Y

30 MIN

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

PASSENGER PASSED UP MLX
TRANSPORT PASSENGER

2 W/C

N

Y

N

Y

Y

NA

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

27 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

N

Y

N

5 MIN

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y
DUP

Y-CASE
#15004409
Y-CASE
#15004640
DUP

Y

Y-CASE
#15005218

Y-LIFT

Y

N

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N-CASE
#15004704

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

NA

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT WOULD NOT DEPLOY HAD TO PASS
UP PASSENGER FOLLOWER 8 MINS- BUS
TRADED
PASSING ADA PAX NO ROOM GAVE FORM
TO PASSENGER CATCHES THE FOLLWER
DUE IN 6 MINS
ALREADY HAD 2 WC ON BUS

OTHERRADIO
OTHERRADIO

OTHER

SECUREMENT AREA FULL 3RD
PASSENGER LEFT BEFORE THEY GOT A
SLIP

Y

REASON

LIFT

PXO
2 W/C

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

2/20/2015

3:22 PM

2210

SKIP

2

BLVD (CO-88)

2/20/2015

3:43 PM

1623

MALL

29

BLVD (CO-88)

2/20/2015

8:30 AM

2080

48

12

COLFAX AVE & PEARL
ST

2/21/2015

2:48 PM

2049

15

4

COLFAX AVE & VINE ST

2/21/2015

2:59 PM

2049

15

4

E COLFAX &
SCRANTON

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

#7 MECH
PROB: VEH
IN SERV
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

N-CASE
#15005036

Y-LIFT

Y

N

0

N

N

Y

Y

HAD LIFT ISSUE PASSENGER WAS
ACCOMMODATED BY FOLLOWER

LIFT

Y

N-CASE
#15005037

Y-LIFT

N

N

0

N

N

N

Y

LATCH NOT WORKING FOLLOWER PICKED
UP PASSENGER

LIFT

Y

N-CASE
#15004404

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH MOBILITY
DEVICES 3RD PARTY ACCOMMODATED
BY MLX

W/C +OMA

Y

N-CASE
#15004711

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL FOLLOWER TO
ACCOMMODATE IN 10 MINS

2 W/C

Y

Y-CASE
#15004452

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL FOLLOWER TO
ACCOMMODATE IN 15 MINS

2 W/C

N

N-CASE
#15004638

N

N

N

15 MIN

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR PASSED AN ADA PASSENGER
AND DIDN’T NOTIFY DISPATCH OF THE
INCIDENT CALL CAME FROM A TRANSIT
WATCH
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS

2/24/2015

11:39 PM

2081

15

15

QUENTIN ST & 19TH PL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

2/24/2015

8:24 AM

2269

15

4

WADSWORTH & 32ND

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y-CASE
#15004735

N

Y

Y

5 MIN

N

pending

N

Y

2/24/2015

3:00 AM

2274

51

4

29TH ST & BRIGHTON
BLVD

REPORT
SENT IN

N

N

Y LIFT

N

N

1 MIN

N

N

N

Y

LIFT WOULD NOT DEPLOY HAD TO PASS
UP PASSENGER FOLLOWER 2 MINS

LIFT

2/24/2015

11:37 AM

2270

43

2

1ST & DETROIT

N

N-CASE
#15005121

Y-LIFT

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE WOULD NOT
DEPLOY PASSENGER WAITS FOR
FOLLOWER 10 MINS AWAY

LIFT

2/25/2015

12:30 PM

5251

52

4

31ST ST & RINGSBY CT

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

BUS WAS FULL. PLUS 2 W/C

2 W/C

2/25/2015

8:31 AM

6017

48

12

15TH ST & WYNKOOP
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

UNK

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

N

2/26/2015

10:09 AM

5106

52

1

44TH & WADSWORTH

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

Y LIFT

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2/26/2015

5:58 PM

3824

JUMP

8

HAVANA/6TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N- VIDEO
NOT ON THIS
SERIES

N

N

N

NA

N

N

N

N

STOP WAS FULL OF ICE, PAX LEFT BUS
STOP

Y

N

UNK

Y

Y

0

N

N

N

N

HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
SECUREMENT AREA FOLLOWER
DIRECTLY BEHIND BUS PICKED UP
PASSENGER

NPI

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

BUS FULL WITH ADA PASSENGERS IN
THESECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY
WAITS FOR THE FOLLOWER
LIFT WOULDN’T DEPLOY, PAX CAUGHT
FOLLOER

2 W/C

2 W/C

W/C +OMA
LIFT

OTHER

2/28/2015

3:22 PM

9253

16

8

BANNOACK & ALASKA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

3/1/2015

10:26 AM

5137

48

4

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y-CASE#15005041

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA FOLLOWER TO
PICK UP WAITING PASSENGER

2 W/C

3/1/2015

10:57 AM

5103

52

30

20TH & LITTLE RAVEN

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N - BOX
WASN'T
WORKING

Y - VIDEO

N

N

NA

N

N

Y

N

PASSED W/C INSTEAD OF GOING BACK
HE COUNTIUED - OP DIDN'T FOLLOW
PROCEDURE, IS GOING THRU
RETRAINING

OTHER

3/2/2015

1:25 PM

5023

15

7

E COLFAX & LOGAN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15005049

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 W/C IN SECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY
FOLLOWER ACCOMODATED PAX

2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15005608

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD 1 W/C PASSENGER IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA & 2 W/C
PASSENGERS WAITING 3RD W/C WAITS
FOR FOLLOWER

2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15005214

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

N

OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA FOLLOWER TO
PICK UP WAITING PASSENGER

2 W/C

3/2/2015

3:36 PM

6024

48

3

CURTIS & 16TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

3/2/2015

3:09 PM

6023

48

4

CURTIS & 16TH

NO DATA
FOUND

REASON

PAX ACCOM

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL HAD TO PASS
UP AN ADA PAX- MLX SENT TO
ACCOMODEATE PASSENGERS

2 W/C

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL HAD TO PASS
UP PASSENGER FOLLOWER LOADS PAX

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 W/C IN SECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY
FOLLOWER ACCOMODATED PAX

NPI

PAX ACCOM

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

LIFT ISSUE DRIVER LEFT SCENE
BECAUSE HE WAS LATE, NO ADA
PASSENGERS PASSED

NPI

ERROR

UNK

UNK

NA

N

N

N

N

BUS FULL, FOLLOWER ACCOMIDATED
PAX

PXO

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y- CASE #15005214

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

NA

N

N

N

N

THE LIFT WONT DEPLOY, OP TRIED TO
MANUALY OP

LIFT

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

3/2/2015

8:21 AM

6049

48

12

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15005052

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

3/2/2015

2:12 PM

6001

3

17

ALAMEDA & FEDERAL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15007911

Y- LIFT

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

3/2/2015

8:21 AM

6049

48

12

BRIGHTON BLVD/29TH

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

3/2/2015

12:12 PM

9322

15L

7

E COLFAX & PEORIA

N

N- CASE #15005023

Y- VIDEO

N

N

3/2/2015

2:39 PM

6001

3

17

LAKEWOOD COMMONS

Y

Y- CASE #15007917

Y- LIFT

N

3/2/2015

5:54 PM

5194

1

8

KALAMATH & COLFAX

N

N

N

3/3/2015

8:00 AM

2130

48

1

31ST & WESTON ST

Y

N-CASE#15005128

3/3/2015

3:09 PM

6023

48

4

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

CSR# 302340

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

OPERATOR HAD SECUREMNET AREA
FULL HAD 2 W/C WANTED TO BOARD
PASSENGER WAITS FOR FOLLOWER
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

2 W/C
CSR

3/3/2015

1:05 PM

5097

52

3

BANNOCK & 7TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

3/4/2015

1:32 PM

2054

121

1

S PEORIA & S PARKER
ROAD

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15005843

Y- VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD A LIFT ISSUE WOULD
NOT DEPLOY ADA PASSENGER BOARDS
THE FOLLOWER

LIFT

3/4/2015

2:04 PM

2054

121

1

PEORIA & 6TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15005845

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD ANOTHER W/C
PASSENGER NOT ABLE TO LOAD
PASSENGER BOARDS THE FOLLOWER

LIFT

3/4/2015

11:34 AM

9334

16

16

COLFAX & BDWY

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y- CASE #15008276

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

3/5/2015

8:27 AM

5030

48

12

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE#15005863

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/5/2015

8:21 AM

5030

48

12

ARKINS & 31ST

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

3/5/2015

12:32 PM

6085

105

6

SOUTHMOOR ST GATE
D

Y-LIFT

N

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

3/5/2015

7:55 AM

5147

52

5

W 58TH & KIPLING

3/5/2015

9:29 AM

5228

52

4

BROADWAY/W COLFAX

3/6/2015

7:22 PM

2041

0

21

I-25 BDWY & GATE C1

3/6/2015

3:03 PM

9316

15L

6

COLFAX AVE & PEORIA CSR# 302805

N/A

3/6/2015

1:49 PM

2090

28

1

17TH ST & STOUT ST

CSR# 302944

N/A

3/6/2015

12:28 PM

2030

121

2

PEORIA & PEORIA

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

3/6/2015

8:25 AM

6038

48

12

31ST & RINGSBY CT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y
N

Y-CASE#15005864
Y- CASE #15008396

OPERATOR PRESSED WRONG BUTTON
HAD FARE ISSUE WITH A DISORDERLY
PASSENGER
BUS ARRIVES AT STOP, TWO
PASSENGERS IN MOBILITY DEVICES ON
BOARD. OPERATOR TELLS OTHER
PASSENGERS IN
MOBILITY DEVICES THAT THERE IS NO
ROOM.
OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUES WAS
UNABLE TO DEPLOY LIFT MANUALLY

REASON

NPI

ERROR

2 OMA

2 OMA
LIFT

N/A

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY ERROR

NPI

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

NA

N

N

Y

Y

BUS WAS FULL, STANDING ROOM ONLY,
OP DIDN’T FOLLOW PROCEDURE AND IS
GOING THRU TRAINING AGAIN

PXO

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15005674

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

Y-VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

N

Y-LIFT

N

N

16 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE PASSENGER
CAUGHT RTE 204

LIFT

PAX ACCOM

Y- CASE #15005863

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

NO EVIDENCE OF AN ADA PASS UPOPERATOR PRESSED BUTTON IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

Y- CASE #15005380
N- CASE #15005675

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH MOBILTY
DEVICES PASSENGER WAITS FOR
FOLLOWER
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

ERROR

2 OMA
CSR
CSR

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

3/6/2015

4:51 PM

6038

48

12

CURTIS & 16TH

3/6/2015

1:23 PM

6044

0

8

S BROADWAY &
KENYON AVE

3/6/2015

1:28 PM

2702

BOLT

26

DAIGONAL HWY

3/7/2015

2:20 PM

6013

38

8

W 38TH AVE & AMES
ST

3/7/2015

1:54 PM

9330

16

11

W COLFAX & IRVING

3/7/2015

8:22 AM

6003

48

4

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST

3/7/2015

7:28 AM

2040

15

2

E COLFAX &
CHAMBERS RD

3/7/2015

5:43 PM

5035

0

1

LINCOLN ST &
ELLSWORTH

3/9/2015

5:06 PM

2172

52

25

BROADWAY & COLFAX

3/9/2015

1:54 PM

2090

44

1

40TH AVE & ADAMS

3/9/2015

7:47 AM

5239

30L

32

BROADWAY & W 5TH
AVE

3/9/2015

7:23 AM

6041

9

14

KALAMATH & 13TH AVE CSR# 303055

3/9/2015

7:33 AM

6041

9

14

KALAMATH & 13TH AVE

3/9/2015

7:33 AM

6041

9

14

KALAMATH & 13TH AVE

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

PRTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE PROBLEM
WAS CORRECTED NO PASS UP

NPI

LIFT ISSUE
CORRECTED

N

N

Y-LIFT

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE WOULD NOT
DEPLOY WAITING FOR ASSISTANCE

NPI

ERROR

N

N

Y-LIFT

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR PASSED A ADA PASSENGER
DUE TO OVERLOAD

PXO

PAX ACCOM

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15008419

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD SECUREMENT AREA
FULL PASSENGER WAITS FOR FOLLOWER

2 W/C

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N CASE #15005747

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

N

N

Y-LIFT

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

N- CASE
#15005746

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

Y - LIFT

N

N

21 MINS

N

Y -NREMIND OP TO USE M12
N

N

N-CASE #15006843

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

Y- LIFT

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N- CASE #15005745

Y- VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

OPERATOR HAVE 2 W/C ONBOARD NO
ROOM FOR PASSENGER MLX WILL PICK
UP PASSENGERS
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGER 3 RD PARTY WAITS FOR
FOLLOWER
OP ALLOWED ITEMS TO BE STORED IN
THE PRIORITY SEATING AREA- ALL
PASSENGERS ACCOMMODATED

2 W/C

2 W/C

NPI

OTHER

OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE NO PASS UP

NPI

LIFT ISSUE
CORRECTED

OPERATOR HAS 2 W/C PASSENGERS 3RD
PARTY WAITS FOR THE FOLLOWER 20
MINS AWAY

2 W/C

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY LEFT AREA

2 W/C

SECUREMENT AREA WAS FULL WITH 2
W/C; 3RD PARTY LEFT BEFORE OP COULD
OFFER TRANSFER OR FORM
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

CUSTOMER COMPLAINT THAT "THE
DRIVER JUST LEFT MY MOM AT THE BUS
STOP". OPERATOR FOLLOWED PROPER
PROCEDURES. SECUREMENT AREA FULL
WITH ADA PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY LEFT
AREA
BUS HAD A WC AND A CART, OP DIDN’T
ASK PAX W CART TO FOLD IT UP, OP
GOING THRU RETRAINING

2 W/C
CSR

3/10/2015

2:30 PM

5190

6

17

QUEBEC & 1ST

OPERATOR
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

N

N

NA

N

N

Y

N

3/10/2015

3:07 PM

6021

48

4

CURTIS & 16TH

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/11/2015

6:14 PM

6115

38

5

44TH & WADSWORTH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD A W/C PASSENGER BUT
THE PARTY LEFT THE AREA BEFORE
OPERATOR COULD ISSUE FORM

2 W/C

3/11/2015

11:43 AM

6028

0

7

BROADWAY & FLOYD

Y

N

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD SECUREMENT AREA
FULL PASSENGER WAITS FOR FOLLOWER

2 W/C

3/11/2015

12:11 PM

9332

16

7

DECATUR / FEDERAL
STATION GATE E

Y

Y-CASE #15010747

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

3/11/2015

1:15 PM

6095

20

5

18TH AVE & YORK ST

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

3/11/2015

1:18 PM

6095

20

5

18TH AVE & HIGH ST

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

12

BRIGHTON BLVD &
31ST ST

Y

Y- CASE #15005870

Y

NO PASS UP W/C PARTY DEBOARDS TO
ALLOW ANOTHER W/C TO BOARD

NPI

3/11/2015

8:29 AM

5029

48

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

2 W/C

NPI

POLICY

PAX ACCOM

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

PASSENGER REFUSED TO BOARD NO
PASS UP

NPI

PAX
REFUSED TO
BOARD

N

OPERATOR HAS 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY
WAITS FOR FOLLOWER 25 MINS AWAY

W/C + OMA

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

W/C + OMA

N

N

Y

N

N

N

Y

4 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

IMPROPER PROCEDURE-DISABLED- ALL
PASSENGERS ACCOMMODATED

2 W/C

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA FOLLOWER TO
PICK UP WAITING PASSENGER

2 W/C

N- CASE #15006222

Y- VIDEO

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y- LIFT

Y

Y

NA

N

N

N

N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE # 15010766

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

15TH & STOUT

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N-CASE #15006223

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

COLFAX AVE &
COLORADO BLVD

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y- CASE #15006287

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15006817

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LINCOLN ST &
ELLSWORTH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15006401

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2

BROADWAY & W
COLFAX AVE

Y

Y-CASE #15006400

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 WC

2 W/C

5

23074

ADA PAX
PASS UP
OPERATOR
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

NA

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT WOULD NOT FULLY DEPLOW

LIFT

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER

2 W/C

Y

ADA PAX WAS NOT AT THE STOP FOR
EASIER BOARDING BY THE TIME THE OP
SAW THE PAX SHE COULDN'T MAKE A
SUDDEN STOP WITH A BUS FULL OF PAX

OTHER

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

3/11/2015

1:13 PM

6095

20

5

18TH AVE & YORK ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/11/2015

1:50 PM

5176

6

6

34TH & NAVAJO

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

25 MIN

N

Y

N

3/11/2015

2:20 PM

5176

6

6

BROADWAY &
CLEVELAND PL

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20MIN

N

Y

3/12/2015

8:40 PM

6011

48

3

CURITS ST & 16TH

Y

Y-CASE#15006840

N

N

N

58 MINS

N

3/12/2015

2:07 PM

2249

66

3

W LITTLETON BLVD & S
FORESTHILL ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

NA

3/12/2015

11:54 AM

6049

0

9

BROADWAY & W
COLFAX AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

3/12/2015

11:58 AM

6049

0

9

DUP

DUP

DUP

2:26 PM

9321

15L

3

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

3/14/2015

BROADWAY & W
COLFAX AVE
COLFAX AVE &
BROADWAY

Y

Y-CASE #15010760

N

3/14/2015

3:19 PM

2012

9

1

BYRON & SHERIDAN

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

Y-CASE #15006299

3/14/2015

5:02 PM

2221

38

7

16TH & LAWRENCE

N

3/14/2015

2:05 PM

2237

31

23

10TH & FEDERAL

3/14/2015

2:39 PM

6049

0

7

BROADWAY &
CLEVELAND PL

3/14/2015

4:54 PM

2221

38

7

3/14/2015

2:41 PM

9321

15L

3

3/14/2015

11:24 AM

6020

38

25

3/14/2015

5:02 PM

2221

38

7

3/14/2015

12:56 PM

2153

6

2

W 46TH AVE & NAVAJO
ST

3/15/2015

4:51 PM

5034

0

2

3/15/2015

1:46 PM

5034

0

3/15/2015

4:05 PM

5041

12

3/16/2015

3/16/2015

8:40 AM

8:29 AM

5184

6036

40

48

22

12

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

BRUCE RANDOLPH
CSR# 303822
AND DOWNING
LAWRENCE ST & 16TH
ADA PAX
STREET MALL
PASS UP

8TH & COLORADO

31ST & RINGSBY CT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

Y

Y- CASE #15010771

N

N

N

Y

N

N

15 MINS

20 MINS

N

N

N

N

N

N

COMMENTS

2 W/C IN SECUREMENT AREA WAITING
PAX ALSO IN USING W/C, FOLLOWER
ACCOMODATED PAX
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH MOBILITY
DEVICES PASSENGER WAITING TO
BOARD FOLLOWER

OPERATOR HAD SECUREMENT AREA
FULL WITH ADA PASSENGERS
OPERATOR HAS 2 MOBILTY DEVICES IN
THE AREA 3RD PARTY WILL WAIT FOR
FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL 3RD PARTY
LEFT THE STOP BEFORE OPERATOR
COULD CALL DISPATCH
SECUREMENT AREA FULL ADA PAX
WALKED AWAY
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
FOLLOWER
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
DUPLICATE
OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
SECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY RODE
OFF NO PASS UP
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C
2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
CSR
DUP
W/C + OMA

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

3/17/2015

12:56 PM

9356

16

4

W COLFAX & KENDALL

3/17/2015

3:19 PM

5260

3

2

S ELKHART/MAPLE
DRIVE

3/17/2015

4:49 PM

5100

40

33

S COLORADO &
DAKOTA

3/17/2015

7:47 AM

5019

20

21

17TH & LARIMER

3/18/2015

11:49 AM

2274

31

7

S FEDERAL &
KENTUCKY

3/18/2015

4:09 PM

6080

105

5

HAVANA ST & ILIFF

3/18/2015

4:50 PM

5227

52

27

4700 W 52ND AVE

3/19/2015

9:33 AM

9113

16

3

W COLFAX & IRVING

3/19/2015

2:55 PM

9370

15L

3

E COLFAX & LINCOLN

3/19/2015

9:33 AM

9113

16

3

W COLFAX & IRVING

3/20/2015

8:32 AM

6012

48

12

BROADWAY & BLAKE

3/20/2015

1:16 PM

6025

0

13

3/20/2015

8:39 PM

6022

48

3/20/2015

4:10 PM

3934

3/20/2015

9:54 AM

3/20/2015

3/20/2015

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

TRACKING
CODE

SECREMENT AREA FULL WITH W/C AND
ADA STORLLER

2 W/C

N

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

N

1 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

N

NA

N

N

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

Y

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N-CASE #15006819

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

Y-CASE#15006844

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

N

N-CASE# 15006819

Y-VIDEO

N

N

15 MINS

N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15010779

N

Y

N

25 MINS

N

S BROADWAY & EVANS
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15010791

N

Y

Y

4 MINS

N

3

15TH ST & CHAMPA ST
Z STOP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #150058642

N

Y

N

17 MINS

Y-MLX

27

7

W DARTMOUTH AVE &
S BRYANT ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

17 MINS

N

2071

31

32

FEDERAL & 90 PL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

2:08 PM

6027

16L

65

W COLFAX & OAK ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y-LIFT

N

N

15 MINS

N

3:10 PM

9355

16

2

W COLFAX AVE &
WINONA CT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE#15007136

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

#10 FULL
BUS (PAX
PASSED)
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
#10 FULL
BUS (PAX
PASSED)

COMMENTS

Y

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PAX OKAY WAITING
FOR THE FOLLOWER
PAX WITH WALKER AND SENIORS WOULD
NOT MOVE FOR W/C PAX
SECUREMENT AREA FULL

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
Y
N
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
Y - REMINDED
N
OF CORRECT PROCEDURE
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
OPERATOR PASSEED AND ADA
Y
N
Y
PASSENGER DUE TO BUS OVERLOAD
SENT WRONG MESS
SECUREMENT AREA FULL - ADA PAX LEFT
Y
N
Y
STOP BEFORE OP COULD GIVE THE P/U
FORM AND TRANSFER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH MOBILITY
N
N
N
DEVICES PASSENGER BOARDS THE
FOLLOWER
HAD 1 W/C ON BUS, 2 AT STOP, ONE
Y
N
Y
BOARDS, ONE HAS TO WAIT FOR NEXT
BUS
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
Y
N
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
Y
N
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
Y
Y
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
N
N
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAITS FOR
THE FOLLOWER- PAX ACCO
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
N
N
Y
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WILL BE
ACCOMODATED BY MLX
Y

N

REASON

2 W/C
PAX
WOULDN’T
MOVE

2 W/C
W/C + OMA
2 W/C
2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

PAX ACCOM

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

ERROR

2 W/C

Y

OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE WOULD NOT
DEPLOY FOLLOWER 15 MINS AWAY

LIFT

LIFT

3/20/2015

12:33 PM

5118

11

4

MISSISSIPPI AVE & S
PEORIA ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

Y

Y

19 MINS

N

N

N

Y

RAMP WOULDN’T DEPLOY DISPTACH
INSTRUCTED OP TO PUSH DOWN ON
RAMP WITH MADE THE DOORS UNABLE
TO CLOSE ONCE WC BORADED THE BUS.
A LOOP EXTRA CAME TO ACCOMIDATE
ALL PAX

3/20/2015

10:05 AM

2071

31

32

FRONT RANGE
COMMUNITY COLLEGE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

3/20/2015

12:50 PM

5149

44

12

W 44TH AVE &
FEDERAL BLVD

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

Y LIFT

N

N

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WILL BE
ACCOMODATED BY MLX

2 W/C

3/21/2015

2:11 PM

2087

38

8

LAWRENCE ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15007059

N

N

N

5 MINS

Y

N

N

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

3/21/2015

8:56 AM

2097

48

4

29TH ST & BRIGHTON
BLVD

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15007257

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

N

Y

3/21/2015

12:23 PM

2087

38

8

17TH ST & ARAPAHOE
ST Y STOP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

3/21/2015

8:17 AM

2097

48

4

31ST ST & RINGSBY CT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15007256

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

N- PAX HAD PASS N

Y

3/21/2015

8:53 PM

2097

48

4

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15007256

N

Y

Y

23 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

3/21/2015

2:33 PM

2087

38

8

W 38TH AVE & CLAY ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N- CASE #15007060

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

PASSENGER ON BUS NEEDS MEDICAL
ASSISTANCE, PRESSED IN ERROR

Y

Y- CASE #15007163

Y-LIFT

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

THERE WAS A W/C IN THE SECUREMENT
AREA, AND A PAX IN THE OTHER W/C
SECREMENT AREA - OP FAILED TO GET
OUT OF SEAT AND ASK PAX TO MOVE. OP
HAS BEEN TRAINED.

OTHER

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGERS 3RD PARTY WAS
ACCOMODATED WITH THE MLX
DUPLICATE
OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUE WOULD NOT
DEPLOY OPERATOR NOT ABLE TO
MANUALLY DEPLOY LIFT ADA PAX WAITS
FOR FOLLOWER
OPERATOR PRESSED WRONG BUTTON
HAD A SICK PASSENGER

REASON

2 W/C

DUP

LIFT

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

3/21/2015

12:52 PM

6090

153

6

S CHAMBER RD

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

3/21/2015

12:21 PM

2087

38

48

17TH ST & ARAPAHOE
ST Y STOP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15007058

N

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR CLAIMS SECUREMENT AREA
WAS FULL WITH ADA PASSENGERS MLX
WILL PICK UP PASSENGER

W/C + OMA

3/22/2015

8:53 AM

2130

48

2

BRIGHTON BLVD &
29TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15007056

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASSENGER PASSED UP DUE TO
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS PAX ACCOM BY MLX

2 W/C

3/22/2015

6:56 AM

2130

48

2

BRIGHTON BLVD &
29TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N- CASE #15007068

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA FOLLOWER TO
PICK UP WAITING PASSENGER

2 W/C

3/23/2015

12:20 PM

5096

31

21

FEDERAL & HOWARD

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

NA

N

OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY LEFT
THE AREA NO PASS UP

2 W/C

3/23/2015

2:57 PM

2149

52

34

BANNOCK & 5TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR HAD 2 W/C PASSENGERS IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA FOLLOWER TO
PICK UP WAITING PASSENGER

2 W/C

3/23/2015

2:08 PM

6101

15

15

E COLFAX & LOGAN

N

N- CASE #15007048

Y-VIDEO

N

N

8 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/24/2015

10:30 AM

1505

BV

2

BROOMFIELD PNR
GATE L

N

Y- CASE #15007149

Y-LIFT

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/25/2015

7:22 AM

6028

MLX

18

BRIGHTON & 29TH ST

Y

Y- CASE #15008157

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

3/26/2015

4:10 PM

5230

38

11

15TH & STOUT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/26/2015

11:37 AM

2123

38

4

BRUCE RANDOLPH
AVE (E

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15007625

N

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

3/27/2015

1:06 PM

6058

48

12

Y

N

28 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12:33 PM

9364

16

1

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

3/27/2015

W COLFAX AVE PERRY
ST
17TH AND CALIFORNIA
ST

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

LIFT INOP. OPERATOR GOT IT TO WORK

LIFT

Y

2 W/C PAX IN SECUREMENT AREA, ONE
PAX IN W/C DECIDED TO GET OFF SO ADA
PAX COULD BOARD.

NPI

3/27/2015

8:53 AM

6012

0

3

34TH AVE/LAFAYETTE
ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y
Y
N/A

Y-CASE #15011068
Y- CASE #15011058
Y- CASE# 15008161

Y- LIFT

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

Y -YREMIND OP TO USE M12
Y

N/A

N

OPERATOR HAD A W/C & WALKER IN
SECUREMENT AREA 3RD PARTY WAIT
FOR FOLLOWER
OPERATOR HAD SECUREMENT AREA
FULL WITH 2 W/C/ WAITING PAX LEFT THE
STOP.
OPERATOR HAD LIFT ISSUES BUS 2805
PICKED UP PASSENGER NO PASS UP
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGERS ROUTE 48 TO PICK UP THE
REMAINING PASSENGERS
ADA SECTION IS FULL WITH PAX`S IN
MOBILITY DEVICES. PAX IN W/C GETS OFF
BUS SO WAITING ADA PAX IN W/C
BOARDS
2 PAX IN W/C-ADA AREA FULL. PAX WILL
WAIT FOR NEXT BUS.

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

PAX ACCOM

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

3/28/2015

5:59 PM

1512

BV

2

BTC

3/28/2015

3:03 PM

5235

3

3

WALNUT ST/14TH ST

3/28/2015

1:26 PM

6058

1

21

E COLFAX AVE

3/28/2015

8:14 AM

2008

15

22

E 52ND AVE/JACKSON
ST

3/29/2015

11:48 AM

5062

12

5

W ALAMEDA AVE S
STUART ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

#27
SECUREMEN
T AREA
CONFLICT

3/29/2015

10:17 AM

5112

51

24

N)/COLORADO BLVD

3/30/2015

4:10 PM

5039

1

2

SHERIDAN BLVD

3/30/2015

12:42 PM

2012

0

8

/W COLFAX AVE

3/30/2015

1:39 PM

9369

15L

3

SANTA FE DR/W 14TH
AVE

3/31/2015

2:00 PM

5083

10

9

LUTHER KING BLVD

3/31/2015

3:24 PM

2178

20

33

DOWNING ST/MARTIN

3/31/2015

1:07 PM

6010

0

10

COLFAX AVE &
YOSEMITE ST

3/31/2015

12:23 PM

5249

52

4

(US-40 E)

3/31/2015

3:10 PM

2092

3

41

16TH & STOUT

4/1/2015

2:00 PM

5107

76

3

S WADSWORTH BLVD
& W ALAMEDA AVE

4/1/2015

1:26 PM

5125

51

4

SHERIDAN BLVD

4/1/2015

1:50 PM

2143

44

18

4/1/2015

1:58 PM

5107

76

3

4/1/2015

8:59 AM

5154

31

32

(CO-95)/W BYRON PL /
W

S ALLISON PKWY & W
ALAMEDA AVE
S FEDERAL BLVD & W
COLORADO AVE

RTT- ADA
Y- CASE #15Y
PAX PASS
007601
UP
DISPATCHYES
CREATED
Y
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
Y- CASE #15N- INC REPORT
PASS UP
002389
DISPATCHY- CASE #15N
CREATED
007610
INCIDENT

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y-LIFT

N

N

25 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

2 PAX IN W/C-ADA AREA FULL- ADA PAX
PASSED; INC REP REQ DVR;

2 W/C

N

NA

N

30 MINS

N

NA

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD/ BUS 6066 TO

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y- LIFT

Y

N

25 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y -YREMIND OP TO USE M12
Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL- FOLLOWER TO
ACCOM/ DVR
ADA PAX PASSED; OPERATOR UNABLE TO
GET LIFT TO WORK. DVR REQ; FOLLOWER
25 MIN

2 W/C
LIFT

ADA PAX PASSED; INC REP REQ DVR; PAX
LEFT WITHOUT WAITING FOR NEXT BUS

2 W/C

2 W/C

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

PASSED ONE PAX WITH WC/DID
REPORT/GAVE TRANSFER/PAX OK TO
WAIT FOR FOLLOWER/NTFY CC ABOUT
LATENESS/CCLX STARTED RTE ON TIME
FROM EAST END/THIS BUS MADE IT TO
EAST END THEN DH TO CATCH UP WITH
5106 AT

Y

NA

N

NA

NA

30 MINS

N

N

N

N

2 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ MLX 7 WILL

2 W/C

N

Y CASE #15007690

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

ACCOM PAX AT MLK

2 W/C

N

N- CASE #15002390

Y-VIDEO

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

TWO MOTORIZED CHAIRS ON BOARD. PAX
IN WC UNABLE TO BOARD SAID SHE
WOULD WALK. THE BLOCK SHE NEEDED
TO GO. GOT UP AND PUSHED HER CHAIR.

2 W/C

N

N

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C

N

N

N

N

N

1 MIN

N

Y REMINDED
N OP OF PROPER PROCEDURE
Y
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 THEN A
BOARDED WC PAX GETS OFF TO MAKE
ROOM FOR WAITING WC
PASSENGER DECIDED TO GET OFF BUS
TO ALLOW PAX TO BOARD
OVERLOADED BUS WITH ADA PAX AND
REG PAX

2 W/C

N/A

N

N

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N/A

N/A

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

N

Y- CASE #15007831

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 1 WC

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C; OP
DID NOT FOLLOW PROCEDURE AND
DISPLINARY ACTION BEING TAKEN

2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15008283

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C;
PAX LEFT THE SCENE BEFORE OP COULD
GIVE THE FORM OR OFFER A TRANSFER.

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 WC

2 W/C

N

N

N

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

N

Y

OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN ERROR

NPI

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

REASON

NPI

ERROR

NPI

PAX ACCOM

PXO

ERROR

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

COLFAX/PEORIA

ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

N

ADA PAX USING A STROLLER REFUSED
TO MOVE

OTHER

N

Y- CASE #15011456

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N/A

N

Y

2 PAX IN W/C ON BOARD DO NOT SEE
PASSUP INCIDENT ON THIS BUS, ADA PAX
WANTED A DIFFERENT BUS. PRESSED 12
IN ERROR

NPI

4/1/2015

1:18 PM

5260

15

34

4/2/2015

12:45 PM

6010

0

3

25TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/2/2015

12:45 PM

6044

0

8

44TH/ MILLER

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y- CASE #15011392

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED 2 PAX WITH W/C / BOTH

OTHER

4/3/2015

3:41 PM

6089

105

9

S HAVANA ST &
ALAMEDA AVE
FARSIDE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15011461

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE #12 TWICE FOR
SAME INCIDENT

2 OMA

4/3/2015

2:34 PM

2236

12

14

HAVANA & KENTUCKY

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE #12 FOR SAME
INCIDENT

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASED
#15-008280

N

N

N

13 MINS

N

N

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE #12 FOR SAME
INCIDENT

2 W/C

PAX WANTED TO RIDE TOGETHER /

2 W/C

4/3/2015

11:35 AM

2040

105

6

S HAVANA ST &
ALAMEDA AVE
FARSIDE

4/3/2015

12:13 PM

2299

105

1

BROADWAY & 4TH AVE

4/3/2015

11:35 AM

2040

105

6

BROADWAY/E 3RD AVE
/

4/3/2015

11:40 AM

2040

105

6

HAVANA & JEWELL

4/3/2015

3:43 PM

6089

105

9

4/3/2015

3:43 PM

6089

105

9

4/3/2015

11:20 AM

3926

27

3

HAVANA & ALAMEDA

4/4/2015

11:39 AM

6018

38

7

EVANS & CLAY

4/4/2015

8:25 AM

2092

48

4

S HAVANA ST &
BAYAUD AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

S HAVANA ST &
ALAMEDA AVE
FARSIDE
S HAVANA ST &
ALAMEDA AVE
NEARSIDE

4/4/2015

2:44 PM

9347

16

7

HAMPDEN AVE & S
CLARKSON ST

4/4/2015

2:58 PM

6018

38

7

DECATUR / FEDERAL
STATION GATE H

4/5/2015

2:14 PM

6007

28

42

BRIGHTON BLVD &
29TH ST

4/5/2015

5:11 PM

5072

44

4

LARIMER & 19TH

4/6/2015

12:26 PM

5242

52

4

E 9TH AVE/CLERMONT
ST

PRTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N- CASE #15008919

N

Y

N

9 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

Y

N

NA

NA

NA

N

N

Y

N

OP PRESSED MESSAGE #12 FOR SAME
INCIDENT

OTHER

Y

Y- CASE #15009026

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

2 W/C PASSENGERS IN THE SECUREMENT
AREAFOLLOWER WILL PICK UP 3RD
PARTY

2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15009062

N

Y

Y

30

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

OP DID NOT FOLLOW PROCEDURE AND
DISPLINARY ACTION BEING TAKEN

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15011464

N

Y

Y

5MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH W/C SEC
AREAS WERE FULL / FOLLOWER PULLED
UP BEHIND BUS / FOLLOWER ACCCOM
PAX / OP FILLED OUT PASSUP BOOK

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y-CASE #15009029

N

Y

Y

27 MINS

N

N

N

Y

TWO CUSTOMERS IN WHEEL CHAIRS
ALREADY ON THE BUS, CUSTOMER LEFT
PRIOR TO GIVING THE REPORT OR
TRANSFER.

2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15009132

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2 WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC- PAX
LEFT SCENE TO CATCH TRAIN.

2 W/C

Y

N

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2 WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC.ADV

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

NOW ON THE BUS.

2 OMA

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

REASON

ERROR

Packet Pg. 92

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

4/6/2015

1:11 PM

6043

0

7

S LINCOLN ST &
BAYAUD AVE

4/6/2015

3:27 PM

6022

0

3

SHER STATION

4/6/2015

8:24 AM

2087

48

12

BYRON & ZENOBIA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

4/6/2015

12:25 PM

21

31

21

W 38TH & ALCOTT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

4/6/2015

8:45 AM

6027

0

17

BRIGHTON BLVD &
29TH ST

CSR# 305836

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/6/2015

3:28 PM

6022

0

3

27TH & FEDERAL

4/6/2015

5:00 AM

5128

51

4

W 44TH AVE (COUNTY

4/6/2015

2:48 PM

5062

10

1

HWY-58)/*N FENTON ST

4/7/2015

5:48 PM

9336

16

4

17TH ST & CURTIS ST Z
STOP

4/7/2015

8:08 AM

6050

48

1

COLFAX & BROADWAY

4/7/2015

8:23 AM

2215

44

25

S LINCOLN ST &
BAYAUD AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

4/7/2015

4:28 PM

5095

31

31

WALSH PL & S
LINCOLN ST

4/8/2015

8:10 AM

3969

46

2

DECATUR / FEDERAL
STATION GATE H

4/8/2015

4:41 PM

5197

225

26

LAWRENCE ST & 24TH
ST

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 W/C PASSENGERS IN THE SECUREMENT
AREA MLX WILL PICK UP 3RD PARTY

2 W/C

N

N

N

9 MINS

N

N

N

Y

CALL BACK TO ADV. RLF OPER IS

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

3 MINS

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

SHOULD HAVE ACCO ADA PAX @

2 W/C

N

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N/A

Y - CASE # 15008296

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAD 2-WC ON BUS.PASSING 1WC

W/C + OMA

Y

N

Y VIDEO

Y

Y

N

N

Y

N

Y

NO ROOM. FOLLOWER 6009 ACCO

W/C + OMA

Y

N- CASE #15008494

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

11 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR CALLED IN FALLBACK

2 W/C

Y

Y-CASE #1500824

N

Y

Y

14 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

PASSING UP A PASSENGER IN A

2 W/C

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 WC

NPI

Y
Y

Y- CASE #15009032

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

Y- CASE #15011466
N- CASE #15008513
RECORDED
OVER

TWO WHEEL CHAIR PASSENGERS ON
BOARD
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
DUPLICATE

2 W/C
CSR
DUP

ERROR

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

NA

N

Y

Y

Y

STATING HE IS PASSING UP AN ADA PAX
AT THE SHERIDAN STATION, OPERATOR
STATED HE HAS 2 PAX IN WC ON THE BUS
ALREADY. OPERATOR WILL ISSUE FORM/
FOLLOWER IS DUE AT 924A, BLK 6

Y

Y

N

Y

NA

NA

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL WIT

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30

N

Y

N

Y

WHEELCHAIR AT 9TH/CLERMONT

2 W/C

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

Y-CASE#15009042

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

PASSENGERS THAT HAVE WALKERS THAT
DON`T FOLD, OP ISSUED FORM, PAX WILL
WAIT FOR FOLLOWER/ RADIO SCREEN
DOESNT `T WORK

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

4/8/2015

11:53 AM

6076

15

2

FEDERAL BLVD & W
23RD AVE

4/9/2015

9:25 PM

6102

15

7

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15011467

Y-RADIO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

N

PASSUP 2 ADA PAX AT 29/BRIGHTON; LX

2 W/C

4/9/2015

12:48 PM

6050

20

6

BASELINE RD (COUNTY
HWY-56)/30TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #1515009048

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED UP ADA PAX - SEC AREA FULL

2 W/C

4/10/2015

5:42 PM

2261

20

35

COLFAX AVE & HIGH
ST

Y

Y- SAVED AT
DIVISION

N

NA

NA

NA

N

NA

NA

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH TWO
WALKERS

2 OMA

4/10/2015

3:44 PM

5103

11

3

COLFAX/HAVANA

N

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N Y - RETRAINING

Y

HAVE 2 WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC

2 W/C

4/10/2015

12:49 PM

5246

31

28

S COLORADO BLVD &
YALE AVE

Y

Y

Y- LIFT

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE #12 FOR SAME
INCIDENT

LIFT

4/10/2015

4:51 PM

2261

20

35

E 17TH AVE/CLARKSON
ST

Y

Y- SAVED AT
DIVISION

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

COMPLAINT THAT THE OPERATOR DIDN’T
FOLLOW POLICY. NO ADA PAX PASS UP.

NPI

4/11/2015

11:17 AM

2166

44

16

S FEDERAL BLVD & W
LOUISIANA AVE

Y

N -CASE #15009054

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

60 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

2 W/C PASSENGERS IN THE SECUREMENT
AREA FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP 3RD
PARTY

2 W/C

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ERROR

Packet Pg. 93

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

4/11/2015

4:00 PM

9327

16

11

4/11/2015

10:00 AM

9322

15L

6

4/11/2015

3:34 PM

5263

15

6

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
CREEK SOUTH DR
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS
RTT- ADA
W 44TH AVE & LAMAR
PAX PASS
ST
UP
ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
S CHERRY ST/CHERRY
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

4/11/2015

4:57 PM

5098

52

3

18TH AVE/DOWNING ST

4/11/2015

1:46 PM

5098

52

3

AURORA CT/*E 17TH
AVE

4/11/2015

8:30 AM

2087

48

4

(CHERRY

4/12/2015

11:14 AM

9315

15L

2

COLFAX & KENDALL

4/12/2015

12:04 PM

2837

BV

5

COLFAX & BROADWAY

4/13/2015

10:15 AM

5206

28

5

BRIGHTON BLVD &
29TH ST

4/13/2015

11:45 AM

6004

3

19

WESTMIN PNR

4/13/2015

2:41 PM

6019

0

13

COLFAX AVE &
DOWNING ST

4/13/2015

11:47 AM

6004

3

19

W)/DOWNING ST

4/13/2015

12:59 PM

1636

MALL

19

OLDE TOWN ARVADA
PNR GATE B

4/13/2015

5:51 PM

2235

32

57

OLDE TOWN ARVADA
PNR GATE B

4/13/2015

1:32 PM

2837

BV

5

4/14/2015

9:57 AM

9310

15L

8

4/14/2015

4:25 PM

6069

15

34

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHE COLFAX AVE (US-40
CREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
MCCASLIN@100PM
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASSUP
17TH ST & STOUT ST Y FORM- NO
STOP
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX W WHEEL CHAIR FULL ADA
AREA /9330 16/7 TO ACCMD 11 MINS 3OP
TO DO REPORT/DVR

2 W/C

N

Y -CASE # 15009134

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVING 2 WC ON BOARD/ TRANSFER

2 W/C

Y

N

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

N

OP HIT MESSAGE 12 BY ERROR, OP MENT
TO HIT MESSAGE 14

2 W/C

NPI

PAX ACCOM

NPI

ERROR

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR IS PASSING UP AN ADA IN A
WC/ OPERATOR STATED HIS ADA AREA IS
VERY FULL/ MLX 18 BUS 6028 SENT,
WHICH STANDS BY TO ACCOM
OVERLOADS ON THE RT 48.DVR.
PASSENGER ACCOMODATED ON
FOLLOWER - NO WAIT (DIRECTLY BEHIND
THIS BUS)

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

PASSED DECLINED SECUREMENT

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 1 WC 1
WALKER

W/C + OMA

N

Y

Y

11 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

FOLLOWERS BUSES CONTACTED 5211,

2 W/C

Y
N

Y- CASE #15009057
Y- CASE #15011469

N

N

Y-RADIO

N/A

N/A

30 MINS

Y

N/A

N

N

AND PASSUP FORM ISSUED/

PXO

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30

N

N

N

Y

5138 MALE WAS NOT FOUND

2 W/C

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

FOLLOWER BUS 6065 CONTACTED

2 W/C

Y

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

N

PERSON WAS NOT FOUND AT BUS

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

LIFT

Y
N
DUP

N- CASE #15011477
Y- CASE #15011476
DUP

N/A

N- CASE #15009144

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

2 MINS

N

N/A

N

Y

OPERATOR STATED HE HAS A PAX IN WC
WAITING AND A PAX IN A WC ON THE BUS
AND A PAX IN A WALKER AND ANOTHER
FEMALE IN THE ADA. DURING THE CALL
THE PAX IN THE WC HAS DECIDED TO
BOARD THE FOLLOWER RIGHT

Y

N

Y LIFT

N

N

1

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

LIFT

Y

N- CASE #15009373

Y-Radio

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED UP PERSON WITH WC DUE

PXO

N

Y- CASE #15009734

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

CHERRY CREEK AND MISSI/ STANDING

2 W/C

Y

N

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

N

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC PAX.
ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 6023 ACCOM

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 94

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

N/A

N

Y

ONE PAX IN W/C WANTED TO GET OFFWAITING PAX BOARDED-ADA PAX ACCOM

NPI

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD/ BUS 6038 WILL
ACCOM

2 W/C

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

ROOM ONLY/ PAX ABLE TO BOARD

NPI

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

4/14/2015

9:59 AM

9310

15L

8

29TH AVE & QUEBEC
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

4/14/2015

1:52 PM

2221

0

14

16TH STREET MALL &
STOUT ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15009254

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

4/15/2015

4:41 PM

2159

48

12

N

N

11 MINS

12:29 PM

6052

0

8

N

N/A

N/A

4/16/2015

7:31 AM

6001

48

3

BROADWAY & SPEER
BLVD

4/16/2015

5:21 AM

5014

51

2

BROADWAY & W 11TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

4/15/2015

W ALAMEDA AVE & S
QUITMAN ST
W ALAMEDA AVE & S
QUITMAN ST

4/16/2015

10:58 AM

3955

324

2

COLFAX AVE &
MONACO PKWY

4/16/2015

4:43 PM

2273

48

12

COLFAX & TAMARAC

4/18/2015

2:33 AM

2044

15

41

4/19/2015

2:34 PM

9354

16

3

4/19/2015

3:19 PM

9355

16

7

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

4/20/2015

10:15 AM

9360

16

3

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

COLFAX AVE &
MONACO PKWY
BROADWAY & W
COLFAX AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
CSR# 307360
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y
Y
Y

Y- CASE #15010665

N

N

N

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

N

Y

2 W/C ON BUS, PAX WILLING TO WAIT FOR
FOLLOWER

2 W/C

N/A

N

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

NA

Y

1 WC PAX ON BOARD/ 2 WC PAX

NPI

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

Y

Y- CASE #15009623

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y
Y

Y

N

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

CSR

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N Y - RETRAINING

N

DISREGARD. SECUREMENT DECLINED

NPI

ERROR

Y

N- CASE #15015480

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR.

NPI

ERROR

N

Y- CASE #15010667

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

ADA PAX PASSED; DVR; FOLLOWER 15

W/C + OMA

N- CASE #15010458

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

BUS FULL- PAX OVERLOAD- OPERATOR
ON DROP OFF ONLY- ROCKIES GAME

2 W/C

N

N

N/A

5 MINS

N

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

Y

N

2153

48

4

W COLFAX AVE &
LAMAR ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

4/21/2015

9:15 AM

2074

15

21

Colfax Ave &
Pennsylvania St

CSR #307564

N

4/21/2015

9:15 AM

2074

15

21

COLFAX AT PIERCE

CSR# 307564

N

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

3:02 PM

2290

51

9

FEDERAL & 25TH

4/21/2015

1:00 AM

6096

15

42

W COLFAX AVE/LIPAN
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

2 W/C

N/A

3:05 PM

4/21/2015

ADA PAX PASS UP/FREE TRANSFER

N/A

4/21/2015

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

Y

N/A

31ST ST/*BRIGHTON
BLVD

9

N

N/A

4

51

Y

N/A

48

2290

N

N

6052

2:56 PM

15 MINS

Y- CASE #15009742

6:57 AM

4/21/2015

Y

2 W/C

N/A

4/20/2015

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

2 W/C

SHERIDAN BLVD & W
12TH AVE

COLFAX AVE &
BROADWAY

N

GIVEN/PAPERWORK GIVEN/MLX2 ACCOM

4

23

Y

Y

48

30

N

N

6052

5250

60 MINS

W/C + OMA

Y

3:07 PM

3:32 PM

Y

N

4/20/2015

4/21/2015

N

10 MINS

MAIN ST & HAMILTON
DR

3

N

N

1

48

Y- MLX

OTHER

N

88

6045

Y

ERROR

N

5089

3:37 PM

N Y - RETRAINING

ERROR

Y- CASE #15009970

5:09 PM

4/21/2015

Y- CASE #15009725
Y- CASE #15011479

BOARDING/ BOTHE PAX ASKED IF THEY
COULD SIT SIDEWAYS/ NOT BLOCKING
ISLE AND DO NOT WANT SEC/ ALL PAX
ACCOM
2 W/C ON BUS CANT STOW. PAX PASSED
AT KENDALL. I SENT LX 4 TO
ACCOMMODATE
OPERATOR HAD 3 ADA PAX WITH
MOBILITY AIDS

PAX ACCOM

Y

4/20/2015

BRIGHTON BLVD &
31ST ST

Y- CASE #15009344
Y- CASE #15011478

REASON

Y - Case # 15009935
Y- CASE #15009935

LIFT

Y

N

1 W/C ON BUS, 2 W/C PAX WANT TO RIDE
TOGETHER

NPI

OTHER

NA

NA

Y

PRESSED #12 IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

NA

NA

Y

PRESSED #12 IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

Y

2 ADA ON BOARD. PAX IS OK WAITING
FOR FOLLOWER. 2035 WILL
ACCOMMODATE

PXO

N

N

N

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

N

NA

NA

NA

NA

N

Y

N

NA

NA

NA

NA

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

CSR

Y

Y

N- CASE #15011483

CSR

LIFT WAS NOT LEVEL FOR ADA PAX TO
BOARD/ FEMALE PAX SAID SHE WOULD
WAIT FOR THE FOLLOWER/ ASKING IF HE
CAN CONTINUE/OK/ WRT UP LIFT/ TRUCK
NOT AVAILABLE FOR THIS TRIP

Y- CASE #15010677

Y

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

Y

N

Packet Pg. 95

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

4/22/2015

4:54 PM

9377

15L

10

FEDERAL & LOUISIANA

4/22/2015

2:07 PM

5037

40

3

COLFAX AVE &
BILLINGS ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/22/2015

3:14 PM

6003

16L

79

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/23/2015

1:35 PM

9329

16

3

SHERIDAN BLVD &
CITY CENTER DR

4/23/2015

7:28 AM

6076

20

3

COLFAX AVE &
PENNSYLVANIA ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/23/2015

7:22 AM

6076

20

3

FRONT RANGE
COMMUNITY COLLEGE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/23/2015

2:43 PM

2087

48

2

COLFAX AVE &
AURORA CT

4/23/2015

12:46 PM

2012

20

6

15TH ST/CURTIS ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/24/2015

11:53 AM

5123

31

7

W COLFAX AVE/IRVING
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

4/24/2015

10:38 AM

6074

15

10

COLORADO BLVD &
MONTVIEW BLVD

#10 FULL
BUS (PAX
PASSED)

4/24/2015

12:30 PM

5191

10

10

17TH ST & LAWRENCE
ST X STOP

4/24/2015

5:57 AM

2704

BOLT

50

4/25/2015

12:33 PM

9329

16

4/25/2015

10:00 PM

9338

4/25/2015

12:34 PM

4/25/2015

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

N

N- CASE #15011484

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

N

Y- CASE #15011485

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE #15011487

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 WC ON BOARD/ BUS 2006 WILL ACCOM
PAX

2 W/C

N

Y-CASE #15012280

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

ACCOM BY FOLLOWER

2 W/C

N

Y-CASE #15003756

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL BUT WC ALREADY

2 W/C

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y- FT MLX

Y

N

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 W/C ONBOARD, ONE ADA PAX IN W/C
GOT OFF SO THE OTHER PAX COULD
BOARD, NO ADA PAX WAS PASSED.

2 W/C

N

Y-CASE #15012220

Y-VIDEO

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

HAVE 2WC ON BUS PASSED 1WC; NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 9190
ACCO @ 1011AM

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL WITH OTHER W/C,
PRESSED IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

CIVIC CENTER
STATION GATE 3

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y-CASE #15003977

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

CANCEL ADV- HAD 2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON
BUS, ONE PAX IN W/C GOT OFF THE BUS
AND OTHER ADA PAX IN W/C WAS ACCOM

NPI

ERROR

5

CURTIS ST & 16TH
STREET MALL

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

FLIPPED OFF BUS WHILE I CALLED

2 W/C

16

10

17TH AVE & LOGAN ST

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PAX 11 MINS /PAX UPSET YELLED

2 W/C

9329

16

5

17TH ST & CHAMPA ST
X STOP

3:38 PM

9310

15L

7

BOULDER TRANSIT
CENTER GATE 3

4/26/2015

8:00 AM

6014

48

1

4/26/2015

7:58 AM

6014

48

1

4/28/2015

8:16 AM

5038

10

2

E COLFAX
AVE/HUMBOLDT ST
S FEDERAL BLVD & W
ALAMEDA AVE
DECATUR / FEDERAL
STATION GATE A
12TH AVE & FILLMORE
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/28/2015

8:51 AM

2192

20

26

4/28/2015

1:50 PM

6005

0

14

W COLFAX AVE &
KENDALL ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/29/2015

5:47 PM

6020

28

4

W COLFAX AVE &
KENDALL ST

4/29/2015

4:17 PM

5120

31

25

17TH ST & LARIMER ST

4

BRIGHTON BLVD &
29TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

4/29/2015

10:33 AM

5257

51

Y
Y

Y
Y

Y- CASE #15010489
Y- CASE #15010384

Y-CASE #15004607
Y-CASE #15004381

OPERATOR CALLED FROM THE
OP PRESSED MESSAGE #12 FOR SAME
INCIDENT
OPERATOR`S ROOM AT BTC/ STATING HE
HAD A BUS LOAD AND WAS RUNNING
LATE, ACCOM A LOT OF PAX AT BFLD PNR
FROM THE AB 82 1525. DID NOT HAVE
ROOM/ ADA PAX SAID THEY WOULD WAIT
FOR

ADA AREA FULL BY 2 ADA PAX IN W/C,
OTHER PAX WILLING TO WAIT FOR 15L
OP PRESSED CALLED DISPATCH FOR
SAME INCIDENT

NPI

ERROR

NPI

LIFT ISSUES
CORRECTED

2 W/C
2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

N

Y-CASE #15004160

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

LOOP TO ACCMD /I SENT MLX TO

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

ACCMD IF HE WANTS RIDE/HE IS ON

2 W/C

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

BUS OK OPP TO DO REP

NPI

N

N

N

N/A

N

N Y - RETRAINING

Y

PASSED UP MALE WITH ELECTRIC

2 W/C
NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

N
N/A
N

Y-CASE #15012273
Y-CASE#15004877
Y

DUPLICATE

2 W/C

DUP
W/C + OMA

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DISREGARD- DISREGARD-OPERATOR
PRESSED 12 IN ERROR.

Y

Y-CASE #15012274

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

OP DID NOT KNOW HOW TO PROPERLY
STOW LIFT, OP WENT THRU RETRAINING

Y

Y-CASE #15012275

N

N

N

0

N

Y

N

Y

WC DUE TO HAVING 2 WALKERS

2 OMA

Y

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA

2 W/C

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

PRESSED #12 IN ERROR

NPI

PAX ACCOM

ERROR

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

4/29/2015

7:07 AM

2244

51

9

4/29/2015

7:32 AM

2244

51

9

STOP NAME

BRIGHTON BLVD &
31ST ST
E COLFAX
AVE/HAVANA ST

4/30/2015

5:13 PM

5070

10

33

17TH ST & STOUT ST Y
STOP

4/30/2015

11:57 AM

9362

16

4

SHERIDAN BLVD & W
1ST AVE

4/30/2015

10:03 AM

2275

66

2

4/30/2015

10:00 AM

2275

66

2

5/1/2015

12:12 PM

2064

15

5/1/2015

10:56 AM

9338

16

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

PRESSED #12 IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

QUESTION ABOUT TIME OF TRADE

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON BOARD, WAITING
PAX SAID THEY WOULD WAIT FOR THE
NEXT BUS, OP TRIED EVERYTHING TO
ACCOMMODATE

Y

Y- CASE #15011082

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

GAVE PAX TRANSFER AND

N

Y

Y - LIFT

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y - LIFT

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

12TH AVE &
BROADWAY
BROADWAY & W 5TH
AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

31

COLFAX AVE &
FRANKLIN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15011271

Y- VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

N

5

DECATUR & FEDERAL
STATION GATE E

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15011796

N

Y

Y

16 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

GAVE FORM, TRANSFER, AND INFO. NEXT
BUS IN 16 MINUTES.

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

5/1/2015

3:32 PM

9368

15L

39

E COLFAX AVE
/DAYTON ST

5/1/2015

11:02 AM

5049

10

1

BROADWAY & W.
COLFAX AVE.

5/1/2015

2:05 PM

5116

52

3

17TH & CALIFORNIA

5/2/2015

2:27 PM

6031

28

2

W. BYRON PL. &
SHERIDAN BLVD.

5/2/2015

1:45 PM

6052

0

3

BROADWAY/ W 4TH
AVE

5/2/2015

3:44 PM

6047

48

1

16TH ST. & CURTIS

5/2/2015

3:46 PM

5241

52

12

BANNOCK & SPEER
BLVD

5/2/2015

3:44 PM

6047

48

1

5/2/2015

3:42 PM

5030

76

56

5/4/2015

8:31 AM

6029

48

12

5/4/2015

8:31 AM

3971

27

6

DARTMOUTH & SANTA
FE

5/5/2015

11:28 AM

3811

JUMP

1

BOULDER TRANSIT
CENTER

5/5/2015

6:18 PM

5227

31

24

FEDERAL BLVD & 50TH
AVE.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
16TH ST. & CURTIS
PASS UP
#27
WADSWORTH BLVD /W SECUREMEN
2ND AVE
T AREA
CONFLICT
ADA PAX
PLATTE DIVISION LOT
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

GAVE ADA PATRON THE FORM, BUT HE
LEFT THE BUS STOP/CONTINUING
PAX- OTHER PAX LEFT THE SCENE,:LX IN
BUS 2012 ACC THE PAX
2 ADA PAX IN W/C- SECUREMENT AREA
FULL- CONTACTED DISPATCH, RADIO IN
FALLBACK

Y

N-CASE #15013946

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

3 MIN

N

Y

Y

Y

PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE
TOHAVING TO ELECTRIC WHEEL CHAIRS
ON BOARD/ PASS UP FORM AND
TRANSFERS ISSUED/ FOLLOWER
CONTACTED BUS 9319 MALE WITH
WHEELCHAIR WAS NOT FOUND

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

9 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

Y

Y

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N Y - RETRAINING

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH W/C AND
OMA

Y

Y-CASE # 15011810

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

Y

Y-CASE #15012172

N

Y

Y

26 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

2 ADA ON BOARD. LX SENT
TOACCOMMODATE
2 ADA PAX IN W/C- SECUREMENT AREA
FULL- 2 ADA PAX WITH WALKERS ALSO
ON BOARD.

LIFT
LIFT
2 W/C

W/C + OMA
2 W/C
2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15011822

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

N

Y

PASSED UP 1 MALE WITH WC AT 16TH ST
MALL HE REFUSED TO TAKE PASSUP
FORM AND HAS A BUS PASS. ALSO
PASSED UP 1 FEMALE WITH WC AT 18TH
ST BOTH PASSED UP DUE TO HAVING 2
ELECTRIC WC ON BOARD/ MLX 4 SENT TO
ACCOMMODATE BOTH

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

N/A

Y

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

N

OP DIDN'T REALIZE THERE WAS SPACE
FOR THE PAX - EVERYONE WAS ACCOM

NPI

Y

Y- CASE #15012175

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N/A

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

1 MIN

N

N

N

N

LIFT WOULDN'T DEPLOW PAX CAUGHT
BUS THAT WAS RIGHT BEHIND THIS ONE

LIFT

N/A

Y

N

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N/A

N

Y

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR

NPI

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP
ADA:THEFOLLOWER TO ACC THE PAX
2 W/C ON BUS, ONE W/C PAX SAID SHE
WOULD GET OFF SO THE WAITING PAX
COULD GET ON

2 W/C

2 W/C

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C
NPI

PAX ACCOM

ERROR

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

5/6/2015

11:11 AM

5226

31

28

FEDERAL & BARBERRY

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N/A

Y

N

0 MNS

N

N

N

N

Y-LIFT

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

5/7/2015

6:16 PM

2039

15

32

COLFAX/BEELER

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

5/7/2015

7:18 AM

2263

66

2

ARAPAHOE & NAROPA
WEST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y

N

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

N

COMMENTS

NPI

N

Y

PASSED UP PERSON WITH WHEELCHAIR
DUE TO HAVING 2 ON BOARD/ PERSON
WITH WHEELCHAIR LEFT THE
AREAREFUSED TO TAKE PASSUP FORM

2 W/C

Y

Y

LIFT WOULD NOT DEPLOY

LIFT

2 W/C

LIFT

11:16 AM

2303

3

19

S ROUTT ST/*W 2ND PL

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N- CASE #15013953

Y-VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

N

Y

5/10/2015

5:33 PM

2275

51

22

SHERIDAN & 17TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N

Y LIFT

UNK

UNK

25 MINS

N

N

Y RETRAINING

N

LIFT WON'T RAISE

5/10/2015

8:30 AM

1613

MALL

7

LARIMAR & 16TH ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N-CASE #15011921

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

5/11/2015

1:02 PM

9308

15L

2

COLFAX AVE. &
DAYTON ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15012173

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/11/2015

10:02 AM

6054

0

17

S. BROADWAY & W.
BAYAUD AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013830

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

17

1-25 & BROADWAY
STATION GATE B1

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15012105

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

6054

0

5/11/2015

9:19 PM

2032

21

4

ILIFF/TRENTON

5/11/2015

3:57 PM

5255

31

25

S. FEDERAL BLVD. & W.
LOUISIANA AVE.

5/11/2015

3:55 PM

3956

JUMP

2

ARAPAHOE & NAROPA
WEST

5/12/2015

1:58 PM

5173

76

28

13TH & WADSWORTH

5/13/2015

11:22 AM

5013

30

4

S. FEDERAL BLVD. & W.
LOUISIANA AVE.

5/13/2015

1:24 PM

2218

1

17

5/13/2015

1:15 PM

9313

15L

13

5/13/2015

9:26 AM

5126

31

30

1537

AT

51

DIA

5/13/2015

KALAMATH & 13TH
COLFAX & SHERMAN
ST
FEDERAL BLVD. & 38TH
AVE.

5/13/2015

11:27 AM

5013

30

4

FEDERAL & VIRGINIA

5/13/2015

11:20 AM

5013

30

4

S. FEDERAL BLVD. & W.
LOUISIANA AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

ERROR

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR

5/8/2015

10:11 AM

REASON

N

ONE WHEEL PAX ON BOARD AND A
HUSBAND AND WIFE BOTH WANT TO
BOARD AND SIT SIDE BY SIDE, THEY WILL
BLOCK THE WALK WAY, 2 W/C .PAXS
ACCOMODATED BY TD BUS 5009 TO
ALAMEDA AND WADSWORTH

5/11/2015

TRACKING
CODE

N

OPERATOR WAS HAVING LIFT ISSUES
COULDN'T GET THE DOORS CLOSED- ALL
ADA PAX WERE ACCOM
2 WC PAX ON BOARD/ BUS 9311 WILL
ACCOM PAX AT DAYTON
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS;PASSING 1-WC;NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6033
ACCO @ 1012AM.OK

2 W/C

Y

NO ROOM HAVE 2-ADA ON BUS.PASSING 1ADA. ADV POLICY.FOLLOWER 6033 SAID
NO ROOM;NEXT FOLLOWER 6048 SAID NO
ADA @1038AM

2 W/C

2 W/C

NPI

2 W/C

N

N-CASE #15013957

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

25 MINS

Y MLX

N

Y

Y

PASSED UP LADY WITH WC DUE
TOHAVING 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON
BOARD UNABLE TO TRANSFER TO OTHER
SEAT/ MLX 11 BUS 6058ACCOMODATED
9:45PM DROPPED OFF 6TH DAYTON

N

Y

N

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

BUS WAS FULL OF PAX

PXO

Y

Y

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N Y- RETRAIINING

Y

BUS WAS FULL OF PAX

PXO

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y - REMINDER

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE
LIFT WOULDN'T DEPLOW- PAX LEFT AREA
BEFORE OP COULD FILL OUT
PAPERWORK
ADA PAX ACCOMMODATED, NO ADA PAX
PASS UP
BUS WAS FULL OF PAX, OP CLEARED THE
AREA AND ACCOM ADA PAX

PAX ACCOM

DUP

N

N

Y - LIFT

N

N

N/A

N

N

Y

Y

N

Y CASE #15012588

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

Y-CASE # 15012075

Y-SEAT

N

N

30

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

ADA SEAT MALFUNCTIONED, ADA PAX
WILL BE ACCOM BY ML.X

OTHER

Y

Y

N

Y

N

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAD OMA ON BUS 2 ADA PAX WANTED TO
RIDE TOGETHER

OTHER

Y

Y

N

Y

N

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OP HAD 1 ADA PAX, 2 ADA PAX WANTED
TO RIDE TOGETHER

OTHER

LIFT
NPI

PAX ACCOM

NPI

PAX ACCOM

Packet Pg. 98

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

5/14/2015

5:38 AM

2133

48

2

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE ST.

5/14/2015

11:14 AM

5109

76

7

WADSWORTH & 56TH

5/14/2015

12:29 PM

5192

40

15

COLORADO BLVD 7
MONTVIEW BLVD.

5/14/2015

9:05 PM

2190

76

54

ALLISON & VIRGINIA

5/14/2015

3:27 PM

3814

324

3

MAIN & BOSTON

5/14/2015

5:38 AM

2133

48

2

5/14/2015

2:11 PM

5249

76

3

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE ST.
WADSWORTH BLVD &
W. COLFAX AVE.
COLFAX & KRAMERIA
ST.

5/15/2015

1:16 PM

9367

15L

14

5/15/2015

1:22 PM

9367

15L

14

COLFAX & ONEIDA ST.

5/15/2015

1:20 PM

9380

15L

13

COLFAX & BROADWAY

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

N-CASE #15012602

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED PAX W W/C, SECUREMENT AREA
FULL. FOLLOWER TO ACCOMMONDATE.

2 W/C

Y

N

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N/A

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

N

N

Y-LIFT

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

N

Y

N

LIFT WILL NOT DROP, PAX ACCOM BY
FOLLOW

LIFT

N

N

Y LIFT

N

N

2 MINS

N

N

Y RETRAINING

N

LIFT WOULDN’T DEPLOY, FOLLOWER
ACCOM PAX

LIFT

Y

N-CASE #15012602

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y - VIDEO

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y CASE #15012689

N

N

N

0 MIINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N-CASE # 15013958

Y-VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

N

Y- CASE #15012588

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

Y-CASE #15012879

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y-CASE #15012683

N

Y

Y

Y

Y-CASE #15012879

N

Y

FECES ON ADA PAX PANTS CLEARED TO
PASS PER DISPATCH
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH W/C AND
OMA
ADA PAX PASS UP, PAX BOARDED
CHAMBERS BUS

W/C + OMA

PASSED PAX W W/C, SECUREMENT AREA
FULL. FOLLOWER TO ACCOMMONDATE.

2 W/C

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

N/A

Y

WAS ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE ADA PAX
WITH W/C

NPI

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH W/C AND
OMA

W/C + OMA

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

2 ADA ON BUS, OP PASSED ONE MLX
SENT TO ACCOMMODATE

2 W/C

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

2 ADA PAX WITH W/C ON BOARD, BUS
2069 WILL ACCOM IN 15 MIN.

2 W/C

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

FOLLOWER TO ACCOM

2 W/C

OTHER

2 W/C

5/15/2015

1:16 PM

9380

15L

13

COLFAX & BROADWAY

5/15/2015

2:04 PM

5244

76

3

S. WADSWORTH BLVD.
& ALAMEDA AVE.

5/16/2015

6:13 PM

6048

28

4

22ND & DOWNING

5/16/2015

12:25 PM

6095

105

2

HAVANA & MISSISSIPPI

5/16/2015

6:09 PM

6048

28

4

DOWNING & 24TH AVE.

5/17/2015

4:38 PM

9351

16

2

COLFAX & ZENOBIA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y CASE #15012684

N

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

5/17/2015

4:43 PM

9351

16

2

W. COLFAX AVE &
MEADE ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y CASE #15012684

N

Y

Y

13 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

5/19/2015

12:47 PM

2069

105

5

HAVANA & 1ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15012894

Y-VIDEO

Y

N

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/19/2015

8:13 PM

6020

0

5

17TH & LARIMER

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15012894

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/19/2015

12:45 PM

2069

105

5

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

5/19/2015

5:25 PM

2246

31

61

Y

N

Y - LIFT

N/A

N/A

1 MIN

N

N/A

N

N

LIFT WOULDN'T DEPLOY, FOLLOWER
ACCOM

LIFT

5/20/2015

9:17 AM

9336

16

5

AVONDALE DR & W.
HOWARD PL

Y

N-CASE #15015413

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREAS FULL, PASSED ADA PAX WITH
MOBILE DEVICE, 9326 ACCOM . PAX

2 W/C

5/21/2015

4:42 PM

2143

48

18

BROADWAY/24TH ST

Y

N-CASE #15013211

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

Y

Y

5/22/2015

3:22 PM

2106

38

14

DOWNING & BRUCE
RANDOLPH

Y

N-CASE #15015417

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVANA ST. & 1ST.
AVE.
FEDERAL BLVD. & W.
10TH AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

REASON

PASSED PAX W W/C, SECUREMENT AREA
FULL. FOLLOWER 9350 TO
ACCOMMONDATE.
PASSED UP ADA PAX WITH W/C TO
ACCOMMODATE A STROLLER IN
SECUREMENT AREA
ADA PAX PASSED, 2 ADA PAX WITH W/C,
SECUREMENT AREA FULL. FOLLOWER
6081 TO ACCOM
ADA SECUREMENT AREA FULL, ADA PAX
IN MOBILTY DEVICE WILL CATCH MALL
BUS
DUPLICATE

PASSED MALE WITH W/C DUE TO FULL
BUS & 1 W/C STROLLER USING ADA AREA
2023 ACCOM @ 5:01P
ADA SECUREMENT AREA FULL, ADA PAX
ACCOMMODATED BY FOLLOWER IN 10
MINS

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

OTHER

2 W/C

2 W/C
DUP

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 99

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

STOP NAME

COLORADO BLVD (CO2)/E

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

KIPLING ST. & W.
COLFAX AVE.
E COLFAX AVE (US287S)/LINCOLN ST (N
LINCOLNST)

ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

5/22/2015

3:12 PM

2216

40

10

5/22/2015

4:05 PM

2237

100

2

5/23/2015

12:09 PM

2018

15

2

5/23/2015

11:44 AM

9327

16

3

COLFAX & MARIP9OSA

5/24/2015

2:36 PM

2153

48

3

5/24/2015

2:08 PM

6038

48

6

5/24/2015

2:08 PM

6038

48

6

5/25/2015

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

BLOCK #

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

N

N

Y- LIFT, PAX TOO HEAVY

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

UNK

N

Y - VIDEO

UNK

UNK

UNK

UNK

UNK

Y

Y

Y

Y-CASE #15013229

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15015421

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

60TH AVE. & DAHLIA
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15013553

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

24 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

CURTIS ST/16TH ST
(16THSTREET MALL
CURTIS ST/16TH ST
(16THSTREET MALL

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15015426

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

20 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

Y

N-CASE #15015428

Y-VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

6001

48

1

STEELE ST/E 50TH AVE

COMMENTS

PASSED UP MALE WITH WC BECAUSE
TOO HEAVYHE WAS TOO HEAVY FOR THE
LIFT ITWOULD NOT RAISE WITH HIM ON
IT/FOLLOWER CONTACTED BUS
5094ACCOMODATED AT 325 PM
THERE IS NO ADA PASS UP FORM, NO
VIDEO
2 WC PAX ON BOARD/ PAX
WITHSTROLLER BABY IS ADA/ BUS 2080
WILLACCOM
PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH W/C SEC
AREAS WERE FULL / OP FILLED OUT
BOOK / AND OFFERED TRANSFERS /
FOLLOWER WILL BE BY IN 15MIN
2 ADA PAX WITH W/C, 1 ADA PAX
ALREADY ON BOARD, MUST PASS UP 1
PAX, 6053 WILL ACCOM.
2 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ MLX 2 WILL
ACCOM 2 ADA PAX WITH W/C
DUPLICATE
2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD/ 2 PAX IN WC AT
STOP/ MLX 2 WILL ACCOM
2 WC PAX ONBOARD/ 2 WC PAX AT
BRIGHTON 29TH/NO MLX / BUS 6030 WILL
ACCOM

TRACKING
CODE

OTHER

OTHER
2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C
DUP
2 W/C

5/25/2015

9:04 AM

6001

48

1

BRIGHTON BLVD. &
29TH ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013355

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/25/2015

7:21 PM

6001

48

1

CURTIS ST/15TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013365

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX PASSED; MLX ACCOM PAX 18MIN

2 W/C

E 12TH
AVE/BROADWAY

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

OPERATOR FORCED TO PASS PAX
INMOBILITY DEVICE DUE TO
ADAPASSENGERS ALREADY ON
BOARDWITH MOBILITY DEVICES.
FOLLOWERWILL ACCOMMODATE.

2 W/C

BRIGHTON BLVD. &
29TH ST.
S. FEDERAL BLVD &
ALAMEDA AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

5/25/2015

5/25/2015
5/25/2015

9:05 AM
7:34 AM

5039

10

2

6001

48

1

5132

31

10

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y- MLK

Y

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

RAMP FIXED, ADA PAX WAS
ACCOMMODATED

NPI

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15013554

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX FULL ADA AREA
MOBILITYDEVICE /PAX OK WITH
TRANSFER TO GET FOLLOWER /2119 15/8
ACCMD 1850/OPP TO DO REPORT /DVR

5/26/2015

6:45 PM

2148

15

15

E COLFAX AVE (US287N)/KRAMERIA ST

5/26/2015

12:56 PM

9321

15L

14

E COLFAX AVE (US287S)/LINCOLN ST (N
LINCOLNST)

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013448

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED 2 ADA/GAVE THEM TRANSFERS
AND PAPERWORK

2 W/C

5/26/2015

8:04 AM

2160

48

2

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013555

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

Y- MLS

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENTAREA FULL, PASS PAX WITH
3 ADA PAX WITH W/C, ACCOMMIODATED
BY MLK

2 W/C

5/26/2015

3:14 PM

5066

1002

2

9TH AVE. & CLERMONT
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N

PAX MOVED TO ACCOM PAX WITH W/C

NPI

Y

CFX TAMARAC;PASSING WC ;NO ROOM.
HAVE 1WC AND 2-OTHER THAT SAID THEY
ARE ADA NO MOBILITY DEVICE; BLK
MALES; 55YR;BLK RED JUMP
SUIT;HATS..ADV IF ADA PAX CAN MOVE
FOR WC THEN REQ THEY MOVE. ADA
REFUSE TO MOVE. ST SUP SENT TO
HELP.

5/26/2015

9:53 AM

9215

15l

8

ULSTER ST/E 16TH AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N-CASE #15015429

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

Y

N

REASON

OTHER

PAX ACCOM

PAX ACCOM

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 100

1.C.2.a

DATE

5/27/2015

TIME

1:29 PM

BUS #

5028

ROUTE

76

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

7

WADSWORTH
BLVD(CO-121)/*W 44TH
AVE(COUNTY HWY-58)

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

N/A

N/A

15 MINS

N

N

Y

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS;PASSING 1-WC AND
THE AIDE; NO ROOM ADV POLICY. OPER
SAID SHE DOES NOT HAVE A ADA PASSUP
FORM. THE AIDE IS UPSET. FOLLOWER
5240 ACCO @ 145PM CC

2 W/C

OPERATOR IS FORCED TO PASS PAX
INMOBILITY DEVICE DUE TO NOT HAVING
ROOM AND ALREADY HAVING TWO PAX`S
ON BOARD IN MOBILITY DEVICES.
FOLLOWER IN 5183 WILLACCOMMODATE.
DVR REP REQ
PASSENGERS IN MOBILITY DEVICES ON
BUS. ONE WAITING TO BOARD. MLX 2294
TO LOCATION TO ACCOM PAX. DVR REP
REQ

5/27/2015

3:09 PM

5083

10

7

15TH ST/CLEVELAND
PL

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

N

5/27/2015

7:40 AM

2015

48

3

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013546

N

Y

Y

28 MINS

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

5/27/2015

2:55 PM

2175

11

8

CENTERPOINT

Y

N

Y-LIFT

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/28/2015

1:20 PM

2018

48

4

72ND AVE & OLIVE

Y

N-CASE # 15016921

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/28/2015

3:06 PM

5074

10

6

E 9TH AVE/CLERMONT
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/28/2015

9:41 AM

2015

20

4

17TH ST/CHAMPA ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15013977

Y-VIDEO

Y

N

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/28/2015

12:22 PM

6021

0

8

CURTIS ST / 17TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15013999

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6047
SAID NO ADA 1230PM PPROXIMATELY.

2 W/C

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

LIFT WONT DEPLOY
2 MOTORIZED ADA PAX WITH W/C, NOT
ENOUGH ROOM.
ADA SECTION IS FULL WITH WITH PAX`S
IN MOBILITY DEVICES. OPERATOR
FORCED TO PASS UP. FOLLOWER IN 5039
TO CCOMMODATE.
HAVE 1-WC ON BUS PASSING 2-WC PAX
THAT WANT TO RIDE TOGETHER.; NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 5137
ACCO @ 1009AM

2 W/C

2 W/C

LIFT
2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

5/28/2015

4:30 PM

2143

48

18

16TH ST. & CURTIS

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15013964

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH W/C SEC
AREAS WERE FULL / FOLLOWER WILL
ACCOM PAX / OP FILLED OUTPASS UP
BOOK / OP OFFERED TRANSFERS
FOLLOWER WILL ACCOM PAX

5/28/2015

1:11 PM

1622

MALL

26

UNION STATION

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE#15013995

Y-VIDEO

N/A

N/A

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECURMENT AREA FULL, PAX
ACCOMMODATED BY FOLLWER IN 2 MINS

2 W/C

5/28/2015

4:32 PM

2143

48

18

16TH ST. & CURTIS

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

5/28/2015

3:30 PM

5192

8

31

BROADWAY & 70TH
AVE.

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

N

5/28/2015

11:25 PM

5118

52

25

15TH ST/*WELTON ST

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N/A

Y

N

N

Y

5/29/2015

2:58 PM

2015

21

7

E EVANS AVE/S
MONACOSTREET
PKWY

Y

N-CASE #15013995

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSENGER IS BEING PASSED
UPBECAUSE THE MOBILITY DEVICE AND
PASSENGER ARE TOO LARGE FOR THE
LIFT. MLX 6029 TO LOCATION TO

2 W/C

5/29/2015

2:58 PM

2015

21

7

E. EVANS & MONOCO
PKWY

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

5/29/2015

9:23 AM

9213

15L

15

COLFAX AVE &
TAMARAC ST.

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

5/30/2015

3:32 PM

6050

48

4

CURTIS & 18TH AVE.

N

Y

Y

24 MINS

N

N

N

Y

5/30/2015

4:10 PM

9338

16

11

64TH & PENA

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y
Y
Y

N CASE #15013974
Y-CASE #15014001
Y-CASE #15015151

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR
WANTED MESSAGE 27
W/C PAX MISSED 48. SENDING LX TOTAKE
HIM TO BROADWAY-20TH.

RAMP WOULD NOT LIFT
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, PAX JUST LEFT
WITHOUT TRANSFER

REASON

NPI
OTHER

LIFT
2 W/C

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 101

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

5/30/2015

6:59 AM

6013

48

3

BRIGHTON & 29TH AVE.

5/31/2015

2:29 PM

5245

38

5

LAWRENCE & 20TH

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

Y- CASE #15014010

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N-CASE #15015582

Y-VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

COMMENTS

ONE W/C AND ONE PAX SITTING IN
WALKER IN SECUREMENT AREA.
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
2 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ BUS 6012 WILL
ACCOM
HAD TO PASS UP A PASSENGER IN A
WHEELCHAIR BECAUSE THERE IS TWO
CHAIRS ON BOARD ALREADY.
THEFOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 ADA
PAX WITH W/C ACCOMMODTED BY
FOLLOWER 16L.
FULL SECUREMENT 2 PAX WITH W/C
PASSUP ADA PAX LPX BUS 6010 TO
ACCOM
FULL WITH 2 ADA PAX WITH W/C WILLING
TO WAIT FOR NEXT BUS.
ADA PAX IN MOBILITY DEVICE PASSED
DUE TO ADA SECTION BEING FULL WITH
PAX`S IN MOBILITY DEVICES.
FOLLOWERIN 5186 TO ACCOM. CANNOT
CONTACT BUS. FTLX 2232 TO
ACCOMMODATE. DVR
FULL ADA AREA BUS/ADA PAX INMOBILITY
DEVICE /FOLLOWER 7 MINS6059 TO
ACCMD /OPP TO DO REPORTPAX GIVEN
PASSUP FORM

TRACKING
CODE

W/C + OMA
2 W/C

6/1/2015

10:51 AM

2200

9

11

BROADWAY/E COLFAX
AVE

6/1/2015

5:25 PM

6079

15

6

E COLFAX
AVE/JOSEPHINE ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y-CASE #15014121

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/1/2015

9:10 AM

9326

16

6

W. COLFAX &
MARIPOSA ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014120

N

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

6/2/2015

7:41 AM

6056

48

3

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014217

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

6/2/2015

9:32 AM

2161

48

5

BROADWAY/22ND ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15014195

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

29 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/2/2015

2:40 PM

5165

1

17

SANTA FE DR/W 14TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/2/2015

7:45 PM

5232

15

34

E COLFAX AVE (US40W)/MILWAUKEE ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

N

6/2/2015

4:39 PM

6053

48

18

BROADWAY/*CURTIS
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014673

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1-WC;NO
ROOM ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 2100
ACCO @ 506PM WC SAID PREVIOUS RTE
48 PASSED HIM UP DUE TO NO ROOM.

2 W/C

Y

OPERATOR HAS 2 WHEEL CHAIR
PASSENGERS ON BOARD, THIRD WAITING
TO BOARD, OP FILLED OUT PASS UP
FORM AND GAVE IT TO PASSENGER WHO
WILL WAIT FOR THE FOLLOWER BUS 9306

2 W/C

2 W/C

6/2/2015

9:55 AM

9303

15L

8

COLFAX/TAMARAC ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014666

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

6/2/2015

4:05 PM

2087

48

2

CURTIS/BROADWAY

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014348

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

WILL HAVE TO PASS UP A WHEELCHAIR
BECAUSE THERE IS A WHEELCHAIR AND
NON COLLAPSIBLE WALKER ALREADY IN
THE SECUREMENT AREA. LX BLOCK 5BUS
# 6048 ON THE WAY TO PICK UP.WHEN
THE LX ARRIVED THAT INDIVID

6/2/2015

1:15 PM

2123

21

3

N. EVANS & SHERIDAN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15015585

Y-VIDEO & LIFT

Y

N

26 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

FRONT BARRIER DOWN, UNABLE TO USE
LIFT

LIFT

6/3/2015

11:20 AM

2153

0

15

BROADWAY/E COLFAX
AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N-CASE #15014197

Y-VIDEO

Y

N

8 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

OPERATOR STATED HE HAS AN ADA PAX
IN A WALKER AND THE OTHER PAX HAS A
MOBILITY DEVICE/ MALE PAX IN A STATED
HE WOULD WAIT FOR THE FOLLOWER.

2 OMA

6/3/2015

12:09 PM

2018

15

2

COLFAX & LINCOLN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15015594

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/3/2015

4:11 PM

6014

48

2

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014753

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

6/3/2015

12:20 PM

5137

0

9

S BROADWAY/W YALE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15014762

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ FOLLOWER WILL
ACCOM
HAVE 2- WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC. NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 2133
ACCO @ 437PM
OPERATOR STATED HE HAS 2 ADA PAX
ON BOARD, FORM REPORT, PAX IS GOING
TO ENGLEWOOD STATION, 6042 TO
ACCOMM

2 W/C
2 W/C

REASON

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 102

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

6/3/2015

12:20 PM

5137

0

9

S BROADWAY/W YALE

6/4/2015

6/4/2015

2:47 PM

12:18 PM

6026

9328

0

16

13

3

BROADWAY/W 4TH
AVE

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

#10 FULL
BUS (PAX
PASSED)

W COLFAX & LAMAR ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

Y

DUP

Y-CASE #15015595

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

DUP

N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N
DUP

N

DUP

N

DUP

1 MIN

DUP

N

DUP

Y

DUP

Y

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

ADA AREA FILLED WITH 2 WHEEL CHAIR
PASSENGER. COULDN`T LOAD 3RD.
WHEELCHAIR PASSENGER.
OPERATORASSUMED THE ROUTE 0 BUS
6004 FOLLOWER, SECONDS BACK WOULD
PICKUP ANDDIDN`T FOLLOW
PROCEDURES.OPERATOR INSTRUCTE

2 W/C

Y

OPERATOR STATED HE IS PASSING UP AN
ADA PAX IN A WC/ HE HAS 2 PAX IN
WHEELCHAIRS ON THE BUS ALREADY,
FOLLOWER IN 15 MIN. FORM/
TRANSFER/DVR

2 W/C

PAX PASSED IN MOBILITY DEVICE DUE TO
2 OTHER PAX`S IN MOBILITY DEVICES ON
THE BUS. MLX2159 TOACCOMMODATE
PAX. DVR REP REQ

2 W/C

Y

N-CASE #15014890

Y

Y-CASE #15013194

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

Y- MLX

Y

N

Y

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

6/4/2015

4:36 PM

2133

48

18

BROADWAY/24TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

6/5/2015

12:36 PM

9323

15L

9

E COLFAX &
COLORADO BLVD.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015048

N

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/5/2015

12:39 PM

6036

12

7

DOWNING ST. & 20TH
AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015449

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

6/6/2015

4:11 PM

5098

3

6

W VIRGINIA AVE/S
VANCE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

6/6/2015

6:54 AM

6013

48

3

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

6/6/2015

6:54 AM

6013

48

3

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15015464

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

1 WC PAX AND 1 PAX WITH WALKER ON
BOARD/ 2 PAX IN WC UNABLE TOACCOM/
MLX 7 BUS 6007 WILL ACCOM

W/C + OMA

6/6/2015

12:37 PM

9345

16

11

COLF/TELLER

Y

Y-CASE #15015472

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX PASSED; FOLLOWER 15 MIN;
DVR

W/C + OMA

6/6/2015

7:01 AM

6013

48

3

BROADWAY &
LAWRENCE

Y

N-CASE #15015465

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

PASS UP PAX IN WALKER UNABLE TO
ACCOM/ MLX 7 BUS 6007 WILL ACCOM

W/C + OMA

6/7/2015

2:06 PM

6009

48

6

CURTIS ST & 16TH ST

Y

N- CASE #15014763

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

6/7/2015

10:43 AM

2064

105

7

HAVANA & IDAHO

Y

N-CASE #15015668

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

6/7/2015

3:29 PM

2075

105

1

S HAVANA ST &
GARDEN DR

Y

N-CASE #15014917

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

20 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

Y

Y

6/8/2015

11:04 AM

5146

10

5

E 12TH AVE/GRANT ST

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

N/A

2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD / BUS 5070 WILL
ACCOM PAX AT STO 15 MIN

2 W/C

6/8/2015

3:30 PM

2100

48

3

16TH & CURTIS

Y

Y-CASE #15014920

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

3 PAX IN WC AT THE STOP/ MLX 78 BUS
6013 WILL ACCOM

2 W/C

6/8/2015

8:04 AM

6043

20

2

E. 17TH AVE. &
BROADWAY

Y

Y-CASE #15015681

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/8/2015

10:35 AM

6010

0

1

COLFAX & BROADWAY

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015692

N

Y

N

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/8/2015

1:45 PM

2235

31

7

FEDERAL BLVD &W
34TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N/A

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS;PASSING 1WC; NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 9378
ACCO ADA @ 1246P
2 ADA PAX IN SECUREMENT AREA,
WAITING PAX IN W/C IS ASLEEP AND WAS
WAITING FOR DIFFERENT BUS
AN INDIVIDUAL WITH A WALKER WILL BE
WAITING FOR THE FOLLOWER BECAUSE
HE CANT FOLD THE WALKER AND THERE
IS TWO CH

ADA PAX PASSED; PAX LEFT AND DID NOT
TAKE PASS-UP FORM; DVR
A PASSENGER`S WHEELCHAIR IS TOO
HEAVY FOR THE LIFT. LX BLOCK 83 IN BUS
# 6104 WILL PICK HER UP.
A PASSENGER`S WHEELCHAIR IS TOO
HEAVY FOR THE LIFT. LX BLOCK 83 IN BUS
# 6104 WILL PICK HER UP.

BUS FULL, PASSED ADA PAX WITH W/C,
BUS 2175 WILL ACCOMMODATE
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS;PASSING 2-WC;NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 2017
ACCO @ 1043AM.
NO ADA PASSUP BOOK IN BUS/WRITE

REASON

2 W/C

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C
LIFT

LIFT

2 W/C

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C
2 W/C

Packet Pg. 103

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

6/8/2015

10:59 AM

2252

66

4

ALAMO & RIO GRAND

6/8/2015

9:25 AM

6148

51

6

Sheridan Station

6/9/2015

9:28 AM

5193

10

9

E 12TH AVE/ELIZABETH
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

6/9/2015

12:58 PM

6074

15

3

COLFAX AVE &
DOWNING ST.

6/9/2015

9:22 AM

2285

15

21

6/9/2015

12:10 PM

9148

16

6/9/2015

4:06 PM

6053

6/10/2015

3:47 PM

6/10/2015

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

Y

Y-LIFT

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

LIFT WOULD NOT DEPLOY - PAX WITH
WALKER WAS ABLE TO BOARD, PAX W
POWER WC WAS ACCOM BY FOLLOWER

LIFT

N

N

Y - VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY MISTAKE

NPI

N

N

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

Y

y

BUS/OP DID NOT SEE ANY PASSENERS AT
THAT STOP

2 OMA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015796

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

N

2 ADA PAX PASSED, BUS IS STANDING
ROOM ONLY, SECUREMENT AREA FULL.

2 W/C

COLFAX & EMERSON

ADA PAX
PASS UP

y

N-CASE #15015670

Y-VIDEO

y

y

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8

14TH AVE & FEDERAL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15016958

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

12 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

48

2

BROADWAY/24TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015788

n

Y

Y

10MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

9357

16

3

W 14TH AVE/IRVING ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015803

N

Y

Y

9 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12:01 PM

6161

76

11

20TH AVE. &
WADSWORTH BLVD

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

y

6/10/2015

2:16 PM

2159

48

18

CURTIS ST/19TH ST

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N

6/11/2015

1:25 PM

1624

MALL

39

16TH & LAWRENCE

Y-VIDEO

N

N

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/11/2015

10:25 AM

5147

30

22

S FEDERAL BLVD & W
LOUISIANA AVE

6/12/2015

4:35 PM

6005

0

2

BAYAUD AVE & S.
BROADWAY

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N/A
Y

Y-CASE #15015423
N-CASE #15016960

ADA PAX PASS UP, 2 PAX WITH W/C ON
BOARD, 3RD PAX WITH W/C LEFT AREA
BEFORE NEXT BUS.
DRIVER COULD HAVE ACCOMODATED
ADA PAX, 1 ADA PAX WITH W/C WOULD
NOT MOVE OUT OF ISLE
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 ADA
PAX WITH W/C ACCOMMODTED BY
FOLLOWER
PASSED UP FEMALE WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON
BOARD/ FOLLOWER CONTACTED
9328ACCOMODATED
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 ADA
PAX WITH W/C ACCOMMODTED BY
FOLLOWER
DISREGARD ADA PAX PASS, ABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE
RELEASE HANDLE WON'T WORK FOR
RAMP
OPERAOR PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY
MISTAKE

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
NPI

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

N-CASE #15015767

Y-VIDEO

N

N

3 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

ADA PAX PASSED; FOLLOWER 3 MINS.
DRIVER DID NOT FOLLOW POLICY.

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15015895

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA SECURMENT AREA FULL W MOBILITY
DEVICES /PAX LEFT FOR ANOTHER GATE
TO GET DIFFERENT RT /DID NOT STAY TO
GET PASSUP FORM

2 W/C

NPI

6/12/2015

9:20 PM

9346

16

1

W. HOWARD PL. &
FEDERAL BLVD.

6/12/2015

9:21 PM

9346

16

1

W. HOWARD PL. &
FEDERAL BLVD.

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

6/13/2015

8:22 AM

2106

0

10

CHESTNUT PL

#9 WC LIFT
STUCK OUT

y

N-CASE #15016964

Y-LIFT/VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT WORKS BUT WC TOO HEAVY FOR
LIFT/WILL NOT GO UP/GAVE PAX PASS UP
FORM FOR NEXT BUS/

LIFT

6/13/2015

1:52 PM

2278

21

1

S. DELAWARE ST & W.
EVANS

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N/A

N

Y

Y

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

UNABLE TO STOW/ CALLED TD/ PAX
ACCOM BY FOLLOWER

LIFT

6/13/2015

9:10 AM

2250

21

3

W. JEWELL AVE. &
ALLISON ST

#9 WC LIFT
STUCK OUT

N/A

N

Y-LIFT

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

THERE WAS NO ADA PASS UP, PAX WAS
ON BUS WHE IT WOULDN'T STOW

NPI

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE #15016205

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/15/2015

2:37 PM

5259

31

7

FEDERAL/ALAMEDA

6/15/2015

4:54 PM

6002

52

26

BANNOCK ST & W. 5TH
AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ERROR

LIFT

Y

UNABLE TO LOAD PASSENGER WITH
AWHEELCHAIR, BOTH ADA AREA`S WERE
OCCUPIED, HOWEVER THE
OLLOWINGBUS ARRIVED AND
PASSENGER WAS ABLE TO BOARD THAT
BUS ITHOUTDELAY.
OP PUSHES #12, TELLS MS.
RITTENHOUSE SHE CANT BOARD, CALLES
DISPATCH AND ACCOMMODATES MS.
RITTENHOUSE

ERROR

2 W/C

N/A

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

REASON

ERROR

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

NPI

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

PAX ACCOM

Packet Pg. 104

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

OPERATOR STATED HE IS PASSING AN
ADA PAX IN A WC, HE HAS 2 PAX IN WCON
THE BUS ALREADY, FOLLOWER BLOCK 14
IN 10 MINUTES.

2 W/C

N

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; OPER THOUGHT SHE
WAS GOING TO PASS ANOTHER PAX AT
SILVERCREST;BUT THE ADA WAS NOT
THERE TODAY; CANCEL CALL. ADV.

NPI

ERROR

N/A

N

Y

NPI

ERROR

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

6/16/2015

11:20 AM

9380

15L

16

E. COLFAX & XENIA ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

SHOP

30

S. FEDERAL BLVD. &
DAKOTA AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

0

15

BROADWAY/W 4TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15016270

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

2018

Y

N-CASE #15016967

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

6/16/2015

9:50 AM

6/16/2015

5:59 PM

6/17/2015

2:05 PM

5151

88

6

E 56TH AVE/*QUEBEC

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/17/2015

12:52 PM

5026

15

1

E. COLFAX & LEYDEN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15016187

N

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/17/2015

12:40 PM

5026

15

1

E. COLFAX &
COLORADO BLVD.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15016971

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/17/2015

2:23 PM

5169

40

7

COLORADO & 17TH

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

6/18/2015

6:49 PM

9303

15L

11

E. COLFAX & HAVANA
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15016297

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/18/2015

11:12 AM

5188

52

11

LIPAN ST/W 39TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

N/A

N/A

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/18/2015

10:55 AM

2031

105

24

1ST. AVE & HAVANA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

6/18/2015

11:49 AM

2036

48

3

72ND. AVE & KEARNEY

Y-LIFT/VIDEO

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/18/2015

2:27 PM

9351

16

3

W. COLFAX & RALEIGH

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/18/2015

5:12 PM

9367

15L

7

E. COLFAX & IVANHOE

N

N

N

7 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

6/19/2015

4:16 PM

2018

48

2

17TH ST. & CURTIS ST.

6/19/2015

3:37 PM

5026

15

1

E. COLFAX & DOWNING

6/19/2015

11:22 AM

6031

0

2

6/19/2015

3:40 PM

5026

15

1

6/20/2015

8:26 AM

6042

48

5

6/20/2015

10:11 AM

6004

48

3

BROADWAY &
ARAPAHOE

6/20/2015

9:19 PM

9302

15L

6

6/21/2015

9:31 AM

5025

15

8

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y
Y

N-CASE #15017016
Y-CASE #15016294

DISPATCHY-CASE #15REQ 6-22 2ND REQ 7-2
CREATED
016302
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

OPR DID NOT CHECK ON AVAILIBILITY
BEFORE TELLING PAX NO ROON, CANCEL
PASS UP, PAX ACCOM..
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX:ADA PAX DECIDED TO
TAKE BUS INOPPOSITE DIRECTION:
WRITE UPHAD TO PASSUP ADA
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL:15L WAS
BEHIND BUS WHOACC THE ADA
PAX:WRITE UP
2 ADA PAX WITH MOBILITY DEVICES IN
SECUREMENT AREA. FOLLOWER WILL
ACCOMMODATE IN 3 MINS.
PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY MISTAKE
ADA MOBILITY AREA FULL OPP TO GIVE
PAX PASSUP FORM BUS 9308 15L/6 8MINS
CALLED BUS TO ACCMD
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1-WC.
NOROOM;ADV POLICY;ADA GOT ON RTE
61115AM;OK
HAVE A WALKER AND WC IN ADA
AREA.CANCEL NOW HAVE ENOUGH ROOM
FORANOTHER ADA PAX. OK.
ADA PAX WITH W/C PASSD LIFT NOT
WORKING RIGHT
NO PASSUP WAS ABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE THE PAX
AT COLO ADA PAX W WALKER NO ONE
WOULD MOVE TO ACCMD PAX SAW
FOLLOWER GOT LEFT AREA OPP TO DO
REPORT /DVR

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
NPI

2 W/C

2 W/C
LIFT
NPI

OTHER

Y-CASE #15016180

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

2 PAX ONBOARD IN WC/ BUS 2272 WILL
ACCOM

2 W/C

Y

Y-CASE #15016316

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX PASSED; FOLLOWER 10 MIN;

2 W/C

Y

N

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

RELEASE HANDLE WON'T WORK FOR
RAMP

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

Y

Y-CASE #15016419

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL. PLATTE LOOP
TOACCOMMODATE.

2 W/C

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y-CASE #15016422

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL.. PASSENGER
GIVENFORM AND TRANSFER. OFFERED
TOSEND LOOP BUT PASSENGER DENIED.

2 W/C

E. COLFAX &
COLORADO BLVD.

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N-CASE #15016429

Y-VIDEO

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

OP HAD FULL BUS / PASSED PAX IN
W/CAT STOP / OP DID NOT PULL INTO
STOP /OP DID NOT FILL OUT PASS UP
BOOK /OP TO DO RPT

2 W/C

COLFAX & PARK

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N-CASE #15017779

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 ADA
PAX WITH W/C, FOLLOWER TO ACCOM

2 W/C

DUPLICATE

ERROR

2 W/C

Y

S. BROADWAY &
ALAMEDA AVE
E. COLFAX & FRANKLIN
ST.
29TH ST. & BRIGHTON
BLVD.

REASON

DUP

PAX ACCOM

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 105

1.C.2.a

DATE

6/22/2015

TIME

6:33 PM

BUS #

9308

ROUTE

15L

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

9

E. COLFAX & LIMA ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

OPER HAD TIED DOWNS FULL/2 PAX WITH
WC/HAD TO PASS ONE PAX WITH WC AT
MOLINE/OPER FILLED OUT FORM AND
GAVE PAX A COPY/NTFYFOLLOWER

2 W/C

Y

Y-CASE #15016430

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N-CASE #15017780

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

6/22/2015

1:37 PM

6088

15

8

E. COLFAX &
COLORADO BLVD.

6/22/2015

2:44 PM

6040

12

1

COROLLA/COLFAX.

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N-CASE #15017782

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

NY

Y

N

Y

6/22/2015

12:01 PM

5164

40

15

E. COLFAX &
COLORADO BLVD.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

Y-LIFT

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/23/2015

11:41 AM

9319

15L

6

OGDEN ST/E 14TH AVE

6/23/2015

8:45 AM

2272

15

2

E. COLFAX &
COLORADO BLVD.

6/23/2015

5:28 PM

5155

52

1

BONNOCK & 7TH AVE

6/24/2015

7:16 PM

6044

12

1

16TH ST & CURTIS

6/24/2015

1:09 PM

2133

0

9

6/24/2015

9:48 AM

6054

38

6/24/2015

4:29 PM

1617

6/24/2015

9:51 AM

6/24/2015

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15016510

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED UP MALE WITH WHEELCHAIRDUE
TO HAVING 2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS
ONBOARD/ WB COLFX COLO/
FOLLOWERBUS 9378 CONTACTED AND
ACCOM 1:45PM
TWO PASENGERS IN WHEELCHAIRS
INADA AREA. CAN NOT BOARD
THIRD.INFO, FORM AND TRANSFER
GIVEN.
LIFT WONT STOW
PASSED PERSON WITH W/C / BOTH
SECAREAS WERE FULL / OP FILLED
OUTPASS UP BOOK / FOLLOWER
WILLACCOM PAX
PAX IN WC TOLD THE OPERATOR THATHE
WILL TAKE THE RT 15L/ FORM DVR/ADA
AREA FULL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

y

N-CASE #15017786

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

ADA AREA FULL WALKER
MOBILITYDEVICE/MLX 7 ACCMD PAX /2153

Y

N-CASE #15017801

Y-VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

ADA PASSUP /FULL AREA MLX 6 TO
ACCMD

LINCOLN & 4TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15016598

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

4

38th AVE. & LOWELL

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

Y- CASE #15017790

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

MALL

33

16TH ST & CALIFORNIA

Y

N-CASE #15017798

Y-VIDEO

N

N

1 MIN

N

N

N

Y

6054

38

4

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

12:11 PM

2020

0

8

38th AVE. & LOWELL
UNION STATION
STAGING AREA 1

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
DUPLICATE
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y-LIFT

Y

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/24/2015

2:48 PM

2278

51

3

35TH AVE & SHERIDAN
BLVD.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/24/2015

12:35 PM

3954

JUMP

8

ARAPAHOE & 30TH.
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

6/24/2015

10:26 AM

5057

1

8

KNOW CT. & 3RD. AVE.

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

6/24/2015

12:06 PM

5057

1

8

SANTA FE DR/W 14TH
AVE

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP
Y

DUP
N-CASE #15016587

AREA FULL. PASS NOT NEEDED. DID
NOTGIVE PASSUP FORM. WILL DO
REPORT
OPERATOR STATED HE HAS 2 PAX IN
WCON THE BUS ALREADY/ IS PASSING
ANOTHER ADA PAX. FOLLOWER TO
ACCOM
PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE
TOHAVING 2 WC ON BOARD AND A
FULLBUS/ FORM WAS ISSUED
DUPLICATE
ADA PAX WITH W/C PASSD LIFT NOT
WORKING RIGHT
LIFT REPORTED TO DANIEL AND TD
TOMEET ONRT TRD/OPP GAVE
PAXTRANSFER PASS UP FORM/I CALLED
TDAND FOLLOWER TO ACCMD PAX
22MINS
PAX MOVED ALLOWING PAX WITH
WALKER TO SIT IN THE SECUREMENT
AREA

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

LIFT

2 W/C

2 W/C

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
DUP
LIFT

LIFT

NPI

PAX ACCOM

PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY MISTAKE

NPI

ERROR

Y

PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY MISTAKE

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

NPI

6/25/2015

9:30 AM

5070

38

2

STOUT ST. & 18TH AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

Y-VIDEO

Y

N

20 MINS

N

N

N

y

2 ADA PAX ON BUS CANT
MOVE.FOLLOWER 22/38 TO
ACCOMMODATE

6/26/2015

4:16 PM

6047

20

4

17TH AVE & CLARKSON
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y-

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

y

ADA PAX IN SECUREMENT AREA ABLE TO
MOVE AND TO ACCOM PAX WITH W/C

PAX ACCOM

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 106

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL BEFORE
31STBRIGHTON/SENT MLX18 TO BACK UPAX WAS ACCOM BEFORE MLX WAS SENT

NPI

PAX ACCOM

Y

Y

Y

ADA PAX PASSED; FOLLOWER 7 MIN; LIFT
WOULD NOT DEPLOY

LIFT

N

Y

N

Y

TWO PAX IN CHAIRS ON BUS HAD:ONE
GOT OFF THE BUS TO ACCOM ADA PAX

NPI

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

1 ADA PAX PASSED; 2 PAX WITH W/C IN
SECUREMENT AREA,. FOLLOWER 20 MIN;

2 W/C

Y

1 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC WAITING AT STOP/ 1 PAX
INWC ON BOARD/ BUS 6114 WILL ACCOM

2 W/C

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C;
ADA PAX PASSED; FOLLOWER 25 MIN;

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

N

N

Y

OP HAD FULL BUS PASSED PAX WITH W/C
/ OP DID NOT USE THE #12 KEY FOR ADA
PASSUP / OP FILLED OUT PASS UPBOOK /
FT / ST SUP WILL MEET OP IN RTE

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

Y

Y

PASSED PAX WITH W/C BOTH SEC AREAS
ARE FULL / OP FILLED OUT BOOK/
FOLLOWER WILL BE BY IN 11 MIN

2 W/C

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

6/26/2015

6:12 AM

2100

48

4

31ST. & BRIGHTON

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N

Y-VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

6/27/2015

2:58 PM

2278

31

13

FEDERAL &
MISSISSIPPI

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

6/27/2015

12:25 PM

2162

6

2

LIPAN ST/W 38TH AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15016934

N

N

N

0 MINS

6/28/2015

8:56 PM

9326

15L

6

COLFAX & LINCOLN

Y

Y-CASE #15017891

N

Y

Y

6/28/2015

1:42 PM

6101

43

11

MARTIN LUTHER KING
BLVD

Y

Y-CASE #15017050

N

Y

6/28/2015

3:56 PM

5174

40

1

COLFAX & COLORADO
BLVD.

Y

Y

N

6/29/2015

5:00 PM

5170

40

14

S. COLORADO BLVD. &
E. VIRGINIA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

6/29/2015

9:13 AM

5186

1

8

SANTA FE DR/W 14TH
AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y

16 ST. & LAWRENCE
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

6/29/2015

12:20 PM

5141

52

11

6/29/2015

5:23 PM

6161

52

1

6/29/2015

8:19 PM

6045

12

2

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Bannock St & Speer Blvd CSR #315249
106TH & MELODY
TRANSFER CENTER
GATE C

6/29/2015

12:04 PM

5246

52

5

BANNOCK ST/*W 7TH
AVE

6/30/2015

3:48 PM

6052

12

2

120TH AVE. &
WASHINGTON ST

7/1/2015

4:31 PM

6026

48

18

16TH ST & CURTIS ST.

7/1/2015

6:39 PM

9202

83L

2

PARKER/ILIFF

7/2/2015

1:05 PM

6006

0

9

7/2/2015

2:28 PM

6052

9

13

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

SECUREMENT AREA FULL,PASS
UP/ISSUED FREE TRANSFER/NEXTBUS
NOTIFIED/PAX NOTIFIED OF
NEXTTIME/REPORT DVR
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

N

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

N/A

N

Y-VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N/A

N

Y-CASE #15017902

Y-LIFT

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

LIFT MALFUNCTIONS, OPERATES LIFT
MANUALLY, ACCOM ADA PAX

NPI

PAX ACCOM

OPERATOR WAS GOING TO PASS A
PERSON WITH A WHEELCHAIR,HOWEVER
A PASSENGER IN THE TIE DOWN AREA
GOT OFF THE BUS SO NOONE WAS
PASSED. ALL PASSENGERS HAVE BEEN
ACCOMMODATED.

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

CSR

N/A

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

Y-CASE #15017915

N

Y

Y

28 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y-CASE #15018122

N

Y

Y

24 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N-CASE #15018135

Y-LIFT/AUDIO

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

N

S LINCOLN ST/E
ALAMEDA

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE #15018147

N

Y

Y

I MIN

N

Y

Y

Y

2 W/C ON BUS FOLLOWER AT STOP WITH
PAX.

2 W/C

KALAMATH ST. & W.
12TH AVE.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N-CASE #15018158

Y-VIDEO

N

N

20 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX WHO IS WILLING TO
WAIT FOR NEXT BUS:

2 W/C

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

PAX ACCOM

ADA PAX WITH W/C HAS AID WITH
BICYLCE, CAN NOT ACCOMMODATE
BICYCLE, PAX GIVEN FORM
ADA PAX PASSED, SECUREMENT AREA
FULL WITH PAX WITH W/C. FOLLOWER
2015 WILL ACCOM
PER OPERATOR, LIFT DOES NOT
WORKAND AS I WAS EXPLAINING TO ADA,
HISDOG TOOK A SNAP AT
ME.SEEPREVIOUS CALL ABOUT LIFT. SO
THIS ISLOGGED AT PASSUP.

OTHER

2 W/C

LIFT

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 107

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

7/2/2015

1:13 PM

2154

38

4

W. PARK AVE. &
DELGANY ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N-CASE #15018144

Y-VIDEO

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

7/2/2015

1:34 PM

2199

12

2

E. HAMPDEN AVE.&
CLARKSON ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15017692

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

7/2/2015

6:12 PM

6055

20

2

MONTVIEW BLVD. &
GALENA ST.

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y-CASE #15018259

Y-LIFT

N

N

8 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

N

Y

PAX IN W/C CANT BOARD DUE TO TOO
BIG. PAX WENT TO 105

LIFT

7/2/2015

12:51 PM

6104

20

3

18th AVE & EMERSON
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y-CASE #15018262

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON BUS, ONE PAX
EXITS AND MAKES ROOM TO ACCOM ADA
PAX WITH W/C

NPI

7/3/2015

9:56 AM

5233

52

3

BANNOCK ST/W 7TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N/A

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6/BANOCK ON WC PAX ON BOARD. 2
WAITING. BOARD ONE, GIVE TRANSFER,
INFO AND FORM TO OTHER.

2 W/C

7/3/2015

12:38 PM

9203

15L

10

E. COLFAX & W.
JOSEPHINE ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15018280

Y-VIDEO

Y

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

FULL WITH TWO PASSENGERS IN
WHEELCHAIRS. TWO WAITING. 15 BEHIND
CANACCOMMODATE.

2 W/C

7/3/2015

6:00 PM

6055

0

3

S. ELATI &
ENGLEWOOD STATION

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15018283

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 PAX IN
W/C. 2199 WILL ACCOM IN 15 MIN

2 W/C

7/3/2015

8:26 AM

2153

28

5

W 26TH AVE/NEWTON
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N-CASE #15017920

Y-VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

Y- MLX

N

N

Y

WALKER & WHEEL CHAIR. SENT LOOP TO
ACCOMMODATE.

W/C + OMA

7/4/2015

6:54 AM

6020

48

3

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y-CASE #15018287

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

Y

Y

THREE PASSENGERS IN WHEEL CHAIRS.
LOADED TWO. MLX TO PICKUP OTHER.
FORM AND TRANSFERE GIVEN

2 W/C

7/4/2015

4:59 PM

2241

21

3

E ILIFF AVE & S
HAVANA ST.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N/A

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

ADA PAX TOO HEAVY TO PICK UP PAX
.PAX GONE AT TIME OF CALL

LIFT

CURTIS ST/20TH ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

AN ADA PASSENGER IN A
WHEELCHAIRWILL BE PASSED UP
BECAUSE THESECUREMENT AREA IS
OCCUPIED WITHTWO CHAIRS. LX BLOCK 7
WILL HELPOUT.

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

7/6/2015

4:37 PM

2015

48

18

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DATE

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX:THE PAX DECIDED TO LEAVE THE
AREA:WRITE UP
T-E DOWNS FULL PASUP ADA
PAX:PAXWILLING TO WAIT FOR
FOLLOWERSBUS;WRITE UP

Y

Y-CASE #15017899

Y

Y-CASE # 15018384

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

A PASSENGER IN A WHEELCHAIR WILLBE
PASSED UP BECAUSE THESECUREMENT
AREA IS OCCUPIED WITHTWO CHAIRS. LX
BLOCK 7 BUS # 2269WILL PICK HIM UP.
2 ADA ON BUS CANT MOVE. ADAPASSED.
CALLED 2148 WILLACCOMMODATE,

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

7/7/2015

4:05 PM

2087

48

2

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

7/8/2015

11:51 AM

2151

65

4

S. MONACO ST. & E
EVANS AVE.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N-CASE # 15018506

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

26 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

7/8/2015

8:52 AM

9345

16

8

FEDERAL BLVD & W.
HOWARD PL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15018507

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

7/8/2015

7:41 AM

2199

48

2

STEELE ST/E BEEKMAN

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y-CASE #15017922

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

7/9/2015

2:41 PM

1611

MALL

41

16TH ST. & STOUT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

N

N

1 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

7/9/2015

2:38 PM

6060

15

3

COLFAX & VINE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

N

N

8 MINS

N

Y

N

N

7/9/2015

7:48 AM

2260

52

13

BANNOCK & 13TH

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

Y - VIDEO

Y

N

N/A

Y

N

N

N

OP SAID PAX WAS ACCOMMODATED
BYANOTHER BUS AT TIME OF CALL.
CLEAR
CALLED DISPATCH IN ANTICIPATION OF A
ADA PAX PASS UP, NO PASS UP
OCCURRED
ADA AREA FULL /PAX TO GET
FOLLOWER1604 MALL/26 CALLED PAX
ACCMD1446/PAX GIVEN PASSUP
FORM/OPP TODO REPORT /DVR
SECUREMENT AREA FULL. PAX LEFT TO
CATCH NEXT BUS, NO TRANSFER GIVEN
HAD PASS.
LIFT WAS NOT PROPERLY WORKING

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

NPI

2 W/C

2 W/C
LIFT

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 108

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y

Y-LIFT

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

N

LIFT WOULD NOT WORK MANUALLY,MALE
PAX IN WC SIAD HE WOULDCONTINUE ON
HIS OWN TO KINGSOOPERS ON
BROADWAY. OPERATORIS REQUESTING

LIFT

7/9/2015

8:04 AM

3976

35

1

E HAMPDEN
AVE/SPENNSYLVANIA
ST

7/10/2015

2:41 PM

2291

31

32

W. 47TH AVE. &
FEDERAL BLVD.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

Y

Y

7/10/2015

1:07 PM

6010

0

5

BROADWAY/5TH

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE#15018606

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

7/11/2015

4:32 PM

2036

48

5

16TH ST. & CURTIS

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15018528

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

7/11/2015

4:46 PM

2036

48

5

BROADWAY & BLAKE
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15018528

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

7/11/2015

10:57 AM

2031

105

24

E. 1ST. AVE. & HAVANA
ST.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y-LIFT

Y

N

20 MINS

Y-MLX

Y

Y

Y

7/13/2015

12:37 PM

5261

15

2

MONACO & COLFAX

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y - CASE #15018978

N

N

N

6 MINS

N

N

N

N

7/13/2015

1:07 PM

6135

12

14

DOWNING ST/E 29TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

7/13/2015

7:34 AM

2200

48

3

BROADWAY/
LAWRENCE ST.

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N - CASE#15018689

N

N

N

4 MINS

N

N

N

N

7/13/2015

3:45 PM

5007

31

30

FEDERAL & 52ND

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

N

7/14/2015

4:30 PM

6044

48

18

16TH & CURTIS

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE # 15019354

N

Y

Y

27 MINS

N

Y

N

N

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC
NOROOM ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
2097ACCO @ 457PM.LOWER TO ACCOM

2 W/C

HAVANA ST &
ALAMEDA

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

PASSED UP 1 PERSON WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 PERSONS WITH ELECTRIC WC
ON BOARD/ PASS UP FORM WAS ISSUED/
FOLLOWER CONTACTED BUS 6100
ACCOMODATEDAT 12:15

2 W/C

7/14/2015

12:09 PM

6071

105

1

Y

Y - CASE #15019363

N

N

N

6 MINS

N

Y

N

7/14/2015

12:04 PM

6071

105

1

HAVANA ST/E 1ST AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y - CASE #15019358

N

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

N

7/14/2015

12:14 PM

2012

0

10

18TH ST/STOUT ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y - CASE # 15018510

Y - LIFT

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

N

7/15/2015

11:31 AM

6163

76

7

WADSWORTH BLVD. &
W. 13TH. AVE.

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N

Y

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

2 ADA ON BUS. CANT MOVE ADAPASSED .
CALLED 524. OP TRAINED ON CORRECT
PROCEDURE.
PASSED (1) ADA PASSENGER
BECAUSEBOTH SECUREMENT AREAS
HAVEMOBILITY DEVICES AND NO ONE IS
ABLETO TRANSFER TO A REGULAR
SEAT.OPERATOR ISSUED A TRANSFER
ANDPAPER WORK FOR PASS UP.
FOLLOWERWILL ACCO
2 ADA PAX ON BUS CANT MOVE.
OPPASSED FOLLOWER2013
HAVE 2 WC ON BUS.PASSING
1WCBDWY/BLAKE. ADV POLICY; SENT
MLX 42093 TO ACCO ADA PAX. 535PM
CHAIR TOO LARGE FOR 2000, AIRPORT
LOOP TO ACCOM
BOTH SECUREMENT AREAS
FULL/PAXREFUSED PASSUP
PAPERWORK/PAXACCOM BY NEXT
BU/REPORT/DVR
HAD 2-ADA ON BUS. PASSED 1-ADA
NOROOM. RTE 28 ACCO ADA PAX. OK.
ADVPOLICY. OPER BY MISTAKE GAVE
THEWRONG PASSUP FORM COPY TO
ADA.ADV.
OPERATOR PASSED ADA
PASSENGERGAVE HIM A TRANSFER
ROUTE 44 TO ACCOM, NO BOOK FOR ADA
PASS UP FORM
AFTER REVIEW THERE WAS NO ADA PASS
UP

PASSED UP 1 PERSON WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 PERSONS WITH ELECTRICT
WCON BOARD/ PASS UP FORM
ANDTRANSFERS WERE ISSUED/
FOLLOWERCONTACTED BUS 6100
ACCOMODATEDAT 12:11PM
OPERATOR STATED THE LIFT WILL NOT
WORK. PAX IN A WALKER TOLD THE
OPERATOR THAT THEY ARE GOING TO
TAKE THE FOLLOWER. LIFT MOTOR
BURNED.
2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD/ BUS 6165
WILLACCO. OP TO GO THROUGH ADA
RETRAINING

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C

LIFT

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

NPI

2 W/C

LIFT

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 109

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

2 W/C

7/15/2015

5:04 PM

6023

48

4

16TH ST. & CURTIS

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE # 15019365

N

Y

N

23 MINS

N

N

N

N

WHILE FILLING OUT ADA PAX PASS UP
PAPER THE PAX IN WHEEL CHAIR
VERBALLY ASAULTED OP AS TO WHERE
HE COULD PUT THAT PAPE. AFTER BEING
VERBALLY ABUSE, AND WE DID NOT CALL
BACK SOON EOUGH, DRIVER LEFT PAX.

7/16/2015

12:47 PM

9378

15L

14

17TH ST. & CHAMPA
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15018707

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

N

A PASSENGER IN A WHEELCHAIR WILLBE
PASSED UP BECAUSE BOTH SIDESOF THE
SECUREMENT AREA AREOCCUPIED WITH
CHAIRS. THEFOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

7/16/2015

3:05 PM

1620

MALL

40

16TH ST. & CHAMPA
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15018964

N

N

N

2 MINS

N

Y

N

N

FULL BUSS AREA /PAX DID NOT WANT
FORM/FOLLOWER DID ACCMD 4 MINS
/1610 MALL29/DVR

2 W/C

7/16/2015

4:21 PM

9329

16

2

CHEROKEE ST &
COURT PL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15019367

N

Y

Y

13 MINS

N

Y

N

N

HAVE 2- WC ON THE BUS ;PASSING 1WCNO ROOM. ADV POLICY;FOLLOWER
9350SAID NO ADA THERE @ 432PM

2 W/C

N

HAVE 2-WC PAX ON BUS ;PASSED 1WCAT
DOWNING;NO ROOM; FOLLOWERWAS
BEHIND ME AND BOARDED ADA ATTHE
SAME TIME THAT I WAS THERE.1141AM.
ADV .

2 W/C

2 W/C

7/16/2015

11:41 AM

6087

15

1

7/16/2015

2:23 PM

5095

20

31

7/16/2015

3:14 PM

1610

MALL

29

7/16/2015

12:47 PM

9378

15L

14

E. COLFAX & W
DOWNING ST

E 18TH AVE/EMERSON
ST

16th Street Mall &
Champa St
17TH ST. & CHAMPA
ST.

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

CSR #316848

N/A

Y- CASE #15018956

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

CSR

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

2 W/C

12:59 PM

5183

40

7

S Colorado Blvd &
Dakota Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

76

7

TRANSIT WAY &
UPTOWN

ADA PAX
PASS UP

COLFAX &
WADSWORTH
COLFAX &
WADSWORTH

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

N

Y

N

OP HAD ADA PASS UP / OP HAD FULL BUS
BOTH W/C SEC AREAS WERE FULL / OP
DID NOT FILL OUT PASS UP BOOK / OP
DID NOT PUSH THE #12 BUTTON / OP IS
NOT CLEAR ON ADA POLICY TO DO RPT /
DVR

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL

2 W/C
NPI
2 W/C

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

N

THERE WASN'T A PASS UP, PAX HAD AN
OVER SIZED BAG AND DIDN'T WANT TO
MOVE IT.

Y

Y

N

Y

N

11 MINS

N

Y

N

N

2 W/C WERE ALREADY ON THE BUS

7/21/2015

12:01 PM

5229

76

11

7/21/2015

3:25 PM

5172

38

26

W 38th Ave & Reed St

7/21/2015

5:01 PM

5183

6

52

15th St & Cleveland Pl

7/21/2015

1:31 PM

9319

15L

31

Colfax Ave & Josephine
CSR #317407
St

N/A

7/21/2015

4:55 PM

2006

52

26

Bannock St & Speer Blvd CSR #317339

N/A

7/23/2015

11:36 AM

9359

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Lipan St

7/23/2015

11:36 AM

9359

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Lipan St

N

10 MINS

7/20/2015

6168

Y

Y

E COLFAX AVE LOGAN
ST

11:35 AM

N

Y

5

7/21/2015

1 MIN

N

15

7

N

Y

6107

76

N

Y

10:34 AM

5091

Y - VIDEO

ADA PAX
PASS UP

7/17/2015

5:44 PM

N - CASE #15019366

PAX IN MOBILITY DEVICE PASSED
ATLOCATION. RESERVED SEATING
AREAFULL WITH DEVICES THAT
CANNOTCOLLAPSE. FOLLOWER IN 2092
WILLACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

7/20/2015

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

SECUREMENT AREA FULL, 2 W/C, PAX
HAD BUS PASS
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, PAX HAD
MONTHLY PASS
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, PAX LEFT
AREA BEFORE OP GOT OFF WITH
DISPTACH
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

ERROR

Y

N

N

N

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

N

Y

Y

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

N

N

N

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT
BUS

W/C + OMA

DUP
Y

Y-CASE #15019066
Y- CASE #15019241
DUP
Y - CASE #15020082

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

REASON

2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C
CSR
CSR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 110

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

7/24/2015

12:35 PM

5047

6

5

7/24/2015

12:55 AM

9320

15L

16

7/24/2015

12:57 AM

6067

15

42

7/24/2015

12:57 AM

6067

15

42

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

17th St & California St [ Z
N/A
CSR #317672
Y
Stop ] (NODE)
Colfax Ave & Josephine
ADA PAX
DUP
DUP
St
PASS UP
ADA PAX
DUPLICATE DUPLICATE
Colfax Ave & Broadway
PASS UP
ADA PAX
Y - CASE #15N
Colfax Ave & Broadway
PASS UP
020346

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N/A

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLIC

CSR

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUPLICATE

N

Y

DUPLICATE DUPLICATE
N

28 MINS

DUPLICATE
N

DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
DUPLICATEDUPLICATE DUPLICATE
ERROR.
DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
N
N
Y
ERROR.

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

N

PAX WITH WC WAS TRAVELING WITH PAX
WITH BYCYLCE, THEY WANTED TO RIDE
TOGETHER. THERE WERE ALREADY TWO
BIKES ON THE BIKE RACK THEY DECIDED
TO NOT BOARD THE BUS

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

NPI

OTHER

7/24/2015

6:15 PM

5183

12

52

Downing St & Colfax Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

7/24/2015

12:55 PM

9320

15L

16

Colfax Ave & Josephine
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15020412

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

BOTH WHEELCHAIR SPACES WERE
OCUPIED/PAX LEFT BEHIND DID NOT
WANT AN ADA PASS UP SHEET AND WAS
WILLING TO WAIT FOR THE NEXT BUS

W/C + OMA

7/25/2015

5:29 PM

6052

48

3

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15020541

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

47 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PAX DID NOT WANT PASS UP FORM AND
WAS WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT 48

2 W/C

7/25/2015

6:35 PM

6152

31

32

Decatur / Federal Station
Gate F

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

REQUESTED
FROM RTD

N

Y

Y

18 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 WC

2 W/C

7/26/2015

11:38 AM

9317

15L

9

Colfax Ave/Quebec St

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 w/c pax on board/ bus 9302 will accom

2 W/C

7/26/2015

12:40 PM

5243

88

3

88th Ave & Washington
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

7/27/2015

4:27 PM

6046

48

18

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

Y

Y - CASE #15021010

N

Y

Y

34 MINS

N

N

N

Y

7/27/2015

2:30 PM

2230

10

Y

Y - NOT
Y
Y ENOUGH POWER TO LIFT PASSENGER

Y

20 MINS

Y

Y

N

N

LIFT NOT WORKING

7/27/2015

4:06 PM

5169

12

51

Corona St & 12th Ave

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

N

THE VIDEO SKIPS, BUT IT LOOKS LIKE
ONE PAX WITH OMA WASN'T ABLE TO
BOARD DUE TO PAX WITH WC AND OMA

7/28/2015

2:36 PM

6053

0

14

15th St & Cleveland Pl

N

N

N

0 MIN

N

N

N

N

NOTHING IN MAX

2 W/C

15

S Broadway & W Quincy
Ave

Y - VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N

Y

"NO ADA PASS UP 66WB LITTLETONBLVD"

NPI

2 W/C

DUP

7/28/2015

2:27 PM

2081

0

9th Ave & Colorado Blvd

7/29/2015

3:12 PM

6021

12

16

Hampden Ave & S
Pennsylvania St

7/29/2015

11:39 PM

6095

15

1

COLFAX/HIGH

7/29/2015

3:40 PM

2014

12

18

S Downing St & Harvard
Ave

7/29/2015

12:25 PM

6095

15

1

COLFAX/PEARL

7/30/2015

12:13 PM

6095

105

3

S Havana St & Alameda
Ave

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

REQ
N/A

Y
Y - CASE #15020304
N - CASE #15019975

OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 INSTEAD OF
MESSAGE 27 FOR SECURENENT
CONFLICT.
HAVE 2-ADA ON BUS;PASSING 1 ADA. NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6027
ACCO PAX @ 502PM.

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C
LIFT

W/C + OMA

ERROR

Y

Y - CASE #15020311

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

PASSED UP LADY WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 OTHER PASSENGERS WITH WC
ON BOARD AND UNABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE A 3RD/ PASSUP FORM
WAS ISSUED TRANSFERS WAS REFUSED/
FOLLOWER CONTACTED BUS 2014 DID
NOT FIND

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

N/A

Y - CASE #15020300

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

PASSENGER WITH WC NOT FOUND

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y - CASE #15020559

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WIT ONE PAX IN
W/C AND ONE PAX USING A WALKERGAVE TRANSFER FOLLOWER TO ACCOM

W/C + OMA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15020324

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

TIE DOWWNS FULL HAD TO PASSUP ADA
PAX:WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT
BUS:

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

REASON

NPI

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 111

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

7/30/2015

12:11 PM

6095

105

3

S Havana St & Alameda
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

7/30/2015

11:06 AM

2057

15

8

COLFAX AVE/AURORA
CT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y - LIFT

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

7/30/2015

2:26 PM

2057

15

8

COLFAX AVE/FRANKLIN
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y - LIFT

Y

Y

8 MINS

7/30/2015

11:39 AM

6078

15

1

COLFAX/HIGH

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N

N

Y

N

10 MINS

SMITH RD/QUENTIN

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

COLFAX/PARK AVE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

7/30/2015

12:09 PM

1407

121

1

7/30/2015

11:39 AM

6078

15

1

7/31/2015

12:02 PM

2100

3

17

7/31/2015

7:26 AM

2827

BV

1

W Alameda Ave & S
CSR #318407
Hooker St
US 36 & Broomfield PnR
ADA PAX
Gate L
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15020575

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N/A

Y- CASE #15020322

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR CALLED IN FALLBACK WITH A
SECOND ADA PASS UP/ ADA AREA FULL
WITH MOBILITY DEVICES/ FORM/ DVR/
CONTACT FOLLOWER RT 15/9 1405 NO
CONTACT/ BAD RADIO
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW POLICY
DUPLICATE

LIFT

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

CSR
DUP

ST/ WHEELCHAIR DOOR WON`T
OPEN/BOARDING FOLLOWER RIGHT NOW
/BV32 1507/ OPERATOR STATED IT
WORKED AT PRETRIP, REQUESTED
OPERATOR TRY WITH THE SMALL
WRENCH INSIDE THE BUS. OPERATOR
LATER HAD ANOTHER OPE
OPERATOR PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY
ERROR
ADA PAX W WALKER PASSED FULL OPP
GAVE PASSUP FORM FOLLOWER 16/4
9356 TO ACCMD
DAVE SESACK`S CALL: 2 ADA PAXS ON
BUS 1 PASSED UP BOARDED THE
REGULAR 15
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, OP DID NOT
FOLLOW PROCEDURE WILL ATTEND
RETRAINING
LARGE WC ON BOARD THE OTHER, OP
DID NOT GIVE PAX FORM OR CONTACT
DISPATCH

W/C + OMA

N - CASE #15021009

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y - CASE #15021331

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15021008

N

N

N

15

N

N

N

Y

BANNOCK / 7TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N

Y - VIDEO

N

N

N/A

N

N

Y

N

2

Main St & 8th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

NO VIDEO ON THIS BUS

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

48

1

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

Y

N - CASE #15021007

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 ADA ON BUS CANT MOVE. LX 7PULLING
OUT WILL ACCOMMODATE

2 W/C

9336

16

9

W Colfax Ave & Chase St

Y

Y - CASE #15020590

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD /BUS 9348WILL
ACOM

2 W/C

6107

43

5

MLK Blvd & Ivy St

Y

Y - CASE # 15020567

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

PAX IN WC ON BOARD PAX WITH WALKER
REFUSING TO MOVE FROM ADA AREA/
PAX IN WC AT FRONT DOOR NOT
MOVING/S42/ PAX ACCOM /DVR

W/C + OMA

7/31/2015

7:26 AM

2827

BV

7/31/2015

8:33 PM

43007

205

7/31/2015

5:16 PM

9344

16

21

E COLFAX
AVE/BROADWAY

8/1/2015

6:44 PM

9202

15L

9

COLFAX/BROADWAY

8/1/2015

9:03 AM

5253

52

19

8/1/2015

11:35 AM

3959

324

8/2/2015

9:03 AM

2221

8/2/2015

12:52 PM

8/2/2015

8:43 AM

28th St & Valmont Rd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y - CASE #15020453

OPERATOR CALLED IN FALLBACK
STATING SHE IS PASSING A MALE PAX IN
A WC/ A PAX IN WC PLUS A VERY LARGE
WALKER ARE IN THE ADA AREA ALREADY.
MALE HAS A PASS/ CALL TO FOLLOWER
TO ACCOMMODATE / FOLLOWER IN

LIFT

N

1

US 36 & Broomfield PnR
Gate L

N

ST LIFT WILL NOT STOW:PAX ON THE 28
BUS OKAY- RESP TO COLFAX BWY EB:
WRITE UP
WC LIFT STILL NOT WORKING HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX:WHO IS WILLING TO
WAIT FOR NEXT BUS:RR - 600LB TEST,
ALL LIFT FUNCTIONS NORMAL WHEN
CHECKED AT DIVISION
FALLBACK- 2 ADA ON BUS CANT MOVE.
OP WILL PASS 1 AT HIGH ST. FOLLOWER
6065

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

REASON

LIFT

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C

OTHER

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 112

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

2 W/C

8/3/2015

10:17 AM

9353

16

3

W Colfax Ave & Pierce St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15020637

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON THE
BUS AT PIERCE MALE BRONCO HAT/
PASSUP FORM AND TRANSFER ISSUED/
FOLLOWER ACCOMODATED BUS 9338

8/3/2015

10:29 AM

9353

16

3

W Colfax Ave & Yates St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15020638

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR.

NPI

Y

Y - CASE #15020648

Y - AUDIO

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

HAVE 2 WC ON THE BUS;OPER WAS
GOING TO PASS 1WC, BUT THE WC ON
THE BUS SAID THEY CAN TURN
SIDEWAYS TO ACCO ANOTHER WC. ADV
FOR SAFETY USE CAUTION. ADA OK.

2 W/C

ADA SECURMENT AREA FULL/FOLLOWER
5 MINS TO ACCMD 9333 RT 16/6 OPP TO
DO REPORT/PASSUP FORM

2 W/C

8/4/2015

3:11 PM

6016

48

2

Steele St & 50th Ave

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

8/5/2015

4:07 PM

9354

16

9

W Colfax Ave &
Tennyson St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15020658

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/5/2015

10:07 AM

5009

31

30

S Federal Blvd & W
Alameda Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

N

N

1 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/5/2015

5:55 AM

6176

11

7

Mississippi Ave & S
Havana St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

8/5/2015

11:00 AM

5114

31

29

S Federal Blvd & W
Louisiana Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

8/6/2015

7:04 PM

5043

3

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

8/6/2015

6:03 PM

6185

52

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

8/6/2015

1:05 PM

5122

66

N

N

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

8/7/2015

4:50 PM

6104

15

8/7/2015

7:40 AM

2016

8/8/2015

11:28 AM

8/8/2015

W Littleton Blvd & S
Cherokee St

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

1

Colfax Ave & Monaco
Pkwy

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y - LIFT

Y

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

48

2

STEELE ST/E 50TH AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021232

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

N

Y

2105

28

2

15TH ST/ BLAKE ST

Y

N

N

N

N

1 HOUR

Y

N

N

Y

5:21 PM

2116

15

2

E COLFAX
AVE/JOSEPHINE ST

Y

N

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/8/2015

2:52 PM

6107

15

4

Colfax Ave & Franklin St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

10

N

N

N

Y

8/8/2015

1:27 AM

6048

0

2

Broadway & W 11th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

8/8/2015

4:31 PM

5148

52

14

Bannock St & Speer Blvd

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

8/9/2015

8:53 AM

6014

48

1

Brighton Blvd & 31st St

Y

N

N

Y

Y

25 MINS

Y

N

N

Y

Alameda Station Gate C
87

W 46th Ave & Zuni St

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WOTH 2
WC,THE NEXT BUS WAS RIGHT BEHIND
AND ACCOM PAX
OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 FOR AN
ACCIDENT
THIS WAS NOT AN ADA PASSENGER PASS
UP, PASSENGER WAS ABLE BODIED BUT
WAS TREATING OTHER PASSENGERS
WRONG.
OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR, ALL
PAX ACCOM
OP PRESSED MESSAGE 12 ON ACCIDENT
OPERAOTR PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY
MISTAKE
THE RAMP WONT MOVE USING THE
SWITCH OR MANUALLY. THE ADA
PASSENGER WILL BE PICKED UP BY THE
FOLLOWER.
BUS HAS ADA SECTION FULL WITH PAX`S
IN MOBILITY DEVICES AND TWO PAX`S
TRYING TO BOARD WITH MOBILITY
DEVICES. FOLLOWER TO ACCOMMODATE
PAX`S. DVR REP REQ
2 ADA ON BUS CANT MOVE. LX 3 SENT TO
ACCOMMODATE
OP PASSED ADA PAX AND COULD NOT
GET A HOLD OF US IN FALLBACK. OP
CONTINUED.
PASSED ADA WC PAX/ PAPERWORK
COMPLETE AND FREE TRANSFER
ISSUED/FOLLOWER CONTACTED TO
WATCH FOR PAX/BUS 6100
MAN HAVING HARD TIME GETTING ONTO
LIFT TO RAISE INTO BUS/OP TOLD MAN HE
COULD NOT GET OUT OF THE SEAT TO
HELP HIM/MAN GOT A LITTLE
VERBAL/ANOTHER PAX ASSISTED THE
MAN TO BOARD/DVR
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, LOOP EXTRA
SENT OUT
2 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ MLX7 BUS 6061
WILL ACCOM

REASON

ERROR

2 W/C
NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

LIFT

OTHER

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

NPI

PAX ACCOM

W/C + OMA

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 113

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

8/9/2015

8:57 AM

6014

48

1

8/9/2015

12:43 PM

9380

15L

11

8/9/2015

8:59 AM

6014

48

1

8/10/2015

10:23 AM

6071

15

8

8/10/2015

12:43 PM

9380

15L

11

8/10/2015

11:48 AM

5233

76

7

8/10/2015

11:27 AM

5233

76

7

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
COLFAX/ HAVANA
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS
ADA PAX
Brighton Blvd & 29th St
PASS UP
ADA PAX
Colfax Ave & Downing St
PASS UP
ADA PAX
Colfax Ave & Havana St
PASS UP
Wadsworth Blvd & W
ADA PAX
Colfax Ave
PASS UP
Wadsworth Blvd & W
ADA PAX
32nd Ave
PASS UP
Brighton Blvd & 29th St

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

N

N

Y

N

25 MINS

Y

N

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ MLX7 BUS 6061
WILL ACCOM

2 W/C

Y

N

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

N

NO RECORD IN MAX. DISPATCH DIDN'T
RESPOND UNTIL ABOTHER BUS ARRIVED,
PER OP.

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP
2 W/C

Y

N

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 PAC IN WC ONBOARD/ BUS 9376 THERE
NOW WILL ACCOM PAX

Y

N - CASE #15021124

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

NO RECORD IN MAXIMUS

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C.

2 W/C
2 W/C
DUP

8/10/2015

12:15 PM

6066

105

1

S Havana St & Yale Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

22MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT
BUS

8/10/2015

10:23 AM

6071

15

8

Colfax Ave & Downing St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

8/10/2015

11:58 AM

5233

76

7

Wadsworth Blvd & W 4th
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

8/11/2015

3:59 PM

2156

48

2

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021923

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

N - CASE #15021832

Y - VIDEO

N

N

N/A

Y

Y

N

OP WAS ABLE TO BOARD PAX WITH
WALKER IN THE EXTRA SEATING AREA
AFTER PRESSING 12, SECUREMENT AREA
FULL,
A PASSENGER IN A WHEELCHAIR WILL BE
PASSED UP BECAUSE THERE IS TWO
CHAIR ON BOARD. THE FOLLOWER WILL
PICK UP.

NPI

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON THE BUS NOT ABLE TO
ACCO 1WC.@ 4594 W ALAMEDA AVE.
WINONA. SILVER CREST SENIOR CENTER.
PAX HAS A RED SHIRT BLK SKIRT. MYRA.
NEEDS 440 WADS WALMART; AND 7984 W
ALAMEDA KINGSOOPERS. R ALA

2 W/C

8/11/2015

9:45 AM

2012

SHOP

30

S FEDERAL BLVD /W
ALAMEDA AVE

8/11/2015

5:17 PM

6062

15

3

Colfax Ave & Yosemite St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021356

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

NO ROOM;PASSED 1 WC; ADV POLICY;
FOLLOWER ACCO ADA @ 517PM. OK

2 W/C

8/11/2015

12:11 PM

2221

0

15

S Broadway & Harvard
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15021451

Y - VIDEO

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PAX WAS ACCOMMONDATED WITH A
TRANSFER AND PASS UP NEXT BUS IN 10
MINS

2 W/C

8/11/2015

12:16 PM

9109

16

6

W Colfax Ave & Kendall
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N - CASE #15021450

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL ADA PAX
WILLING TO WAIT FOR FOLLOWERS BUS

2 W/C

8/11/2015

8:19 AM

2156

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021454

N

Y

N

5 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

8/11/2015

8:22 AM

2156

48

2

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

12:13 PM

9109

16

6

Brighton Blvd & 29th St
W Colfax Ave & Kendall
St

DUP

8/11/2015

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

Y

Y - CASE #15021611

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

DUPLICATE
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

8/11/2015

2:46 PM

2007

48

3

47th Ave & Josephine St

8/11/2015

4:48 PM

2041

0

13

Englewood Pkwy & S
Acoma St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021610

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/12/2015

2:41 PM

9307

83L

4

S Parker Rd & S Havana
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15021744

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DUPLICATE
NO RECORD IN MAXIMUS. OP
ACCIDENTALLY PRESSED BUTTON.
PASSENGER DID NOT WANT ADA FORM
OR TRANSFER THEY WERE OK WAITING
FOR NEXT BUS/ OPERATOR WILL TURN IN
FORM
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP
TWO ADA PAX::FOLLOWER TO ACC THE
PAX

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX:LX IN BUS 6004 WAS
ABLE TO ACC THE PAX
DUPLICATE

REASON

2 W/C
DUP
DUP
NPI

OTHER

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 114

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

REASON

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL:PASSUP ADA
PAX:FOLOWER AT 1218:PAX WILLING TO
WAIT FOR BUS- PAX CALLED TO MAKE
SURE 2 MOBILITY AIDS WERE ON THE
BUS, OPERATOR FOLLOWED PROCEDURE

2 W/C

CSR

8/12/2015

11:45 AM

6047

44

21

40th Ave & Steele St

ADA PAX
PASS UP319756

8/12/2015

7:25 AM

1511

HX

60

US 36 & Flatiron PnR

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021951

Y - LIFT

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/14/2015

12:11 PM

5029

52

12

Bannock St & W 7th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

8/15/2015

5:03 PM

6023

48

1

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021836

N

Y

Y

31 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP/PAPERWORK
COMPLETED/NEXT BUS NOTIFIED

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021865

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR PASSED ADA IN W-CHAIR AT
17TH/CHAMPA,TWO ADA PASSENGERS
ON BOARD IN W-CHAIRS,BLOCK 43 BUS
2033 WAS ABLE TO HIM AT 17TH/WELTON.

2 W/C

Y

Y - CASE #15021837

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PAPERWORK GIVEN/NEXT BUS
CONTACTED

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

N

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

8/15/2015

2:57 AM

6085

15

2

17TH ST/CHAMPA ST

8/15/2015

3:12 PM

6007

0

1

Broadway & Speer Blvd

8/15/2015

9:49 AM

5093

52

12

Lawrence St & 18th St

8/15/2015

8:33 AM

5101

24

3

York St & Colfax Ave

8/17/2015

8:32 AM

2200

48

18

BRIGHTON BLVD/31ST
ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N/A

Y - CASE #15021341

Y - AUDIO

Y

Y

22

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

60 MINS

Y LOOP EXTRA

Y

N

Y

Y

N - CASE #15021826

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

LIFT WOULDN`T DEPLOY,OPERATOR HAD
TO PASS ADA IN W-CHAIR AT FLAT IRON
MALL,
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, OP DID NOT
WAIT FOR DISPATCH TO RETURN CALL,
OP REMINDED OF PROCEDURE

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C.
LOOP EXTRA TO PICK UP.
2 ADA ON BUS AND CANT FOLD OR MOVE.
PASSED 1 IN W/C. FOLLOWER
ACCOMMODATE 2008
2 PAX IN HOLD DOWN AREA/2 WAITING AT
EVANS/DID PAPERWORK AND THEY ARE
OK WAITING FOR FOLLOWER/FOLLOWER
ARR 125P AND NO PAX WITH WC AT LINC
AND EVANS

LIFT

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C

8/17/2015

1:20 PM

6024

0

1

LINCOLN/EVANS

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

8/17/2015

3:10 PM

6012

48

5

Broadway & Lawrence St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021841

N

Y

Y

21 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/17/2015

11:07 AM

6100

15

1

Colfax Ave & Vine St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15021840

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

N

8/17/2015

3:10 PM

6012

48

5

Broadway & Lawrence St

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

8/17/2015

2:56 PM

2035

3

11

Ellsworth Ave & Madison
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15022027

N

N

N

1 HOUR

N

N/A

N

Y

DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR.

NPI

8/18/2015

12:01 PM

6183

76

Wadsworth Blvd & W
13th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL, OP STATED HE
TURNED IN THE FORM WITH DISPTACH

2 W/C

8/18/2015

2:31 PM

1622

MALL

31

16th Street Mall & Welton
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15022029

Y - VIDEO

N

N

4 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/18/2015

4:39 PM

1622

MALL

31

16th Street Mall & Wazee
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15022034

Y - VIDEO

N

N

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/19/2015

8:44 PM

2064

15

41

E COLFAX
AVE/PENNSYLVANIA ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N - CASE #15022030

Y - VIDEO

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

Y - CASE #15021852

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

HAVE 2 WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 2016
ACCO @ 338PM OK.
UNABLE TO CONTACT THE OPERATOR/
WITH RTT OR IN FALLBACK/ SENT
MESSAGE TO CONTINUE AFTER GIVING
FORM/DVR

LIFT NOT WORKING PAX TO GET
FOLLOWER/DID NOT WANT PASSUP
FORM/OPP TO DO REPORT /DVR/TRK TO
MEET TO REPAIR LIFT/T316
PASSED ADA. LIFT NOT WORKING.
FOLLOWER ACCO PAX WITHIN 2MINUTES.
PASSED UP FEMALE WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON
BOARD/ FEMALE WILLING TO WAIT FOR
NEXT RTE 15 REFUSED PASSUP FORM/
FOLLOWER ACCOMODATED BUS 2068 AT
20:56

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

LIFT

LIFT

2 W/C

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 115

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

ST/ PAX IN WC/AREA IS ALREADY FULL
WITH MORE THAN 1 ADA PAX/2143 WILL
ACCOM/FORM/ PAX HAS A PASS/ PAX
TOLD THE OPERATOR HE WANTED
ALTERNATIVE TRANSPORT, NO MLX
AVAILABLE/ PAX ON 2143

W/C + OMA

8/19/2015

1:12 PM

2154

48

3

CURTIS ST/20TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022025

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/20/2015

3:30 PM

2041

48

3

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022275

N

N

N

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/20/2015

4:25 PM

9334

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Harlan
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15022277

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/20/2015

2:37 PM

5072

6

1

13TH & LINCOLN

N

Y

N

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

N

Y

Y

8/20/2015

4:30 PM

9334

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Harlan
St

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

8/21/2015

8:31 AM

3936

27

6

DARTMOUTH AND
DALE

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA WAS FULL WITH 2
OMA

2 OMA

W/C + OMA

8/21/2015

3:31 PM

2017

48

3

Curtis St & 18th St

8/22/2015

2:17 PM

6049

0

5

17th St & Tremont Pl Z
Stop

8/22/2015

6:21 PM

9115

16

1

W HOWARD PL/W
AVONDALE DR

8/22/2015

4:56 PM

6104

15

8

E COLFAX
AVE/BROADWAY

8/22/2015

1:47 PM

9109

16

5

W Colfax Ave & 12th St

8/22/2015

1:51 PM

9109

16

5

W Colfax Ave & 12th St

8/22/2015

1:53 PM

9109

16

5

W Colfax Ave & 12th St

8/23/2015

5:03 PM

9334

16

6

W Colfax Ave & Eaton St

8/24/2015

2:25 PM

5242

31

14

S Federal Blvd & W
Evans Ave Gate G

8/25/2015

1:09 PM

6008

0

10

Broadway & W 1st Ave

8/25/2015

8:43 AM

9326

120X

44

Thornton PnR Gate C

8/25/2015

1:09 PM

6008

0

10

Broadway & W 1st Ave

8/25/2015

8:43 AM

9326

120X

44

Thornton PnR Gate C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

HAVE 2 ADA ON BUS; PASSING 1 WC;NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 2106
ACCO ADA @ 402PM
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS. PASSED 1-WC. ADV
POLICY; FOLLOWER 9351 ACCO ADA @
435PM OK.
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
DUPLICATE

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
DUP

Y

Y - CASE #15022396

N

N

N

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED UP FEMALE WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING A FULL BUS AND 1 PAX WITH WC
& 1 PAX WITH WALKER ON BOARD/
FEMALE REFUSED PASSUP FORM AND
ROLLED AWAY/

Y

Y - CASE #15022317

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 PAX IN WC/ BUS 2166 WILL ACCOM

2 W/C

Y

Y - CASE #15022387

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP/PAPERWORK GIVEN/NEXT
BUS NOTIFIED

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022393

N

Y

Y

16 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASSENGER PASSED UP BECAUSE
BOTH SIDES OF THE SECUREMENT AREA
ARE FULL. THE FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022398

N

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX AREA FULL /OPP GAVE FORM
FOLLOWER 7 MINS 16/7 9348 CALLED TO
ACCM 1403/OPP TO DO REPORT /DVR

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

Y - CASE #15022283

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PASS/PAPERWORK ISSUED AND
NEXT BUS NOTIFIED
SECUREMENT AREA WAS FULL WITH 2
W'C. PAS LEFT BEFORE THE OP WAS
ABLE TO GIVE HER ANYTHING

2 W/C
2 W/C

Y

N - CASE #15022509

Y - VIDEO

N

N

4 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR CALLED IN FALLBACK
STATING SHE HAS 2 PAX IN WC`S
ALREADY ON THE BUS AND ANOTHER
WAITING TO BOARD PLUS A FEMALE WITH
A STROLLER WANTING TO BOARD WHO
WON`T FOLD UP HER STROLLER.

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

N/A

Y - CASE #15022589

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

NO PAX PASSED UP /FULL BUS NO ADA
PASSED

REASON

2 W/C

NPI

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

ERROR

Packet Pg. 116

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

8/26/2015

11:20 AM

6028

20

4

18th Ave & Emerson St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15022636

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/26/2015

9:20 AM

5024

15

42

COLFAX AVE/ONIEDA
ST

DISPATCH
CREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

Y

N

1 MIN

N

Y

N

N

8/26/2015

3:56 PM

6085

105

5

Havana St & 1st Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

16 MINS

N

N

N

Y

8/26/2015

2:21 PM

6179

31

24

FEDERAL & 17TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

8/26/2015

10:36 AM

9348

16

3

Decatur / Federal Station
Gate E

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022987

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/26/2015

10:21 AM

9348

16

3

W Colfax Ave & Yates St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022725

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/27/2015

10:19 AM

6110

15

1

Colfax Ave & Broadway

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15022961

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/27/2015

4:32 PM

6013

48

18

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

N

HAD TO PASS UP AN ADA PASSENGER
BACK AT CURTIS/16TH DUE TO A FULL
BUS. THE FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

8/27/2015

12:39 PM

2093

0

9

S Broadway & Iliff Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15023082

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL WC PAX WAS
WILLING TO WAIT FOR FOLLWERS BUS

2 W/C

8/27/2015

12:41 PM

2093

0

9

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

11:24 AM

5211

52

11

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

8/28/2015

Englewood Pkwy & S
Acoma St
Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

8/28/2015

3:29 PM

2154

48

3

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

DISPATCH
CREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N

N

Y

N

25 MINS

N

Y

N

N

UNABLE TO ACCOMMODATE ADA
PASSENGER, ISSUED TRANSFER AND
PAPER WORK. FOLLOWER WILL BE ABLE
TO ASSIST PASSED UP PASSENGER

2 W/C

8/28/2015

1:38 PM

6109

15

10

Colfax Ave & High St

CSR #322081

N/A

N

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

8/28/2015

1:52 PM

2160

0

6

N/A

Y - CASE #15023060

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

8/28/2015

11:30 AM

5211

52

11

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

Y

N - CASE #15023088

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Broadway & W Colfax
CSR #322082
Ave
Broadway & W Colfax
ADA PAX
Ave
PASS UP
Decatur / Federal Station
ADA PAX
Gate H
PASS UP

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DATE

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX:PAX WILLING TO WAIT
FOR NEXT BUS IN 10 MINUTES
THE OPERATOR DIDN'T RADIO DISPATCH
ABOUT AN ADA PASS UP AT
COLFAX/ONEIDA
WILL HAVE TO PASS UP AN ADA
PASSENGER BECAUSE BOTH
SECUREMENT SPACES IS OCCUPIED
WITH 2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS. THE
FOLLOWER BUS # 6093 WILL PICK UP.
SECUREMENT AREA WAS FULL WITH ADA
PASSENGERS; OP DID NOT PRESS
MESSAGE 12 FOR PASS UP, WAS
COACHED ON PROCEDURE
ST/ 2 ADA PAX IN BUS/ 1 ADA PAX
WAITING TO BOARD, FORM, FOLLOWER
CONTACTED 9345/ DVR
ST/ 2 ADA PAX ON BUS ALREADY AND A
THIRD WAITING TO BOARD, FORM AND
INFO ABOUT FOLLOWER BEING THERE AT
1033A BUS 9345
HAD 3 WALKERS AND 2-WC ON
BUS;PASSED 1WC NO ROOM;ADV POLICY;
FOLLOWER ACCO WC PAX AT 1020AM.
OK.

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
DUPLICATE
ISSUED TRANSFER AND
PAPERWORK/NEXT BUS NOTIFIED
NEXT BUS AT 3:10P PAX WAS GIVIN ADA
PASS UP FORM REFUSED TRAANSFER
THEY HAVE A PASS
2 PAX IN WC ON BOARD/ MLX 7 BUS 2042
WILL ACCOM
FULL BUS PAX TO GET FOLLOWER
/16MINS /PASSUP FORM TRANSFER /OPP
TO DO REPORT /DVR

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

CSR
CSR
DUP

8/29/2015

2:45 PM

9120

16

9

8/29/2015

2:59 PM

9120

16

9

W Colfax Ave & Pierce St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15023089

Y - VIDEO

Y

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/30/2015

8:57 AM

6040

48

1

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15023077

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

N

Y

8/31/2015

8:34 AM

6044

48

18

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15023178

N

Y

Y

16 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

8/31/2015

4:09 PM

5169

10

7

9th Ave & Clermont St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

8/31/2015

1:26 PM

6162

52

Alameda Station Gate B

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL, OP STATED HE
TURNED IN THE FORM WITH DISPTACH

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C

REASON

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 117

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

8/31/2015

12:08 PM

6127

66

3

S Broadway & W Littleton
Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA WAS FULL WITH 2
W/C

2 W/C

9/1/2015

6:01 PM

2294

15

1

BROADWAY/CLEVELAN
D

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15023366

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP AT BROADWAY/CLEVELAND
DUE TO BOTH SECUREMENT AREAS
BEING OCCUPIED. PAX OKAY WAITING
FOR THE FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

9/1/2015

3:32 PM

2036

48

2

CURTIS/16TH ST

ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

Y

N

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP ON CURTIS AT 16TH DUE TO
BOTH SECUREMENT AREAS BEING
OCCUPIED. THE FOLLOWER. MLX BLOCK
78 BUS # 6043 WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

9/1/2015

8:37 AM

2200

48

18

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023169

N

Y

Y

16 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/1/2015

11:25 AM

9310

15L

15

Colfax Ave & Havana St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15023372

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y- CASE #15024044

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

9/1/2015

8:26 AM

6061

15

6

E COLFAX AVE/BEELER
ST

9/1/2015

11:14 AM

5065

76

31

32ND & WADSWORTH

9/1/2015

12:08 PM

6074

21

6

Centerpointe & Sable
Transfer Center

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023379

N

Y

Y

27 MINS

N

Y

N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DATE

FULL BUS PAX TO GET FOLLOWER
/16MINS /PASSUP FORM TRANSFER /OPP
TO DO REPORT /DVR
HAD TO PASS UP A PASSENGER IN A
WHEELCHAIR BECAUSE THE
SECUREMENT AREA IS OCCUPIED. HE
WAS ACCOMMODATED BY THE 15 THAT
PULLED RIGHT BEHIND THE BUS.

2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

PASSED UP PERSON WITH WC DUE TO 2
PERSONS WITH WC ON BOARD/ PASSUP
FORM ISSUED FOLLOWER CONTACTED
BUS 6115 ACCOMODATED AT 530PM

2 W/C

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL,

2 W/C

Y

HAVE ADA WAITING TO BOARD; RAMP
WONT DEPLOY CANT USE IT MANUALLY.
ADV POLICY FOLLOWER 6063 ACCO ADA
@ 1235PM.OK. T316 SAID NO PROBLEM
FOUND BUS IS OK. - NO PROBLEM FOUND
WITH RAMP WHEN CHECKED AT DIVISION

LIFT

LIFT

Y

N- CASE #15023367

Y- VIDEO

N

N

N/A

N/A

N

N

Y

LIFT COULD NO LIFT ADA CHAIR WEIGHT
ISSUE?/OPP FILLED OUT PASSUP FORM/
PAX HAD BUS PASS AND LEFT AREA MAY
HAVE GOTTEN ON ANOTHER BUS /OPP TO
DO REPORT /DVR

Y

N

N

N

N

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

NO RECORDED CALL ON MAXIMUS
INCIDENT LOOKUP

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

N

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C
PASSENGERS

2 W/C

Y

N- CASE #15025395

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

1 PAX IN WC AND 4 PAX WITH WALKERS
ON BOARD/ PASSED 1 PAX WITH A
WALKER/ BUS 6048 WILL ACCOMOPERATOR CALLED ON CELL PHONE

W/C + OMA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15023369

Y-VIDEO

N

N

22 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/1/2015

3:27 PM

2298

73

2

S Yosemite St &
Mansfield Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/2/2015

2:41 PM

6024

0

13

Broadway & 13th Ave

9/2/2015

9:34 AM

5101

76

7

S Wadsworth Blvd & W
Alameda Ave

9/2/2015

11:55 AM

6049

20

6

18TH/EMERSON

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK
ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/3/2015

2:42 PM

2098

28

4

W Byron Pl & Sheridan
Blvd

9/3/2015

12:11 PM

9313

83L

1

9TH/BDWY

ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

Y

N

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

9/3/2015

3:15 PM

6035

0

5

BROADWAY/W
ARCHER PL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023764

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL W MOBILITY DEVICES/NO
PASSUP FORM /S31 MEET
/BUS/FOLLOWER ACCMD PAX
2007/28/15/OPP O DO REPORT /DVR
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIR ONBOARD/
UNABLE TO BOARD 3RD PAX IN
WHEELCHAIR AT 9TH/ MLX 2 BUS 2031
WILL ACCOM
3 ADA PAX PASSED /MOBILITY AREA FULL
/2 PAX ACCMD BY FOLLOWER.

2 OMA

2 W/C

REASON

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 118

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

9/3/2015

3:15 PM

6035

0

5

BROADWAY/W
ARCHER PL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023764

N

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/3/2015

3:15 PM

6035

0

5

BROADWAY/W
ARCHER PL

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023764

N

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/3/2015

1:50 PM

9344

16

6

BDWY/CHEYENNE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y- CASE #15023390

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

9/3/2015

3:38 PM

9344

16

6

W COLFAX AVE/LAMAR
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N- CASE #15025393

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

14 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

9/3/2015

12:17 PM

6031

0

6

Broadway & 7th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023385

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/3/2015

2:04 PM

6035

0

5

I-25 & Broadway Station
Gate C1

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15023759

Y- RADIO

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

Y

N

N

9/3/2015

12:38 PM

5119

31

21

FEDERAL & 10TH AVE

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

9/3/2015

12:13 PM

5119

31

21

ALAMEDA & FEDERAL

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

9/3/2015

12:31 PM

5119

31

21

FEDERAL & 8TH

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

9/3/2015

2:43 PM

6185

52

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH TWO WC

2 W/C

9/3/2015

11:26 AM

5162

52

11

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

TWO W/C ALREADY A BOARD THE BUS

2 W/C

9/4/2015

8:38 AM

6029

0

6

GRANT ST/E COLFAX
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- Case #15024310

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/4/2015

1:52 PM

2023

3

2

W Alameda Ave & S
Tejon St

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

9/4/2015

2:41 PM

9308

15L

32

Colfax Ave & Tamarac St

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

9/4/2015

6:07 PM

6036

0

10

E SPEER BLVD/E 6TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

N

N

Bannock St & Speer Blvd

9/4/2015

1:11 PM

6066

15

5

Colfax Ave & Park Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/4/2015

8:55 AM

6029

0

6

Broadway & W 13th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/4/2015

7:15 AM

2298

11

81

9/4/2015

10:36 AM

9336

16

3

Mississippi Ave &
Colorado Blvd
W Colfax Ave & Raleigh
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y
Y

N- CASE #15023929
Y- CASE #15023758

Y

N

Y

Y- CASE #15024304

N

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y- Case #15024310

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A
N

N-CASE #15023841
Y- CASE #15024303

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DATE

3 ADA PAX PASSED /MOBILITY AREA FULL/
PAX TO GET BUS 0/14 TO
ENGLWOOD/12MINS
3 ADA PAX PASSED /MOBILITY AREA FULL/
PAX TO GET BUS 0/14 TO
ENGLWOOD/12MINS
ADA AREA FULL FOLLOWER ON SCENE
OPP GAVE PAX FORM COPY /PAX ACCMD
/OPP TO DO REPRT/DVR
ADA PASSUP CLFX JAY STREET DUE TO
HAVING 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON
BOARD/ PASSUP FORM WAS ISSUED/
MALE 70`S / FOLLOWER BUS 9358
ACCOMODATED AT 15:52
HAVE 2-WC; ON BUS; PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6009
ACCO @ 1223PM- PAX LEFT THE SCENE
NO RECORDED CALL ON MAXIMUS
INCIDENT LOOKUP- SECUREMENT AREA
FULL W/ 2 ADA PAX IN W/C
OPERATOR HAVE 2 W/C ON BOARD THE
BUS
OPERATOR HAVE 2 W/C ON BOARD THE
BUS
OPERATOR HAVE 2 W/C ON BOARD THE
BUS

2 ADA ON BOARD CANT MOVE. 1 PAX
WITH WALKER WILL WAIT FOR
FOLLOWER- HAD BUS PASS
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIR ONBOARD/ BUS
2008 BLOCK 13 WILL ACCOM
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIR ONBOARD/ BUS
9315 WILL ACCOM
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS. PASSING 1-WC; NO
ROOM ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6039
ACCO @ 613PM OK

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C
2 W/C

Y

HAVE 2-WC; PASSING 3-WC; NO
ROOM..ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6083
ACCO 1-WC @ 130PM AND NEXT
FOLLOWER 2272 SAID NO PAX @ 125PM

2 W/C

N

Y

OP PASSED 1 W/C FOLLOWER IS ON
SCENE AND HAS PICKED UP PAX
CONTINUE

2 W/C

N/A

N

Y

OPERATOR PRESSED #12 IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

N/A

N

Y

WAS ABLE TO BOARD ALL ADA PAX

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

9/5/2015

12:56 PM

1610

MALL

5

16th Street Mall & South
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15023934

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

3 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS;NO ROOM; PASSED 1WC; PAX TOOK THE FOLLOWER @
1256PM. OK

9/5/2015

4:05 PM

5130

21

7

ILIFF & HAVANA

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 W/C

2 W/C

9/5/2015

3:51 PM

6009

14

2

I-25 & Broadway Station
Gate E1

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15023767

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL:HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX WHO IS WILLING TO
WAIT FOR FOLLOWERS BUS

2 W/C

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 119

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

Y

2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS ON BOARD/ NO
MLX / FOLLOWER BUS 2161 WILL ACCOM

2 W/C

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP BECAUSE
BOTHSECUREMENT AREAS OCCUPIED.
MLX BLOCK 3 WILL ACCOMMODATE.

2 W/C

N

N

N

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP/PAPERWORK AND
TRANSFER GIVEN/NEXT BUS NOTIFIED

2 W/C

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASSUP/PAPERWORK AND
TRANSFER GIVEN/NEXT BUS ON TIME

2 W/C

N

N

Y

Y

45 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING 1WC NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER 6033
ACCO @ 715PM.

2 W/C

N

Y- CASE #15024305

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

OP HAD 2 ADA ON BUS. FOLLOWER WITH
PAX AND ACCOMMODATED. CONTINUE

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH PAX WITH
W/C

2 W/C

N

Y

ADA PASS AT 29/BRIGHTON WAS TOLD HE
COULD CATCH THE RT 9, BUT HE WASN?T
INTERESTED IN THAT AND SAID HE
WOULD WAIT FOR THE NEXT 48

2 W/C

HAD 3-WC WAITING COULD ONLY LOAD 2WC; PASSED 1-WC. NO ROOM ADV
POLICY; FOLLOWER 2199 ACCO @ 500PM.

2 W/C

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

9/6/2015

4:05 PM

6029

48

2

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N- CASE #15025382

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

9/7/2015

8:17 PM

2008

48

5

15th St & Champa St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15024021

N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

9/7/2015

1:11 AM

6052

31

24

S Federal Blvd & W
Mississippi Ave

N

N

N

N

N

N/A

9/7/2015

10:40 AM

3933

36

4

OXFORD & JULIAN

N

Y

N

Y

N

9/7/2015

1:35 PM

2041

48

2

Curtis St & 18th St

Y

Y-CASE #15023942

N

N

9/8/2015

4:47 PM

6033

48

18

CURTIS ST/15TH ST

Y

N

N

9/8/2015

4:27 PM

6033

48

18

CURTIS ST/15TH ST

Y

N

9/8/2015

6:29 PM

2221

48

2

CURTIS ST/16TH

Y

9/8/2015

2:26 PM

6060

15

34

Colfax Ave &
Pennsylvania St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/8/2015

12:45 PM

5236

88

5

60th Ave & Dahlia St

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

9/9/2015

7:30 AM

2098

48

3

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

9/9/2015

3:57 PM

2154

48

2

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15024041

Y- VIDOE

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/9/2015

1:38 PM

9306

15L

7

unknown

CSR #323669

N/A

Y - CASE #15023904

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

9/9/2015

3:52 PM

5104

24

35

York St & 23rd Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

9/10/2015

7:32 PM

6049

0

4

S Broadway & W Florida
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15024313

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/10/2015

5:04 PM

2018

16L

73

W Colfax Ave & Lipan St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15024129

N

Y

Y

4 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/10/2015

12:44 PM

6071

121

10

S Peoria St & Mississippi
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15024311

N

Y

Y

27 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/10/2015

10:07 AM

1507

BOLT

71

BTC

CSR #323778

Y

Y - CASE #15024030

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

NO VIDEO ABAIL; OP NO LONGER
EMPLOYEED; NO INCIDENT REPORT
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, UNABLE TO
DETEREMINE IF OP FILLED OUT ADA PASS
UP FORM
HAVE 1-WC AND 1 WALKER THAT CANT
MOVE ON BUS;NO ROOM;PASSING 1-WC;
ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 2097 ACCO @
205PM

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
BUS WAS FULL, OP WAS ABLE TO GET
SOME PAX TO GET OFF THE BUS WHILE
PAX WITH W/C BOARD; THEN EVERYONE
GOT BACK ON
ADA PASS UP DUE TO BOTH
SECUREMENT AREAS BEING OCCUPIED.
THE FOLLOWER IN BUS # 2008 WILL PICK
UP.
AN ADA PASSENGER WILL BE PASSED UP
DUE TO BOTH SECUREMENT AREAS
BEING FULL. THE FOLLOWER IN BUS #
2159 WILL ACCOMMODATE.
HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING 1-WC; NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6060
ACCO @ 111PM. OK
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

REASON

2 W/C
2 W/C

W/C + OMA

CSR

NPI

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C
CSR

PAX ACCOM

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 120

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

9/11/2015

4:28 PM

6049

38

8

Applewood Village

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/11/2015

10:45 AM

9343

16

7

W Colfax Ave & Lipan St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

5

Brighton Blvd & 35th St

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

9/11/2015

6:08 PM

2009

48

9/11/2015

7:53 AM

6123

SKIP

3

BROADWAY ST/NORTH
ST

9/11/2015

2:55 PM

3968

27

5

FEDERAL & EVANS

9/11/2015

10:48 AM

9343

16

7

W Colfax Ave & Lipan St

9/11/2015

4:58 PM

6118

GS

53

S Broadway & Dartmouth
Ave

9/12/2015

4:25 PM

6065

121

1

9/12/2015

1:12 PM

2041

0

9/12/2015

10:55 AM

9363

9/12/2015

5:01 PM

9/13/2015
9/13/2015

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

Y

Y - CASE #15024521

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y - CASE #15024701

N

N

N

13 MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

N

N

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

COMMENTS

ADA PASS UP AT 38TH/YOUNGFIELD DUE
TO BOTH SECUREMENT AREAS BEING
OCCUPIED WITH 2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS.
THE FOLLOWER IN BUS # 2221 WILL PICK
UP.
PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH SEC
AREAS WERE FULL / OP FILLED OUT
BOOK / PAX WAS OK WITH WAITING FOR
FOLLOWER
PASSED PAX WITH W/C BOTH SEC AREAS
WERE FULL / OP PUSHED WRONG
BUTTON OP SENT RTT AND DID NOT PUSH
THE 12 KEY / OP FILLED OUT BOOK
PASSENGER IN MOBILITY DEVICE PASSED
DUE TO SECUREMENT AREA BEING FULL
WITH PAX`S IN MOBILITY DEVICES.
FOLLOWER IN 2203 TO ACCOMMODATE.
DVR REQ
THERE WERE TWO W/C ABOARD THE
BUS,

TRACKING
CODE

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

N

N

N

N

2 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15024705

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

N

Y

Y

Pressed message #12 in error, operator was
notifying dispatch about a visually impaired
passenger that was passed by another bus.

NPI

Colfax Ave & Peoria St

RTT-ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

ADA PASS UP DUE TO BOTH
SECUREMENT AREAS BEING FULL. THE
FOLLOWER IN BUS # 6091 WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

9

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15024731

N

Y

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

16

8

Colfax/Irving

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

N

N

6 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

6014

0

11

S Lincoln St & Alameda
Ave

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

7:57 AM

6005

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

Passed 2 ADA PAX at the same stop

2 W/C

7:57 AM

6005

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

Passed 2 ADA PAX at the same stop

2 W/C
2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N
Y
Y

Y - CASE #15024802
Y - CASE #15025185
Y - CASE #15025185

TIE DIE FULL HAD TO PASSUP ADA
PAX:NEXT BUS AT 119PM
TWO WHEEL CHAIR PASSENGERS
OCCUPYING THE SECUREMENT AREA,
WHEEL CHAIR PAX WAITING TO BOARD,
FOLLOWER PULLED UP BEHIND BUS PAX
BOARDED 9361
DISREGARD ADA PAX WAS
ACCOMMODATED.

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C

NPI

PAX ACCOM

Y

N

N

Y

Y

28 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

NO RECORDED CALL ON MAXIMUS
INCIDENT LOOKUP

N

N - CASE #15024799

Y - VIDEO

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

DISREGARD PAX WAS ACCOMMODATED.

NPI

PAX ACCOM

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15024600

N

N

N

N/A

N

Y

N

Y

PASSENGERS IN ADA AREA REFUSED TO
MOVE FOR A PAX IN A WC UNTIL OP
CALLED AND REQ A SUP/PAX MOVED ADA
PAX WAS ACCOMMODATED/REPORT/DVR

NPI

PAX ACCOM

I-25 & Broadway Station
Gate B1

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15024703

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA MALE WITH WALKER /ADA AREA FULL
/ADA PASSUP FORM/ACCMD 0/3
FOLLOWER 5 MINS 6002/

2 W/C

Broadway & Colfax

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15025384

N

Y

Y

6 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

BOTH SECUREMENT AREAS FULL/GAVE
PAPERWORK

2 W/C

9/14/2015

4:22 PM

2123

48

18

16TH ST & CURTIS ST

9/14/2015

2:12 PM

9375

15L

1

Colfax Ave & Josephine
St

9/14/2015

2:10 PM

6115

15

32

Colfax Ave & Broadway

9/15/2015

4:41 PM

2002

0

2

9/15/2015

5:20 PM

6075

15

31

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 121

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE TO FULL
BUS AND 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON
BOARD / PASS UP FORM AND TRANSFER
ISSUED / FOLLOWER CONTACTED BUS
2133 MALE WAS NOT FOUND AT 509PM

2 W/C

9/15/2015

4:36 PM

2156

48

18

CURTIS ST/16TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

9/15/2015

3:48 PM

5148

52

4

17TH & CALFORNIA

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

29 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/16/2015

12:37 PM

5153

52

16

Bannock St & Speer Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

9/16/2015

2:28 PM

1540

AT

52

DIA West: Island # 5

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

DIA West: Island # 5

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15024716

Y

ADA AREA SEATS WONT MOVE FORWARD
FOLLOWER RIGHT BEHING BUS 1539
ACCOMODATED MALE WITH WC TO
NINEMILE PNR THEN MLX 15 BUS 2044
ACCOMODATED TO ARAPH STN PNR

LIFT

Y

ADA PAX ON BUS, 2 ADA PAX WANTING
TO RIDE TOGETHER, OPERATOR STATED
THEY LEFT RIGHT AWAY BEFORE SHE
COULD GIVE THEM ANY
INFORMATION.WILL FILL OUT ONE FORM,
BECAUSE THE OTHER ONE CHOSE NOT
TO RIDE, DVR

2 W/C

Y

2 WHEEL PASSENGERS ON BOARD BUS,
PASSED UP ONE WHEEL PASSENGER,
GAVE COPY OF PASSUP FORM AND
TRANSFER TO PAX FOLLOWER DUE IN 40
MINUTES, NO MLX AVAILABLE TO
TRANSPORT PAX

2 W/C

2 W/C

9/16/2015

9/17/2015

9/18/2015

2:28 PM

12:09 PM

10:51 AM

1540

6001

6059

AT

0

3

52

6

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

11

Alameda Ave &
Fairmount Dr

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N - CASE #15023396

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y - CASE #15025053

Y - LIFT

N

N

N

N

N

30 MINS

10 MINS

N

N

N

N

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH
PASSENGERS WITH W/C
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, OP WAS
ADVISED TO ALWAYS FILL OUT ADA FORM
WHEN PASS PAX

Y

Y - CASE #15025061

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15025086

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

LATE DUE TO PAX LOAD AND HAS 2 PAX
IN WC`S ON BUS, PASSING ANOTHER AT
BRIGHTON 29TH, RT 48 BUS 2017 RIGHT
BEHIND THIS BUS, AND PAX IN WC IS
BEING ACCOMMODATED

N

Y

N

40 MINS

N

Y

N

2 W/C
2 W/C

9/18/2015

8:21 AM

2106

9

1

BRIGHTON BLVD/*29TH
ST

9/18/2015

2:43 PM

5227

31

32

Federal Blvd & W 29th
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH PAX WITH
W/C

2 W/C

9/18/2015

12:30 PM

9190

16

5

W COLFAX AVE/
DELAWARE ST

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15025071

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX:WHO DID`NT WANT TO WAIT FOR
FOLLOWERS- PAX LEFT THE SCENE

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

Y

Y

9/18/2015

3:07 PM

3901

324

2

Nelson Rd & Grandview
Meadows Dr

9/19/2015

2:42 PM

2123

0

11

Broadway & W 14th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15025055

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

N

9/19/2015

2:38 PM

2123

0

11

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15025055

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/19/2015

6:14 PM

1630

MALL

7

16th St & Tremont Pl

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

N

N

8 MINS

N

Y

N

N

9/19/2015

12:50 PM

5033

6

4

Lipan St & W 38th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

OPERATOR DID NOT INFORM WAITING
PAX W.C THAT HE NEEDED TO CONTACT
DISPATCH DUE TO HIS BUS BEING FULL,
PAX W/C LEFT AREA BEFORE
DISPATCHED CALLED BACK
COULD NOT MAKE CONTACT WITH THE
BUS
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP TO ADA PX:WHO ARE WILLING
TO WAIT FOR NEXT BUS
NO ROOM HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING
1WC;ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 1634 ACCO
PAX AT . 621P
SECUREMENT AREA FULL, OP GAVE PAX
A FORM BUT DID NOT WAIT FOR
DISPTACH TO CALL BACK, ADVISED OP OF
PROCEDURE

OTHER

2 OMA
2 OMA

2 W/C

REASON

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 122

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

9/19/2015

1:08 PM

2106

28

31

DOWNING
ST/*CALIFORNIA ST

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

Y - LIFT

Y

Y

1 HOUR

N

Y

9/21/2015

12:49 PM

6074

15

10

Colf/Colo

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y - CASE #15025165

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

Y

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

N

LIFT NOT WORKING HAD TO PASSUP ADA
PAX:AT CLARKSON WHO WAS WILLING TO
WAIT FOR FOLLOWERS BUS::T316

LIFT

N

Y

2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS ON BOARD/
FOLLOWER BLOCK 12 ACCOM PAX

9/21/2015

7:32 AM

5265

15

21

COLFAX/AURORA CT

ADA PAX
PASS UPFALL BACK

Y

Y - CASE #15025077

N

N

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/22/2015

12:02 PM

2029

15L

14

FEDERAL BLVD/W
HOWARD PL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y - CASE #15025259

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

9/22/2015

3:56 PM

5084

1

3

1ST & KNOX

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

N

Y

Y - CASE #15025354

N

N

N

1 HOUR

N

N

N

Y

9/23/2015

1:57 PM

2199

3

19

E ALAMEDA AVE/S
HARRISON ST

9/23/2015

10:25 AM

9341

16

3

W Colfax Ave & Sheridan
Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15025350

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

9/25/2015

12:09 PM

2143

48

3

48th Ave & Saint Paul St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15025641

Y - VIDEO

Y

N

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/25/2015

3:12 PM

2093

28

15

W Byron Pl & Sheridan
Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15025675

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/25/2015

8:02 PM

6066

105

31

S HAVANA ST /E
FLORIDA AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N - CASE #15025963

Y - VIDEO

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

9/25/2015

1:00 AM

6086

15

42

Colfax Ave & Downing St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y - CASE #15025747

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

9/26/2015

1:59 PM

5149

3

1

W Alameda Ave & S
Broadway

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N

Y

N

Y

Y

9/26/2015

12:58 PM

6153

66

3

WINDERMERE &
LITTLETON

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

60 MINS

N/A

Y

N

N

9/26/2015

1:02 PM

6153

66

3

W Littleton Blvd & S
Windermere St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

N

N

60 MINS

N

N/A

N

Y

9/27/2015

7:57 AM

2012

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15025724

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/27/2015

10:15 PM

5123

31

24

FEDERAL & 72ND

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

9/28/2015

2:23 PM

6165

31

14

Federal Blvd & W 10th
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

Y

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

9/28/2015

5:38 PM

2166

48

5

Broadway & Curtis St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N - CASE #15025943

Y - VIDEO

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

OPERATOR CALLED IN FALLBACK
STATING THE ADA AREA, FILLED WITH
ADA, PASSING ONE PAX WHO IS
REQUESTING THE TIME FOR THE
FOLLOWER/ FORM/DVR/ NEXT WB RT 15
DUE AT 744A/ TEXT SENT TO 6104
GT E/ 3 PAX IN WC`S WANTING ON THE
BUS, ONE PAX WILL WAIT FOR THE
FOLLOWER 15L 16 BUS 9379/
CONTACTED/DVR/FORM
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2
PASSENGERS IN W/C
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP
ADA, PAX DECIDED TO TAKE 83L
DISREGARD PASSUP/ ADA PAX
EXCHANGED BY ONE GETTING OFF THE
BUS AND ANOTHER GETTING ON
OPERATOR WAS FORCED TO PASS A
PASSENGER IN A MOBILITY DEVICE DUE
TO TWO PASSENGERS ALREADY ON
BOARD IN MOBILITY DEVICES. FOLLOWER
IN 2100 TO ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP
REQ
PASSED UP PERSON WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 PASSENGERS WITH WC ON
BOARD / PASSUP FORM AND TRANSFER
ISSUED / FOLLOWER CONTACTED / BUS
6003 CONTACTED PASSENGER DID NOT
WANT TO BOARD THIS BUS/ FOLLOWER
CONT
TWO PAX ON BOARD. CANT BOARD 3RD.
GAVE INFO, FORM ANDTRANSFER.

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C
NPI

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

ADA IN W/C STILL DRINKING BEER. PAX
REQUESTED TO WAIT FOR NEXT BUS.
OTHER
CONTINUE
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIR ON BOARD/
2 W/C
CALLED CC // CCLX BUS 6181
SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH
PASSENGERS,ELDERY PASSENGERS
OTHER
DECLINE ON MOVING
1 PAX WITH WALKER AND 1 ELDERLY PAX
WILL NOT MOVE FROM ADA AREA/ PAX IN
W/C + OMA
WHEELCHAIR LEFT THE BUS STOP AND
SAID SHE WAS GOOD
TWO PAX`S ALREADY ON BOARD BUS.
CANNOT FOLD MOBILITY DEVICE. MLX7
2 W/C
BUS 2031 TO ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP
REQ
OPERATOR PRESSED MESSAGE 12 BY
NPI
MISTAKE
UNABLE TO DEPLOY MANUALLY/ BUS 6182
ACCOM PAX IN WHEELCHAIR /CALLED CC LIFT
LIFT HAVE BEEN FIXED
WAS ABLE TO BOARD THE ADA PAX OK.

REASON

NPI

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

PAX ACCOM

Packet Pg. 123

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

9/28/2015

3:43 PM

5247

52

16

Bannock St & Speer Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9/29/2015

4:31 PM

2161

48

18

CURTIS ST/15TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N - CASE #15025944

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

9/29/2015

1:34 PM

6050

0

4

Broadway & W 1st Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15025931

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

9/30/2015

9:03 AM

6084

105

6

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL/ 1 PAX IN WHEELCHAIR
AND 2 PAX WITH WALKERS UNABLE TO
MOVE/ WALKERS WILL NOT FOLD/ BUS
5117 WILL ACCOM 15 MIN
ADA AREA FULL PAX TO GET FOLLOWER
20MINS/RT 48/4 2161 TO ACCMD OPP TO
DO REPORT DVR
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX WHO STATED SHE WOULD WAIT FOR
NEXT BUS

Y - CASE #15027123

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

Y

2 W/C

NPI

N

Y

2 W/C

LIFT

PRESSED #12 IN ERROR- OP HAD W/C
LIFT OUT / PERSON WALKING BY HIT
LEGS ON LIFT AS IT WAS BEING STOWED /
S-21 / DEN EMTS / PERSON TRANSP / OP
WILL RUN RTE LATE / OP TO DO RPT / DVR

Y

9/30/2015

2:30 PM

9336

16

21

E COLFAX
AVE/BROADWAY

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

10/1/2015

3:11 PM

5047

52

11

BANNOCKST/W7TH
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

BUS HAD 1 ADA PAX, WHEN HE PULLED
UP TO STOP WHERE 3 MORE ADA PAX
WERE WAITING.

2 W/C

10/1/2015

4:30 PM

6179

40

35

Colorado Blvd & 9th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAD TO PASS ONE WITH WC/FOLLOWER
WAS ABLE TO ACCOMMODATE

2 W/C

10/1/2015

2:14 PM

2153

38

30

W 38th Ave & Brentwood
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15026483

Y - VIDEO

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N

N

Y

HAS 2 MOBILITY DEVICES IN AREA /ADA
PAX LEFT AREA DID NOT WANT PASSUP
FORM/OPP TO DO REPORT /DVR

2 W/C

10/1/2015

2:58 PM

5161

3

42

ALAMEDA AT PIERCE

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 PAX IN
W/C, 2 PAX WITH WALKERS WANTED TO
RIDE TOGETHER IN THE SECUREMENT
AREA

2 W/C

10/1/2015

2:19 PM

2273

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Perry St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

Y - CASE #15026665

N

Y

N

13 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

PASSED UP LADY WITH WALKER DUE TO
FULL ADA AREA 1WC AND 2WALKERS ON
BOARD/ PASSUP FORM AND TRANSFER
ISSUED FOLLOWER BUS 9350
ACCOMODATED 226PM

W/C + OMA

ERROR

10/1/2015

2:17 PM

2273

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Perry St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

10/1/2015

11:24 AM

6007

20

4

18th Ave & Emerson St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15027126

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PAX IN WC AND PAX IN WALKER IN THE
ADA AREA, NO ROOM FOR PAX IN WC AT
EMERSON, TRANSFER AND FORM GIVEN,
FOLLOWER AT 1140A/ 2041 RT 20

W/C + OMA

10/1/2015

1:16 PM

6092

15

1

Colfax Ave & Logan St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15027128

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX WILLING TO WAIT FOR
NEXT BUS IN FIVE MINUTES

W/C + OMA

10/2/2015

1:41 PM

9355

16

8

W COLFAX AVE /VRAIN
ST

N

Y - CASE #15027134

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

OPER HAD TO PASSUP 3 WC PAX:TIE
DOWNS FULL:BUS 9359 TO ACC THE PAX

2 W/C

10/2/2015

11:16 AM

9359

16

7

W COLFAX AVE
/WADSWORTH BLVD

N

Y - CASE #15027133

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

TIE DOWN FULL ADA PAX JUST LEFT
BEFORE OPER COULD ADVISED HIM:

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

REASON

W/C + OMA

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y - LIFT

TRACKING
CODE

LIFT WOULD NOT DEPLOY, OPERATOR
ALSO SAID IT WOULD NOT WORK
MANUALLY, ADA PAX WILL TAKE THE
FOLLOWER, OPERATOR WILL WRITE UP
AND CHECK LIFT AGAIN AT A DIFFERENT
LOCATION, NO TRUCK OR MLX AVAILABLE

Central Park Station Gate
C1

N

Y - CASE #15025969

COMMENTS

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 124

1.C.2.a

DATE

10/3/2015

TIME

12:26 PM

BUS #

2273

ROUTE

14

BLOCK #

3

STOP NAME

W FLORIDA AVE/S
TENNYSON ST

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15026488

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

Y - VIDEO

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

PASSENGER IN MOBILITY DEVICE PASSED
DUE TO SECUREMENT AREA ALREADY
FULL WITH PAX`S IN MOBILITY DEVICES.
MLX 6242 TO LOCATION TO
ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

S BROADWAY/OXFORD
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15027139

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PAX IN MOBILITY DEVICE BEING PASSED
DUE TO RESERVED SECTION FULL WITH
PAX`S IN MOBILITY DEVICES. CANNOT
COLLAPSE. FOLLOWER IN 6244 WILL
ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

NA

N

Y

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 WC

12

FEDERAL BLVD/W 3RD
AVE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

0

5

17TH AND CALIFORNIA

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N - CASE #15026670

Y - VIDEO

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N/A

Y

Y

6051

0

8

17th St & Curtis St Z Stop

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15027142

N

Y

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2273

38

30

Bruce Randolph Ave &
Colorado Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N - CASE #15026487

Y - VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

10/3/2015

1:37 PM

6240

0

10/3/2015

12:04 PM

5236

52

10/3/2015

5:20 PM

5126

31

10/5/2015

12:56 PM

6237

10/5/2015

12:31 PM

10/5/2015

3:27 PM

4

10/5/2015

4:31 PM

5046

44

58

BROADWAY/STOUT ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

10/5/2015

3:10 PM

2809

BV

42

US 36 & Table Mesa PnR
Gate A

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N - CASE #15026497. NO
VIDEO
INSTALLED

N

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

ADA AREA OF THE BUS FULL,PASSED ADA
IN A W-CHAIR ON FEDERAL/2ND SB,THE
ROUTE 30 BOARDED PAX OP DIDN’T NEED
TO FILL OUT FORMS
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIR ON BOARD/ PAX
BOARDED RT 52 AT THE SAME STOP- PAX
LEFT SCENE REFUSED FORM AND
TRANSFER
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS ON BOARD/ PAX
IN WHEELCHAIR BOARDED RT 52 AT THE
SAME STOP
DISREGARD- PRESSED # 12 IN ERROR
ON CURTIS BROAD/ PASSED UP MALE
WITH WC DUE TO FULL BUS/ FOLLOWER
RIGHT BEHIND BUS 2004 ACCOMODATED
435PM
PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE TO FULL
BUS/ FOLLOWER BUS 1531 RIGHT BEHIND
AND ACCOMODATED MALE WITH WC AT
315PM

PXO

2 W/C

2 W/C
NPI

PXO

PXO

10/6/2015

2:20 PM

6037

0

1

BROADWAY/*W
IRVINGTON PL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y- CASE #15026912

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE TO
FEDEX TRUCK BLOCKING THE STOP/
OPERATOR STOP 1/2 BLOCK PASSED IT
WALKED BACK AND MALE REFUSED TO
BOARD THIS BUS AND REFUSED A
PASSUP FORM HE STATED HE WAS OK
WAITING FOR- ALSO SEE CSR- 327295

10/6/2015

3:49 PM

3923

27

3

ENGLEWOOD STATION

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

PAX W.C. #2 COULD NOT MANEUVER
AROUND PAX W.C. #1 IN HIS W/C,

OTHER

10/7/2015

1:17 PM

9320

15L

15

E Colfax Ave/Quebec St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15027830

N

Y

N

5 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

ADA PAX DECLINED TRANSFER/OK TO
WAIT FOR NEXT BUS/PAPERWORK
COMPLETED

2 W/C

10/7/2015

11:43 AM

5005

31

7

S Federal Blvd & W
Colorado Ave

N

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

TWO W/C WERE ALREADY ON THE BUS

2 W/C

10/8/2015

5:00 PM

6046

48

18

16th St Mall

Y

Y- CASE #15027623

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

N

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM.

2 W/C

10/8/2015

5:02 PM

6046

48

18

16th St Mall

Y

Y- CASE #15027623

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

N

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM.

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS
ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

REASON

OTHER

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 125

1.C.2.a

DATE

10/8/2015

10/8/2015

TIME

3:49 PM

9:02 AM

BUS #

6006

6076

ROUTE

0

105

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

4

I-25 S/E KENTUCKY
AVE

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

6

Smith RD/Ulster St

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15027833

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

Y

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING 1-WC NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY. ADA LEFT TO RTE 0L.
BUS . 9365 SAID ADA LEFT TO RTE 0. 6048
SAID NO ADA WC IN THE AREA. 412PM

2 W/C

Y

ST/ LIFT WOULD NOT DEPLOY, ADA PAX
WILL BOARD THE FOLLOWER, OPERATOR
SAID HE HAS HAD A PROBLEM WITH A
LIFT AT THIS SAME LOCATION. FORM/
DVR/ WILL CHECK LIFT AGAIN AT
ANOTHER LOCATION/ LIFT WORKED- PAX
LEFT THE SCENE BEFORE TRANSFER OR
FORM COULD BE GIVEN

LIFT

N

Y- CASE #15027659

Y

Y- CASE #15027840

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y- CASE #15028085

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH ADA PAX

W/C + OMA

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

Y

Y

ADA AREA FULL MLX 10 TO ACCMD /OPP
TO DO REPORT /DVR OTHER PAX ODER
FROM ANOTHER ADA PAX SOILED /OPP
TO DO REPORT /S35/MLX 10 1 PAX ACCMD

2 W/C

10/10/2015

4:49 PM

6085

15

10

E Colfax
Ave/Pennsylvania St

10/10/2015

5:20 PM

9359

16

2

W Howard Pl/Avondale
Dr

10/10/2015

2:45 PM

5233

52

12

20TH & CHESTNUT

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15028087

Y- LIFT

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

HAD TO PASS PASSENGER WITH
WHEELCHAIR, AS PAPER WORK WAS
BEING FILLED OUT, ANOTHER BUS CAME
INTO STOP AND WAS ABLE TO
ACCOMMODATE THE PASSENGER.
PAPERWORK FILLED OUT/NEXT BUS
NOTIFIED

REASON

2 W/C

2 W/C

10/13/2015

9:24 AM

6006

12

18

Washington St/E 45th
Ave

10/13/2015

9:47 AM

2162

SHOP

29

S Federal Blvd/W
Alameda Ave

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N- CASE #15027744

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

10/13/2015

1:48 PM

2821

BOLT

14

28th St/Iris Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

NO VIDEO
ON 2800

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

10/13/2015

4:03 PM

9356

16

21

W Colfax Ave/Otis St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N- CASE #15027213

Y- VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

10/14/2015

12:18 PM

3957

JUMP

6

30TH & ARAPAHOE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

10/15/2015

5:45 PM

2153

21

3

E COLORADO CENTER
DR/*S ALBION ST

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N- CASE #15027418

Y- VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

2 ADA PAX ACCMD BY FOLLOWER OPP
SAW GET ON NO WAIT /OPP TO DO
REPORT/ BUS FULL /DVR FOLLOWER

PXO

10/16/2015

8:53 AM

6180

11

1

Louisiana Ave & S
Williams St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 ADA ON BUS. PASSED 1 PAXFOLLOWER
5110 WILL ACCOMMODATE

2 W/C

10/16/2015

1:11 PM

5029

31

23

S Federal Blvd & W
Evans Ave Gate G

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

10/16/2015

11:11 AM

5110

11

8

E MISSISSIPPI AVE/S
NIAGARA ST

Y

N

N

Y

N

5 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

10/16/2015

9:38 AM

2294

65

2

MONACO STREET
PKWY/E COLFAX AVE

N/A

N- CASE #15027745

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

4 ADA PAX FULL BUSS /ABLE TO
ACCMDALL ADA /RUN LATE

NPI

PAX ACCOM

10/16/2015

4:00 PM

1408

DASH

9

Table Mesa Dr &
Moorhead Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

BUS FULL PASSED TWO PEOPLE AT
SBDR/55TH- NOT AN ADA PAX PASS UP.
PRESSED #12 IN ERROR.

NPI

ERROR

10/17/2015

4:07 PM

9367

15L

5

E COLFAX AVE
/MADISON ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N/A

Y- CASE #15028090

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

NO PASSENGERS PASSED-NOT AN ADA
PASS UP- POLICY ADV

NPI

ERROR

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP
RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

REQUEST LOOP WHEELCHAIR
TRANSPORT MLX BLK 2 BUS 2150 WILL
ASSIST THIS SHOPPER ALREADY HAS 2
PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS
NO AC BUS ARRIVED AT BTC HAD
ANOTHER PROBLEM WITH LIFT SEE
OTHER CALL: NO ADA INVOLVED IN THIS
CALL
PAX WANTED 16L- PAX WHILE LEFT
SCENE- OP WAS FILLING OUT
PAPERWORK
LIFT WORK NOT DEPLOY PAX WAS
ACCOM BY THE FOLLOWER 10 MINS

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX:WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR
FOLLOWER IN TEN MINUTES
TWO ADA PASSENGERS ON BOARD IN WCHAIRS,BLOCK 9 BUS 5105 WAS ABLE TO
BOARD PERSON.

2 W/C

NPI

ERROR

OTHER
LIFT

2 W/C

2 W/C

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 126

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

10/18/2015

1:29 PM

2148

15

10

E COLFAX AVE /XENIA
ST

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N/A

N- CASE #15027734

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

Y- VIDEO

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS TRAVELING
TOGETHER/ 1 PAX IN WC ONBOARD/ BUS
2029 WILL ACCOM

OTHER

MAN IN WC NEEDS ASSISTANCE
BOARDING US/MANUAL
WHEELCHAIR/LEGS DRAGGING AND HE IS
HOOKED UP TO OXYGEN/OP DOES NOT
FEEL COMFORTABLE HELPING
HIM/AFRAID SOMETHING WILL COME
LOOSE OR HIS FEET OR LEGS WILL

OTHER

10/19/2015

5:04 PM

6019

12

7

DOWNING ST/E 9TH
AVE

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y- CASE #15028277

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

10/20/2015

9:34 AM

2133

SHOP

29

W MISSISSIPPI AVE/S
DALE CT

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N- CASE #15028335

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

10/20/2015

11:51 AM

1609

MALL

26

16TH/GLENARM

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

N- CASE #15028281

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

10/21/2015

10:12 AM

6239

20

1

18th Ave & High St

CSR #329403

N/A

Y- CASE #15028250

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

10/21/2015

2:48 PM

6005

MLX

PLATTE GARAGE

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

N

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE #15028348

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

Y

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

10/22/2015

10:17 AM

1402

0

4

S BROADWAY/E
FLOYDAVE

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

10/22/2015

6:31 PM

6211

24

3

41st Ave & Jackson St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA AREA FULL /PAX TO WAIT FOR MLX
10 TO GO TO WALMART FOR AN HOUR
2272
PASSUP ADA PAX:FOLLOWER BEHIND
BUS WAS ABLE TO BOARD
PAX:SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL- ISSUES
BETWEEN 2 ADA PAX, PAX WANTED TO
GET ON THE NEXT BUS.
CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY
Operator was doing a radio check on a loop
extra, and was asked to test the ADA PAX
PASSUP Message #12.

2 W/C

OTHER

CSR
NPI

Y

LIFT

Y

BY ACCIDENT PRESSED ADA PASSUP.ADV
NO ADA.

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

10/23/2015

8:01 AM

6248

0

10

Lincoln St & 1st Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15028284

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

0 MINS

N/A

N

Y

10/24/2015

12:37 PM

9374

15L

9

Colfax Ave & Peoria St

CSR #329763

N/A

N- CASE #15028512

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

N

CUSTOMER CLAIMED OPERATOR DIDN'T
FOLLOW ADA POLICY

CSR

10/26/2015

7:51 PM

2150

15

41

Colfax Ave &
Pennsylvania St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15028518

Y- VIDEO

N

N

5 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 PAX IN WHEELCAIRS ON BOARD/ PAX N
WHEELCHAIR AT STOP SAID IT HE DIDN’T
WANT THE FORM AND LEFT THE SCENE.

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N- CASE #15028513

Y- VIDEO

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

PASSED ADA/BOTH SPACES FULL/SAYS
HE DID NOT KNOW TO ISSUE PROPER
PAPERWORK AND TRANSFER/PAX
WASACCOM BY BUS DIRECTLY BEHIND

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

10/26/2015

5:22 PM

2106

16L

75

10/26/2015

7:52 PM

2150

15

41

Colfax Ave &
Pennsylvania St

OTHERRADIO
CHECK

ADA PASS UP S35 CALLED TO MEET
OPERATOR AT DUS. S35 AND DUS
STARTER INSTRUCTED OPERATOR HOW
TO USE LIFT, DO A ADA PAX. PASS UP
FORM AND TO DO AN INCIDENT REPORT

MALE IN A MANUAL WHEELCHAIR DIDN`T
WANT TO BOARD BUS, A ROUTE 0 IN A
2000 SERIES BUS PULLED UP THE MALE
BOARDED THAT BUS, OP WILL TURN IN
PAPER WORK AT DIVISION

W COLFAX AVE
/SHERIDAN BLVD

REASON

10/26/2015

5:47 PM

2209

SKIP

4

Broadway & Alpine Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15028998

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

10/26/2015

1:48 PM

3933

27

5

W Yale Ave & S Irving St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

NA

N

N

Y

Y

10/26/2015

1:57 PM

3933

27

5

W Hampden Ave & S
Pierce St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

NA

N

N

Y

Y

UNABLE TO ACCOM PAX/ LIFT BARRIER
WOULD NOT DEPLOY/ BUS 6124
TRANSPORTED PAX
OPERATOR ACCOMIDATED BOTH ADA
PAX, OP USED MESSAGE 12 TO GET A
FASTER RESPONSE FROM DISPTACH
OPERATOR ACCOMIDATED BOTH ADA
PAX, OP USED MESSAGE 12 TO GET A
FASTER RESPONSE FROM DISPTACH

LIFT

NPI

PAX ACCOM

NPI

PAX ACCOM

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 127

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

10/27/2015

9:44 AM

2123

SHOP

29

Weston St & 31st St

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15028576

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

Y - VIDEO

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

TWO ADA PASSENGERS IN W-CHAIR ON
BOARD,MLX BLOCK 2 BUS 2046 WILL
TRANSPORT THE OTHER PASSENGER.
PAX HAD PASS.

2 W/C

W/C + OMA

10/27/2015

12:55 PM

1404

0

5

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15028505

N

N

N

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL WITH ADA PAX/PASS UP
WHEELCHAIR PAX/NEXT BUS 1402 WAS
RIGHT BEHIND AT 12:57P/WHEEL CHAIR
ACCOMADATED/ADA FORM/COPY TO
WHEEL CHAIR PAX/ PAX HAD PASS

10/28/2015

2:12 PM

9367

15L

6

Colfax Ave & Havana St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15028876

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL FULL HAD TO
PASSUP ADA PAX:FOLLOWER TWO
BLOCKSBEHIND BU SBEHIND BUS

2 W/C

10/28/2015

1:44 PM

5118

88

5

60th Ave & Dahlia St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

NO PASSUP ERROR ON SCREEN

NPI

NO INFO IN MAXIMUS- PAX HAD A PASS
AND GOT ON THE RTE 38 WHO WAS
STOPPED RIGHT BEHIND.
2 W/C ON BOARD- PAX GIVEN ADA PASS
SHEET AND TRANSFER

10/30/2015

6:22 PM

6030

44

27

15th St & Arapahoe St Y
Stop

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15028974

N

Y

N

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

10/30/2015

10:31 AM

2133

48

3

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15028993

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

18 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

10/30/2015

6:10 AM

5034

52

4

20th St & Little Raven St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

20TH-LITTLE RAVEN 2 ADA ON BUS. LX 18
SENT TO ACCOMMODATE. 1 WC BUT
OTHER PASSENGERS WOULD NOT MOVE

PXO

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

N - CASE #15029656

Y - VIDEO

N

N

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

PASSED WC BECAUSE TOO MANY KIDS IN
SPACE. WC DECIDED NOT TO RIDE BUS;
OPER ADV POLICY; PAX DIDN`T WANT
FORM OR XFER; FOLLOWER 6096 ACCO
ADA PAX AT HAVANA AKRON 333PM.

PXO

2 W/C

10/30/2015

3:22 PM

6061

105

8

10/31/2015

6:14 PM

5042

6

5

15th St & Welton St Z
Stop

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2-WALKERS ON BUS;THAT CANT
MOVE. PASSING 1-WC; NO ROOM. ADV
POLICY;SENDING FTLX 5180 TO ACCO
ADA PAX. @ 650PM

2 OMA

10/31/2015

12:21 PM

6250

0

9

Lincoln St & E Ellsworth
Ave

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

N - CASE #15029563

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS ON BOARD/ PAX
WITH WALKER UNABLE TO FOLD / BUS
6004 WILL ACCOM PAX WITH WALKER

2 W/C

10/31/2015

5:58 PM

5002

51

32

Sheridan Blvd & W 20th
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS PASSING 1WC; NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY;FOLOWER 6141 SAID
NO ADA @ 624PM

2 W/C

10/31/2015

6:48 PM

5032

6

6

PECOS & 64TH

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

HAVE TWO WC PAX, ACCOM PAX FROM
64TH TO UNION STATION

2 W/C

10/31/2015

4:39 PM

2211

SKIP

4

BROADWAY
ST/PLEASANT ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

N

10/31/2015

1:45 PM

1520

L

10

8th & Coffman PnR Gate
C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15028893

Y - VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

11/1/2015

9:42 AM

3930

27

2

S Federal Blvd & W
Cornell Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N

N

N

N

N/A

N

N

N

Y

11/2/2015

8:15 AM

6059

15

12

Colfax Ave & Josephine
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15029087

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

PAX IN MOBILITY DEVICE ATTEMPTING TO
BOARD. RESERVED SECTION FULL WITH
PAX`S IN MOBILITY DEVICES THAT
CANNOT COLLAPSE. FOLLOWER IN 6252
CAN ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

ERROR

2 W/C

E Hampden Ave & S
Boston St

ADA WENT TO FOLLOWER AT THE SAME
TIME; LIFT WOULD NOT GO OUT ALL THE
WAY. OPER DID NOT GIVE PAX AN ADA
PASS UP FORM; ADV POLICY. - LIFT
REPAIRED WHEN BUS RETURNED TO
DIVISION
UNABLE TO MOVE SEAT FOR ADA
PAX/ABLE TO MOVE PAX BOARDED
NEXT RT21 WB EVANS AND CLAY; NO
VIDEO AVAIL; OP NO LONGER
EMPLOYEED; NO INCIDENT REPORT

REASON

LIFT

NPI
2 W/C

2 W/C

PAX ACCOM

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 128

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

11/2/2015

8:19 AM

6059

15

12

Colfax Ave & High St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15029087

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

11/2/2015

8:41 AM

9342

16

3

Decatur / Federal Station
Gate E

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

11/2/2015

12:18 PM

2100

3

13

S Saulsbury St & W
Alaska Dr

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15029568

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

ADA PASS UP/BUS FULL/FOLLOWER 2298
WILL PU PAX AND CALL WHEN PICKED
UP/BOARDED ADA PAX AT 12:33

W/C + OMA

11/2/2015

8:39 AM

9342

16

3

Decatur / Federal Station
Gate E

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15029015

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED ADA PASS; FOLLOWER NOTIFIED;
PKED UP BR FOLLOWER

W/C + OMA

N

Y - CASE #15029657

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

2 ADA PASS/PAPER ORK/15L PASSED
BY/CONTINUE ON OUTE/NEXT BUS 10 MIN/
UNABLE TO BOARD 2ND ADA PAX WHO
LEFT THE SCENE BEFORE TRANSFER OR
PAPER WORK COULD BE ISSUED.

2 W/C

SECOND PASS UP PER PREVIOUS
INCIDENT. FOLLOWER IN 6252 WILL
ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

REASON

2 W/C

11/3/2015

2:17 PM

9302

15L

14

Beeler St & E Colfax Ave

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

11/3/2015

9:43 AM

2154

SHOP

29

Weston St & 31st St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N - CASE #15029092

Y - VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

11/3/2015

1:13 PM

6036

9

6

Cherokee St & W 14th
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15029080

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

11/3/2015

12:30 PM

3933

27

7

W Dartmouth Ave & S
Federal Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

11/3/2015

3:27 PM

6001

38

26

Lawrence St & 17th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

11/3/2015

6:00 PM

9363

16

6

W Colfax Ave & Teller St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y - CASE #15029006

N

N

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

DISREGARD- PAX WAS WAITING FOR THE
16L- OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN ERROR.

NPI

ERROR

11/3/2015

3:47 PM

9302

15L

14

Colfax Ave & Colorado
Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y - CASE #15029081

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

NPI

ERROR

11/3/2015

3:45 PM

6063

15

13

15th St & Cleveland Pl

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y - CASE #15029070

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

NPI

ERROR

11/3/2015

2:58 PM

6078

15

31

E Colfax Ave &
Josephine St

RTT - ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y - CASE #15029659

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

11/3/2015

3:24 PM

6001

38

26

Lawrence St & 17th St

11/4/2015

10:35 AM

6088

15

2

Colfax Ave & High St

11/4/2015

8:37 AM

5094

28

6

17TH & STOUT

11/4/2015

8:37 AM

5094

28

6

17th St & Stout St Y Stop

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y - CASE #15029069

N

Y

Y

2 MINS

N

Y

N

ADA AREA FULL/CALLED LOOP 2299 TO
COVER
AT 14TH AND CHEOKEE/ADA PASS
UP/REPORT FILLED OUT AND TRANSFER
GIVEN/PAX TO CATCH RTE 52/ BUS 5110
PICKED UP PAX AT 13:20
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX:PAX WILLING TO WAIT FOR THE
FOLLOWERS BUS

NO INCIDENTS IN MAXIMUS- OPERATOR
PRESSED 12 IN ERROR.
UNABLE TP MAKE CONTACT WITH
DRIVER/TEXT SENT- VIDEO DID NOT
SHOW ANY ADA PAX PASS UP- OP
PRESSED 12 IN ERROR
ADA AREA FULL WITH ADA PAXS/ONE ADA
AT STOP COLFAX AND JOSEPHINE/ADA
LEFT AREA BEFORE OP COULD GIVE
THEM REPORT FORM AND
TRANSFER/DVR

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

W/C + OMA

Y

ADA AREA IS FULL, MUST PASS
PASSENGER WITH WHEELCHAIR, ISSUED
A TRANSFER AND PASS UP PAPER WORK,
THE 38 WILL ACCOMMODATE HER, IS
RUNNING LATE.

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

N

N - CASE #15029178

Y - VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

OPERATOR IN TRAINING PASSING A ADA
PAX. 2 PAX IN WC ALREADY ON THE BUS/
FORM AND COURTESY TRANSFER
OFFERED. OPERATOR INFORMED
WAITINGPAX OF THE SCHEDULE OF THE
NEXT RT 15. DVR

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

NO PASS UP ERROR ON SCREEN

NPI

ERROR

Y

NO RELEIF; CONTINUE; DIV SAYS SHE
LEFT DIV IN TIME- PRESSED IN ERROR

NPI

ERROR

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 129

1.C.2.a

DATE

11/4/2015

TIME

12:23 PM

BUS #

6189

ROUTE

88

BLOCK #

3

STOP NAME

88th Ave & Hoffman Way

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

2 ADA PAX HAVE CHOSEN NOT TO BOARD
BECAUSE THEY WANT TO RIDE
TOGETHER AND THERE IS A SPACE ONLY
FOR ONE PAX. FORM.DVR. MESSAGE TO
FOLLOWER 5256

OTHER

CALL FROM CC NO RADIO CONTACT /ADA
PAX WITH MOBILITY DEVICE ADA AREA
FULL /OPP GAVE PASSUP FORM PAX DID
NOT TAKE UPSET /CC TO SEND LOOP
FROM 22 CHAMPA 10 MINS /OPP TO DO
REPORT /DVR
PERSON WITH A WALKER WAS MID
BLOCK STARTED YELLING AT THE BUS /
PERSON DID NOT WALK OVER TO BOARD
BUS / OP TO DO RPT / DVR- PRESSED IN
ERROR

11/5/2015

9:13 AM

5148

52

4

17th St & Curtis St Z Stop

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

N

Y

11/6/2015

11:46 AM

6041

0

20

Broadway & W Center
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15030255

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

11/6/2015

11:39 AM

6041

0

20

Broadway & W 5th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y- CASE #15030255

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

PRESSED IN ERROR

W/C + OMA

LIFT

11/6/2015

1:25 PM

9324

15L

7

Colfax Ave & Josephine
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15030261

N

Y

Y

1 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL/ADA PAPER
WORK/TRANSFER TO PAX/NEXT BUS 10
MIN.

11/7/2015

2:15 PM

5164

8

11

106th & Melody Transfer
Center Gate C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

OPERATOR STATED LIFT WAS BROKEN IN
THE MIDDLE UNSAFE TO BOARD OR
DEBOARD/ PASSED UP LADY WITH WC/ FT
LX BUS 5082 ACCOMODATED AT 2:55PM

11/7/2015

2:26 PM

6052

31

22

S FEDERAL BLVD/ W
KENTUCKY AVE

Y

Y

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

11/9/2015

1:07 PM

2106

48

2

Broadway & Curtis St

Y

N- CASE #15030170

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

11/9/2015

11/10/2015

1:10 PM

9:34 AM

6095

2163

15

SHOP

2

29

Colfax Ave & Josephine
St

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Weston St & 31st St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

11/10/2015

9:50 AM

2163

SHOP

29

Weston St & 31st St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

11/10/2015

7:47 AM

5034

20

21

17TH & LOGAN

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

11/10/2015

3:46 PM

6041

44

11

Smith Rd & Havana St
(Denver County Jail)

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15030504

N

Y

Y

24 MINS

N

N

Y

BOTH W/C SEC AREAS WERE FULL /
PASSED PAX WITH W/C / FOLLOWER WILL
ACCOM PAX / OP TO DO RPT
2 ADA ON BUS OP PASSED. CALLED 6035
TO ACCOMMODATE PAX

2 W/C

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

W/C + OMA
2 W/C

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON BUS; PASSING 1WC;NO
ROOM. ADV POLICY FOLLOWER 6087 SAID
ADA AT CFX/YORK WANTS THE 15L @
134PM. BUS 9386 SAID HE BOARDED AN
ADA @ 123PM. OK.

2 W/C

Y

MALE ADA PAX IN MOBILITY DEVICE /ADA
AREA FULL /MLX 2 ACCMD PAX 20 MINS
TO WALLMART ACCMD ANOTHER ADA
PAX TO WALLMARTWAIT 1 HR RETURNPAX HAS PASS

2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

N- CASE #15030175

Y

N- CASE #15030175

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

25 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

NOW AT SILVER CLIFF MANOR. 4594 W
ALAMEDA. NO ROOM; PASSING 1WC. MLX
2 2299 WILL ACCO PAX. @ 1015AM. OK.
PAX HAS PASS

Y

Y

N

Y

N

10 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL; PASS ADA
PASS; FOLLOWER PKUP AT 757

2 W/C

Y

BUS NOT RECOVERING FROM KNEEL
PROPERLY/SOMETIMES WON`T GO INTO
GEAR/REQ TRADE/SHUT DOWN FOR 3
FULL MINUTES AT NEXT TERMINAL/CALL
IF IT DOESN`T RESET- OP PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR NO PAX PASSED.

NPI

N/A

Y- CASE #15030506

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

N/A

N

N/A

20 MINS

N/A

Y

N/A

Y

N/A

N

N

REASON

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 130

1.C.2.a

DATE

11/10/2015

TIME

5:22 PM

BUS #

2092

ROUTE

48

BLOCK #

4

STOP NAME

Curtis St & 18th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

11/10/2015

2:39 PM

2092

48

4

Broadway & Curtis St

11/11/2015

11:20 AM

5235

52

23

7TH /BANNOCK

79

W Colfax Ave & Kipling
St

11/11/2015

10:07 AM

2153

16L

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

HAVE A FULL BUS HAVE WALKER AND WC
IN ADA AREA; REG PAX IN PRIORITY
SEATING AREA; PASSING 1WC; ADV REQ
REG PAX MOVE FROM PRIORITY SEATING
AND HAVE WALKER MOVE THERE AND
THEN LOAD WC. FOLLOWER 6244 ACC

W/C + OMA

W/C + OMA

Y

N- CASE #15030173

Y

N- CASE #15030173

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVE WC AND WALKER ON THE BUS; AND
NOT ABLE TO MOVE; PASSING 1
WALKER.ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6244
ACCO @ 301PM

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH TWO WC

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y- VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

N

Y

N

11/11/2015

10:00 AM

2153

16L

79

W Colfax Ave & Kipling
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15029743

Y- VIDEO- LIFT

Y

Y

25 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

11/13/2015

12:38 PM

6263

15

1

Colfax Ave & High St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15030055

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

11/13/2015

1:36 PM

5159

6

16

Grant St & 12th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

11/16/2015

11:32 AM

5159

76

28

S Wadsworth Blvd & W
Mansfield Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

11/16/2015

12:02 PM

6244

0

12

16TH ST /CLEVELAND
PL

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15030056

N

Y

Y

1 MIN

N

Y

Y

Y

11/16/2015

11:03 AM

5106

76

16

S Wadsworth Blvd & W
Mansfield Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

MINS

N

N

N

Y

Y

N- CASE #15030730

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

N

Y- CASE #15030508

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

N/A

N- CASE #15030512

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

11/16/2015

3:34 PM

2159

48

3

Broadway & Curtis St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

11/17/2015

12:23 PM

6035

28

15

Zuni St & W 28th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

11/17/2015

12:24 PM

6035

28

15

Zuni St & W 28th Ave

11/17/2015

1:47 PM

9384

15L

14

Colfax Ave & Aurora Ct

11/18/2015

11:51 AM

6236

20

6

18th/FRANKLIN

11/18/2015

2:18 PM

5052

31

24

23RD & FEDERAL

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

WB COLFAX AND KIPLING ADA PAX
PASSED UP/ RTE 16 BUS 9356
ACCOMMODATED PAX / LIFT NOT
WORKING /MECH. CHECKED LIFT/ OP
REPORTS THAT MECHANIC HAD HER USE
THIS VECH. WITH A DISABLED LIFT./ NO
TRADES AVAIL- BUS 2074 WILL ACCOM
PAX
HAVE 2-ADA ON BUS; PASSING 1WC; NO
ROOM;ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 9307
ACCO ADA @ 1241P. PAX LEFT THE
SCENE BEFORE TRANSFER OR
PAPERWORK COULD BE ISSUED
OPER HAD TO PASSUP ADA
PAX:SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL:PAX
GOT UPSET WENT AWAY
2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS ONBOARD. / BUS
5035 WILL ACCOM/
ST/ 2 PAX IN WC`S ARE ON THE BUS
ALREADY AND ANOTHER ONE WANTING
ON, FORM TRANSFER AND SCHEDULE/
FOLLOWER COMING UP BEHIND IN BUS/
6011/DVR
ERROR, OPERATOR NOTICED 3 PAX IN
WC WAITING FOR BUSES BUT ONE
WANTED THE RT 27/ NOT THIS BUS.
DISREGARD MESSAGE

LIFT

2 W/C

2 W/C
2 W/C

2 W/C

NPI

Y

PASSED UP PERSON WITH WALKER DUE
TO COMPLETELY FULL BUS/ PASSUP
FORM AND TRANSFER ISSUED/ BROAD
CURTIS FOLLOWER BUS 6004 DID NOT
FIND THIS PERSON 4:10PM

PXO

Y

Y

OP PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH SEC
AREAS ARE FULL / OP FILLED OUT ADA
PASSUP BOOK / FOLLOWER WILL

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

N/A

N

Y

OPER ERROR. NO ADA. ADV.

NPI
2 W/C

2 W/C

DUPLICATE

Y

Y- CASE #15030523

N

N

N

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

HAVE 2-WC ON THE BUS;PASSING 1-WC
NO ROOM; ADV POLICY; ADA LEFT THE
AREA;

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED PAX WITH WC BOTH SEC AREA
WERE FULL FOLLOWER TO ACCOM PAX

REASON

ERROR

DUP
ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 131

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

11/19/2015

11:28 AM

5177

52

11

Bannock St & W 13th
Ave

11/19/2015

12:05 PM

5147

52

5

13TH / BANNOCK

11/19/2015

10:13 AM

9335

16

4

W Colfax Ave & Yates St

11/19/2015

1:20 PM

2087

44

23

Montbello PnR Gate B

11/20/2015

2:25 PM

2130

38

7

15th St & Stout St Y Stop

11/20/2015

2:27 PM

2130

38

7

15th St & Stout St Y Stop

11/20/2015

3:39 PM

6044

48

3

BROADWAY/24TH ST

11/21/2015

6:27 PM

5137

48

2

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

11/22/2015

7:13 AM

2160

48

3

BROADWAY/LAWRENC
E ST

11/22/2015

11:30 AM

6142

31

8

S Federal Blvd & W
Kentucky Ave

11/23/2015

1:41 PM

2160

48

2

BROADWAY/24TH ST

11/23/2015

11:59 AM

2270

3

11

11/23/2015

11:58 AM

2270

3

11

11/24/2015

1:41 PM

5008

31

11/24/2015

3:08 PM

6030

38

11/24/2015

11/25/2015

11/28/2015

2:34 PM

9:23 AM

9:32 AM

6074

2080

6039

15

21

48

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

N

Y

N

30 MIN

Y

N

Y

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH 2 WC

2 W/C

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH TWO WC

2 W/C

N/A

N- CASE #15030521

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

N-CASE #15030630

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

N- CASE #15030627

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

Y

Y- CASE #15030614

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

2 ADA PAX ON BOARD/ NO MLX/ BUS 6032
WILL ACCOM

W/C + OMA

ALL PAX ACCMD OK- PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR
LINDA CALL; PERSON LEFT AT MONT PNR.
HAD BALLOONS WITH HIM. ADV. NO ADA.
PRESSED IN ERROR
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX: WRITE UP

OPERATOR HAD TO PASS 2 PEOPLE WITH
W/C , BOTH ADA AREAS FULL WITH
MOBILITY DEVICES, OP SAID AFTER
PAPERWORK WAS ISSUED THEY BOTH
TOOK OFF TO MALL, NO BODY REMAINED
AT THE STOP.
2 PAX SITTING IN WALKERS IN AREA, 2
ADA PAX AT LAWRENCE LX 7 WILL
ACCOMMODATE BUS 2272
SECUREMENT AREA FULL ALREADY WITH
TWO ADA MOBILE DEVICES

NPI

PAX ACCOM

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

Y

Y- CASE #15030702

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE #15030620

N

Y

Y

60 MINS

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

Y- CASE #15030974

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

2 ADA PAX ON BOARD ON BOARD/ BUS
1404 WILL ACCOM- NO MLX

2 OMA

Y

N- CASE #15030728

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS ON BOARD/ BUS
6051 WILL ACCOM PAX

2 W/C

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

2 W/C

W Alameda Ave & S
Winona Ct
W Alameda Ave & S
Lamar St

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

7

Federal Blvd & W 27th
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

HAD 2-WC ON BUS PASSED 1-WC; NO
ROOM; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 6159
ACCO ADA @ 150PM.

2 W/C

26

Lawrence St & 16th
Street Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15030881

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

PASSED UP PERSON WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 ON BOARD/ PASSUP FORM AND
TRANSFER ISSUED/ FOLLOWER
CONTACTED BUS 6237 ACCOMODATED

2 W/C

Colfax & Pennsylvania

ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

Y

Y- CASE #15031630

N

Y

Y

8 MINS

N

Y

N

N

NO RECORDED INCIDENTS IN MAXIMUSOP STATED HE TRIED TO CALL IN
FALLBACK AND DIDN’T GET AN ANSWER.

W/C + OMA

ILIFF AVE/JASMINE

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

WHEEL CHAIR PAX AREA FULL WITH
OTHER WHEEL CHAIR PAX/FOLLOW BUS
RT 21/2 IS ABOUT TEN MINUTES
BEHIND/GIVE PAX TRANSFER AND COPY
OF FORM/ADVISE OTHER BUS IS WILL BE
ARRIVING IN ABOUT 10/15 MINUTES.

2 W/C

Y

HAVE ONE WHEEL CHAIR ON ONE
SIDE/OTHER PAX`S WILL NOT MOVE
FROM OTHER SEAT/DRIVER GOT OUT OF
CHAIR TO GET PAX
COOPERATION/NEGATIVE
RESULTS/PAPER AND TRANSFER TO ADA
PAX/ FOLLOW BUS WILL BE AT AREA 9:

W/C + OMA

4

4

3

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N- CASE #15031083

Y- CASE# 15030976

Y- VIDEO

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

10 MINS

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

Y

N

REASON

2 OMA
W/C + OMA

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 132

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

ADA AREA HAS 2 PAX IN WC/ MLX 7 BUS
2296 WILL ACCOM

2 W/C

Y

Y

HAVE 2-WC IN SECURMENT AREA AND
OTHER ADAS IN PRIORITY SEATING AREA;
NO ROOM; PASSING 1-WALKER. ADV
POLICY;OPER SAID HE DID NOT HAVE ANY
ADA PASS UP FORMS S37 WILL PROVIDE
FORMS.; FOLLOWER 2156 ACC

2 W/C

N

N

NO INFO IN MAXIMUS- SECUREMENT
AREA FULL

2 W/C

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

11/29/2015

8:00 AM

6004

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

BROADWAY/*CURTIS
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031137

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

5

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

Y

Y- CASE #15031633

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031144

N

N

N

8 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N-CASE #15031207

Y- VIDEO

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

13 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

11/30/2015

11/30/2015

4:40 PM

9:29 AM

1402

6044

48

48

18

Y

N- CASE #15031009

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

10 MINS

Y

Y

N

COLFAX-PARK WB ADA FULL OP PASSED
W/O CALLING ME FIRST. W/C PAX SAID
WOULD WAIT FOR NEXT BUS- PAX HAD
PASS
TWO PAX`S ALREADY ON BOARD IN
MOBILITY DEVICES. WAITING PAX LEFT
THE SCENE. DVR REP REQ
THE BUS BROKE DOWN OP PRESSED
MESSAGE 12 IN ERROR

11/30/2015

8:38 AM

6252

15

12

E COLFAX
AVE/HUMBOLDT ST

12/1/2015

4:06 PM

2200

48

2

Broadway & Curtis St

12/1/2015

7:58 AM

3959

JUMP

6

Arapahoe Rd & Valtec Ln

12/2/2015

5:18 PM

1402

48

18

72nd Ave & Kearney St

12/2/2015

5:18 PM

1402

48

18

BROADWAY AND
CURTIS

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031281

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

ADA AREA FULL- CONTACT FOLLOWER TO
ACCOM ADA PAX:WRITEUP

W/C + OMA

12/3/2015

11:58 AM

6082

3

2

S Alton Way & Windsor
Gardens Lot 8

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031623

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

PASSUP ADA PAX:ADVISED LX WILL ACC
THE PAX;

2 W/C

12/3/2015

11:14 AM

2081

15

4

Colfax Ave & Washington
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15031525

Y-VIDEO

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL WITH 2 PAX
IN W/C, ANOTHER RT/15 WAS RIGHT
BEHIND BUS AND ACCOM THE ADA PAX

2 W/C

12/3/2015

11:34 AM

6082

3

2

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

11:43 AM

6082

3

2

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

12/3/2015

Alameda Ave & S Moline
St
Alameda Ave & S
Havana St

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

12/3/2015

3:50 PM

3603

BV

57

Union Station Gate B20

12/3/2015

11:46 AM

6082

3

2

Alameda Ave & S Galena
Way

12/3/2015

2:26 PM

6078

15

32

Colfax Ave & Franklin St

12/3/2015

12/4/2015

5:05 PM

11:22 AM

6235

6007

0

20

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

ADA PAX
PASS UP

9

Welton St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UPCSR 334276

4

18th Ave & Washington
St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP
N/A
Y

Y

N- CASE #15031708
Y- CASE #15031621
Y- CASE #15031607

Y

Y- CASE #15031518

Y

Y- CASE #15031701

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

N

N

N

8 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

N

Y

N

N

3 MINS

8 MINS

N

N

N

N

Y

N

DISREGARD- OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR
NO ADA PASSUP/ WAS ABLE TO BOARD
THE ADA PAX
2 ADA PAX WAITING TO BOARD, 1 PAX IN
W/C BOARDS, PAX SITTING IN ADA AREA
WONT MOVE, WAITING ADA PAX LEAVES
THE AREA WHEN OPER CALLED
DISPATCH.

REASON

PXO

2 W/C
NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

NPI

PAX ACCOM

OTHER

Y

PAX IN MOBILITY DEVICE BEING PASSED
DUE TO TWO PAX`S ON BOARD IN
MOBILITY DEVICES. FOLLOWER IN 6010
RIGHT BEHIND BUS WILL ACCOMMODATE.
CSR- 334276 CUSTOMER WANTED TO
KNOW IF THE BUS WAS FULL WITH TWO
PAX IN W/C

W/C + OMA

Y

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL PASSUP ADA
PAX:WHO DECODED NOT TO WAIT FOR
FOLLOWERS BUS: PASSENGER REFUSED
TRANSFER AND FORM.

2 OMA

CSR 334276

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 133

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

12/4/2015

9:27 AM

3901

324

2

MAIN ST (US-287
N)/8TH AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

Y VIDEO

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

N

N

N/A

N

N

Y

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

Y

HAD 2 WHEELCHAIRS ON BOARD, PAX IN
W/C TOOK OFF BEFORE OP COULD
OFFER TRANSFER

2 W/C

2 W/C

Y

N

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N- CASE #15031641

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

12 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

OP HAS 2 PAX IN W/C ON THE BUS / NEXT
BUS WILL BE THERE IN 12 MINUTES /
ADVISED OP TO GIVE CURTESY
TRANSFER AND ADA PASS UP REPORT

REASON

12/4/2015

12:01 PM

6027

12

3

DOWNING ST/E 8TH
AVE

12/4/2015

4:53 PM

6066

15

31

Colfax Ave & Grant St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y- CASE #15031698

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

Y

OPERATOR BYPASSED BUS STOP, NO
ADA PASSENGERS PRESENT- PRESSED
#12 IN ERROR.

NPI

12/5/2015

4:13 PM

6014

0

10

S BROADWAY/E FLOYD
AVE

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031695

N

N

N

8 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

AN ADA PASSENGER WILL BE PASSED UP
DUE TO A FULL SECUREMENT AREA. THE
FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

2 W/C

12/5/2015

4:26 PM

9364

16

6

W Colfax Ave & Irving St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y-CASE #15031511

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

DISREGARD- OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR

NPI

12/5/2015

5:34 PM

9334

16

3

W COLFAX AVE /
WADSWORTH BLVD

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y- CASE #15031642

N

Y

N

4 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

PASSED PAX WITH W/C / BOTH W/C SEC
AREAS ARE FULL / OP WILL FILL OUT
PASS UP BOOK / FOLLOWER WILL ACCOM
PAX/ PAX HAD BUS PASS

W/C + OMA

12/6/2015

2:18 PM

6255

15

8

Colfax Ave & High St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031711

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 ADA PAX WITH W/C ON BUS CANT MOVE
WAIT FOR NEXT BUS TO ACCOMMODATE
IN BUS 9378 IN 5 MINS.

2 W/C

12/6/2015

2:08 PM

6255

15

8

Colfax Ave & Logan St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031709

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12/6/2015

2:10 PM

6255

15

8

Colfax Ave & Logan St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031709

N

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12/6/2015

12:46 PM

6198

12

5

Englewood Pkwy & S
Acoma St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

REFUSED SEC- NPI

NPI

12/7/2015

2:01 PM

6272

105

7

S Havana St & Jewell
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y-CASE #15031731

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PAX PASS UP/REPORT COPY GIVEN
TO PAX AS WELL AS A TRANSFER/ 13
MINUTES UNTIL THE NEXT BUS

2 W/C

12/7/2015

9:53 AM

6082

15

6

Colfax Ave & Havana St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y- CASE #15031727

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

PROBLEM RESOLVED PAX MOVED TO
MAKE ROOM FOR ADA PAX

NPI

PAX ACCOM

Y

WHEN THE BUS PASSED BY BDWY/BLAKE
ST AN INDIVIDUAL IN A W/C MOTIONED
FOR THE BUS TO STOP AT THE LAST
SECOND, WHICH WAS TOO LATE. THE
FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP.

OTHER

PAX ACCOM

2 PAX/ IN WC`S/ ALREADY ON THE BUS/
CALL TO 6044 TO ACCOMMODATE THE
PAX IN WC THAT IS BEING PASSED UP/
6044 IN FALLBACK AND NO
RESPONSE/FORM/DVR

2 W/C

12/7/2015

5:56 PM

6017

48

5

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031893

Y

Y- CASE # 15031705

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

12/8/2015

11:01 AM

1402

48

18

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

12/8/2015

2:47 PM

6041

0

13

Broadway & Speer Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031799

N

N

N

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

12/8/2015

3:19 PM

6070

105

7

S Havana St & Iliff Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031795

N

N

N

3 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

2 ADA PAX WITH W/C ON BUS CANT
MOVE. ADA PAX IN W/C PASSED.
FOLLOWER WILL ACCOMMODATE IN BUS
9378
2 ADA PAX WITH W/C ON BUS CANT
MOVE. PAX WITH WALKER PASSED.
FOLLOWER WILL ACCOMMODATE IN BUS
9378

SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL:PASSUP ADA
PAX WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR
FOLLOWERS BUS:
TWO PAX`S ON MOBILITY DEVICE
ALREADY ON BOARD BUS. ONE PAX IN
MOBILITY DEVICE WAITING TO BOARD.
PAX TO BOARD FOLLOWER. ADVSD. DVR
REP REQ- PAX DIDN’T WANT FORM AND
HAD A BUS PASS.

ERROR

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

ERROR

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

2 W/C

Packet Pg. 134

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

2 ADA PAX ALREADY ON THE
BUS/ADVISED THAT WAITING PAX BE
GIVEN REPORT AND TRANSFER/ NEXT
RTE WILL BE THERE IN APROX. 15
MINUTES- PER VIDEO PAX WAS ACCOM
UP THE STREET AT THE STOP THE OTHER
ADA PAX DE-BOARDED.
ADA PASS UP SECUREMENT ARE FULL/
TRANSFER REPORT AND GIVEN /NEXT
BUS WILL BE THERE IN ABOUT 25
MINUTES
2 ADA PAX WITH W/C ON BUS/FOLLOWER
8 MINS /FORM TO PAX /RT 15/31 TO
ACCMD /DVR
ADA PAX PASS UP/2 PAX IN W/C ON
BOARD/ OP ISSUED TRANSFER AND
REPORT PAX DIDN'T WANT THE
FORM/NEXT BUS IN LESS THAN 15
MINUTES

TRACKING
CODE

12/8/2015

12:48 PM

6070

105

7

HAVANA ST/E 4TH WAY

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031896

N

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

N

Y

12/9/2015

1:06 PM

6011

48

3

Curtis St & 19th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15032094

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12/9/2015

2:43 PM

6253

15

13

Colfax Ave & Downing St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15031890

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

N

N

Y

12/9/2015

12:01 PM

9328

16

8

W COLFAX AVE/LIPAN
ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

N- CASE #15032188

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

12/9/2015

4:32 PM

1402

48

18

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032092

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OP HAS 2 PAX IN W/C ALREADY ON BUS. 1
PAX IN W/C WAITING TO LOAD. 2 PAX
PASSED AT SAME STOP/ BUS 1402 48/4 TO
ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

2 W/C

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032092

N

Y

Y

20 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

OP HAS 2 PAX IN W/C ALREADY ON BUS. 1
PAX W/WALKER WAITING TO LOAD. 2 PAX
PASSED AT SAME STOP/ BUS 1402 48/4 TO
ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ

2 W/C

OTHER

2 OMA

2 W/C

2 W/C

12/9/2015

4:32 PM

1402

48

18

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

12/9/2015

2:03 PM

5064

10

4

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12/9/2015

10:38 AM

9354

16

3

W Holden Pl & Federal
Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15031800

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

3 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12/9/2015

1:40 PM

2090

0

15

Broadway & W 11th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y- CASE #15032087

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Y

12/10/2015

7:57 AM

6041

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 35th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032096

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

12/10/2015

10:01 AM

2017

38

28

Stout St & 21st St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032086

Y- LIFT

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

12/10/2015

9:38 AM

2017

38

28

Stout St & 21st St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032086

Y- LIFT

Y

Y

10 MIN

N

Y

N

Y

12/11/2015

12:33 PM

5029

52

16

Bannock St & Speer Blvd

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y

N

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

Y

Y- CASE #15032658

N

N

N

30 MINS

N

N

Y

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL, PAX IN W/C
AND PAX WITH WALKER.

W/C + OMA

Y

Y- CASE #15032183

N

N

N

30 MINS

Y

Y

N

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON BOARD, WATING
PAX HAS PASS AND WILL BE
ACCOMMODATED FROM PL 2080 LX/7

2 W/C

12/12/2015

7:29 AM

6048

48

4

Broadway and Lawrence

ADA PAX
PASSUP
FORM- NO
RECORDED
INCIDENTS
IN MAXIMUS

12/13/2015

7:58 AM

6236

48

2

Brighton Blvd & 31st St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

SECUREMENT AREA FUL PASSENGER
LEFT THE AREA
TWO PAX IN W/C ON BOARD. ADA PAX
PASSED. FOLLOWER IN 9334 16/6 TO
ACCOMMODATE. DVR REP REQ
ADA PAX WAS ABLE TO BREAK DOWN
WALKER AND RELOACTE, PAX IN W/C
ACCOM :DISREGARD
SECUREMENT AREA IS FULL:PASSUP ADA
PAX;WHO IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR NEXT
BUS
LIFT BAD HAD TO PASSUP ADA PAX WHO
IS WILLING TO WAIT FOR FOLLOWERS
BUS SEE OTHER CALL WILL TRD AT 30TH
DOWNING
LIFT WON`T COME OUT. IT MAY BE
JAMMED. THE PASSENGER WHO WILL BE
PASSED UP WILL BE PICKED UP BY THE
FOLLOWER IN BUS # 6243.
NO ROOM/ADA AREA FULL WITH ADA
PAX/FILL OUT FORM /GIVE
TRANSFERS/NEXT US/52 BLK 5 WILL BE
THERE IN 15 MIN. LESS

REASON

2 W/C
2 W/C

NPI

PAX ACCOM

2 W/C

LIFT

LIFT

2 W/C

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 135

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREAS FULL/PAPERWORK
GIVEN/NEXT BUS NOTIFIED

2 W/C

Y

Y

Y

AN INDIVIDUAL IN A WHEELCHAIR WAS
PASSED DUE TO A FULL BUS. THE
FOLLOWER IN BUS # 2130 WILL PICK UP.

W/C + OMA

Y

N

N

Y

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

N

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

12/14/2015

12:50 PM

5185

10

10

Broadway & W 14th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

y

n

Y

Y

5 mins

N

Y

12/14/2015

4:40 PM

6044

48

18

CURTIS/16TH

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y- CASE- 15032248

N

Y

Y

0 MINS

N

12/15/2015

2:55 PM

3850

JUMP

10

ARAPAHOE / FOLSOM

N

N

Y

Y

N

0 MINS

12/15/2015

6:01 AM

9329

16

6

Federal Center Station
Gate D

N/A

Y- CASE #15032253

N/A

N/A

N/A

12/16/2015

8:44 AM

2159

9

1

Larimer St & 19th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

N- CASE #15032315

Y- VIDEO

Y

12/16/2015

3:48 PM

6092

15

1

COLFAX/HIGH

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

Y

Y- CASE #15032401

N

Y

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

12/16/2015

6:33 PM

6008

0

13

Broadway & W Colfax
Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15032412

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

N

Y

12/17/2015

4:11 PM

2100

48

2

CURTIS ST/20TH ST

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y- CASE #15032734

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

Y

Y

12/18/2015

8:40 PM

6242

48

2

WELTON ST/13TH ST

DISPATCHCREATED
INCIDENT

N

Y- CASE #15032771

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

N

12/18/2015

2:04 PM

9356

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Pierce St

N/A

N- CASE #15032689

Y- VIDEO

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

N

Y

2

W 88th Ave & Santa Fe
Dr

N

Y

N

N

N

0 MINS

N/A

N/A

N

Y

12/18/2015

2:42 PM

3948

92

ADA PAX
PASS UP
ADA PAX
PASS UP

12/19/2015

3:28 PM

9357

16

5

W Colfax Ave & Colorado
Mills

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032764

N

Y

N

15 MINS

N

Y

N

N

12/19/2015

8:57 AM

6244

48

1

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15032760

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

Y

N

Y

Y

5

Curtis St & 16th Street
Mall

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032851

12/19/2015

4:32 PM

6242

48

N

Y

N

30 MINS

N

N

N

Y

ADA WAITING TO BOARD; WONT RAISE;
S/T FTL FOLLOWER ACCOM ALL PAX AT
15:05
BUS IS STUCK IN THE SNOW- PRESSED 12
IN ERROR
PASSED UP AN ADA PAX IN A WC/ ADA
AREA ALREADY FULL OF MOBILITY
DEVICES. MALE PAX TOLD THE
OPERATOR TO CONTINUE AND HE WOULD
WAIT FOR THE FOLLOWER/ TO
FOLLOWER TO ACCOMMODATE/ FORM/
DVR/ CALL1404
WAS GOING TO PASS UP LADY WITH
WALKER DUE TO FULL BUS/ PASSENGERS
MOVED AND ADA PAX ACCOM.
NO CONTACT; SENT DATA; .HAD ADA
PASSUP MESSAGE FROM 6008; CALLED
5137 OPER ACCO ADA @ 637P OK. (FULL
BUS STANDING ROOM ONLY FOLLOWER
NOW ON SCENE PAX OK TO GET
FOLLOWER /OPP TO DO REPORT PAX
ACCMD)
PASSED UPMALE WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 1 PAX IN W/C AND 2 PAX W/
WALKER ON BOARD/ PASS UP FORM AND
TRANSFER ISSUED/ FOLLOWER
CONTACTED/ BUS 6040 MALE WAS NOT
FOUND
ADA AREA FULL WITH TWO OTHER ADA 2
PAX IN WHEELCHAIRS/NEXT BUS IN 30
MIN./PAPER AND TRANSFER TO ADA
PAX/LOOP 11 TO ASSIST WITH ADA PAX
AT 16TH AND CURTIS/ MLX 11 FOUND
MALE WITH WC AND HE DID NOT WANT
THE BUS
DISREGARD-OPERATOR PRESSED 12 IN
ERROR.
PAX DECLINED TIE-DOWN
A PASSENGER IN A MOBILITY DEVICE
WAS PASSED UP BECAUSE THE ADA
SEATING AREA IS OCCUPIED WITH ADA
PASSENGERS ON BOTH SIDES. THE
FOLLOWER WILL PICK UP
ADA PAX IN W/C PASSED-LX 2 WILL
ACCOMMODATE
PASSED UP MALE WITH WC DUE TO
HAVING 2 WC ON BOARD/ PASS UP FORM
AND TRANSFER ISSUED/PAX LEFT THE
SCENE BUT WAS ACCOMODATED BY
FOLLOWER BUS 6244

REASON

LIFT
NPI

ERROR

2 OMA

NPI

PAX ACCOM

PXO

W/C + OMA

2 W/C

NPI

ERROR

NPI

ERROR

2 W/C

2 W/C

2 W/C

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 136

1.C.2.a

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

COMMENTS

TRACKING
CODE

N

Y

SECUREMENT AREA FULL/PAPERWORK
AND FREE TRANSFER COMPLETED/NEXT
BUS ALERTED

2 W/C

Y

N

N

BUS HAD A BLOW OUT AND AN ADA PAX
HAD TO DEBOARD AND GET THE
FOLLOWER

OTHER

N

Y

N

N

SNOW BLOCKING BUS STOP UNABLE TO
DEPLOY LIFT- FOLLOWER PULLED UP AND
PAX BOARDED BUS WITH RAMP.

OTHER

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA PASS UP/FOLLOWER LOADED PAX
LESS THAT 5 MINUTES LATER/REPORT

PXO

Y

15 MINS

N

Y

Y

N

SECUREMENT AREA FULL WITH TWO ADA
MOBILE DEVICES

2 W/C

N/A

0 MINS

N

N/A

N

Y

BUS WAS STANDING ROOM ONLYPASSNGERS MOVED AND MADE ROOM/
ACCOMMODATE PAX WITH W/C

NPI

N

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON THE BUS;PASSING 1
ADA PAX IN W/C, FOLLOWER 6039 ACCO
PAX @ 1149AM OK.- PAX WANTS TO
SPEAK TO STREET SUP.

2 W/C

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

12/19/2015

8:25 AM

6242

48

5

Brighton Blvd & 29th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15032845

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

12/19/2015

2:45 PM

5139

51

33

8TH / SHERIDAN

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

Y

Y

Y

15 MINS

N

12/19/2015

7:06 PM

2133

0

11

S Broadway & Evans Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15032732

Y- VIDEO

Y

N

0 MINS

12/19/2015

7:12 PM

1604

MALL

8

16th Street Mall &
Champa St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15032766

Y- VIDEO

N

N

12/20/2015

6:04 PM

5011

31

8

FEDERAL / MISSISSIPPI

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

Y

Y

N

Y

12/20/2015

8:05 AM

6006

48

2

Broadway & Lawrence St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N/A

Y- CASE #15032752

N

N/A

Y

N

N

Y

Y

21 MINS

N

Y

12/23/2015

11:21 AM

2097

44

27

40th Ave & Milwaukee St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

12/23/2015

12:17 PM

6266

15

2

Colfax Ave & High St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15033165

N

Y

Y

10 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON THE BUS;PASSING 1
ADA PAX IN W/C; ADV POLICY. FOLLOWER
6076 ACCO @ 1224PM

2 W/C

12/23/2015

7:26 PM

6104

15

9

Colfax Ave & Broadway

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y- CASE #15033162

N

Y

Y

13 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

ADA AREA FULL FOR MOBILITY DEVICE
/FOLLOWER TO ACCMD /6254/13MINS

2 W/C

12/23/2015

2:09 PM

6016

48

18

Curtis St & 18th St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

Y- CASE #15033163

N

Y

Y

30 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

AN ADA PASSENGER HAD TO BEPASSED
UP ON CURTIS AT 18TH DUE A FULL
SECUREMENT AREA. THE

2 W/C

RTT- ADA
PAX PASS
UP

N

Y

N

N

N

0 MINS

N

N

Y

Y

PASS ADA PAX HAVE 2 WC ON BUS OP
DID NOT GIVE PAX ADA FORM OP DID NOT
OFFER TRANSFER OP DID NOT PRESS 12,
FOLLOWER RIGHT BEHIND THIS BUS

2 W/C

12/23/2015

1:11 PM

6179

50

11

SHERIDAN BLVD / W
COLFAX

12/23/2015

12:14 PM

6266

15

2

Colfax Ave & High St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUP

DUPLICATE

DUP

12/24/2015

2:38 PM

9393

16

2

W Colfax Ave & Chase St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15033307

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

4 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON THE BUS;PASSING 1
ADA PAX IN W/C; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
9327 WAS RESPACED NEXT FOLLOWER
9357 ACCO @ 308P.OK

2 W/C

12/24/2015

2:49 PM

9393

16

2

W Colfax Ave & Otis St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15033307

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

5 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

2 ADA PAX IN W/C ON THE BUS;PASSING 1
ADA PAX IN W/C; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
9327 WAS RESPACED; SO NEXT
FOLLOWER 9357 SAID NO ADA @ 301PM

2 W/C

12/24/2015

3:32 PM

2093

48

3

Broadway & Lawrence St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15033301

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

25 MINS

N

Y

N

Y

12/26/2015

6:28 PM

2204

SKIP

5

Broadway & Walnut St

ADA PAX
PASS UP

Y

N- CASE #15033302

Y- VIDEO

Y

Y

7 MINS

N

N

N

Y

12/29/2015

2:50 PM

5042

10

5

Colorado Blvd & 11th Ave

ADA PAX
PASS UP

N

Y

N

N

N

N

N

N

N

Y

WC AND WALKER ON BUS; PASSING 1WC;
NO ROOM;ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER 2159
ACCO @ 406P
AN ADA PASSENGER WILL HAVE TO BE
PASSED UP AND PICKED BY THE
FOLLOWER BECAUSE THE LIFT IS
INOPERABLE. SEE JAIME`S CALL. THE
FOLLOWER WILL BE THERE AT 18:42.
DISREGARD PRESSED BUTTON IN ERROR

REASON

PAX ACCOM

W/C + OMA

LIFT

NPI

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

ERROR

Packet Pg. 137

1.C.2.a

DATE

TIME

BUS #

ROUTE

BLOCK #

STOP NAME

12/30/2015

3:09 PM

6155

31

10

Federal Blvd & W 67th
Ave

MESSAGE
ADA PAX
VIDEO
CODE/COMM PASS-UP AVAILABLE?
ENT
FORM? Y/N
Y/N

ADA PAX
PASS UP

PENDING

PENDING

EQUIPMENT
MALFUNCTION?
Y/N

PENDING

WAS THE
CARBON
COPY OF
WAIT
TRANSFER TRANSFER
ALTERNATIVE
THE ADA ACTION
TIME FOR
OFFERED? ACCEPTED?
TRANSPORTATION
PAX
TAKEN?
NEXT
Y/N
Y/N
PROVIDED? Y/N
PASS-UP
Y/N
BUS?
FORM
GIVEN TO
PAX? Y/N

PENDING

PENDING

PENDING

PENDING

PENDING PENDING

WAVE
REPORT?
Y/N

Y

COMMENTS

HAD 3WC COULD ONLY LOAD 2WC
PASSED 1WC; ADV POLICY; FOLLOWER
6142 ACCO @ 314PM..

TRACKING
CODE

2 W/C

REASON

Attachment: 2015 CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Report- Final (2689 : CCDC Settlement Agreement Annual Report)

CCDC Settlement Agreement Securement Area Issues Report 2015

Packet Pg. 138

1.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: February 2, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 2, 2016

Board Meeting Date: February 9, 2016

Subject:

Recruitment and Hiring Update

ATTACHMENTS:


Class Tracking Report for 2015 - 2016



Copy of Class Tracking Report 2015 -2016 Rail Operations

(PDF)
(XLSX)

Prepared by:
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 139

1/12/2015
1/26/2015
2/9/2015
2/23/2015
3/9/2015
3/23/2015
4/6/2015
4/20/2015
5/4/2015
5/18/2015
6/1/2015
6/15/2015
6/29/2015
7/13/2015
7/27/2015
8/10/2015
8/24/2015
9/8/2015
9/21/2015
10/5/2015
10/19/2015
11/2/2015

FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT

5
8
9
3
10
3
11
9
11
8
11
13
18
17
8
13
13
11
12
5
13
15

6
8
9
3
10
3
10
9
10
7
12
11
12
14
5
9
11
10
11
5
10
15

4FT-1PT
8FT-OPT
8FT-1PT
1FT-1PT
6FT-2PT
2FT-2PT
5FT-1PT
7FT- 3PT
4FT-4PT
2FT-3PT
4FT-1PT
3FT-4PT
7FT-1PT
4FT-4PT
4FT-2PT
4FT-2PT
8FT-3PT
8FT-2PT
3FT-4PT
2FT-3PT
4FT-1PT
7FT-3PT

2/22/2015
3/8/2015
3/22/2015
4/5/2015
4/19/2015
5/3/2015
5/17/2015
5/31/2015
6/14/2015
6/28/2015
7/12/2015
7/26/2015
8/9/2015
8/23/2015
9/6/2015
9/20/2015
10/4/2015
10/20/2015
11/3/2015
11/8/2015
11/22/2015
12/6/2015

5
8
8
2
8
4
6
12
9
5
5
7
8
9
7
6
11
12
8
5
8
12

Attachment: Class Tracking Report for 2015 - 2016 (2686 : Recruitment and Hiring Update)

1.C.3.a

Packet Pg. 140

1.C.3.a

FT/f7T
FT/PT
FT/f7T
FT/PT
FT/PT
FT/PT

21
13
19
11
24
18

15
13
14
8
19
17

11FT-Of7T
9FT - OPT
6FT-1PT

12/20/2015
1/3/2016
1/17/2016
1/31/2016
2/14/2016
2/28/2016

14
9
9

Attachment: Class Tracking Report for 2015 - 2016 (2686 : Recruitment and Hiring Update)

11/16/2015
11/30/2015
12/14/2015
12/28/2015
1/11/2016
1/25/2016

Packet Pg. 141

CLASS TRACKING REPORT FOR RAIL OPS 2015 ~ 2016

START DATE

TYPE

ORIGINAL

ACTUAL

GRADUATED

CONVERSION
DATE

# ENTERING
SERVICE
RECYCLES
ACCELERATION

1/19/2015
2/2/2015
3/16/2015
4/6/2015
4/20/2015
5/11/2015
6/1/2015
6/30/2015
7/28/2015
8/25/2015
10/6/2015
11/3/2015
11/9/2015
11/16/2015
1/12/2016

FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT
FT

4
4
4
6
8
4
3
4
4
3
3
5
2
2
12

4
4
4
6
8
4
3
4
4
3
3
5
0
2
10

4
4
4
4
6
2
1
4
2
3
3
5
0
1

3/6/2015
3/20/2015
5/1/2015
5/22/2015
6/5/2015
6/26/2015
7/17/2015
7/31/2015
9/11/2015
10/9/2015
11/20/2015
12/21/2015
N/A
12/30/2015

0
0
0
0
2
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0

Attachment: Copy of Class Tracking Report 2015 -2016 Rail Operations (2686 : Recruitment and Hiring

1.C.3.b

Packet Pg. 142

Attachment: Copy of Class Tracking Report 2015 -2016 Rail Operations (2686 : Recruitment and Hiring

1.C.3.b

Packet Pg. 143

Attachment: Copy of Class Tracking Report 2015 -2016 Rail Operations (2686 : Recruitment and Hiring

1.C.3.b

Packet Pg. 144

Attachment: Copy of Class Tracking Report 2015 -2016 Rail Operations (2686 : Recruitment and Hiring

1.C.3.b

Packet Pg. 145

1.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

David A. Genova, Interim General Manager and
CEO

Date: February 2, 2016

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 2, 2016

Board Meeting Date: February 9, 2016

Subject:

Lost Service Update

ATTACHMENTS:


Lost Service Update



Dropped Runs By Route-Jan-16

(XLSX)
(XLSX)

Prepared by:
Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 146

1.C.4.a

Lost service hours review
weekday hours

Nov-14
Dec-14
Jan-15
Feb-15
Mar-15
Apr-15
May-15
Jun-15
Jul-15
Aug-15
Sep-15
Oct-15
Nov-15
Dec-15
Jan-16

0.00
0.00
0.00
0.44
0.00
0.00
0.00
0.00
9.11
23.48
54.09
93.55
385.21
264.07
210.12

1.43
1.23
0.37
1.22
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
7.07
16.56
19.51
38.50
91.16
100.33
61.15

4504.00 wkday
total
%
1.43
1.23
0.37
1.66
0.27
2.19
1.31
0.51
16.18
40.04
73.60
132.05
476.37
364.40
271.27

1.59E-05
1.37E-05
4.11E-06
1.84E-05
3E-06
2.43E-05
1.45E-05
5.66E-06
0.00018
0.000444
0.000817
0.001466
0.005288
0.004045
0.003011

rtd
missed runs

pullout delay

0.00
0.00
1.49
0.00
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
7.43
0.00
15.14
1.28
30.23
77.25
90.12

8.11
7.40
8.15
9.38
7.16
7.28
8.41
5.31
16.58
9.55
5.50
16.47
11.08
35.32
41.03

5714.00 wkday
total
%
8.11
7.40
9.64
9.38
7.16
8.65
13.63
7.51
24.01
9.55
20.64
17.75
41.31
112.57
131.15

7.1E-05
6.48E-05
8.44E-05
8.21E-05
6.27E-05
7.57E-05
0.000119
6.57E-05
0.00021
8.36E-05
0.000181
0.000155
0.000361
0.000985
0.001148

rtd & contractor
missed runs
pullout delay
0.00
0.00
1.49
0.44
0.00
1.37
5.22
2.20
16.54
23.48
69.23
94.83
415.44
341.32
300.24

9.54
8.63
8.52
10.60
7.43
9.47
9.72
5.82
23.65
26.11
25.01
54.97
102.24
135.65
102.18

10218.00 wkday
total
%
9.54
8.63
10.01
11.04
7.43
10.84
14.94
8.02
40.19
49.59
94.24
149.80
517.68
476.97
402.42

4.67E-05
4.22E-05
4.9E-05
5.4E-05
3.64E-05
5.3E-05
7.31E-05
3.92E-05
0.000197
0.000243
0.000461
0.000733
0.002533
0.002334
0.001969

Attachment: Lost Service Update (2687 : Lost Service Update)

contractor
missed runs
pullout delay

Packet Pg. 147

1.C.4.b

Month
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January

Route
0
0
0L
1
3
3
3
4
6
11
12
14
15
15L
16
20
21
21
21
24
27
28
29
29
30
31
31
32
33
35
38
38
38
40
43
44
44
46
50
51
52
54
59
65
66

RTD Division

Contractor Division
TransDev

Platte
Platte
TransDev
East Metro
TransDev
FTCC
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
East Metro
East Metro
Platte
FTCC
East Metro
TransDev
FTCC
FTCC
TransDev
FTCC
TransDev
FTCC
TransDev
TransDev
FTCC
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
Platte
TransDev
FTCC
FTCC
East Metro
FTCC
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
FTCC
FTCC
TransDev
East Metro
TransDev

Actual Lost Service
20:35
5:58
1:33
5:54
3:01
5:22
9:38
10:50
6:19
8:28
7:36
3:35
8:51
13:01
6:00
16:42
2:36
9:25
4:44
5:30
15:59
12:45
1:30
1:50
16:21
16:49
14:49
11:03
13:46
6:24
6:28
9:35
5:36
3:49
2:09
13:03
5:40
4:43
10:49
5:42
2:22
1:47
15:11
:26
5:14

Attachment: Dropped Runs By Route-Jan-16 (2687 : Lost Service Update)

Dropped Run Detail Sheet - By Route - January

Packet Pg. 148

January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January
January

67
72
73
76
83L/D
100
121
122X
130
139
153
209
401
402L
403
410
BOLT
CV
FF
FF
FMR
AF
L
P
Skip

TransDev
FTCC
TransDev
FTCC
East Metro
TransDev
East Metro
Platte
East Metro
East Metro
East Metro
Boulder
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
TransDev
Boulder
Platte
Boulder
Platte
Platte
Platte
Boulder
East Metro
Boulder

Total

1:46
5:46
2:26
:46
1:45
5:03
2:47
:20
2:33
4:15
2:16
3:54
8:11
10:25
9:48
4:49
1:01
1:10
4:15
3:56
5:16
2:14
1:13
:35
15:02

458:53
RTD TOTAL
Contractor TOTAL

101:14
357:39

Attachment: Dropped Runs By Route-Jan-16 (2687 : Lost Service Update)

1.C.4.b

Packet Pg. 149

