2021-08-17
Financial Administration & Audit Committee
LEAH RILEY: We are now live and recording.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. The Financial Administration and Audit Committee will now come to order.
We are convened as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time on August 17, 2021. I would respectfully ask
everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that under the current circumstances, the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and
welfare. For the immediate future, the official meetings of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom and
will be audio and video recorded.
The meeting recordings, along with the unofficial meeting minutes of the meetings will be posted as soon
as practicable and on the RTD Board's website. Please visit rtd-denver.com, scroll to the bottom of the
page for the link to the Board of Directors page. Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record,
if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your
virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add
confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate they would like to
speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6. Note that will not be taking
public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public interested in speaking directly to the Board
are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting. For future meeting dates, please refer to the
Board's meeting portal located at RTD.IQM2.com.
At RTD, safety is paramount. I'd like to begin this meeting with a short safety briefing. While recent public
health orders have relaxed requirements for the use of face coverings in certain settings, please don't let
your guard down too soon. As a reminder, of the Transit Security Administration, TSA, has extended the
federal mandate for public transportation until September 13, 2021. But in fact, I just heard on the 5 o'clock
news that it has been extended into January. That's what was being reported today.
The federal mask requirement states that individuals must wear a face covering while waiting for and while
riding public transportation to include airports and aircraft, train stations, and trains, bus stops, and buses.
RTD requires that employees and customers continue to wear face coverings, and RTD is taking a cautious
approach to returning to pre-pandemic operating practices to ensure the safety of our employees and
customers.

Transit continues to be an extremely safe way to travel, and there have been no clusters of positive cases
linked to transit in the Denver Metro area. So again, please consider getting vaccinated if you have not
done so already, wear your face covering in settings where one is required, practice physical distancing,
and continue good hygiene practices, and we will end this pandemic sooner than later.
I believe that we have all but directors Dishell and Lewis-- has Director Lewis joined us?
LEAH RILEY: I haven't seen her.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, so we have to absent Board members, Director Dishell and Lewis. So we have one
recommended action on the agenda this evening. Our first recommended-- or our only recommended action
is for the RTD Board of Directors to adopt resolution number blank series 2021, creating the resolution and
[INAUDIBLE] to amend the 2016 and 2017 lease purchase agreements with JPMorgan Chase Bank and
to realize interest rates savings. Do I have a motion?
ANGIE RIVIERA-MALPIEDE: So moved, Riviera-Malpiede.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Riviera-BOB BROOM: Second, Bob Broom.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, second, Bob Broom. OK, so we have Doug MacLeod on staff and Brenden Morgan,
Senior Manager of Debt Investments. Would you like to start your presentation?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, thank you, Madam Chair. And good evening to the Board and to the public. This
item is, as Chair Catlin explained, what we were trying to achieve with this is interest rate savings of
approximately $4 million. A little bit of background on this particular debt issue. Initially we had RTD had
issued certificates of participation to purchase buses and rail cars.
And then in the 2016, 2017 frame, we refinanced those certificates of participation with the direct finance-direct lease purchase financing agreement with JPMorgan to achieve the interest savings at that point in
time. Interest rates have since declined since those lease purchase agreements were entered, and there's
the opportunity to save an additional $4 million on the remaining term of those agreements with JPMorgan.
A least purchase agreement is very similar to a certificate of participation, in which the money that's
borrowed is collateralized by the underlying assets. The great thing about this particular arrangement is we
did a direct placement with favorable market rates with JPMorgan rather than going to the market and
selling individual certificates of participation. So the cost to refinance this by amending those lease
agreements with JPMorgan is less than $5,000 for the bond counsel work to drop these documents that
are attached in the package.

So that's a quick summary. The numbers will probably change. I don't anticipate, Brenden doesn't anticipate
the numbers change much from the $4 million by the time these amendments are closed with JPMorgan in
the September time frame. And that concludes my remarks, Chair Catlin. I'd be happy to take any questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I see that Director Rosenthal has his hands raised.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah, just one question for Mr MacLeod. So what is the relationship with JPMorgan
Chase? Does it go back a year, a number of years? Is it a new relationship?
DOUG MACLEOD: I'll ask Brenden help me with this question. But generally speaking, what we have is we
have a Board-approved investment underwriter pool essentially. The Board approves a handful of
underwriters that we can do business with in our market placement. So we do have a pool that we choose
from. We have a longstanding relationship with JPMorgan. And Brenden, I'll ask you to kind of describe
that relationship if you would please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Go ahead, Brenden.
DOUG MACLEOD: Brenden, you must be-- he looks like he's muted. Well, there he goes.
BRENDEN MORGAN: Are you able to hear me now?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes
BRENDEN MORGAN: Great. Sorry about that. I had dialed in so I could use my phone, but apparently I'm
muted there as well, but that won't unmute. So, hello, good evening. I'm Brenden Morgan, Senior Manager
of Debt and Investments.
As Doug mentioned, RTD does have a relationship with the investment bank branch of JPMorgan Chase
Bank, and that relationship goes back at least a decade. We refresh that pool of underwriters that Doug
mentioned every five years through a competitive procurement process. This particular transaction, back
in 2016 and again for the 2017 capital leases that we are amending or suggesting that we amend here.
Back in 2016 and 2017, RTD issued a request for indicative pricing to refinance the debt or the leases that
were outstanding at that point in time. We received a handful of responses from various banks. JPMorgan's
equipment financing branch provided very competitive bids, but they also provided some terms that were
very favorable in RTD's eyes.
And one of those terms was the ability to prepay these leases early, which we would be taking advantage
of that term here through being able to refinance, if you will, for lower interest rates at this point in time. So
the equipment with JP Morgan equipment finance only goes back to 2016. However, we have done
business with JPMorgan Chase Bank as a underwriter and an investment bank for at least a decade.

PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Brenden. Does that answer your question, Director Rosenthal? OK, are there
any other questions? So I think we're ready to vote. Are there-- for simplicity, are there any No votes on
this? Seeing none, the motion passes 13 to nothing, unanimously, with two directors absent-- that being
Director Dishell and Director Lewis.
We have one discussion item on the agenda tonight, and that is an update, just an update on the 2022 to
2027 mid-term financial plan. And there's a discussion print out in your packet, but I will turn it over to Doug
MacLeod to give us an overview. And I believe you have a slide presentation, right Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, correct. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK.
DOUG MACLEOD: OK, so we wanted to take this opportunity to discuss with the Board what the financial
outlook is at this point in time. I believe the last time that we really looked at this from a multi-year period
was back in the April time frame when we discussed some of the financial challenges that RTD was facing
at that point in time. Since then, we've gotten a little bit better information. We've had a few more months
of sales and use tax results come through. We've gotten the March sales and use tax forecast and additional
information just about our expenditures as well. So we wanted to take this opportunity to update the Board
about how things are looking for now.
Then going forward, this is what we intend to do. Keeping the Board informed through discussion items and
approvals. So we're entering budget and forecasting season here at RTD. We operate on a fiscal year. So
leading up to the budget development for 2022, we plan to have this discussion just showing the numbers
at this point in time to the Board in the public for 2022 through 2027, which is our mid-term financial plan.
So it's essentially a forecast for the next six years.
Then again in September, we'll have additional information come through by that point in time, including
the sales and use tax forecast. Hopefully we'll get that in time to include that in the September discussion
with the Board, but we'll also have another month of results that will help adjust those numbers. Then we
will come back in October and ask for the Board to approve the 20222 through 2027 mid-term financial
plan.
That approval really is just approving a forecast. It really doesn't have any appropriation authority to it. So
it's not appropriating any funds. It's basically an administrative process to help us set the stage to develop
the 2022 budget that the Board will be asked to appropriate in November.
So also in that October meeting, we'll show the Board the first look at the 2022 requested budget it's called.
Then we will come back in November with the recommended budget, asking the Board to appropriate
funding for 2022. So essentially what we're doing is we're having several discussions about how those

numbers are looking, going through the development of those numbers, and discussing policy issues with
the Board as we finally come to a point where we ask you to approve those appropriations.
Oh, and by the way, I should say that Todd Nikkel also joined me too. He's here to help answer questions.
Todd Nikkel is our budget analyst for. He pulls together all these numbers company-wide. There's a lot of
effort that goes on throughout the divisions developing the numbers by department, and then Todd pulls
these numbers together. So he's my right hand person putting this presentation together.
So what we're going to talk about is giving you a preliminary look to the Board of how things are looking
financially. Again, this is a snapshot in time, and those numbers will change. And there's really what you'll
see when we go through the numbers is there's really not a whole lot of wiggle room for new expenditures.
So we have a lot of financial constraints that remain.
And as we develop the mid-term financial plan as well as the budget, we're relying to a great extent on the
Board guidance in terms of how new funding would be applied primarily, funding for new items would be
applied for safety as well as compliance items and restoring service. So those are the key issues that we're
looking at for additional funding and how to apply those funds. But we'll go through that discussion with the
Board about how that looks as we continue to bring numbers to you.
So in these numbers that I'll show you on the next slide, some of the assumptions that we're using at this
point in time is that we're assuming a moderate recovery in fare revenue. I think that's one of the biggest
uncertainties that we have out there is what the future ridership and revenue levels will look like. So we're
making certain assumptions, and those numbers will change as we get to October and come up with a
recommended MTFP to approve.
We're also assuming there's no additional COVID relief grant funding other than those three apportionments
that have already been executed and awarded to RTD. We're also assuming that our operating expenses
will phase back up to the 85% service level, 85% of pre-COVID levels. And then our capital asset funding
is we really only have funding at this point to fund current assets that we have-- maintaining a state of
disrepair and replacing those assets that need replacement. And even there, we don't have enough money
to do everything that needs to be done.
So I won't go through all these numbers since they're in your packet, but I just wanted to point out a few
highlights. What this shows is the amended budget in the first column of numbers, then the six-year midterm
financial plan, which is the forecast building off that 2021 amended budget. So in the orange highlights
there, that's where we've made the assumption about fares that next year they will return to approximately
a 50% increase of current levels. We don't really have a good basis for that number. It's really just a
placeholder at this point in time until we get a little bit more certainty on the future. As people return to work,
schools are back in session, as we add service back, we'll get a better picture of what that might look like.
Sales and use taxes will get updated as well on line two. The line numbers are over there on the left in blue.
We should get the sales and use tax forecast in September from CU Leeds and present that to the Board

in October. Grant revenue and other income. Grant revenues really are preventive maintenance grants that
we receive on a recurring basis. Those are 5307 funds as well as the COVID funds. However, in that line
item, we just have the recurring grants in line item three. We've also added in investment income.
So essentially what we did is we did the subtotal one line four showing what the revenue looks like without
the COVID grants. And what you can see in years 2021 through 2023, the projections were that our revenue
had fallen down pretty low. We'd been north of one billion dollars in revenue Pre-COVID. So fortunately we
got the COVID relief grants. We did draw all of the relief grants for the CARES funding in 2020, which is
not shown here. But then we showed the remaining COVID relief grants to draw with CRRSAA and ARPA
in row five.
We've just guesstimated at the years that we will pull that funding down. So that's not super important at
this point in time, but it does represent the remaining funds that we pull down in each one of those fiscal
years. So as you can see on row six, total revenue of just over a billion dollars in each year.
Directly below that, starting in line seven, is our expenditures. You can see our 2021 operating
expenditures, excluding depreciation. We're excluding depreciation for this presentation because we're just
looking at a cash basis. Depreciation is really just an accounting entry to recognize the expense of our
capital expenditures.
So below line seven, you can see our operating expenses are trending in the high $600 million range up
into the $700s and $800s as we go through time. Initially those are intended to represent the costs of
providing 85% service levels as we get out into late 2022, 2023 time frames, and those numbers will change
too as well as we get additional information.
A big line item to point out here that line item eight, debt service. That's a huge burden, as everybody is
aware. High to mid-$200 million per year spent servicing our debt for both interest and principal payments
each year. So that's a big challenge that we have, and that's one of the first things that we have to pay with
our sales and use taxes.
So going down to line 10, our net cash flow. Considering all those items before we talk about capital
expenditures, you can see that the black numbers are positives. The red numbers are where we go
negative, where we have more expenditures than funding. Then at row 11, we show what our needs are
for state of good repair and capital expenditures. Again, these are all just maintaining what we have. There's
virtually no new capital expenditures, never new projects or new assets.
So that total line item is $478 million, and we have in the line above it, $352 million of available funding
based on this current projection. So we're coming up short of what all of our capital needs are at this point
in time. However, we're in a little bit better shape because of some of the COVID funding than we were
back in November last time we did the mid-term financial plan. What we would do when we come in October
is present a mid-term financial plan for approval that would show us balancing the budget throughout so at

least the net cash flow line over there to the right would be zero so all of our revenues match our
expenditures.
Finally, I should point out on the very bottom line, in row 13 there, what we were demonstrating there is
RTD has a Board-approved fiscal policy to maintain a target of three months of operating reserves.
Currently that's approximately $51 million per month or $253 million in operating reserves for emergencies,
for economic downturns, those kinds of things. So what that number 7.15 represents is we're currently at a
level above our three months. We're at 7.15 months of reserves.
That's really because we've drawn down the CARES funding as quickly as possible, and we'll continue to
draw down the other two funding enforcements for COVID relief as we go forward to fund our operations.
You can see what happens to that ratio does that by 2027, it's projected that we burn through some of those
reserves to fund some of our operating expenses to at least get to this point to an unbalanced budget. So
we'll keep pointing out that number because that definitely has policy implications and affects our financial
stability going forward.
So some of the key takeaways from those numbers are that without that COVID relief funding, the 2019
revenue levels that we had achieved pre-COVID would not have been achieved again until 2025. So there's
a five or six year gap in there where we dropped below where we were in 2013 before we fully recover.
COVID has helped us maintain our service levels and avoid even deeper cuts than what we'd already done
in late 2020.
The other item to point out is our operating expenses have remained fairly steady. We did have several
savings that we did on that line item, but they remained steady primarily because we recalled a lot of the
employees that had been intended to be laid off, our frontline employees, and we utilized the COVID funding
to maintain our employment and service levels that we established. And then finally, the new transit corridor
also had an impact on keeping that funding. It blipped up a little bit in 2020, but it offset some of the cost
savings that we had. So when you look at year over year operating expenses remained fairly steady.
Again, debt service consumes almost one fourth of our annual revenues, and that will continue for the
foreseeable future, at least through MTFP period and beyond, all the way through approximately late 2040s.
The FasTracks debt does not get paid off until 2050. And then in that prior slide where we went negative,
if we were to say that we had funding available to maintain our state of good repair, we would only be able
to afford 74% of that state of good repair need in order to balance that budget.
And just a reminder of some of the financial uncertainties that RTD faces. This is not so much an
uncertainty, this first bullet line item, but it's really an alignment of our budget priorities with the strategic
plan priorities. So I think what we'll have-- I know what we'll have is we'll have some shifting of how we
prioritize some of those budget line items going forward as we start to go through the strategic planning
process. So some of those numbers will change, and we will have to stay within our financial means, but
be the target of that funding effort will be aligned with our strategic plan.

We don't know what the results of the fare study and equity analysis impact will have. So as I mentioned,
the fare revenue line is very uncertain at this point, not only due to ridership, but also due to possible fare
changes that may result from that study and analysis. Sales and use tax will continue to change.
Our sales and use taxes returns have been fantastic for the last several months, higher than what we've
ever seen. We believe that a big chunk of that is due to the stimulus funding that's been being paid out to
individuals and families, as well as the unemployment supplement coming from the federal government,
and folks are using that money to go out and spend. So that may come to an end, and we'll see what CU
Leeds thinks when they develop the next forecast.
Again, just pointing out that the TABOR limitation will apply to the Base System right. Now they're debruced
essentially. So the Base System is not subject to limitations and revenue growth until their debt is paid off- until its debt is paid off in 2024. So we don't know what the impact of that will be until we get closer to that
point in time, but there could be some ratcheting down effect on the amount of revenue that the base system
is able to retain.
We'll have contractual changes going forward. Those always are something new each year, depending on
purchased transportation or contracted services, renewing those contracts. We're going to go into
negotiations soon on the collective bargaining agreement. That will have some financial impacts as well.
There's been a lot of talk, positive talk hopefully, for transit with federal infrastructure funding. That made it
through the Senate, was approved by the US Senate. It's with the House now. That could have a very good
impact to RTD, but we're not contemplating or thinking that we're going to get that money or including it
until it's a more certain item that we might receive. And then, of course, we could have some litigation
settlements that could affect us, and we don't know what the impact of those would be.
So that is just a quick rundown of our numbers. And like I said, we will come back next month of next
committee to discuss the numbers further and give you an update on how those are looking. Followed by
October when we asked for approval and also the first look at the 2022 amended budget. So Chair Catlin,
that concludes our comments, and we'd be happy to take any questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. MacLeod. I have a question, just I'm going to exercise the privilege here.
What have you factored in for fuel costs?
DOUG MACLEOD: Great question. I don't know that I'm at liberty to say what our fuel costs are at this point
in time. I'd ask General Manager Johnson if she wants to comment on the news we received today.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. MacLeod. And Madam Chair, if I may, we just received
notification today that we were able to lock in a fuel rate-- so this is straight off the presses, and I was just
briefed on this just a couple of hours ago. So Mr. MacLeod, I believe you can share that if, in fact, we
solidified everything. I'm not certain if we have or not.

DOUG MACLEOD: I'm not even-- so I'll put it this way. In this mid-term financial plan, what we had assumed
was fuel cost, diesel fuel costs of $2.50. We just entered a contract today establishing that pricing for 2022,
and it will be below what we've assumed in this model here.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, that answers my question sufficiently. Thank you. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Should we consider a debrucing election?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. MacLeod?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. From a financial perspective, that would be very helpful, but I think
that's a policy issue to be discussed with the Board.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. Additional comments, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Well, if you're going to put something on the ballot, you need to start early and get it into the
thought process so that you're not rushing something at the tail end and let the public know ahead of time
why you're debrucing. And I don't know if there's any other questions that you might consider going to the
voters with. It's very expensive to hold an election for a single issue thing. If you can combine it with another
election, like a Board election, then you should save a lot of money.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Broom. I think that might be a conversation that we would have with
our state lobbyists as well, so thank you. I see Director Cook. Just a minute. Doug, do you mind taking
away your slideshow so we can see the gallery of participants?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK, Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you very much. I had two questions and a quick request, if I may. I recall
that the debrucing is necessary because the T-REX bonds or that big chunk of bonds pay off in the next
couple of years. But I don't see a drop off in our debt service at that point. And I was thinking the prior midterm financial plans showed that. Can you explain there?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. That's a great question. So what we will do when we
bring the future versions of the mid-term financial plan is we will have Base separated out from FasTracks.

What we showed you was a consolidated basis for RTD. And so the way we've structured the debt
payments on FasTracks when that debt was issued was to keep our principal payments low until the Base
System debt was paid off in 2024.
Effectively when you add the two together, we increase the principal payments on FasTracks beginning in
2025. So the savings that we generate from not paying debt on the Base System is replaced by the
additional principal payments on FasTracks. Essentially what we did is we tried to smooth the overall debt
by year for cash flow purposes. So when Base drops off, FasTracks increases.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, thanks. And along those same lines, Base versus FasTracks. In some of the early
statements this year, we had not shown as allocated any of the COVID relief funds to the FasTracks account
to the extent they are used to support FasTracks operations. Are we doing that now? Will that be shown in
the next set of statements?
DOUG MACLEOD: Yes, thank you for pointing that out, and we can sure do that. We will break those out
essentially when we draw that funding from, let's see, that the CRRSAA funding, for instance, and same
with CARES. We had drawn the funding based on operations costs. So it really consisted of salaries and
wages and benefits and also our contracted services purchase transportation were the primary categories
that we drew from.
So the FasTracks impact of that is primarily from the allocation of costs that we do for salaries over to
FasTracks, as well as the purchased transportation mainly for the Eagle Project. So yes, we will start
breaking that out to demonstrate how that's being spread between the two entities.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, and then my request, if you have it handy, I suppose you do, could you get us the
last midterm-- the two plus four mid-term financial plan that we approved so we could compare. It'll be
interesting to see the effect of the COVID funds plus the reduction in service plus the ramping up the state
of good repair, et cetera. Thank you. Thanks so much.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Cook. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Chair. Thanks, Mr. MacLeod, appreciate it. I had the benefit of seeing
this I know with you, but I think you had added the 74%. Do I understand correctly that our state of good
repair, which we've pushed off up to this point here, is a pretty middle of the road plan. And the asset plan
and the state of good repair intersect here at we're 74% funded without drawing from reserves. That's the
correct take away there?
DOUG MACLEOD: Correct, yes. And what I would add to that is the state of good repair needs do change
fairly often, and they will change certainly as we embark on our strategic planning process and prioritize
the budget funding. So there are many projects in there. And I would say the backlog state of good repair

costs, the majority or the largest single item in there is replacing our bus fleet, the portion that has not been
replaced so far. And I believe it's about one half of the $200 million-- excuse me, one third of the $200
million in backlog state of good repair costs as bus replacement.
So in that instance, we have a lot of old buses. But as we develop our path forward and where we're going
to focus those funds, we'll also take into consideration how many buses do we need, what kinds of buses,
et cetera. So those numbers will change. But yeah, essentially right now, the way it looks as we can only
afford 74% of the state of good repair items.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thanks. Yeah, that's troubling for sure. So this question they go beyond here, and I
know we started talking about this a little bit. But given some of the federal priorities around energy and
certainly around infrastructure, are there opportunities given that such a substantial portion is bus
replacement for us to align our goals, whether they're environmental, whether they're infrastructure-related
to offset some of this with additional funding opportunities at the federal government that we're not yet
factoring into the mid-term financial plan?
DOUG MACLEOD: Absolutely, yes. If those opportunities present themselves, we would definitely take
advantage of those. As we present the mid-term financial plan, we don't assume items that aren't fairly
certain. So for instance, in that spreadsheet, what we've included in 2021 was the federal capital grants
that we know about. But beyond that, in other years, we haven't included any additional federal funding for
capital needs.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, thanks. And then switching gears a little bit, just on that debt service-- so thanks to
Director Cook for asking about it-- but would you mind just reminding me again, all together FasTracks and
Base, at what point past 2027 does that start to roll off and become a lower portion of the budget? If I recall
correctly, it does grow for some time, getting close to 30% if not over, but it does drop off. Do you recall
when that drop off is?
DOUG MACLEOD: I don't recall-ERIK DAVIDSON: It's OK if not. We can-DOUG MACLEOD: Yeah, I don't recall right offhand. I can get that to you. But you're right, it does grow.
And again, we had structured that debt service under the presumption that our revenues would continue to
grow-- primarily sales and use taxes-- over time. So we structured each year's debt service to meet what
our projected revenues were. So as that debt service grows, hopefully our revenues will grow with it, and
we can maintain somewhere in that 25% to 30% commitment range.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, and I think that answers my follow-up question on that. In terms of just risk, I mean,
where we could do OK-- I mean, I'm seeing the net cash flow. It's concerning, especially knowing that we're
74% state of good repair. But if sales and use grows faster than our debt service, that's what's one of the
biggies in there we would do really well.

But if the reverse happens, we have substantial risk and exposure on that. That if sales and use does not
grow at the rates we're currently projecting and our debt service, which we know will go up at a predictable
rate, there is substantial risk. I mean, realizing it's six, seven years out, but that's the correct understanding
where we're counting on that sales and use. That's really the big dial, correct?
DOUG MACLEOD: Absolutely, absolutely true. And if you were to look at our sales and use tax forecasts
that comes from CU Leeds, if you look at the long-term year over year compounded growth rate, it's
approximately 3%, which is not totally unreasonable. Where we could run into problems as if we had a
severe recession that resets our baseline and we grow from 3% there.
What we've done in the past is adjust our expenses accordingly. We can't really adjust our debt service
only to the extent-- we can adjust it only to the extent where we might have interest savings for the most
part. So we're kind of stuck there, so we have to adjust other expenses. The other challenge throw out there
too that we have with that sales and use tax growth is we will have possibly a ratchet down effect that's not
contemplated in our sales and use tax forecast with the Base System.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Right, OK. So that was kind of where I was headed with that. I mean, two things. I mean,
one we'll have to look at inflationary impact, cost-- even if our sales and use tax grow, there's concern there.
But then that leads me to my final point, that Director Broom, I think the answer is Yes. I mean, we have to
look at taking this up as a policy issue with the legislature, and that goes beyond my pay grade. I mean, I
would look to Director Whitmore and Guissinger here for maybe some guidance on this. And I think there's
a broader conversation, but I think we have to debruce and take that to the legislature. Just looking at our
exposure even just there. So anyway, that concludes my question. Thanks for giving me the time there,
Chair. Appreciate it. Thanks, Mr. MacLeod.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thanks, Director Davidson. Director Broom, please.
BOB BROOM: Just an observation. Long-term interest rates are still at all-time lows. Is there any possibility
that we could refund and extend our debt out to bring down those middle years?
PEGGY CATLIN: Doug?
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you, Chair. Yes, possibly. One of the things that we have with most of our-- well,
something that we have a virtually every one of our debt issuances is we have a call provision in them
almost universally a 10-year call provision, meaning-- and I know you know this, Director Broom. But just
for everybody's edification, when the debt is issued, there's a provision in there that you cannot refund that
debt issuance prior to 10 years out, and that the IRS says unless you issue taxable bonds instead of taxexempt bonds to replace them, for instance.

There's also a period that the investors that hold those bonds that lent RTD the money, before you reach
that 10-year period, you have to continue to fund that debt. So you can replace it earlier with taxable
replacement bonds, but then you're paying debt on both the replacement bonds and the original bonds until
you get to that pay-off period at the end of 10 years. It's called arbitrage, where you're paying both.
So when we look at these things and look at refunding them, we have certain limitations and really consider
the cash flows. And that's why we bring these refundings to you at certain points of time because we cross
that threshold where we're able to justify that arbitrage amount and more than pay for it with interest savings.
So there is the opportunity probably. And if Brenden is still on, I'll ask him to comment that we could possibly
refinance-- I don't know about extending the debt. But Brenden, would you care to comment on that?
PEGGY CATLIN: Brenden, are you-DOUG MACLEOD: Looks like you went off mute, Brenden, but we can't hear you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Maybe that's something that we could talk about next month when we get our forecasts
in. And I wanted to remind everybody that the Board was a little bit nervous last time about approving a sixyear mid-year financial plan, and so we approved two years. It's my hope that things will be a little bit more
stable for the coming forecast and that we can do a little bit more planning and approve a six-year plan
rather than a two-year plan. But we'll kind of wait and see. Director Broom, did you get your questions
answered?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I think so. As long as these things are being looked at. The $4 million in savings that
we're talking about this evening can also be used to extend that out. But since this was a private placement,
you have to be something that would be acceptable with the other party.
PEGGY CATLIN: True. Do any other directors have comments on the mid-term financial plan? I don't see
any hands raised. Thank you, Doug. We really appreciate it.
DOUG MACLEOD: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Moving on to other matters. Are there any other matters to come before this committee?
Seeing none, our next meeting date is September 14. Oh, I see Director Davidson has his hand up.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I'll just mention as a follow-up to that-- thank you, Chair, I appreciate it. It may be
worth a discussion topic for us to talk about the debruce thing. It's come up before, and I think Director
Broom raises a good point that we don't want to be reacting, we want to be proactive.
And looking at the T-REX and then looking at potential exposure to recessions and ratchet down in other
places on Base, I just I think we're not going to-- we may find something with that service. But without really
pulling down our-- we need a lot of stars to align in order to not need to debruce. So I think maybe we

should work offline to find a way to work that into a discussion topic and consider how we bring that forward
and start the ball on that. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Fair enough. We'll work with Directors Guissinger and Whitmore to see if we have a
discussion with our legislative lobbyists. So-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: So as I said, our next meeting dated September 14, and we are adjourning the meeting
at 6:13 PM. Director Williams, do want to take a five-minute break before starting your committee?
KATE WILLIAMS: I think. It's always good to give everybody a breather, get up and move around, and we
will come back at 6:18 by my clock.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good. Thank you all.

