1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

MINUTES
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, January 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Kent Bagley

A. Call to Order
Acting Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 7:55 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Present

Arrived
7:50 PM

Kent Bagley

Director, District H

Present

7:50 PM

Jeff Walker
Bruce Daly

Director, District D
Director, District N

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:50 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Larry Hoy

Director, District B
Director, District J

Present
Present

7:50 PM
7:51 PM

Bill James
Angie Malpiede
John Tayer

Director, District A
Director, District C
1st Vice Chair and Director, District O

Present
Absent
Present

7:50 PM
7:50 PM
7:50 PM

Tom Tobiassen

Director, District F

Present

7:50 PM

Claudia Folska

Director, District E

Present

7:51 PM

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Present

7:51 PM

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Present

7:51 PM

Natalie Menten
Paul Solano

Director, District M
Director, District K

Present
Present

7:51 PM
7:50 PM

Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Rolf Asphaug, Fulton Bell, Shirley Bennett, Rick Clarke,
John Elias, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova, Terry Howerter, Austin
Jenkins, G. Johnson, Erin Klaas, Fernando Macias, Dustin Martinez,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Chris
Quinn, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, John Shonsey, Jim Starling,
Henry Stopplecamp, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Greg Thompson,
Pauletta Tonilas, Bill Van Meter, Phil Washington, Brian Welch, Susan
Wood

Others Present:

Greg Amparano, Margaret Atencio, Ellen Belef, Karen Benker, Mary
Jane Brady, Joy Calabrese, Margi Clute, Eliza Cummings, Michael
Cummings, Z.J. Czupor, Marisa Dirks, Andrea Eichman, Carol
Esquibel, John Esquibel, Ahmed Gamamo, Joni Goheen, Sherman
Hamilton, Dale Honor, Nikki Jackson, Jeff Kraft, Jan Lasater, Shari
Malloy, Mariah Martinez, Julie McKenna, Bert Melcher, Bill Mosher,
Judge Larry Naves, Justin Newton, Ashlee Odbayar, Brenda Oster,
Daryl Oster, Joan Peck, Jacalyn Right, Bernie Rogoff, Antonio Rozier,
David Ruchman, Ali Shaikh, Sabine Shaikh, Roger Sherman, Chelsea
Solano, Judy Solano, Manuel Solano, Dan Strammielb, Chris Taylor,
Carol Tobiassen, Gary Van Dorn, Bob Wilson, Barbara Yamrick

B. Denver Union Station Update
Bill Mosher congratulated the newly elected officers. He explained that the Denver
Union Station Project Authority (DUSPA) is a consortium that includes
representatives from Denver City Council, RTD, DRCOG and DUS Metropolitan
District; it is a very diverse group which hired them to manage the project.
To-date they have spent almost $366 million. Half of the money is paid by
FasTracks and the rest by the Downtown Redevelopment Authority.
Most of the activity is on the CRT as most of the LRT is substantially completed.
The light rail plaza has been open since May 2012 and it’s a fully operational
facility.
The Bus facility has been divided into three phases, with several aspects already
completed and the rest underway. All the concrete work has been completed
behind DUS. Escalators and elevators installation is underway. They are using
skylight in order to bring light into the building. The ticket booth is in progress in
the center of the facility. Granite installation in public restrooms is nearly complete.
All venting facilities are in the west end due to the historic nature of the building.
On the commuter rail, steel fabrication for the CRT canopy is almost complete. Pier
drilling is underway for the pedestrian bridge foundation. They have canopies that
cover every train platform. The Wewatta pavilion PTFE roof is installed; glass will

be going in next. Touch up painting on north train hall canopy structural steel is
underway.
Moving toward Coors field, the rail and concrete tie storage within the throat area
is underway, but will have to wait on a portion of it until the Amtrak station is
relocated. They have started the installation of the overhead power for Tracks 1
and 2.
Streets and Plazas that have been completed include: LRT Plaza, 17th Street Garden
Plaza and the 16th Street from Chestnut to Wewatta. The 16th Street from
Wewatta to Wynkoop is expected to be completed in February 2013. Wewatta
Street construction is expected to be completed in the spring of 2013 and the
Wynkoop Plaza completed by November 2013.
The Denver Union Station Renovation is underway and the goal is to finish by April
of 2014. He mentioned that on October 2011 RTD received 2 developers’
presentations. RTD selected the developer by December 2011; this renovation
includes 21,000SF for transit units, 110 hotel rooms, 19,000SF or retail and
restaurants.
RTD signed a lease contract in December 2012. They expect to
move the Amtrak station back to DUS in the spring of 2014.
Public involvement continues through ongoing communications via website and
email. Most coordination has been for the construction projects going on in 3
blocks: Wynkoop/DUS parking lot closure, Wewatta detour to Chestnut and the
two-way mall shuttle traffic.
With regard to private development, they have expedited the expectation to-date
and it is expect to be done by 2019. The total public cost of the project would be
$570 million. Parking spaces are substantially available in evening and weekends.
Bill presented a list of projects plans which the city has seen. These include 1900
16th Street, DaVita World Headquarters, North Wing Building: IMA Financial Plaza;
South Wing Building: One Union Station; Cadence Apartments; Historic Denver
Union Station; Block A – 1650 Wewatta has already been sold. 1601 Wewatta is
planned to be under construction within the next 3 months.
More information can be found at their websites: www.denverunionstation.org and
www.unionstationdenver.com.

Director Folska thanked him for the presentation and stated that she is very excited
that the project is on time and within budget. She also asked what the exact
dimensions and cost are for the pedestrian bridge. Bill Mosher stated that he is not
sure. Jerry Nery stated that it is almost 200ft, and goes over the 8 tracks. It has
mesh fencing, but it is not enclosed. It has one escalator and one elevator. The
project was priced as a whole project, but he will try to get the price for that
specific portion calculated, including elevator cost.
Director Daly asked if it will be similar to what is in DIA. Bill Mosher stated that it
is, they feel very comfortable with it, and there is air that flows through it.

Director Bagley asked for clarification if the multi-family around the station is for
rental. Bill stated that it is for rental and that most of the project if not all of them,
offers less than one parking space per unit.
Director Deadwyler asked if this is low income housing. Bill stated that there is a
requirement for the central plan from the city, but he was not sure on the
percentage.
Director Bagley thanked them for the presentation and asked if later in the year
they could offer a tour for the members of the board. Bill stated that they can give
them a walking tour in the spring. Director Bagley will work with them to
coordinate this.

C. Recommended Actions

• FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors reappoint four members of the FasTracks Citizens
Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District (RTD) to an
additional three-year term and appoint one new member to the Committee to
the remainder of a three-year term to fill a vacancy.
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager of Communications, stated that they
advertised the recruitment of citizens interested in serving through the
FasTracks Website, local publications and stakeholder e-mail distribution.
Interested citizens were asked to provide a one-page letter stating their
interest and specific qualifications, related experience and resume if
available. They received 60 applications. The current members are eligible
for reappointment and four of the five current members expressed interest in
continuing to serve on the committee.
Based on attendance, participation at meetings and committee consistency,
the nominating committee recommends the reappointment of Melvin Bush,
Anne Hayes, David Lewis and Debra Wilcox. It also recommends the
appointment of Jeff Kraft to a three-year term expiring on December 31,
2015. Mr. Kraft was present at the meeting and resides in Boulder (RTD
District O). He is the marketing director for AT&T.
Motion:

Director Tayer made the motion to
move this item to the full Board at
the January 22, 2013 Board
meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the
motion.

Discussion:

Director Lubow asked about the nominating committee. Scott
Reed stated that it includes Scott Reed, Directors Bagley and
Cohen and Bill Van Meter from the Planning department.
Director Lubow asked if they look into socio-economic
diversity during the review.
Scott stated that all the
information is in the report. There was a fair amount of
diversity, and the selection was made based on experience.
Director Bagley stated that he has been on the committee for
several years. They received 60 applications and the Virtegic
Group screened all of them and narrowed the applications
down to 9 for interviews. Only 7 showed up for the interview
and there were several age groups, from age 22 all the way to
the mid-60s including female applicants. Mr. Kraft was the
first person interviewed and showed a phenomenal passion to
help RTD.
Director Tobiassen welcomed Mr. Kraft and acknowledged the
work of the CAC, especially Mr. David Lewis.
He also
mentioned that he is working with David Lewis and Director
Folska to put together a speakers group for the I-225 project.
Director Folska stated that this is a great initiative and that
Transit Alliance is also a great organization. She asked for the
criteria for evaluating the candidates for the CAC. Scott will
provide both the criteria and process for review. Director
Folska also asked how long has the CAC operated on behalf of
RTD. Scott responded that they have been operating since
2005. Director Folska asked if they have outreached to the
youth of the community. Scott responded that they have
worked through the colleges.
Director Folska wanted to
know if they have included youth under 18. Scott stated that
he would have to check on the requirements; he doesn’t think
there is an age limitation. She would like to see if they can
reach out to that group to participate.
Director Solano stated that the outreach needs to also extend
to the Hispanic population in Denver and include a bilingual
outreach.
Director Deadwyler asked if they can have the information
requested by Directors Folska and Solano before the Board
Meeting, especially the outreach information.
Scott will
provide the information. Director Bagley requested the
requirements to be outlined.

Director Anderson stated that the Directors need to
understand what the purpose of the committee is and why
they get appointed.
Director Folska stated that she is looking for the criteria used
to evaluate the applicants. Scott stated that they will send
the information about the criteria, structure, terms,
requirements, etc.
Committee Chair Bagley declared the motion PASSED.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [12 TO 1]
MOVER:
John Tayer, 1st Vice Chair and Director, District O
SECONDER: Lorraine Anderson, Director, District L
AYES: Anderson, Bagley, Walker, Daly, Hoy, James, Tayer, Tobiassen,
Folska, Lasater, Lubow, Menten
NAYS: Barbara Deadwyler
ABSTAIN:
Paul Solano
ABSENT:
Angie Rivera-Malpiede

D. Updates

• West Rail Line Update
Jim Starling stated that through November 2012 they had the different
aspects of construction at a 97-100 percent completion, with an overall
progress 97%. November through December they conducted static testing
of individual elements. January and February they expect to conclude the
integrated testing of full systems. During March and April they will conduct
the operator/schedule testing and tie into existing system.
Austin Jenkins, Assistant General Manager for Rail Operations stated that
they are in the transition point where Jim’s group is preparing to hand it over
to operations. Their rail operations staff is functioning as support for the
test activities. As the system moves alone on March 1st they will have a
system that is largely completed and all critical safety system in place with
staff trained and certified. The first 2-3 weeks in March will be training.
They will test the schedules but will not tie into the existing systems yet.
They will act as if they were in service but will not be carrying people. They
will simulate accidents and Broncos pull away.
Dave Genova, Assistant General Manager for Safety, Security and Facilities
stated that they have a certification process in order to reach certain
milestones, including getting the system ready to go into revenue. At each
stage they issue a certificate. If there are any issues, they will create
criteria to evaluate the successful accomplishment of those milestones.

They check for hazards that they might not have anticipated and they don’t
have that many issues on the West Corridor. They will do their pre-routing
on March 1st. They will review any open item and once they have the sign
off they can move forward.
They also have a lot of reviews and
assessments by the FTA. The FTA came out in December and allowed RTD
to move forward with the integrated testing.
On the Lakewood-Wadsworth Garage, they have two mayor contractors for
this project. They have made significant progress. The Sheridan garage is
also expected to be in place for the opening.
David Genova stated that they are also conducting safety outreach at
schools in the area, fairs/info booths, tours, website pages. They are
working with the school kids to show them how to safely cross.
There is an art selection committee made up of elected officials, citizens and
public art professionals. Staff expects to have art along different parts of
the line; some will be in place for opening day.
David Genova also mentioned that the 6th Avenue Bridge lighting will be on
January 23rd. The Grand Opening is scheduled for Friday, April 26th; they
will provide further information on this. On Saturday, April 27 th, they will
host Station Parties and on Sunday, April 28th the revenue service begins.
General Manager (GM) Phil Washington mentioned that in addition to all the
certifications and testing, the Government Relations team is working on
getting dignitaries invited to the grand opening. They will brief the Board as
they get more information.
Director Folska stated that they have done such a wonderful job and the
staff has showed incredible passion for the job. She asked about the
audible. Jim stated that they have completed the installation and will switch
over. Director Folska asked if those are the ones that have 45 decibels and
adjust to 90. Jim affirmed that was correct.
Director Folska asked if there is a blue line phone for emergencies. Dave
Genova responded that all parking structures and stations have emergency
phones. Director Folska asked if they have a “ping”. Dave responded they
do not. Director Folska asked if they can check if it is possible to have that
added. Dave stated that they have looked at it, but the option doesn’t seem
to exist. Director Folska asked if RTD could invent it, patent it and make it
available for other agencies.
Rick Clarke, Assistant General Manager for Capital Programs stated that
they have a Task Force that monitors the gate crossings. They will keep the

Task Force active to monitor if there are any changes that need to be made.
They will continue to assess if what they have is accurate. Director Folska
stated that she has talked to other transit agencies about this.
Director Folska also asked if they have thought of connecting the art
students to those stations. Jim stated that the Lamar station is being done
by the art school. Director Folska asked if they could look at getting other
elementary schools art programs to get involved. Jim stated that the art
they are looking for is from professionals. There are some kiosks that
change periodically and they might work for that purpose.
Director Daly asked about the light rail wrap. Jim stated that they will have
some additional safety messages. This is a new wrap totally dedicated to
safety. It is not sponsored; it is RTD safety messages.
Director Walker asked if there has been any feedback from the residents.
Jim stated that they just started with the testing. Although they are not in
service right now they have seen some questions come through.
Director Solano stated that the art needs to be done multicultural to show
the diversity on the community. Jim stated that there is a committee in
place that takes care of that.
Director Bagley thanked them for the presentation.

E. Other Matters
Director Anderson congratulated the elected members and stated that she looks
forward to working with them and understanding what specific issues they will
want to move forward. She asked for an email from each member letting her know
what their priorities are. She will be at the Board office on Tuesdays, and will be
happy to meet with them.

F. Next Meeting Date - February 5, 2013
G. Adjourn
Committee Chair Bagley adjourned the meeting at 9:15 p.m. to the Planning &
Development Committee.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

