1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Larry Hoy, District J
Bill James, District A

William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Tom Tobiassen, District F
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Barry Gore, District K

AGENDA
FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Tuesday, January 8, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

FasTracks Monitoring Committee
Chaired by Kent Bagley

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee Appointments
C. Updates

• West Rail Line Update
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - February 5, 2013
F. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:

 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 3, 2013

From:

Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 3, 2013

Board Meeting Date: January 8, 2013

Subject:

FasTracks
Citizens
Appointments

Advisory

Committee

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint
four members of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee of the Regional Transportation District
(RTD) to an additional three-year term and appoint one new member to the Committee to a three-year
term.
BACKGROUND
The seventeen-member FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee (CAC) advises the District on matters
relating to the implementation of the voter approved FasTracks program, and performs such additional
duties as requested by RTD. The Committee serves in an advisory capacity through the designated staff
liaison to the Board of Directors, staff and project consultants
Five current members’ terms expire on December 31, 2012.
Recruitment for citizens interested in serving was publicly advertised through the FasTracks Web site,
local publications and stakeholder e-mail distributions. Applicants were asked to submit a one-page
letter stating their interest in serving on the CAC along with specific qualifications, highlights of related
experience and expertise and a resume if available. A total of 60 applications were received by the
deadline. Current members are eligible for reappointment and four of the five current members
expressed an interest in continuing to serve on the Committee.
The Nominating Committee decided, based on attendance, participation at meetings and Committee
consistency to recommend reappointment of the four current members who requested reappointment.
The Nominating Committee then carefully reviewed each application received in order to fill the final
position, considering criteria outlined in the Committee Structure adopted by the Board in 2005,
including:






Broad representation of stakeholder interests
Diversity
Demonstrated interest in public transit and/or the FasTracks program
Previous community service
Professional experience

The following current members are recommended for reappointment to an additional three-year term
expiring December 31, 2015:
Melvin Bush is president of Insurance Design and Placement. He is active on numerous boards of
directors, including Ronald McDonald House Charities, Denver/Better Business Bureau, Colorado

Packet Pg. 3

B.1

Foundation for Public Health and the Environment, and Colorado Board of Accountancy. He was the past
chairman of The Colorado Action for Healthy People's and the Ronald McDonald House Charities' board
of directors and past president of the LoDo Rotary Club. He attended St. Louis University for
Undergraduate, Graduate (MBA), and Law School. He holds a Bachelors of Science degree in Business
Administration (Finance) and is a resident of Adams County, RTD District B.
Anne Hayes, co-chair, is a vice president of Westfield Development Company, a locally owned
commercial real estate developer. She is a past member and chair of the US36TMO Steering Committee,
as well as a past member of the Transit Alliance Action Fund Committee and JEC Transportation
Committee. She currently serves on the Board of Union Station Advocates and is co-chair of the
Sustainability Committee of the Colorado Energy Coalition through the Metro Denver EDC. For many
years, she volunteered for Habitat for Humanity and served as a member of their site selection
committee. Ms. Hayes holds Masters degrees in Urban Design and Urban and Regional Planning from the
University of Colorado College of Architecture and Planning and is a resident of Denver, RTD District A.
David Lewis is president of S.A. Miro, Inc., a Denver-based engineering company. Mr. Lewis is past-chair
of the DIA Partnership. In addition to the CAC, his volunteer interests include Engineering Ministries,
Inc., Metro Denver Habitat for Humanity, and Whiz Kids tutoring. Mr. Lewis holds a Bachelor of Science
degree from the University of Colorado and a Master of Business Administration from Colorado State
University. He and his wife Mary, a board member of Aurora Public Schools, live in Aurora, RTD District
F.
Debra Wilcox, co-chair, is a member of the management team of Bye Energy Inc., a start-up company
developing bio fuel and electric propulsion systems for general aviation and is currently a member of the
Colorado Aeronautical Board. She previously worked for the Colorado Legislative Council researching and
drafting legislation, preparing ballot analyses and translated publications into Spanish. Ms. Wilcox holds
a Bachelors of Arts degree in English Education from the University of Northern Colorado, a Juris Doctor
degree from the University of Denver College of Law, and is a resident of Centennial, District G.

The following applicant is recommended for appointment to a three-year term expiring on December 31,
2015:
Jeff Kraft, a native Coloradoan, is a Marketing Director for a large infrastructure company, AT&T, with
substantial professional experience developing marketing campaigns, launching promotions and
positioning products. A graduate of the Transit Alliance Citizen’s Academy, he holds Master’s Degrees
in Public Policy from the University of California at Berkley, and in Real Estate from New York University.
He has written a blog about regional development and transportation issues since 2007
(www.aviewoftherockies.com). Mr. Kraft commutes regularly by bus to his office in northeast
Denver, and gained extensive knowledge of other public transit systems when he lived and commuted in
Boston, New York, London and San Francisco. He is a resident of Boulder and RTD District O.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no additional financial impact.

Packet Pg. 4

B.1

ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Recommended Action. It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors reappoint four members of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory
Committee to an additional three-year term appoint one new member to the Committee.
2. Modify the recommended appointments to the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee. This is
not recommended as the appointment is within the parameters of the Committee Structure
adopted by the RTD Board of Directors.
3.

Do not adopt the Recommended Action. This is not recommended as this alternative would
delay the appointment process of the FasTracks Citizens Advisory Committee.

Prepared by:
Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 5

C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 3, 2013

From:

Richard F. Clarke, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

January 3, 2013

Board Meeting Date: January 8, 2013

Subject:

West Rail Line Update

Information

ATTACHMENTS:


WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108

(PDF)



WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Jim Starling, Project Manager, Engineering
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 6

West Rail Line
Update
January 8, 2013
Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

C.1.a

Packet Pg. 7

C.1.a

Civil Construction
Bridges/Structures/Drainage
Walls/Utilities/Track
Stations/Parking

98% complete
100% complete

Systems Construction
(TPSS/OCS/Signals)

100% complete

Total Construction progress
Overall West Rail progress

98% complete
97% complete

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

West Rail Construction Progress

98% complete

Through November 2012

Packet Pg. 8

C.1.a

November- December
Static Testing

Testing of individual elements

January – February
Integrated Testing

Testing multiple elements together

March –April
Operator/schedule testing & tie into existing system

Packet Pg. 9

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

West Rail Line Testing

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

C.1.a

Integrated Testing begins

Packet Pg. 10

C.1.a

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

Lakewood•Wadsworth Garage Construction
April 2012

December 2012

Packet Pg. 11

April 2012

December 2012

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

C.1.a

Sheridan Garage Construction

Packet Pg. 12

C.1.a

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

Safety Outreach
• Back to School Nights
• Provide bilingual walking and biking materials and giveaways

• Presentations
• Neighborhoods, Senior Centers, Disabled Community

•
•
•
•
•
•

Health and Safety Fairs/Info Booths
Tours
Website Pages
WRL Newsletter Articles
PSA announcements
Light rail wraps for test trains

•

Safety video – conjunction with Lakewood

• Events (Tour de FasTracks/Bridge Lighting/G.O)
• Safety Roadshows

Packet Pg. 13

C.1.a

• Art committee made up of elected officials, citizens,
and public art professionals
• Final artists have been selected for Garrison, Knox,
Lakewood•Wadsworth, Jeffco, Lamar, Sheridan, and
Red Rocks Stations and Kipling Bridge.
• Final round of final artists will be chosen February
2013
• Two-four artworks installed by opening day,
remainder to follow through the year.
Packet Pg. 14

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

Public Art

C.1.a

• January 23– 6th Avenue Bridge Lighting
• Friday, April 26 – Grand Opening
• Saturday, April 27– Station Parties
• Sunday, April 28 – Revenue Service begins

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

2013 Events

C.1.a

Brenda Tierney
Public Information Manager – West Rail Line
303-299-2401
Brenda.tierney@rtd-denver.com

Packet Pg. 16

Attachment: WestRail_BoardUpdate_20130108 (1455 : West Rail Line Update)

For More Information

