Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

STUDY SESSION
January 26, 2016 at 5:30 PM

I.

Call to Order
Chair Tobiassen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Lorraine Anderson
Director, District L
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Barbara Deadwyler
Director, District B
Claudia Folska
Director, District E

Status
Absent
Present
Present
Present
Absent

Arrived
5:28 PM
5:30 PM
5:27 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:24 PM

Bill James

Director, District A

Present

5:17 PM

Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten

Director, District G
Director, District I
Director, District M

Absent
Present
Present

5:31 PM
5:31 PM

Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano
Tom Tobiassen

Director, District O
Director, District K
Director, District F

Absent
Present
Present

5:30 PM
5:29 PM

Jeff Walker

Director, District D

Present

5:30 PM

Directors Anderson, Folska, Lasater and Sisk were absent.
Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rolf Asphaug, Heather Copp, Nate Currey, John Elias,
Terry Emmons, David Genova, Adrina Gibson, Doug Gragg, Cory
Granrud, Kate Iverson, Erin Klaas, Marla Lien, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
McManus, Paula Perdue, Bill Sirois, Henry Stopplecamp, Greg
Straight, John Tarbert, Bill Van Meter, Jyotsna Vishwakarma

Others Present:

Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

II.

Overview of the Real Property Division (Stopplecamp)
Henry Stopplecamp, Acting Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, indicated that
there was not a formal presentation this evening; however, Susan Altes, Manager of Real
Property, would be providing an overview of the Real Property Division of Capital
Programs.
Susan Altes explained that Real Property was one of four divisions that made up Capital
Programs and is also the smallest division. Real Property consists of her, three real
property specialists and an administrative assistant. She said they are charged with
acquiring all property necessary for the District’s projects for both FasTracks and Base
System. When FasTracks was initiated it was determined by the Board that RTD policy
would require all real property acquisitions to follow the Code of Federal Regulations even
if a purchase is not federally funded so that uniform and equitable treatment is conducted
in all transactions. Susan Altes explained that eminent domain is the right of government
to take private property for public use. RTD’s eminent domain authority is part of RTD’s
enabling legislation. She stated that the eminent domain process is also managed by Real
Property.
Susan Altes noted that property acquisition has been different on every corridor. She
explained that the goal during the eminent domain process is to continue negotiating with
the property owner to try and reach a settlement even if condemnation and trail
proceedings have begun. She outlined the number of properties needed for each project
along with the number of condemnations and trails as follows:
 West Line – 193 acquisitions, 36 condemnations, 9 trials
 Denver Union Station to Pecos – 23 acquisitions, 5 condemnations, 1 trial
 Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility – 6 acquisitions, 2 condemnations, 1 trial
 East Line – 93 property acquisitions, 23 condemnations, 5 trials (1 is pending)
 Gold Line – 70 acquisitions, 9 condemnations, 2 trials
 Northwest Rail – 22 acquisitions, 2 condemnations, 1 trials (pending)
 I-225 Line – 64 acquisitions, 14 condemnations, 6 trials (5 are pending)
 North Metro Rail – 32 acquisitions, 5 petitions, 2 trials (both are pending)
Susan Altes summarized that to-date for FasTracks there have been 503 acquisitions, 96
condemnations, 19 trials, 8 pending trials, and 69 settlements. This means that just 3.1%
of all acquisitions went through the full condemnation and trial process. She noted that in
addition to managing the acquisitions her team also manages the trials in coordination with
the eminent domain attorneys and appraisers RTD has under contract. She pointed out
that when considering the number of acquisitions this means there has been at least one
closing every week since 2008 that Real Property has handled.

Susan Altes explained that as part of the eminent domain process, fair market value of a
property must be determined. RTD has appraisers under contract that appraise all property
needed to be acquired on behalf on RTD. If a property has a value of $5K or higher the
property owner can elect to receive their own appraisal at RTD’s expense as well. The
appraisals are reviewed by the review appraiser who makes a fair market value
determination. Offers are made to the property owner based on the fair market value.
Susan Altes shared that RTD is required to provide relocation benefits to displaced
residential parties or businesses. She said this is also something Real Property oversees.
She said this can take a tremendous amount of effort and time as every tenant must be
relocated before a property is released for construction. She explained the process is also
difficult as her team must find a comparable property, apartment, storage unit, etc. similar
in cost and location to what they had previously. In the event this is not possible RTD
must also provide supplemental relocation benefits. Tenants have 18 months to claim
their relocation benefits so this is a process that can go on for a significant period of time.
Susan Altes stated that Real Property manages close to 100 revenue leases that produce
just over $1.5 million annually for RTD. Real Property also manages all necessary licenses,
permits and easements for things like electric lines, water lines, fiber optic cables, etc.
Currently there are over 3,500 licenses or permits for utilities that cross RTD’s tracks.
She said that her team also manages any encroachments on RTD’s property, agreements
for bus access on private property and day-use permits.
Susan Altes pointed out that in addition to being responsible for RTD’s property
acquisition, Real Property is also charged with disposing of RTD’s surplus property. She
reminded the Board of the pilot program that was established in 2013 where 4 properties
were selected to be sold through different methods. The properties selected were:
 Alameda and Havana Park-n-Ride
 13th and Zuni – remainder property from Siegel Oil
 104th and Riverdale
 13525 Weld County Road 8
Director Walker shared that this is very similar to the types of activities he does in his day
job. He said it was important to note that not all condemnations are adversary. Susan
Altes agreed that RTD has done many friendly condemnations. An example might be a
situation where the financial institution is slow to respond so a condemnation can help
clear the title for the property owner to move forward with the sale.
Director Bagley asked Susan Altes to provide the Board with the detailed information she
reviewed as to the property acquisition process for each FasTracks corridor. He noted
that property acquisition on the funded corridors is mostly complete. He does not see the

need for many more acquisitions in the near future unless we find the funding for
additional extensions. Susan Altes agreed that the acquisitions are very close to being
done. She explained that during the acquisition process her team was augmented by
consultants so there is a strong core group left to manage the other Real Property
functions. Director Bagley recognized there was still much for Real Property to manage
but felt it important for the Board to understand that RTD is moving predominantly out of
the acquisition arena.
Director Solano wondered how the Real Property team worked with people who are
receiving Section 8 housing assistance. He also wondered what happens if we cannot
find a new house, apartment, etc. for someone we are relocating. Susan Altes explained
that Real Property works with whatever agency is providing the housing assistance. She
said that even if there is a high demand for housing it is still RTD’s responsibility to find
something. She noted that in extreme cases she has known agencies that have had to
build new housing.
Director Archuleta inquired as to the size of the property at Zuni. He also wondered as to
its appraisal value. Susan Altes stated that the property was about 1.6 acres. She
explained that the appraisal value is kept confidential during negotiations.
Director Hoy asked about RTD’s obligation to give money back to the federal government
if we sell a property that has a federal interest. Susan Altes said it would depend on the
terms of the grant agreement. If property was sold and the grant was still an open grant
the proceeds would have to go back to that grant. If the grant is closed the proceeds
could be put to another project. Director Hoy wondered what RTD’s incentive to sell
properties was if the funding had to go back to the federal government. Marla Lien,
General Counsel, explained that typically RTD does not receive the maximum percentage
of federal grant allowance. For example, a grant could be authorized to fund 80% of a
project but RTD only received 50%. She said RTD could take the funding from the sale of
property to increase that percentage.
Director Menten noted that on the West Line property acquisitions there was an
ombudsman who assisted the property owners and hired by the City of Lakewood. She
inquired if this has been done on other lines or if it was just because the West Line was
more challenging. Susan Altes explained that the City of Lakewood made the decision to
hire an ombudsman.
Director Menten wondered if there were any buildings that RTD owned and was leasing
out entirely or if all these locations also have RTD operations. Susan Altes stated that
there are no properties currently that RTD is leasing that could be sold instead. Director

Menten asked if it was correct that there were vacant buildings owned by RTD. Susan
Altes stated that was correct.
Director Menten asked how often RTD has used the 50% special benefit rule to our
advantage when negotiating with a property owner. Susan Altes said there is only one
instance during the FasTracks property acquisitions that she is aware of the appraiser
finding a special benefit. She pointed out that just because an appraiser finds it does not
mean it has to be part of the negotiations. Director Menten inquired as to what happened
in that case. Susan Altes explained that often the special benefit can be used in the
negotiations but it is not clearly spelled out in the final agreement. She said that the
property owner and RTD came to a settlement that was to everyone’s satisfaction.
Director Menten noted that early in the West Line project there had been plans to acquire
property near the Red Rocks Station for a Kiss-n-Ride stop. She said she often gets asked
by citizens why there is not something for someone to pull off when it is a dangerous road
as it is. She wondered why we did not move forward with a Kiss-n-Ride. Susan Altes
stated she was not aware that there was ever additional property near that station that
was going to be acquired. Henry Stopplecamp stated that the decision to pull out the
Kiss-n-Ride was made very early in the West Line planning process.
Director Menten asked how long it typically takes to get concurrence from the FTA when
selling a property that has a federal interest. Susan Altes said it typically takes 60 to 90
days.
Director Menten wondered how involved Real Property would be with the Electronic
Content Management (ECM) currently being undertaken by the agency. She hopes that
property records can be available in the near future to even those outside the agency.
Susan Altes explained that it is a difficult process as it is not just a matter of making the
deed available. There can be actions that are taken after the acquisition of a property that
also need to accompany the property records. She shared that she has met with the ECM
team several times and will be again as the project progresses.
Director Menten commented that there is property around the Federal Center that has
been pretty controversial. She wondered if RTD was in negotiations with Lakewood for
that property. Bill Sirois, Senior Manager of Transit Oriented Development and Planning
Coordination, explained that there was an agreement with Lakewood that they would be
included as part of the master development process; however, the development around
Federal Center has gone a different direction than initially envisioned. He said he has
reached out to Lakewood for further conversation because RTD has been contacted by a
private entity that is interested in the property.

Director James pointed out that in the private sector people can find a variety of ways to
increase the value of a property. He wondered what opportunities there were for RTD to
do something similar and what limitations there might be on RTD as a public entity. Susan
Altes explained that it would depend on the property as there would need to be an
investment from RTD whether that be staff time, rezoning fees, etc. She shared that
investments to increase a property value had been made in the past but there would need
to be a strong justification for the up-front investment.
Director Bagley commented that there are station area master plans in development by the
City of Littleton at the Mineral and Downtown Littleton Stations. He hopes that staff has
been contacted by Littleton and will be participating in the efforts. Bill Sirois shared that
he was on the selection panel for the consultant. The process is just beginning but RTD
will be actively participating.
Chair Tobiassen thanked staff for their presentation.

III.

Other Matters
Interim General Manager Genova reminded the Board that at the last Board Meeting the
April 2016 Service Changes had to be amended to remove the increase in service on
Route 324. This was due to the anticipated grant funding from DRCOG not yet being
approved on DRCOG’s end. He said that since the Board Meeting, DRCOG has approved
the funding so staff will be bringing the recommendation to increase service on Route 324
to the Board for approval at a Special Board Meeting.
Interim General Manager Genova asked Bill Van Meter, Assistant General Manager of
Planning, to provide the Board with a brief update on the Southeast Rail Extension. Bill
Van Meter informed the Board that staff was recently contacted by the FTA to inform RTD
that they plan for the Southeast Rail Extension to switch from a New Starts Grant to a
Small Starts Grant. He stated that this was good news for several reasons. He explained
that the New Starts process is more onerous through the entire life of the project as there
is significantly more FTA oversight. He noted that the terms of the grants are the same
but the streamlined process of the Small Starts Grant will allow RTD to proceed with the
project sooner.
Director Bagley passed out a map outlining the construction activity surrounding Denver
Union Station (DUS) that is periodically prepared by the Denver Union Station Project
Authority Board (DUSPA). He noted the tremendous development that is occurring around
DUS that no one predicted would come to fruition so quickly. He reminded the Board that
currently sales and use tax is over 600% higher than what was projected in 2009 and
property tax revenue is about 250% higher. He stated that this is fantastic, not just for

RTD, but the entire District. He believes everyone should be excited about what has
occurred over the past six years.
Director Deadwyler thanked Director Bagley for bringing this to the Board’s attention. She
thinks it is fantastic to know that so much around DUS has been developed. She asked if
anyone has quantified the amount that has come to RTD operations through this
construction around DUS. Director Bagley stated that RTD sold five parcels for a
cumulative value of about $30-35 million. Additionally, there is the long term lease with
Sage Hospitality that generates revenue for RTD. He believes the revenues are in excess
of initial projections but he said he cannot quantify the numbers.
Interim General Manager Genova indicated he would ask Heather Copp, Chief Financial
Officer, to quantify the revenues and report to the Board.
Director Lubow asked if it was accurate to assume that with all the activity of businesses
and residences it means RTD is probably collecting more taxes. Director Bagley stated
that sales and use tax would generate income for RTD but property taxes would go to pay
off the loans used to build DUS.
Chair Tobiassen expressed that the progress is stunning.

IV.

Adjourn
Chair Tobiassen adjourned the meeting at 6:59 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

