Memorandum
To:

Board of Directors/RTD Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to Board of Directors

Date:

November 23, 2010

Subject:

Minutes of the Regular Board of Directors meeting held on Tuesday,
November 23, 2010 at 5:30 p.m. in rooms R, T, and D.

I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Pro Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:31 p.m.

II.

ROLL CALL - DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Eight Board members were present at roll call. Directors Brohl and Cohen arrived after roll call.
Chair Kemp, Directors Busck, McMullen, O’Boyle and Tayer were absent.

III.

RETIREE AWARDS
There was one retiree who was unavailable to receive his award.

IV.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION
There was no public participation.

V.

COMMITTEE REPORTS

GM Oversight and Performance Management Committee—Incoming Committee Chair Bagley
shared that the committee had met to discuss the General Manager’s quarterly review and the
upcoming annual evaluation that is due in December, 2010. The General Manager has
provided his self assessment and this information along with a recommendation from the
Committee will be shared with the full Board in December.
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Update—Minutes from the kickoff meeting were included in the
Board packet. Director Christopher shared the team had met; Director Tayer is the Chair of
the Committee; The Osprey Group is the facilitator and the Task Force will meet around twice
a month. We are still working on getting the last citizen representative for the Task Force.
VI.

METRO MAYOR TASK FORCE
Director Bagley reported he attended the Metro Mayor Task Force meeting with Chair Kemp
last Friday, November 19th. There was a small group of mayors there. Staff members Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Rick Clarke and Bill Van Meter were in attendance.

VII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF October 26, 2010
MOTION:

Director Malpiede moved for the adoption of the October 26,
2010 regular Board Minutes.
Director Tobiassen seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor and 0
against. Director Cohen had not yet arrived and Chair Kemp and
Directors Busck, McMullen, O’Boyle and Tayer were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

VIII.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
Eno Foundation Presentation
General Manager Washington shared that he had presented to a group of middle
managers for the Eno Foundation. Eno Foundation is a think tank of leaders engaged in
the transportation industry who focuses on all modes of transportation, with the mission of
cultivating creative and visionary leadership.

Meeting with Stephen Hazel, Senior V.P. for the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce
General Manager Washington reported he had met with Stephen Hazel, Senior V.P. of
the Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. He plans to have periodic meetings with Stephen
and the Chamber.
West Corridor Project Field Trip
Phil Washington and members of staff toured the West Corridor construction area.
This is a trip they do periodically to check the progress in the corridor. He encouraged
the Board members to attend.
Director Daly inquired if the gas leak problem had been resolved. General Manager
Washington responded yes.
Other Matters
 General Manager Washington reported the district closed on sales tax revenue
bonds at 4.026% for 40 years. He thanked CFO Terry Howerter and Teresa
Sedmak, Manager of Debts and Investments, for their efforts.
 General Manager Washington reported on the pricing of COPS at 5.056%.
Funds from the COPS will be used to purchase LRT vehicles, parking lots, Smart
Card, CAD/AVL, Para-transit and fareboxes.
Director Christopher queried if the sale of the COPS were affected by the
downgraded rating by S&P. Teresa Sedmak responded that is difficult to tell or
quantify the impact of the downgrade on the cost. They feel they had caught a
good moment during the volatile movement for placement of the COPS.
 The PI team passed out the Stakeholder meeting schedule pertaining to the
Completing the Vision.
 Director Bagley inquired about the meeting time for the CAC meeting when the
Board was invited to join them. Pauletta Tonilas will confirm this time with
Roger Sherman.

IX.

PUBLIC HEARING ON 2011 RECOMMENDED BUDGET
Chair Pro Tem Martinez read the script on the public hearing for the 2011 Budget as attached
in these minutes. He asked for public participation and hearing none, the public hearing portion
of this meeting was closed. He then asked for a motion to approve the 2011 recommended
budget.
A.
Approval of 2011 Recommended Budget
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors adopt Resolution No. ___, Series of 2010 for the adoption of the

2011 Budget, Resolution No. ___, Series of 2010 for the 2011 Budget
Appropriation and Resolution No. ___, Series of 2010 for the appropriation of 2011
Previously Appropriated Capital. The 2011 Appropriation includes the following
amounts (in thousands):
2011
Recommended
Budget

BASE SYSTEM (0.6%)
Operating Expenditures
Interest Expenditures
New Capital
Debt Payments
Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
Current Year Appropriation

$

$

Previously Approved Capital
Total Base System Appropriation

124,284
$

Operating Expenditures
Interest Expenditures
New Capital
Debt Payments
Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
Current Year Appropriation

$

$

Previously Approved Capital
Total FasTracks Appropriation

49,366
66,872
511,905
7,455
30,000
665,598
657,950

$

1,323,548
2011
Recommended
Budget

DISTRICT-WIDE
Operating Expenditures
Interest Expenditures
New Capital
Debt Payments
Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
Current Year Appropriation

$

$

Previously Approved Capital
Total District-Wide Appropriation

DISCUSSION:

596,765
2011
Recommended
Budget

FASTRACKS (0.4%)

MOTION:

377,215
23,833
23,955
44,080
3,398
472,481

426,581
90,705
535,860
51,535
30,000
3,398
1,138,079
782,234

$

1,920,313

Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the 2011
recommended budget.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.
Director Christopher commented this was a difficult
budget given the constraints but he feels good about the
budget. When he compares this agency to other transit
properties and sees some of the dramatic action they are
taking, he believes RTD is in a relatively good position but
we need to continue to focus on the big picture.

Chair Pro Tem Martinez commented that as he reads the
blogs, it is apparent that our public does not understand
there are separate budgets for FasTracks and the base
business. Their comments about how we need to take
the $305M and put it back into the base operations so
we don’t have to raise fares or cut service shows a lack
of understanding. We need to help them more fully
understand that we cannot use one of the budgets for the
other. Marla Lien clarified this statement to say we
cannot use FasTracks on base but if there were any
excess funds available, we could use base on FasTracks.
However, these are two separate coiffeurs.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor and
0 against. Chair Kemp and Directors Busck, McMullen, OBoyle and Tayer were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

X.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Pro Tem Martinez asked for a motion to approve items B-H on the unanimous
consent agenda.

MOTION:

Director Pulliam made the motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda, items B-H.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor and
0 against. Chair Kemp and Directors Busck, McMullen, OBoyle and Tayer were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

B.

Authorization to Initiate Acquisition of Property at DUS
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as necessary for
construction of the Denver Union Station Project and authorize the General Manager or
designee to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
Funding for the right of way acquisition is included in the 2011 recommended
FasTracks capital budget for the Denver Union Station project.

C.

Approval of Seventh-Year Contract Award to Strategic Community Partners for the
FasTracks Public Information/Involvement Consultant Contract
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the seventh-year contract
award to Strategic Community Partners, the current FasTracks Public
Information/Involvement Consultant, in the amount of $1,0 50,346 for Public

Information/Involvement, Communications and Public Outreach consulting wo rk
for FasTracks for the year 2011. Funds for the award are contained in the 2011
FasTracks Budget.

D.

Resolution Regarding Waiver of Sovereign Immunity and Indemnification of Claims for
Union Pacific Railroad’s Moffat Subdivisions – RTD Gold Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of Directors
adopt the attached resolution. The resolution commits to (i) waiving sovereign
immunity for and indemnifying the Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) for claims arising out
of RTD’s acquisition of, and construction and operation on a portion of the UP’s Moffat
Subdivision for RTD’s Gold Line; and, (ii) purchasing insurance in amounts specified to
provide funds in the event the need for indemnification arises.
RTD by the attached Resolution waives sovereign immunity to the extent it may be
applicable up to the amount of available insurance and agrees to indemnify the UPRR
for claims arising out of RTD’s ownership and/or use of the property acquired for RTD’s
Gold Line from UP’s Moffat subdivision, and obligates RTD to purchase insurance for
various types of claims. Liability insurance in an amount up to $200 million (two
hundred million dollars) during construction and $400 million (four hundred million
dollars) after commencement of operations is required, as is automobile liability
insurance in similar amounts. Railroad protective insurance is required on the East and
Gold Line Corridors. Pollution liability insurance in the amount of $5 million (five million
dollars) per claim is required along with other insurance applicable to construction
projects or required by law. The resolution acknowledges that indemnity and insurance
requirements may increase based on changes in law or market conditions.

E.

Federal Liaison Services
It is recommended by the RTD Board Executive Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to enter into an agreement (for federal liaison
services) with Patton Boggs LLP to exercise a one-year option (February 1, 2011
through January 31, 2012) to extend contract No 19-DX-001, at a cost of $228,000.
Funding for this contract is included in the 2011 budget.

F.

Resolution No.___, Series of 2010, Appointment of Trustees to the RTD Pension Trust
and Defined Contribution Plan

G.

IntelliChoice, Inc. Contract Award (RFP No. 10DH020)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a five-year contract for mobile
citations and report management system to IntelliChoice, Inc. in the amount of
$729,300. Funding for this contract is included in the 2010 Budget, and future year
funding will be appropriate on an annual basis.

H.

Execution of 2011 Option with Global Transportation for the provision of Access-aRide service
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee, to amend the existing
contract between RTD and Global Transportation for the provision of access-a-Ride
paratransit services in order to incorporate an option for the provision of access-a-Ride
service for the period January 1, 2011 thru December 31, 2011. This contract
amendment will be for one year in an amount not to exceed $5,600,616. There will
still be one (1) additional one year option. The amount for the remaining one (1) oneyear option shall not exceed $6,205,151 for the 2012 option year. The combined total
amounts for this contract, including all option years, shall not exceed $24,991,088 for
the five year period. In addition, RTD will reimburse the contractors’ direct fuel costs in

amounts estimated to total approximately $2,457,532 for the initial three year period
and $4,445,115 for the

five year period. This results in combined contract totals not to exceed $15,642,853 in
total for the initial three year period (2008-2010) and $29,436,203 for the five year
period 2008-2012.

XI.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
MOTION:

Director Bagley made the motion to approve the seventh
year (2011) contract amendment to Jacobs Engineering
for FasTracks Program Support Consulting Services.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

AMENDED MOTION: Director Brohl requested the maker of this motion to
amend it to include both items I and J since she was the
one who had raised questions about these two. Her
question on the ability to terminate before the 6 years
had been answered by staff and she no longer had any
questions.
Director Bagley and Director Brohl agreed to this
amendment.
VOTE ON
AMENDED
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken for items I & J concurrently
with 10 votes in favor and 0 against. Chair Kemp and
Directors Busck, McMullen, O’Boyle and Tayer were
absent
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

I.

Approval of Seventh Year (2011) Contract Amendment to Jacobs Engineering for
FasTracks Program Support Consulting Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the seventh year contract
amendment to Jacobs Engineering, in the amount of $17,348,818 for Program
Support Services Consulting for FasTracks for the year 201 1. Funds for the
award are contained in the 2011 FasTracks budget. Additionally, it is recommended
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise a six-year option
to extend the contract term through July 4, 2017.

J.

Approval of Seventh Year (2011) Contract Amendment to Delcan for FasTracks Quality
Management Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the seventh year Contract
Amendment for Delcan in the amount of $1,550,000 for Quality Management
Consulting Services for FasTracks for the year 2011. Funds for the amendment are
contained in the 2011 RTD FasTracks Budget. Additionally, it is recommended that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to exercise a six-year option to
extend the contract term through July 31, 2017.

K.

Approval of Contract Amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant (FRSC) for
FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant Services
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the Contract Amendment to Front
Range Systems Engineering Consultant (FRSC), in the amount of $2,957,904, bringing
the total authorized contract value to $33,122,426. Funds for the contract are
contained in the 2011 Recommended Budget for the FasTracks capital program.
MOTION:

Director Malpiede made the motion to approve the
contract amendment to Front Range Systems Consultant
(FRSC) for FasTracks Systems Engineering Consultant
Services.
Director Christopher seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with 10 votes in favor and
0 against. Chair Kemp and Directors Busck, McMullen, OBoyle and Tayer were absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

L.

Grant of Permanent Easement for Utility Facilities to the City of Aurora, at 14100 East
Colfax Ave.
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a permanent utility easement allowing for the construction,
operation and maintenance of a new sewer line (Sand Creek Interceptor to Tollgate
Creek % I-225) containing approximately 27,467 square feet and a temporary
construction license on property owned by RTD at the southeast quadrant of I-225 and
13th Avenue (extended) and adjacent to the East Metro Operating Facility at 14100
East Colfax Avenue, City of Aurora, Arapahoe County, Colorado.
MOTION:
Director Tobiassen made the motion to approve the grant
of permanent easement for utility facilities to the City of
Aurora, at 14100 East Colfax Avenue
Director Bagley seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
MOTION:

Director Brohl indicated she would abstain from voting on
issues related to utilities, citing a conflict of interest.

An electronic vote was taken with 9 votes in favor
(Bagley, Christopher, Cohen, Daly, James, Martinez,
Malpiede, Pulliam and Tobiassen)
0 against and 1 abstain (Brohl).
Chair Kemp and
Directors Busck, McMullen, O-Boyle and Tayer were
absent.
Chair Pro Tem Martinez declared the motion PASSED.

XII.

NEW BUSINESS
Director James shared he has been asked to chair a new ad hoc committee to look at
participation/affiliation with Chambers, neighborhood organizations, etc. Thus far the team
members are Scott Reed, Director James and Director Malpiede.
Directors Brohl, Pulliam, Christopher and Incoming Board member Larry Hoy participated in a
tour of the Federal Station with PI staff members Kevin Flynn and Ana Mostaccero. They got
to see firsthand what the pros and cons are with this sight and encourage anyone who has the
time to take this tour.

XIII.

ADJOURNMENT
The Board meeting adjourned at 6:05 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:

___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
Tuesday, November 23, 2010

BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Chris Martinez, First Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Secretary
Barbara Brohl
Matt Cohen
Bruce Daly
Bill James
Angie Malpiede
Wally Pulliam
Tom Tobiassen
Bill Christopher
RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Rick Clarke
Kevin Diviness
Sherry Ellebracht
David Genova
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Austin Jenkins
Marla Lien

District B
District H
District D
District M
District N
District A
District C
District L
District F
District J

Doug McLeod
Barbara McManus
Jerry Nery
Todd Nikkel
Paula Perdue
Carla Perez
Scott Reed
Christian Reiter
Teresa Sedmak

OTHERS PRESENT:
Lorraine Anderson – RTD Incumbent Board Member
Bill Wilson – GLAC
Mary Ann Strombitski
Jay Braetter – Jacobs
Lyman Ho – City of Aurora
John Gastafon – Portland, Ore

Daria Serna
John Shonsey
James Smith
Tim Stokes
Pauletta Tonilas
Lisa Trujillo
Bill Van Meter
Del Walker
Phil Washington

