Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, October 18, 2016
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present
Ernest Archuleta
Director, District C
Present
Kent Bagley
Director, District H
Present

Arrived
5:20 PM
5:04 PM
5:16 PM

Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska

Director, District B
Director, District E

Present
Absent

5:28 PM

Tina Francone
Larry Hoy

Director, District N
Director, District J

Absent
Present

Bill James

Director, District A

Remote

Gary Lasater

Director, District G

Absent

Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Chuck Sisk
Paul Solano

Director, District I
Director, District M
Director, District O
Director, District K

Present
Present
Present
Present

5:29 PM
5:36 PM
5:27 PM
5:26 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Committee Vice-Chair

Present
Present

5:24 PM
5:15 PM

5:30 PM

Director Menten arrived late. Directors Folska, Francone and Lasater were absent.
Director James participated via phone.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Tonya Anderson, Rolf Asphaug, Shirley Bennett, Gina
Callahan, Jessie Carter, Carolyn Conover, Heather Copp, Lou Cripps,
Nate Currey, Joey Davidson, John Elias, Terry Emmons, David
Genova, John Gonzales, Brian Iacono, Russ Larson, Shontel Lewis,
Inez Lucero, Doug MacLeod, Brian Matthews, Barbara McManus,
Mike Meader, Ravi Palakurthy, Tai-Shrae Parish, Scott Reed, Jenifer
Ross-Amato, Jannette Scarpino, Karl Shoemaker, Henry
Stopplecamp, Greg Straight, Walt Stringer, F. Brian Thye, Monika
Treipl-Harnke, Bill Van Meter, Michael Washington

Others Present:

Homer Anderson, Dr. William Gross, Anne Herzenberg, Brian
Lewandowski, Robert McNown, Marolyn Rittenhouse, Angie RivieraMalpiede, John Thompson

B. Recommended Actions

• Proposed Winter 2016/2017 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the Winter 2016/2017 Service Change
package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost savings of approximately $1,337,000 and, further, to
authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute contract
amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted
by these changes.
Motion:

Director Sisk made the motion to move this item
to the full Board at the October 25, 2016 Board
Meeting.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
communicated to the Board that staff had cancelled the
October 23rd service change. He stated there were a variety
of restructurings associated with rail changes, which would
not be implemented until later this year. He noted today, staff
will be discussing the winter 2016/2017 service changes.
Jesse Carter, Manager of Service Planning and Scheduling,
remarked that there were a total of 8 public hearings with 84
participants. He commented that the largest number of
inquiries were for Route 89 and the Highlands Ranch Call-n-

Ride. He said staff has removed the Route 89 from the
service change schedule and there is an update for the
Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride.
Bruce Abel noted that staff received a letter from the Douglas
County Commissioners and staff is currently considering a
new option. He stated staff communicated to Douglas County
that RTD could continue this service under a cost sharing
alternative, where Douglas County would fund half of the
costs associated with the Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride. He
added that it is currently under review by the Douglas County
Commissioners and staff will update the Board when
additional information is available.
Director Deadwyler noted that the 89 has been problematic for
the past couple of years. She asked why this route was
removed from the service change schedule.
Jesse Carter stated after review of the subsidy level and
ridership numbers, this route is in the middle of the pack.
Director Bagley said this is the fourth time that the Highlands
Ranch Call-n-Ride has come up for discontinuance. He
commented that RTD has tried everything with regards to
marketing and working with local municipalities to promote the
service, but added if the community does not adopt the
service, it will not work.
Director Sisk commented that the Rockies Ride from Boulder is
being eliminated. He stated that all of the Directors need to
step up and put the needs of the Regional District ahead of
their own districts.
Director Hoy noted he had several calls about Route 31, but
stated the 31 is not included in the winter service changes.
Jesse Carter remarked that when people say the 31, they are
usually referring to the 31L. He noted that the 31L will
change once the G line is opened.
Director Menten asked if the winter service changes would
affect Access-a-Ride.
Jesse Carter indicated there would be no changes to Accessa-Ride, and none of the Access-a-Ride riders would be
affected.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [11 TO 1]
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Barbara Deadwyler, Director, District B
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Tobiassen, Walker
Judy Lubow
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Gary Lasater
Bill James

Hoy,

James,

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

• Authorization to enter into contract with Protran Technology for purchase of
Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System (16DR0003)
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to
enter into a contract not to exceed $1,500,000 with Protran Technology for
the purchase of a Railway Worker Protection Early Warning System and
associated equipment (Contract Number 16DR003).
Motion:

Director Lubow made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the October 25, 2016
Board Meeting.
Director Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Terry Emmons, Assistant General Manager of Rail Operations,
stated that the avoidance of work accidents and fatalities has
been in the spotlight for many years. He said that RTD’s
current policy relies on human notification, but the Early
Warning System can provide better, and more timely
warnings. He added that RTD received competitive bids, but
only two proposers met the specifications.
Director Bagley said it critical that the Board makes sure our
employees are safe. He stated that the Maintenance of Way
employees are important, and we need to send a message to
our patrons that the Board cares enough about staff to protect
them. He added that if our ridership does not think the Board
is taking care of its employees, what will they think about the
manner in which they are cared for. He asked his fellow Board
members to support this too.
Director Deadwyler agreed that employees need to be
protected. She noted her concerns with the University of
Colorado A line, and commented that this money might be

needed to fix issues with that line. She said employees need
to be safe, but light rail has been running for 23 years with no
issues.
Director Solano agreed with Director Deadwyler and stated
these funds might need to be diverted. He commented that
this should be tabled until next month.
Director Walker remarked that maintenance is critical for both
old and new systems. He added that one accident is one too
many and by passing this item, maintenance crews will be
able to operate more effectively with the better notification
system.
Chair Tobiassen said this is something that he has been
discussing for several years and asked why RTD did not have
this yet. He stated he would be supporting this item to
enhance the safety of RTD’s workers and to give them the
extra seconds they need to clear the tracks. He added that
anything the Board can do to enhance safety is imperative.
Director Lubow said she would be supporting this item. She
remarked that staff has been waiting to get this since 2011
because it kept getting pushed back in favor of other projects.
Committee Chair Anderson commented that she is the
daughter and granddaughter of rail road workers. She said
getting injured is always a possibility and anything the Board
can do to improve the safety of our workers should be done.
She said the cost of this contract does not compare to
someone’s life.
Director Sisk stated he had represented someone who had
been crushed between two trains, and that person lives in a
way that they had never imagined. He said he cannot be more
unequivocal about supporting this.

RESULT:
MOVER:
SECONDER:
AYES:
NAYS:
ABSENT:
REMOTE:

PASSED COMMITTEE [10 TO 2]
Judy Lubow, Director, District I
Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Hoy, James, Lubow, Menten,
Sisk, Tobiassen, Walker
Barbara Deadwyler, Paul Solano
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Gary Lasater
Bill James

Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED.

C. Updates

• RTD Code of Conduct
Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel, said this is an advance preview of a
proposed Code of Conduct for RTD’s passengers. He stated that since RTD
has been in existence, it has not had a comprehensive code of conduct
governing behavior for passengers on RTD vehicles, facilities or property.
He added that other transit agencies have such codes which help passengers
understand what they can or cannot do. He stated that the codes help
passengers understand acceptable behavior and assist transit police and
staff communicate, and if necessary, enforce. He commented that the
attached code has been developed after review of codes by other peer
transit agencies, with input from Senior Leadership and other agencies. He
indicated that staff plans to bring this to the Board for approval at the
November 15th Financial Administration and Audit Committee, and for final
adoption at the November 22nd Board Meeting.
Steve Martingano, Transit Police Commander of Fare Enforcement
Operations, added that when people come to the Blake offices to complain,
staff cannot show anything in writing where it states what behaviors people
can or cannot do.
Mike Meader, Chief Security Officer and Assistant General Manager of
Security & Asset Management, stated the Code of Conduct will be used to
educate people so that everyone has a better experience when they ride the
buses or trains.
Director Bagley said it is imperative to adopt something like this. He added
that it is crucial to have, as it gives our employees something to stand
behind. He remarked that he has seen inappropriate behaviors and activities
on the Mall Shuttle and he thinks finalizing the Code of Conduct will be a
good step forward.
Director Deadwyler indicated that she is in favor of establishing a Code of
Conduct, but she is concerned as she does not want to add extra work for

the bus drivers. She added that she does not believe anyone on staff knows
how to recognize people with cognitive disabilities, and staff needs to be
able to identify those patrons.
Director Solano stated that until there is fare check consistency between
light rail and commuter rail, this Code of Conduct is presumptive.
Director Sisk said staff needs to be careful when finazliing the Code of
Conduct. He added that we need to be clear on what we want to achieve.
Director Menten asked to sit down with staff offline to discuss a few
changes.
Chair Tobiassen stated that he was surprised that the Code of Conduct was
not already documented. He said there are a lot of disturbances on the 15L
that are problematic, and sometimes those situations escalate.
Director Hoy inquired about the Code of Conduct process going forward.
Rolf Asphaug remarked that staff anticipates bringing this back to the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee in November for approval, and
then to the November Board Meeting for final adoption.
Director Lubow commented that she attended a candidate forum hosted by
9 to 5, and some people there claimed that RTD Security profiled in its
enforcement. She said there were a lot of comments and it would be useful
to discuss those remarks.
Director Menten mentioned that the timeline Rolf presented was pushing this
item forward too quickly. She asked that this come back to the Board in
December after there has been public outreach efforts.
Director James commended staff for bringing this to the attention of the
Board.

D. Other Matters
Director Bagley reminded the Board that tomorrow, October 19th would be the last
day to complete the General Manager’s Survey. He indicated the survey takes a bit
of time to complete and asked those who had not submitted their survey to do so.
He noted the General Manager had a quarterly update press conference today and
stated it is imperative that the updates are on YouTube, or aired live so that the
public can see what RTD is doing. He added that this information should be for
everyone.

Director Solano stated he is putting together a panel discussion for ADA and
Access-a-Ride issues. He said addressing these topics will help everyone
understand how Access-a-Ride works, and why it works the way that it does.

E. Next Meeting Date - November 15, 2016
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 6:41 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

