1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
First Vice Chair - Tina Francone, District N
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Natalie Menten, District M
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Bob Broom, District F
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Judy Lubow, District I

Ken Mihalik, District G
Chuck Sisk, District O
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, June 27, 2017
Board Conference Room
3:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

I.

Call to Order

Committee Chair Francone called the meeting to order at 3:30 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Committee Chair Francone, Committee
Vice-Chair Sisk, Chair Hoy, Directors
Anderson, Broom, Walker, and Williams.

Other Board members present:

Director Mihalik, Director Tisdale

Others Present:

General Manager Genova, Executive Manager
Barbara McManus, Board Office Administrator
John McKay

II.

GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee Background/Overview



Committee Background
Committee Chair Francone stated that the General Manager Oversight and
Performance Management Committee (the committee) is one of the most
important functions the Directors perform. She said that Heather McKillop,
Chief Financial Officer and Assistant General Manager of Finance and
Administration, and Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board

Office, have analyzed the General Manager’s performance evaluation and
goal-setting process and devised a spreadsheet to graphically depict that
process.
Ms. McManus touched on the background for the General Manager’s review
process. She stated that no formal process existed prior to 2009, the year in
which a state audit found exceptions with the compensation practices of
RTD’s General Manager at that time. She said RTD created a process to
allow for a thorough review of the General Manager’s performance, and a
committee was chartered to address the exceptions noted in the audit. She
noted that the committee has used the same materials and process for
several years and stated that the committee would once again have two
specific goals: Reviewing the General Manager’s performance during the
2017 calendar year and establishing the review criteria to be used in 2018.
She said that a goal-setting timeline was included in the committee’s
materials. She noted the committee had previously met as many as 15 times
in a year and had met 12 times in 2016, but she expressed that the newly
revised process could potentially result in fewer meetings. She said the
committee would be able to review the process and establish additional
meeting dates moving forward. She explained the spreadsheet that would be
used to evaluate the General Manager’s performance. She noted that one of
the benefits of a visual representation of the performance evaluation would
be to graphically demonstrate the committee’s expectations and what is
required for the General Manager to meet or exceed those expectations.
Lastly she listed the broad categories in which the General Manager would
be reviewed, some of which are the same elements used in evaluating other
salaried employees.
General Manager Genova added that the “Safety” component of the
evaluation had been added to the core competencies of all salaried
employees.
The committee discussed the elements contained on the 2017 review chart
for the General Manager’s performance evaluation.
Committee Chair Francone asked if Ms. McKillop’s role was to determine
whether the General Manager had hit his performance goals.
Ms. McManus responded that Ms. McKillop had volunteered to compile
responses from the Senior Leadership Team as to whether each department
has met its targets and completed projects.
General Manager Genova reiterated that Ms. McKillop was merely compiling
status reports from Departments based on assignments he had given. He
said the Assistant General Managers report on departmental progress. He

said his report to the committee would be a determination of what has been
accomplished by each department.
Ms. McManus stated that the committee is responsible for updating the
performance spreadsheet so that everyone, including the General Manager,
knows where the committee stands on the individual elements in the General
Manager’s evaluation.
Chair Hoy offered an explanation of the reasoning behind the review
process. He said the Board created the committee because it was necessary
to do so. He said the process has gone moderately well, though he noted
that Directors in the past have attempted to evaluate the General Manager
on criteria that had not been agreed upon in the previous cycle. He said that
the committee members would eventually become more familiar with the
visual evaluation methodology.
Director Williams said that she felt the visual representation would give the
General Manager something to work toward.
Director Broom asked which agency performed the audit on compensation
practices and whether the audit covered performance or financial matters.
Director Anderson said the Office of the State Auditor (OSA) conducted the
audit because they were upset over the compensation of a previous General
Manager.
General Manager Genova noted that OSA did not set up the performance
evaluation process, rather the Board created the process based on the audit
recommendations. He said that RTD receives questions from other agencies
interested in using the process.
Committee Chair Francone stated that previously RTD did not have a robust
evaluation process. She said the audit suggested a formalized evaluation
based on certain criteria.
Director Broom asked whether an audit is performed every year.
General Manager Genova said that OSA performs an audit on a particular
area of RTD’s operations every few years, such as bus and rail operator
safety in 2016.
Director Anderson commented that the state legislature had been unhappy
with the Board of Directors and how they managed a prior General Manager.
She said the legislature called for an audit and demanded the Board do a

better job of evaluating their employee so that it would be documented for
the public as to why a person was receiving a performance-based incentive.
Director Sisk said the history of the performance review is important but
wanted to recognize that the committee’s evaluation was previously based
on consensus. He said that previously one Director would be reticent to
accept the appraisal decided upon by the other five members. He said that
going forward it may make sense to allow for top and bottom evaluation
scores given by Directors to be disregarded. He said that General Manager
Genova was not granted performance-based incentive in 2016 and that
there was some consternation regarding the decision. He said the newly
revised evaluation system has been several years in the making.
Director Broom asked whether General Manager Genova was under an
employment contract, and the General Manager confirmed that that he was.



Approved Policies
Ms. McManus said that she was compiling a binder of all approved policies
and background materials the committee would need and said that the
General Manager’s contract would be part of that binder. She said that she
would send any new material to the committee members before each
meeting.

III.

Proposed 2016-2017 GM Goal Setting and Evaluation Timeline
Director Williams asked whether the committee would meet monthly.
Committee Chair Francone said that the schedule would be driven by the General
Manager’s ability to participate.
Ms. McManus said that the committee usually meets twice each month initially and
then takes a break.
Committee Chair Francone said that the performance evaluation and the
establishment of goals for 2018 are two separate components. She said the goalsetting aspect should be complete by the end of July 2017.
Director Broom asked whether the entire Board ratifies the 2018 goals.
Committee Chair Francone said the committee makes recommendations and those
recommendations are voted upon by the Board.
Director Anderson said it that the part to remember is that the committee is
establishing 2018 goals.

Ms. McManus discussed the materials included in the committee packet. She noted
that a survey would go out to all of the Directors within the following two weeks
and noted that the survey form was included in the packet. She said that, once the
results are compiled, both the committee and the rest of Board members review the
results so that the committee can get a sense of how the Board feels. She noted
that the committee meetings are open to all Directors.
Chair Hoy said, in order to minimize confusion, it is important to emphasize the
difference between the two functions undertaken by the committee, namely the
2017 performance review and the 2018 goal-setting process. He said the
committee would be determining whether the process would remain the same for
2018 and said the goals were established prior to 2017.
Ms. McManus stated that prior committees had encountered challenges in years
past about decisions that were already made. She said the committee last year had
revisited decisions that had already been made earlier in the year, which made the
process cumbersome. She said the hope going forward is to have a clearer roadmap
of the process.
Director Williams asked whether the committee’s process for 2017 would be the
template for the 2018 process.
Committee Chair Francone said that would be a possibility.
Chair Hoy said the process is only a template and may change for 2018, though he
said the process seemed workable. He stated the committee would decide at the
end of 2017 whether the revised process worked.
IV.

Review Performance Evaluation Process & Mapping
General Manager Genova pointed out that the five core goals encompassed in his
performance evaluation came from his job description and that the several task
goals came out of the annual retreat. He said the committee spends most of its
time analyzing the task goals.
Director Williams summarized that the General Manager would present how he
would accomplish the task goals and then report to the committee on how those
goals were accomplished.
General Manager Genova noted that the Board approves both the task goals and
the rating on his performance evaluation.
Committee Chair Francone said the system sounds confusing but reiterated that
Ms. McManus would put together a notebook that would provide guidelines and
history. She said the performance review chart would help show where the
committee is in the process. She said that the committee would be using the

revised process for the first year in 2017 and that the process would hopefully help
prevent the committee from moving backward at the end of the year and to direct
and prioritize the committee’s work
General Manager Genova said that Ms. McKillop and Ms. McManus have worked
hard on putting together the review chart. He said he likes that the format keeps
pertinent information in front of people but mentioned he had not scrutinized every
line of the chart. He said he was sure that Ms. McKillop and Ms. McManus have
pulled the right information from the previous review documents.
Ms. McManus said that the review chart would be printed in large format, updated,
and placed in the room for review for each meeting. She said she would suggest
that all the committee members review the materials contained in the committee
packet including the survey that would be sent out. She said she would also
forward the 2017 tactical goals document that the General Manager presented to
the Board in 2016 from which the review chart was built. She said her thinking
was that the committee should jump in feet first to begin their work and suggested
that the next two meetings could be held on July 11th and July 18th.
General Manager Genova asked which meeting the committee anticipated he would
present information.
Chair Hoy asked what would be on the agenda for the first meeting.
Ms. McManus said that the General Manager would be presenting his first round of
accomplishments in 2017 prior to the survey being sent out.
General Manager Genova commented that staff has already compiled a lot of
information.
Director Anderson asked whether a memo on the subject could be sent out instead
of scheduling a meeting.
Ms. McManus said that staff can arrange whatever the committee chooses.
Committee Chair Francone asked for clarification on the timing of the committee’s
tasks. She said the timeline showed that the committee should be discussing the
2018 goals but that the proposed meeting would cover the General Manager’s
2017 accomplishments.
Ms. McManus clarified that the committee works on both tasks in tandem. She said
the committee would fully review the General Manager’s 2017 accomplishments
once the 2018 goals are established.

Chair Hoy said that the committee has its goals and that the General Manager
needs to establish his task goals.
Ms. McManus clarified that General Manager Genova’s task goals are established in
the tactical plan and that the General Manager would establish how he has met
those goals.
Director Williams asked whether General Manager would be able to draft a memo
by July 11th.
General Manager Genova asked whether he would be providing both the 2018
goals and his mid-year accomplishments at the same time
Ms. McManus said that staff could continue to compile the goals and stated that
Ms. McKillop was collecting information from senior leadership.
General Manager Genova said that he could draft the 2018 goals memo by July
11th.
Committee Chair Francone asked whether the committee could postpone the next
meeting until July 18th.
Director Sisk said that would be possible.
Ms. McManus said that one of the tasks of the committee General Manager Genova
submits his memo would be to determine how to move forward.
Committee Chair Francone proposed that the committee members do their
homework and have dialogue outside of the meeting so that everyone is prepared
by July 18th.
Director Anderson said that the committee would have everything finalized by July
18th so that the goals would be able to be presented to the full Board by July 25th.
She said that, any questions or comments after July 11th could be submitted to Ms.
McManus.
Ms. McManus said that all questions should be routed to the same place so that
nothing is a surprise.
Chair Hoy said the committee should make sure that the email chain among
Directors does not become open meeting. He said that he realizes the committee
has a fluid timeline but stated it would be nice to have long-term schedule.
Ms. McManus said that she could put together a schedule based on past years and
add those dates to the calendar.

Chair Hoy agreed and stated that the dates may be subject to change.
Ms. McManus said that the committee could also meet on July 20th and still have
time to add submit a recommendation to the full Board if the committee does not
reach consensus on July 18th.
Director Sisk suggested the committee could start at 3:00 p.m. on July 18th.
Ms. McManus asked whether everyone was in agreement, and none of the
committee members expressed opposition.
Chair Hoy said that everyone should realize the committee schedule is fluid but that
the committee has deadlines to meet. He said not everyone will be able to attend
every meeting.
Committee Chair Francone noted that a Finance Workshop was scheduled for July
18th.
Ms. McManus said that she would have to check her calendar to coordinate
possible committee dates. She said that Ms. McKillop could probably move the
Finance Workshop. She summarized that General Manager Genova would provide
his 2018 goals memo by July 11th, which she would forward to the committee for
review, and that the committee would need to determine which specific elements
to add to or subtract from the General Manager’s goals. She said the committee
would meet at 3:00 p.m. on July 18th to fill in the blanks on the 2018 performance
goals document.
V.

Bi-Annual Board of Directors Survey
Committee Chair Francone asked when the survey would be sent out.
Ms. McManus replied it would be sent out within two weeks.
Chair Hoy asked whether everyone on the committee had been surveyed.
Ms. McManus stated the new members of the committee had not.
Chair Hoy said that the members would be asked to give input on what they have
seen from the General Manager.
Ms. McManus stated that a copy of the survey was included in the committee
packet.
Director Walker asked whether General Manager Genova would need to send out
his list of 2017 accomplishments before the survey goes out.

Ms. McManus stated that the list does not need to be submitted specifically to the
committee because it goes out to the full Board. She said that document gives the
Directors a reference to the General Manager’s assessment of his own performance
so that everyone knows what he is being evaluated against.
Director Anderson asked whether there is a way to tell who has submitted the
survey and who has not. She said it makes no difference who submitted it but that
it is important for everyone to participate.
Ms. McManus said she would check with the IT staff. She said survey participants
had not been identified in the past
Director Broom suggested the Directors could be polled to ask whether they have
completed the survey.
Director Sisk recalled that Committee Chair Francone had to extend the dates of the
survey because three or four Directors did not respond. He said the Directors have
an obligation to complete the survey.
Committee Chair Francone said that filling out the survey is one of the most
important things the Directors do.
Director Williams asked whether the survey is only completed by the 15 Directors,
and Committee Chair Francone said yes.
Director Williams asked who compiles the surveys.
Ms. McManus said that IT pulls together the reports.
Director Williams asked if there were any way to include participants’ names on the
survey.
Chair Hoy said that she could put her name in the survey comments.
Director Williams asked whether there was any reason for her not to include her
name.
Committee Chair Francone said there has been reluctance in the past to include
names.
Chair Hoy said that some Directors may want to blast the General Manager and
would prefer not to be identified. He said the reason the names are not included is
that it would be obvious who responded with an unsigned survey if everyone else
submitted a signed form.

Committee Chair Francone said that she would not write anything in the survey she
would not say to the General Manager personally.
Director Broom said the Directors must assume that the press would see a copy of
the survey and that they may not want to be quoted.
Director Francone asked whether the Directors’ names being included on the form
should be presented to the Board.
Director Sisk said the committee should recommend the inclusion of names as an
optional identifier.
Chair Hoy suggested that the name field should simply just be added to the form.
Director Anderson and Williams informally moved to add the name field.
Director Walker reminded the committee members to keep in mind that the survey
should only encompass the General Manager’s 2017 performance.
VI.

Questions and Next Steps
Committee Chair Francone asked the committee whether there were any other
questions and whether everyone was clear on the committee’s direction, and no
one had questions.

VII.

Next Meeting Date - July 11, 2017 from 3:30 - 5:00 p.m.

VIII.

Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 4:40 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

