Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

MINUTES
GM Oversight & Performance Management Committee
Tuesday, November 29, 2016
Board Conference Room
3:00 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Chaired by Tina Francone
Call to Order
Committee Chair Francone called the meeting to order at 3:05 p.m.
Committee Members in attendance:

Committee Chair Francone, Vice Chair
Bagley, Directors Anderson, Menten, and
Tobiassen. Director Walker was absent.

Others Present:

Directors Folska, James, and Lubow.
Barbara McManus and Tai-Shrae Parish

Committee Chair Francone stated that she had gathered everyone to review
comments and recommendations from the last committee meeting with regards to
the goals and scoring of the General Manager’s performance. She remarked that
she and Chair Tobiassen will be responsible for providing feedback to General
Manager Genova and she wanted to ensure the committee conveyed constructive
comments.
Committee Chair Francone commented that the General Manager’s evaluation
resulted in an overall score of achieved, but noted that in some areas the evaluators

reached consensus of Exceeds Expectations. She asked if the committee had any
thoughts on the overall evaluation.
Director Anderson remarked that the General Manager performed well under the
circumstances but the district did not meet its expectations.
Committee Chair Francone stated that the committee’s goal is to recognize the
General Manager’s accomplishments. She commented that when he took over he
had significant challenges and things did not go as planned. She remarked that the
overall evaluation states that he performed well but needed improvement.
Director Bagley said he has been on this committee for eight years under three
General Managers and has always perceived that the General Manager review
process is an evaluation of how the district is doing. He stated that the General
Manager predominately met or exceeded expectations but extenuating
circumstances with the University of Colorado A line and Smart Card issues need to
be considered in his overall evaluation.
Director Menten stated that she would like to see higher thresholds. She said the
General Manager did a decent job but she would like to see more detail with
financial transparency, especially with RTD’s expansion. She added that she would
like the light rail retro-fit sped up and would like press conferences recorded.
Committee Chair Francone indicated that there is a review of benchmarking
materials on the agenda. She remarked that typically there is a discussion about
benchmarking but the General Manager’s contract is not up for renewal this year.
She added that Barbara McManus has prepared some comments for the committee
if they are needed.
Director Bagley said it is difficult to benchmark because everyone has different
methodologies, cost of living allowances, etc. He added that the General
Manager’s current contract is for a five-year term, which would keep his salary in a
comparable range. He further stated the issue of benchmarking at this time
demonstrates the performance by the General Manager and the agency, under his
direction.
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager of the Board Office, said with the
information she was able to gather, RTD is in the range of other peer groups. She
said that an industry standard document released by UTA was also used in the
evaluation.
Director Archuleta stated that since the General Manager’s contract dictated his
yearly terms, the committee should implement those terms.
Committee Chair Francone remarked that the automatic increase was negotiated in
the General Manager’s contract since his pay initially began on the low end.

Director Bagley added that there were significant conversations about the
automatic increase when the contract was prepared. He said that the five-year
contract provided security and the automatic increases were an attempt to even
out the salary over that timeframe. He stated that the automatic increase is part of
the contract.
Committee Chair Francone said that the automatic increase was not to be seen as a
bonus, but rather as an acknowledgement and incentive to stay employed with RTD
for the agency’s stability.
Committee Chair Francone commented that, in summary, the committee would
review the recommendations in Executive Session and she, along with Chair
Tobiassen, would schedule a time to review the performance comments with the
General Manager and to inform him of the status of the discretionary payment.
Director Menten recommended that the committee perform a benchmarking audit
every year.
Director Bagley said benchmarking information is difficult to do as we are
comparing apples to oranges to grapefruit. He remarked that Dallas Area Rapid
Transit (DART), for example, gives their General Manager a $150,000 bonus every
year along with other additional perks.
Committee Chair Francone asked Barbara to perform the benchmarking exercise
again next year.
Director Lubow asked how the Board will vote. She said that she has comments in
support of the General Manager but also stated the General Manager is responsible
for the agency failures. She recommended that each Board member give their
comments to the General Manager individually.
Director Folska stated that the American Public Transportation Association (APTA)
has all of the benchmarking data and suggested that staff contact them next year
to get that information.
Barbara McManus said APTA published benchmarking information in 2012 and the
next publication will occur in 2019.
Director Anderson said in the past the committee found it is difficult to find an
exact peer agency in the United States. She stated that RTD is unique in that it
covers such a wide territory and has low density. She remarked that it is hard to
find parallels to what RTD does, but it is great to examine other agencies to see
what information is available. She said what Barbara McManus has done is great,
and the benchmarking data shows that RTD is in the ballpark for General Manager
salaries.

Motion to Move into Executive Session
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(f) Personnel Matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation
Committee Chair Francone adjourned into Executive Session at 3:53 p.m.

Executive Session
Resume from Executive Session to GM Oversight and Performance
Management Committee
Committee Chair Francone said that the consensus among attending Directors is to
agree with the committee recommendation.

Other Matters/Next Steps
Next Meeting Date: December 6, 2016
Adjourn
Committee Chair Francone adjourned the meeting at 4:20 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

