Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Board of Directors
Chair – Erik Davidson, District I
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Secretary – Michael Guzman, District C
Treasurer – Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Vince Buzek, District J
Vacant, District D
Ian Harwick, District L
Jaime Lewis, District A

Paul Rosenthal, District E
JoyAnn Ruscha, District B
Marjorie Sloan, District M
Doug Tisdale, District H
Troy Whitmore, District K

AGENDA
Performance Committee
Tuesday, December 10, 2024
IN-PERSON MEETING
4:30 PM
Performance Committee will begin following the
adjournment of the Special Board Meeting
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 861 3141 5527#
Passcode: 1660#
For Public Participation in the meeting: raise your virtual hand
in Zoom or indicate you wish to speak via phone by pressing *9
If you would like to be contacted regarding your public comment(s),
please email the RTD Board office using the address below.
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Performance Committee
Chaired by Peggy Catlin

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment

C. Discussion Item

• Performance Dashboard Walkthrough
D. Other Matters
E. Executive Session
Executive Session pursuant to § 24-6-402(4)(f)(I), C.R.S., for consideration of
personnel matters regarding the General Manager and CEO’s 2025 performance
goals and input from the Board of Directors on the same.

F. Next Meeting Date: January 2025
G. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assistive hearing devices
• Documents in alternative formats and language translations
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS DISCUSSION ITEM
Committee Meeting Date:
Performance Dashboard Walkthrough

December 10, 2024

REPRESENTATIVES
Debra A. Johnson, General Manager and CEO
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
PRESENTATION LENGTH
10 minutes
BACKGROUND
2021-2026 Strategic Plan
RTD’s 2021-2026 Strategic Plan (Strategic Plan) was approved by the Board during a Special Board
Meeting held on Tuesday, August 10, 2021.
The Strategic Plan establishes the agency’s four Strategic Priorities, which serve as the functional pillars
used to plan, develop, evaluate, and measure the agency’s overall performance:
•
•
•
•

Community Value: RTD strives to be a strong community partner, providing value to customers
as well as to the broader Denver metro region while sustaining planet Earth
Customer Excellence: RTD strives to consistently deliver high-quality customer service
Employee Ownership: RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled and engaged workforce
Financial Success: RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources

Each Strategic Priority is associated with a measurable Success Outcome.
Strategic Initiatives
Leveraging data garnered through Community Value, Customer Excellence, and Employee Ownership
surveys, staff held strategy sessions in late 2022 and throughout 2023 to develop tactics to improve
agency performance in specific areas. These tactics were distilled into three overarching Strategic
Initiatives for the 2023-24 performance cycle.
Following this same process, agency leaders met once again in August 2024 to engage in a strategic
planning workshop, during which they reviewed the agency’s performance over the previous cycle to
identify opportunities for improvement. Based on the outcomes of the workshops and the subsequent
work of the GM/CEO and members of the Leadership Team, staff developed an annual scorecard related
to agency performance driven by an operational vantage point. The scorecard captures the 2024-25
Strategic Initiatives and tactics, along with leading indicators designed to focus efforts to improve

Packet Pg. 3

1.C.1

outcomes related to the Strategic Plan. The annual scorecard was discussed during the Performance
Committee meeting held on Monday, September 16, 2024, as part of a larger discussion about the
2024-25 Strategic Initiatives.
For the 2024-25 performance cycle, the Strategic Initiatives are:
•

Back to Basics: RTD strives to redouble agency efforts to maintain assets in a state of good repair
leveraging sound asset management principles.

•

People Power: Recognizing the critical importance of its people, the agency’s most important
resource, in achieving the agency’s mission, RTD seeks to vigorously address impediments to
recruitment and retention efforts and to foster a culture of learning and development.

•

Welcoming Transit Environment: RTD seeks to reduce the impacts of criminal behaviors and Code
of Conduct violations on agency services and workplaces and, in doing so, to improve community
and employee perception of personal and public security on RTD property and vehicles.

•

Customer and Community Connections: RTD is committed to fostering community building and
enriching the customer experience.

As a component of employee performance management for the 2024-25 performance cycle, certain
non-represented employees who are in management classifications are required to develop and strive to
achieve “stretch” goals using the SMART framework and in alignment with the Strategic Initiatives.
These goals are intentionally designed to drive and incentivize individual performance, which in turn
improves the performance of the agency overall. Moreover, the initiatives reflect a renewed collective
focus to deliver meaningful progress toward achieving the Success Outcomes.
Performance Dashboard
Staff continues to develop and enhance a public-facing agency Performance Dashboard, which serves as
an easily accessible repository for performance data related to the Strategic Plan. The Performance
Dashboard, which launched on RTD’s website in May 2024, enhances agency transparency and assists
the Performance Committee’s efforts to assess the agency’s progress toward Strategic Plan Success
Outcomes. The Performance Dashboard houses information related to the agency budget and financial
reports, people power statistics, and other key organizational performance metrics.
DISCUSSION
During the Performance Committee meeting scheduled for Tuesday, December 10, 2024, staff will
engage in a walkthrough presentation of the Performance Dashboard in keeping with the Strategic
Priorities of Community Value and Financial Success.
Staff will also report on contemporaneous efforts to automate the gathering and reporting of
performance data via the Performance Dashboard. At present, cross-divisional teams are working to
augment data currently displayed by capturing internal performance goals and displaying trend lines to

Packet Pg. 4

1.C.1

illustrate operational and administrative performance, such as on-time performance, safety performance,
and cost efficiency measures.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
There is no financial impact associated with this Discussion Item.

Prepared by:
John McKay, Executive Business Partner
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 5

