2023-01-18
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. The Wednesday, January 18, Operations and Safety Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 5:33 PM. I'd respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to
please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this evening. Please note that until further notice, official meetings of the RTD
Board of Directors are held remotely via Zoom. The audio and video recorded. The meeting recordings,
along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practical on the Board's website.
Visit rtd-denver.com. Any livestream of the meeting is also available on RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and Manager-- Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be
acknowledged during tonight's proceedings, I'd like you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me
to call on you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their
virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on
the phone, press star 6.
I'd like to now call the role for the Committee members. Julien Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Bob Broom? Not yet. JoyAnn Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Marjorie Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Troy Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Kate Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I am also present. If it's OK, if somebody actually maybe calls Bob to see if he
can join us. If maybe Tai-Shrae or Jillian able to do that. Thank you.
For the record, I see that we have six Directors present. So the first item on the agenda this evening is
the selection of the Committee Chair and Vice Chair. As I am last year's Committee Chair, I will facilitate
the election, and once both seats are filled, turn over the meeting of the new Committee Chair-- over to
the new Committee Chair.

So unlike the Executive Committee election process which uses secret ballots for the election of Board of
Officers, for Committee Leadership appointments, we will proceed with open nominations, discussion,
and vote by the full Committee. We'll begin with the selection of the Chair and then Vise Chair.
We will allow up to three minutes for those Board members who nominate a candidate, those seconding
the nominations, if there are any, and other members who wish to speak regarding the candidates can
also speak. I will then call for a vote, and the candidate with the most votes will be appointed. If only one
Director is nominated, the Committee may proceed by acclamation, and that Director will be appointed.
I will start by asking for nominations for Chair of the Committee. Yes, Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. It's my pleasure to nominate Kate Williams to be Chair of this
wonderful committee for the next 12 months. As most of you know, Kate has been in this role before and
is certainly an operations guru and lives her professional life in tandem with RTD.
Just for the sake of the public, Kate has a long background in working with transit agencies and with the
very constituencies of agencies. Did so in Miami for a number of years, and then when she came to
Colorado, was very active with organization in Douglas County. And then now in Denver with Dr. Mack,
she's a Certified Transit Manager and certainly is a champion for all constituencies that transit is to serve.
And also a champion for the employees of RTD, and so I think it's only fitting that she serves another term
as Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Whitmore. Any other nominations for Chair of the Committee? I
see Director Broom has joined us. To let you know, Director Broom, we just took a nomination for Director
Williams to be Chair of the Operations and Safety Committee, and so we're speaking to that.
Any other nominations? Seeing none. So at this time, I'll call-MELANIE SNYDER: Can we-PAUL ROSENTHAL: I beg your-- yeah, go ahead.
MELANIE SNYDER: This is General Counsel Snyder. Can we get a second on that nomination, please?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Okie dokie. As I recall, the direction said if any, but yes, we can certainly get a
second. Would anybody would like to second the nomination for Kate?
BOB BROOM: I'll second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK. So we have a second from Director Broom, and I saw that Director Ruscha had
also raised her hand, so we have second and third.
Any other nominations? I'll say it again. OK. So seeing no other nominations at this time, I move to adopt
Director Williams by acclamation. And if I-- any no votes on that? Nope? So it looks like Director Williams,
you are now the next Chair of the Committee. Thank you so much for your future service and your past
service as well.
All right. So we're now going to take nominations for the Vice Chair of the Committee, so do we have any
nominations? Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: I'm actually going to nominate myself for the Vice Chair position. I'm going on my
third year now here at RTD. I served my first year as being part of the Vice Chair for the Securities and
Safety Ad Hoc Committee-- gained a lot of experience. I have a lot of experience working with Director
Williams and now future Chair Williams for this Operations Committee, so I would love to continue that
relationship and friendship as we continue to go forward working with the Operations Committee.
I think we are in a very interesting standpoint with RTD where there's a lot of potential potentially. And
also with our Operations Committee ultimately, I think we can lead the way specifically when it comes
down to priorities that I hear from my constituents-- and I'm guessing from a lot of our other constituents-when it comes down to safety and signage as one of the big things and us ultimately being policy drivers
with that.
So would like to nominate myself. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Is there a second to that nomination?
BOB BROOM: I'll second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Thank you, Director Broom. Are there any other nominations? Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Rosenthal. Much as I like Julien, I'm going to nominate Director
Whitmore for Vice Chair just because I think he's a real steady guy, and sometimes I'm not a real steady
person, so maybe I need somebody like Director-- everybody stop laughing.
He has also a long background. He's been on the Accountability Committee, which was a big deal for us,
and did a great job of representing RTD-- also Director Guissinger. Thank you for that work. He's been
the Treasurer on the Executive Committee, he's been on Government Affairs, and like I said, he's just a
real steady, dependable guy.
We are a very diverse group of people. And so every once in a while, it's important to have somebody
who's just the bedrock, and I think that's who Troy is, so I'm nominating him for Vice Chair. And we will
need a second for that. See Marjorie. That can be Marjorie.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I see a nomination of Director Whitmore by Director Williams and seconded by
Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I would like to speak as well, if that's all right, Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yep.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I believe that reliable operations and safe surroundings are the primary concerns of
RTD customers, and Troy is the ideal candidate for Co-Chair because I have observed that he holds the
interests of our customers foremost in his mind when making decisions on the Board. So for that reason, I
would like to second Troy's nomination.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Sloan. Are there any other nominations for Vice Chair of the
committee? All right, seeing none, the nomination process is closed. We now have two nominations, and
what I will do now is call on the Directors in alphabetical order to receive their vote. Director Bouquet?

JULIEN BOUQUET: I will be voting for Director Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: [LAUGHS] All right. And then Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Ruscha?
JOYANN RUSCHA: Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I didn't-- you broke up.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Director Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Director Whitmore.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right. Director Whitmore? How do you vote?
TROY WHITMORE: Director Whitmore.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm going to vote for Director Whitmore.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And I will vote also for Director Whitmore. So that is four votes for Whitmore and
three for Bouquet, so we now welcome our Vice Chair, Director Whitmore. All right.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you very much.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And thank you, Director Bouquet, for stepping up for leadership. Appreciate that.
Now that my election duties are complete, I will ask newly elected Committee Chair Williams to please
take over the rest of the meeting. Director Williams, are you prepared to do that?
KATE WILLIAMS: I am.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Go ahead, please.
KATE WILLIAMS: And I'd like to thank you, Director Rosenthal, for your service in this position and for all
the work that you've done in the last year. It's been great.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you. Thank you. And it's been great to work with you also as the Vice Chair,
so you get to be Chair again. Thank you so much for your work and your service as well. Here you go. It's
all yours.

KATE WILLIAMS: I'm up. I'd like to open the public comment to anyone who wants to address the
Committee regarding any topic listed in the public meeting agenda, which was kind of interesting because
there weren't any topics listed. But we are open to anything in the Operations field for the current and
immediately preceding month.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you're dialing, you can press star 6,
toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for this Committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit their written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
I'm going to do that again just for the record. That's rtd.boardoffice-- that's all one word-- @rtddenver.com.
During the public comment period, the Committee members will not offer comments or responses.
Directors or staff may contact the speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend
themselves to follow up. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their name. Each speaker will
have three minutes to speak.
Tai-Shrae, do we have anybody in the queue to speak?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: There are no hands raised and there were no emails received.
KATE WILLIAMS: Let me take a look at the big screen. Anybody here that wants to speak at this period?
OK. Seeing none of that either. Were there any emailed comments? Nothing, huh?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: No. There are no emails.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. OK. With no participants in the queue, we are now closing the public
comment period at this time. The next part of our agenda is information from external entities, and my
notes say there is no information from external entities this month. There are also no recommended
actions, and there are no discussion items.
That leads us to Other Matters, and there are other matters to discuss, and I have something I'd like to
bring up under Other Matters-- unless anybody wants to go before me. Anybody got any other matters
they want to bring up here?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if we may?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes. Certainly.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would like to yield the floor to Mr. Ford. Recognizing today has been an
extraordinary day for RTD, recognizing the inclement weather, I think would be most prudent that we
have staff provide an update on our efforts collectively as we have tried our best to manage the region's
expectations, recognizing the adverse circumstances. So I'll yield the floor to Mr. Ford. Thank you very
much for the opportunity.

KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Debra. I'd like to just give an update on some of the service delivery
offerings today. On the bus side, we run about 5,200 hours of service. We lost about 89 hours as of 4:30
PM today. Our service is running about 10 to 15 minutes late today, and some of the mountain routes are
just a little bit longer. But that's kind of summarizing what's going on on the bus side.
On the rail side, really no operational issues. We had about 15 folks call in today, meaning that they
weren't going to be able to work. We were able to cover those shifts. Of the 15 call outs, we run about
800 trips a day, and we only were able to address four trips on the rail side.
On the inline, we had no service issues. Allied service and security service, they were all set with the
number of crew members they needed, the second crew member. There were no issues there as of this
time, I'm understanding, and no issues on A line at this time as well.
And on the paratransit side, there was plenty of operators that were available, there was a number of trips
that were cancelled, so we had abundance of operators operating about 89% with a productivity rate of
about 1.4%.
So all in all, we've had some glitches, but we did pretty well today. It's going to be icy out, very cold in the
morning, so we might have some rough starts. But all in all today, I think we did pretty well. That
concludes my report.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. I see Director Whitmore has his hand up.
TROY WHITMORE: Yeah, it doesn't relate to this report. Just wanted to make sure we acknowledge the
other Board members that are in attendance. I think that's a good custom that we do so it's noted for the
record. And we have several with us, so if we could do that, it'd be great. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Let us acknowledge Director Guissinger is here, Director Catlin is here-- I don't see
anybody else that's not a committee member that's here-- Director Davidson is here. Did I get them all?
Tisdale, oh, my God. I'm so sorry, Director Tisdale. I'm just so used to having you around that I assumed
that you were part of the committee. My apologies. And let us note for this record that although the
Committee members are appointed to both committees, all Directors are welcome at all of the committee
meetings that we have, so that's why we are acknowledging them. In case any of them wish to speak,
they have the right to do so.
I'd like to-- whoop. Somebody? Anybody? Nope? General Manager Johnson, do you have anything else?
I see Director Bouquet, but I'm sorry. I already called on Debra. Yes, no? Not at the moment?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No ma'am. I have nothing else to add. Thank you very kindly. I was trying to get to
the mute button.
KATE WILLIAMS: I know I'm working on that too. OK, Director Bouquet, I saw your hand. You have the
floor.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Since I didn't hear any Directors respectfully respond to Mr. Ford's comments and all
the work that our operators did today, I just wanted to thank you all for what you were able to accomplish.
And I know how inclement weather it was-- to an extent, from my window, as I had a snow day as a

school teacher. But I did want to appreciate all the hard work that our operators did, and thank you, Mr.
Ford, for your report.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I have a question on that topic. Mr. Ford, in my experience, it's a fair understanding
that when we have a snow day of this caliber, that paratransit, a lot of people are smart enough to stay
home if they-- and do we have a standard policy to use our paratransit staff in other ways?
MICHAEL FORD: They probably find other open work for them. I'm sure there's other things that they find
to do. But usually there is a lot of cancellations, so we usually have an abundance of resources to help
out where needed. But I'm sure that our contractors find additional work or opportunities to help mitigate
service delivery issues.
KATE WILLIAMS: Super. Thank you. That was my question. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So for FlexRide, Access-a-Ride, is there like a notification
system that we have? So let's say one of the vans is going to be late-- and I know that they are notified-riders are notified that morning of the ride, and the time, and what time they should be outside, let's just
say-- but if the van is going to be late, is there any text or call that they can get so that they can say, you
know what? It's going to be late. I'm going back inside.
MICHAEL FORD: They usually make calls as part of the process to let them know where their vehicle is.
They can also track their vehicle on their phone in real time as well. So there are various ways they can
keep abreast of what's going on, but they get calls or receive calls, or they can track it through their
tracking devices or on their phones-- so in real time, they can actually see where their vehicle is. So we
want to make sure we're doing everything we can to communicate effectively to our customers and let
them know what's happening with the service, if there is delays.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And what app is that in particular for their phone, assuming for both Droid and
iPhones?
MICHAEL FORD: I can get the exact app-- I know-- I think it's through the RTD app, but I'll double check
that. But there are apps that are tethered to the service, but I don't have the particular name right here,
but I can get that for you momentarily.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, or by email or next meeting is fine too. Thank you, sir.
MICHAEL FORD: Sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. I see Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had the occasion yesterday to use the H line and then the mall shuttle
to go to a meeting downtown. What I noticed on the mall shuttle is it's very confusing. It obviously doesn't
go up and down the mall anymore very much, and it's hard to tell when there's no announcements as the
streets come up where you want to get off at. So do those schedules change every week or every month,
or what's the status of that?
MICHAEL FORD: We've been on a detour for a while because of the construction on the 16th Street Mall,
and we've posted a lot of information about the change and the rerouting on the various streets, so it

should be fairly clear to our riding public that changes have occurred for the last several months. Are you
there?
BOB BROOM: Yeah. Well, it's obvious to the rider, you know, that something's changed when they pull
off of the 16th Street Mall, but you know, I hadn't really paid attention to what the new routes were going
to be, as far as using 15th Street or 17th Street or whatever. I mean, it worked out OK, but I just thought
for somebody from out of town, it'd be confusing.
MICHAEL FORD: Definitely. Are you at the floor, Ms. Jones?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Ford, please. I was just going to add some additional information, but if you were
going to go forward, I can-MICHAEL FORD: Just so I wanted to get back to Dr. Rosenthal, Next Ride was the app that you referred
to that escaped me at the time. And then I believe there should be announcements being made on the
bus on the mall ride to help facilitate people's direction and where we're going. So I'm sorry about your
experience, but I'll double check into that. But we do have a lot of postings and information that's gone
out, and continuing to apprise our public of the detour that's in effect for a while.
BOB BROOM: OK. Thank you very much.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair, I was just going to add some additional information to what
Mr. Ford stated. So there still are announcements as it relates to the 17th Street corridor that talks about
where the bus will actually stop, and we have coordinated with the Downtown Denver Partnership, the
City and County of Denver, and others as we've disseminated information around the mall shuttle detour.
To the point that Mr. Ford has made, that's been in effect for some time, and it will continue on as we go
forward.
So as Mr. Ford said, apologize for that inconvenience for those that aren't familiar, but pretty much going
forward, that information has been disseminated and we will refresh that in the sense of looking at that,
should there be any further concerns about the way the notifications have been forthcoming. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Bob, are you-- are you done? You can put your hand down? The left over
hand. It's OK.
I have a question related to that for Mr. Ford or Mr. Johnson, whoever. I've been multiple times on the
rerouted mall shuttle, and I'm wondering if that detour is-- somebody asked, I think-- is it mobile? Is it
going to change? Or is it, once they're done with that particular area right there, then it's going to go
straight to going north and south, or east and west, or whatever we are downtown? Go ahead, Ms.
Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. The reason why I'm chuckling and Mr. Stopplecamp has come on screen as
well, we have been working with our partners with the Denver Department of Transportation and
Infrastructure, and it has been somewhat fluid for a myriad of different reasons. And there were some
unforeseen work happening on one of the detour streets that have been indicated, and we worked in
tandem to get adjustments. But I will yield the floor to Mr. Stopplecamp, who could provide some more
insight relative to the question about will it change again. Henry?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Yes. Great questions. It will change again. The goal now is to leave it in the
detour mode until the blocks are replaced. So we pretty much-- sometime this month, we're supposed to

go to a full detour on 15th and 17th. It was supposed to be on a run board, but Denver's running a little bit
late. So as soon as they're ready for those blocks, we'll go out to 15th and 17th.
And then, when the blocks are put back in service in usable blocks-- what I mean by usable is as much as
one block done, but when we can actually detour on and off. So it'll probably the first three blocks starting
down at Market Street, working their way up-- and so when those are ready to go, we will hop back on to
the mall and follow it up to Civic Center. So our goal is to put usable sections back in service when
Denver has the complete end turned over from the contractor to the City and County of Denver.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. That's where I was going. I see Stuart Summers on here. I'm wondering if
it's something that maybe we want him to work with Downtown Denver partners and we could have a
contest? Like, can you find where the next new stop is going to be? Or, can you-- you know? I don't know.
I mean, I think there's something fun that we could do with this to highlight those detours and turn it into a
positive.
And so far in my experience, he's been great. I want to put out in this meeting that some of us went on the
stock show parade on an RTD float, and people cheered RTD. I mean, that was fantastic. So this is just
maybe another opportunity. Mr. Summers, if you want to say anything about that, I'm happy to give you
the floor.
STUART SUMMERS: We'll look into it. Yeah. Thank you. Thanks for the suggestion. We'll definitely look
into that.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. He's new. The rest of you guys need to tell him to be careful of my suggestions.
Yeah. See, everybody's laughing.
OK. I think that is all. Anybody have anything else that they want to bring onto Other Matters.
I have one more. So this is the Operations and Safety Committee, and this is a huge part, as we have
stated, of what RTD does. And I'd like to ask the staff to make sure that we do not have any more
meetings where there are no items brought forward. We had discussion tonight because of the weather,
but I think there is enough going on with RTD and with Operations, and enough Directors who are
involved deeply, that I want to not see any more agendas that don't have a bunch of stuff on them-- even
if it's nothing more than talk. So I'd just like to throw that one out there.
OK. I guess I should go back to the agenda now. Other Matters, we're over with. Nothing else from
anybody? The next meeting date is February 15. We will meet in the same location at the same time.
And I think that's all. You all are excused. Thank you so much.
BOB BROOM: Good evening.
KATE WILLIAMS: Goodnight. Say good night to The Hat. Night, Hat.
DOUG TISDALE: Goodnight, Gracie.
KATE WILLIAMS: [LAUGHS] Good night, Jim boy.

