Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
First Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Second Vice Chair – Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Secretary – Paul Daniel Solano, District K
Treasurer – Tina Francone, District N
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A

Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M
Chuck Sisk, District O
Jeff Walker, District D

EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE MEETING
March 24, 2016 at 12:00 PM

I.

Call to Order
Committee Chair Tobiassen called the Executive Committee to order at 12:04 p.m.
Committee members in attendance:

Chair Tobiassen, 1st Vice-Chair Hoy,
Secretary Solano (via phone) and 2nd Vice-Chair
Deadwyler (via phone)

II.

Committee members absent:

Treasurer Francone

Other Board members present:

Director Bagley

Others present:

Interim General Manager Genova, Barbara
McManus

March Board Meeting Agenda Review
Committee Chair Tobiassen provided the initial review of the agenda. Interim General
Manager Genova indicated that we have a number of retirees including Marla Lien. We
are awaiting to see if any of them plan to be present.
Motion:

Director Hoy made the motion to approve moving the
March 29th B o a r d agenda to the full Board.
Director Deadwyler seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Chair Tobiassen stated that he wanted to move through the
agenda quickly as some Directors as well as Interim General

Manager Genova would be attending the memorial service for
former General Manager Cal Marsella.
Director Deadwyler asked to speak regarding the (CCP) Civic
Center Plaza project and the contract cost versus the built in
contingency. Interim General Manager Genova explained
that the contract amount did not have a built in contingency
and the difference of the monies would be used for that
purpose if needed. He spoke to change orders and the cost
of the project in its entirety. He explained in a project this
size it was possible additional funds could be needed.
Director Deadwyler said she was bothered by the fact that
they will not come back to the Board prior to spending if we
give Interim General Manager Genova the authority up front.
Chair Tobiassen reminded the committee that the full project
amount was approved in the budget. Director Deadwyler
feels that the Board would not be made aware of the
changes until after the fact. Interim General Manager
Genova said he would let the Board know of any changes as
they move along in the project. Director Hoy offered to call
Director Deadwyler regarding any questions she may have
and would clarify what he could for her. Director Deadwyler
said she would like to speak to Director Hoy for additional
clarification. They agreed to speak by phone.
Chair Tobiassen walked through the agenda for the Board
Meeting and reminded them that there would be an
Executive Session regarding the General Manager’s contract.
He asked if the committee had any comments, questions or
concerns regarding the agenda. No comments were made.
Vote on
Motion:

The motion passed with the full Executive Committee
present and on the phone in agreement.

Committee Chair Tobiassen declared the motion PASSED.


Unanimous Consent
A.

Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, RTD Position on Senate Bill 16-123

B.

Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, North Metro Project Property Acquisition

It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as
necessary for construction of the North Metro Project and authorize staff to
proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
C.

Purchase of Six (6) Articulated Buses

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
RTD Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager, or his designee, to
exercise an option and amend contract 13-FK-001 in an amount not to exceed
$4,127,000 with New Flyer of America Inc. for the purchase of six (6) additional
60’ articulated buses and associated spare components.
It is also recommended that the Board of Directors authorize the transfer of
$4,127,000 from the intercity bus procurement project to cover the cost of the
requested 6 new articulated buses.
D.

B and G Line Bus and Rail Service Plan

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the B and G Line Bus and Rail Service Plan package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $72,700 in addition to the cost of the B and G Line commuter rail
service cost as included in the Concession Agreement, and, further, to authorize
the Interim General Manager or his designee to execute contract amendments as
necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
E.
Construction Amendment for Contract 35 DP-003 – Platte Hoist
Replacement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to amend contract 35 DP003 with Precision Construction Services for an additional $1,687,083, increasing
the contract not-to-exceed amount to $2,322,433.
F.
Architectural / Engineering Contract with Short Elliot Hendrickson (SEH),
Contract 11 DO-025 - Contract Amendment
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to amend contract 11 DO025 with SEH to allow for additional architectural / engineering design services in
the amount of $1,000,000 for a new, not-to-exceed contract amount of

$4,000,000. Work is administered on an as-needed, work order basis. The
amended amount is to be funded by various Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) approved
future projects and existing projects under contract.
G.
Resolution No. ___, Series of 2016 A Resolution Expressing the intent of the
Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to the financing of the
FasTracks Project
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”),
expressing the intent of the Board to be reimbursed for certain expenses relating to
the financing of the FasTracks Project.


Recommended Action
H.
Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, Operations and Maintenance – North
Metro Rail Line
It is recommended that the Board of Directors pass the attached resolution
authorizing the General Manager to procure and/or execute any necessary work
orders, change orders and amendments with Denver Transit Partners (DTP) or its
subsidiaries/subcontractors for the operation and maintenance and any additional
capital requirements for the North Metro Rail Line in accord with the Board
approved annual budget up to the start of revenue passenger service of the North
Metro Rail Line.
I.
Resolution No. __ Series of 2016, Southeast Rail Extension Project Property
Acquisition
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the Board of
Directors pass the attached property acquisition resolution certifying properties as
necessary for construction of the Southeast Rail Extension Project and authorize
staff to proceed with all requisite legal process under state eminent domain law.
J.

Anschutz Shuttle Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the University of
Colorado in an amount not to exceed $2,157,000 for the purpose of distributing
grant funds in order to fund the Anschutz Shuttle. This Agreement is for the period
2016-2019.

K.

Route L Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with Boulder County
in an amount not to exceed $2,080,000 for RTD to provide expanded Route L
service. This service will be funded through CMAQ grant funding and local match
funds provided by Boulder County. This Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
L.

Route 324 Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of
Longmont in an amount not to exceed $1,470,000 for RTD to provide expanded
service on Route 324. This service will be funded through CMAQ grant funding and
local match funds provided by the City of Longmont . This Agreement is for the
period 2016-2019.
M.

Route 62 Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with Commerce City
in an amount not to exceed $1,695,000 for RTD to provide the new Route 62
service. This service will be funded through CMAQ grant funding and local match
funds provided by Commerce City. This Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
N.

Superior Call-n-Ride Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City of
Superior in an amount not to exceed $530,000 for RTD to provide Superior Call-nRide service. This service will be funded through CMAQ grant funding and local
match funds from the City of Superior. This Agreement is for the period 20162019.
O.

Broomfield Call-n-Ride Pass through Funds

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager or his designee, to
execute all documents necessary to enter into an Agreement with the City and

County of Broomfield in an amount not to exceed $527,000 for RTD to provide
expanded Broomfield Call-n-Ride service. This service will be funded through
CMAQ grant funding and local match funds from the City and County of
Broomfield. This Agreement is for the period 2016-2019.
P.

Construction Award for RFP 14 FH - 050 – Civic Center Renovation Project.

It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the Interim General Manager to award a contract to the
most qualified proposer, Mortensen Construction, in the amount of
$26,526,319.50 for the Civic Center Renovation project. Additionally, the Interim
General Manager shall be authorized to issue contract amendments within the
approved budget of $30,882,564.

III.

Other Matters
Director Hoy asked if all the Directors had received the confidential envelope to review
prior to the Board Meeting. Chair Tobiassen asked if we would courier the packet to any
director that did not receive it on Tuesday. Barbara McManus said the Board Office would
have all packets delivered on Friday.
Interim General Manager Genova asked if he needed to be in attendance at the Executive
Session. Director Bagley said the Executive Session would be for the Board only and he
would be notified when the session had ended so he would be in attendance for the Board
action.

IV.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 12:20 p.m.

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

