Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011
Page 1

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the RTD Board of Directors

Date:

March 1, 2011

Subject:

Summary of FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on March 1, 2011 at 5:30
p.m. in RTD Room
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Cohen, Vice-Chair O’Boyle, Directors Anderson,
Bagley, Brohl, Daly, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Malpiede, McMullen,
Tayer and Tobiassen, Chair Kemp (via phone)
Director Riley

Staff Present:

Phil Washington (via phone) Bruce Abel, Janne Bennick, Rick Clarke,
Susan Cohen, Lee Cryer, Jeel Desai, J. Donovan, David Genova, Mike
Gil, Terry Howerter, Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, P. McLaughlin,
Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Jerry Nery, Paula Perdue, Carla
Perez, Scott Reed, Teresa Sedmak, Jannette Scarpino, Prunaya
Shrestha, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, Greg Straight, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa
Trujillo, Mike Turner, Ashland Vaughn, Del Walker, Susan Wood.

Others Present:

Maria Garcia-Berry, Ken Burns, David Hollis – HNTB, John Huggins –
Coalition for Smart Transit, Jeff Lieb – Denver Post, Brian Middleton,
Michael Newman – First Southwest Company, Perry Palmer – David
Evans & Associates, Blake Pendergrass – Fresc, Roger Sherman, Julie
Skeen, Tim Romer – Goldman Sachs(via phone) and Scott Weeks –
DRCOG
****

Call to Order

Committee Chair Cohen called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

I.

Updates
 CAC
Roger Sherman indicated that Ken Burns would be providing a report and that
CAC had written a letter on their position regarding the APE that is attached to

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011
Page 2
these minutes. Ken Burns arrived later and shared this is a change to their
February 16 recommendation based on the feedback, surveys, etc. Their
recommendation for 0.4% is based around the message “not how much but
when” that came from the polling. They further recommend the Board make the
tax adjustment announcement sooner than later. The language should say
something to the effect “.4% would sunset depending on the financial conditions
of the system.”
Ken Burns also reminded the Board that CAC will have their quarterly meeting on
March 16 in Louisville at the Louisville Middle School located at 1321 Main St at
6:00 p.m.
Director Tayer thanked the CAC for coming to his district but apologized that he
will be attending the APTA legislative conference and will miss the meeting.
II.

FasTracks Financial Plan
Rick Clarke introduced this presentation. A copy of the presentation was passed
out in the meeting and is available with the minutes of this meeting in the Board
office. Some of the highlights from this Annual Program Evaluation (APE) 2011
Financial Plan include:
 A review from the February 8 recommendation accepted by the Board that
authorizes a financial plan that assumes an election in 2011 with a new
sales and use tax increase ranging from 0.2% -0.4% commencing in
January 2012. This recommendation does not represent a decision or
commitment at this time by the Board of Directors to place a sales and use
tax increase on the ballot.
 Should the Board choose not to seek a sales and use tax increase in 2011,
the financial plan would automatically default to assuming an election in
2012 with an additional 0.4% sales and use tax increase commencing in
January 2013.
 The presentation also included the assumption if a 0.3% sales and use tax
rate with an entire program build out in 2024. If no additional funding is
received, the program would be delayed 2-3 years. This also assumes the
new sales and use tax is projected to sunset as early as 2038-2040 but no
later than 2053.
 Page 13 of the presentation provided this summary of sales and use tax
options.
0.4%
0.3%
0.2%
Year of Program completion
2019
2024
2027
Total Capital Cost (billions)
$6.7
$7.1
$7.2
Capital cost incurred by time period
Capital Cost incurred by 2019
$6.7
$5.4
$5.2
Capital Cost Incurred after 2019
$0.0
$1.7
$2.0

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011
Page 3
Additional Construction Cost Escalation after $0.0
2019

$0.3

$0.5

Julie Skeen then reviewed the financial plans assumption on page 15:
 RTD has developed reasonable and conservative assumptions for each of these sales
and use tax scenarios.
 Julie provided two scenarios for how new sales and use tax will be used:
1. New sales and use tax will be used to repay debt only for capital expenditures
on remaining corridors and projects. New sales and use tax and exiting RTD
taxes cannot be combined. If the new sales and use tax was used to repay
debt for capital expenditures only on the remaining corridors and projects,
RTD would not have enough debt coverage to issue bonds at current 2.00x
additional bond test. The existing sales and use tax could not cover the O&M
costs for all the remaining corridors and projects until after 2035.
2. Capital and O&M and combined old and new taxes will provide adequate
coverage both to issue the debt for and to operate and maintain the remaining
corridors. New sales and use tax can be fully sunset and this allows the full
FasTracks program to be completed by 2019.
 Pertaining to the accountability agreement that has been requested by RTD’s
stakeholders, RTD will continue to work with stakeholders to develop an agreement
that provides them the assurances they need, while maintaining enough financial
flexibility to complete the program on time, and to successfully issue new bonds.
Q&A from Board members
 Director Tobiassen asked what was behind the assumption of 2.00x ABT for debt
when the City of Aurora issued theirs for something less. Terry Howerter, CFO,
stated that using 2.00X has been a good debt ratio for RTD and minimizes the
concerns for some of the risks if it drops to 1.6.
 Director O’Boyle inquired on page 21 about a sensitivity analysis that would assume
a medium low revenue scenario and current capital and operating assumptions. Julie
Skeen responded they did not run a medium/high scenario.
 Director McMullen inquired when would the first 0.4% sunset. Marla Lien responded
it does not necessarily have to sunset. Director McMullen then asked about the last
0.4% sunset and Marla Lien explained why this Board may not necessarily make that
decision.
 Director Brohl inquired what would it look like if the construction schedule moved
over a little but money for the O& M was not there. If we extend construction when
would we be able to complete corridors and start operations on a with a .4% tax
increase assuming the tax is used only for capital? We know it will fall somewhere
between the 2019 and the 2035 that this presentation shows. Julie Skeen indicated
they would need to run additional analysis.
 Director Cohen asked for a clarification on the assumption using a 3.66 rate. Prior
to it was a 6.06 rate so this is a much more conservative assumption.
 Director Tayer inquired if the current ballot language could state something like “use

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011
Page 4




III.

only as much for O&M as needed to get to the green line.” Marla Lien responded
this assumes the proceeds from new, current (1.4%) to operate RTD business; use
excess Tabor rate not needed for debt & O&M to pay loan bond.
Director O’Boyle asked if on page 21, the converse could be correct that if sales
revenue could cover some of the shortfall. Julie Skeen responded that the base can
be applied to the FasTracks but FasTracks cannot be applied to the base-we do not
have this flexibility to the base system. Rick Clarke added the model shows the
base system is challenged so there is not a lot of flexibility.
Director Bagley complimented staff for the comprehensive analysis.
FasTracks Public Opinion Research
John Huggins, Executive director of the Coalition for Smart Transit, and Maria Garcia
Berry, CRL Associates, provided feedback from their public opinion research. John
Huggins indicated he was speaking on behalf of the Board but the full committee had
not met. He cited seven areas or conditions that his committee was concerned
about, four of which were financial and three that were electoral in nature:
Financial
1. Comfort in cost elements—while there are some concerns expressed from
local jurisdiction, they felt this condition had been met.
2. Comfort in sales tax revenue forecast—they are comfortable in this forecast
expressed as a range of scenarios.
3. Federal funding expected to be available—RTD appears on track and would
like to see as much courting as possible.
4. cost, revenue, grants, etc—need sufficient provisions for ongoing O&M &
maintenance costs
Electoral
5. Broad agreement among region, key stakeholders, electorate including detail
on how funding will be used-these details are important to the Smart
Coalition, region and elected officials.
6. Coalition confident that the time is appropriate for an election—The Coalition
does not believe that 2011 is the right year to ask for a tax increase. While
the public strongly supports FasTracks, given the fiscal climate and concerns
over the economy, jobs, etc, 2011 is not the right year for an election.
7. Coalition confident in the community’s ability to raise funds for an election—
The Coalition do not believe that sufficient funds can be raised in 2011 for an
election.
When asked about the change from previous polls, John Huggins noted that
probably the most important factor is the intense discussion in the public
about the state and federal fiscal situation, and people’s concerns about the tax
situation. If you think back over the last three months, the public dialogue at the
state and federal level has been intense and focused on taxes and deficits in a way
that it wasn’t before. Voters are more focused on the economy, jobs, taxes and
government finances. Transportation is a much lower concern at this point than
those other items.

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011
Page 5
Q&A from Board members
 Director McMullen asked for the names of the labor, environmental groups
that John Huggins had indicated were part of this group.
 Director Tayer thanked John Huggins for coming and sharing information and
for testing of the ground.
 Director Bagley indicated he was not surprised as a previous poll provided by
Maria Garcia Berry indicated that off year is not a good time to go for an
election. This is a shaky proposition. John Huggins added this is the nature
of the off year but right now it is coupled with public awareness of the fiscal
climate and that is has changed significantly in recent weeks. Public has
become more aware of the federal government’s and states’ financial
distress.
Maria Garcia Berry passed out a handout on the framework for future election
decision making process by RTD Board of Directors which she had shared with the
Board in August, 2010. She noted that this last poll had focused specifically on the
2011 election and helped ferret down some of the results from the polling survey
done a few weeks earlier by Kenney. This poll was quite specific and talked to
people who were very informed and likely to vote. The polling focused on an older
and more conservative electorate in off-year elections and survey results showed
“trying to pursue an election in 2011 is a very risky proposition.”
Q&A from Board members

Director Cohen asked what accounted for the different sentiment from a
couple of weeks ago when David Kenney presented his results from polling
and the current perspective. Maria Garcia Berry responded government
cuts, the various impacts from the Federal and National scenes (i.e.
Wisconsin) and an increased level of awareness from the electorates. Maria
Garcia Berry emphasized there are still two questions that affect this
decision:
a. What’s the rate? She believes the answer to this question has already
been made-0.4%
b. What’s the year? This is the one most recently affected by the climate
which has changed quite drastically in the last couple of months.
 Director Daly commented on the discussion around adding more tax requests
to the ballot and stated it is easy for taxpayers to say no when there is an
array of requests on the ballot list.
 Director Tayer referred to the Kenney report that had been shared earlier with
the Board which showed 56% for the 0.4%. He asked for a read on this.
Maria Garcia Berry responded that we have to keep in mind that that poll
included all voters whereas their latest poll was for targeted voters who are
likely to vote in an off-year election. The fiscal change in the public and state
has resonated with the potential voters. Another difference is they asked the
question in the form of the language that the voters will most aptly see on
the ballot which makes the question more personal (i.e. would you vote for
xyz)

Summary of the FasTracks Monitoring Committee held on Tuesday, March 1, 2011
Page 6





IV.

Maria Garcia Berry and John Huggins had also stated a concern over the low
percentage poll rate numbers. Director Tayer pointed out that in an earlier
conversation with David Kenney, had remarked that there other campaigns
had started at lower polling numbers and had risen to be successful (i.e. the
Hickenlooper campaign). Maria Garcia Berry responded this may be true on
an individual candidate but not necessarily on an issue.
Director McMullen stated we are in this to win and get it done in a reasonable
amount of time. He will need to reconsider his position.
Director Tobiassen made reference to 2008 when we experienced a period of
high gas prices and asked about the impact of gas prices for 2011.
Director Bagley commented we have followed a disciplined process for the
last six months. We need to be conservative, ask the right questions and to
take in as much information as possible.
Director Tayer asked Marla Lien if the Board has authority to do their own
polling. Marla Lien provided a response. Yes, but with caveat.

DUS and West Corridor Cutovers
The FasTracks team provided an update on the cutovers scheduled for DUS and
West Corridors. They talked about the reasonableness of the approach which is to
do two two-week shutdowns versus overnight work.
Pertaining to the planned shutdown at the Auraria campus, Director Malpiede asked
if the outreach would make sure the students know of these plans. The area they
are looking at is the economical parking area that many of the students use. Jim
Starling indicated they have been coordinating this with the staff.
For a copy of the presentation, please refer to the Board meeting minutes located in
the Board office.

V.

Other Matters
Director Daly shared that Denver Transit Construction Group was the recipient of an
award from the Colorado Contractors Association for best overall safety and best
environmental excellence award.

VI.

Adjourn – Committee Chair Cohen adjourned the FasTracks Monitoring Committee at
7:12 p.m.

