2022-06-01
Performance Committee
SHONTEL LEWIS: We're convened at-- oh, thank you. Sorry about that. We are convened as of 1:30
Mountain Standard Time. I would respectfully ask everyone attending this meeting to mute yourself
unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you all for joining us this afternoon. Please note, under the current circumstances, official meetings
of the RTD Board of Directors are being held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
For the immediate future, the official meetings of the RTD-- of the Board of Directors will be held via Zoom
and will be audio- and video-recorded. Please visit RTD-denver.com to access meeting recordings and
the unofficial meeting minutes.
Directors and members of the staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged
during this afternoon's proceedings, I would ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to
call on you before proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their
virtual hands to indicate that they would like to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute settings on
the phone, press star 6. I would now like to call the role for the committee members. Chair Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's right. And I am here, Director Lewis. For the record, I see that we have other
directors that are present. The directors that I see-- and forgive me if I miss any-- are Director Whitmore,
Director Davidson, Director Guissinger, Director Cook, Director Williams.
I think I got them all. If I missed you, please-- oh, I think I might have heard Director Tisdale earlier. I don't
see you on here. Maybe you are. If I missed anyone, please let me know. I'm happy to correct the record.
All right, so we will move into public comment. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like
to address the committee regarding any topic listed in the published meeting's agenda. If you wish to
speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6 to toggle your mute
settings. Please bear in mind that by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not
wish to be recorded, your comments will need to be submitted in writing.

If any speaker has documentations or reference materials for the committee or if any member of the
public would like to submit written comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the
following email address, RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com. During public comment, the committee will
not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may contact speakers following their comments if they
raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up. Speakers should begin their remarks by stating their
names, and each speaker will have three minutes to speak. Barbara, are there any speakers in the
queue?
SPEAKER 1: see no hands up. I see one attendee, and we had no questions sent forward in the Board
Office email box. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. And with that, with no participants in the queue, we will close the
public comment period at this time. Directors, you will notice that we have a number of discussion items,
and so we'll start out with a strategic plan update.
The opportunity to really ground ourselves in the contract for our CEO, so the opportunity to review the
contract and performance criteria-- an update on the compensation analysis for our General Manager and
CEO. And then Director David-- Director Dishell-- excuse me, Director Davidson-- and I wanted to give
you all an update on the 360 performance reviews and hear your thoughts in that area, and then wanted
to check in with the committee to establish a performance timeline and meeting schedule. And so we'll
have the opportunity to have some discussion. And with that, I will kick it over to you, Leah, to give us a
strategic plan update. Thank you.
LEAH RILEY: Great, thank you, Director Lewis. Let me-- let's see. I'm working from home, so let me go to
share my screen. And if someone could please let me know when you can see my screen, that would be
very helpful.
SPEAKER 1: We are seeing your screen.
LEAH RILEY: Excellent, thank you so much. All right. All right, good afternoon. I'm Leah Riley. I'm the
Chief Administrative Officer, and I'm pleased to present to you an update on the strategic plan.
However, before I begin, I would like to point out that after submitting the slide deck to the Board Office, I
discovered a duplicate slide, which was formerly slide 21, and have deleted it in this presentation. In
today's presentation, I'm going to cover a refresh on the plan itself, a summary of progress to date, the
strategic priorities of community value and customer excellence, including the NPS scores, the metrics
identified to make the most positive impact on our NPS scores, and the strategic priorities of employee
ownership and financial success.
So first, we're going to begin with a refresh on the strategic plan. Any strategic plan at its core answers
four essential questions, why, what, how, who? The questions of why and what, that is, why does the
agency exist and what services or activities should it perform, are answered by its governing authority
through its role in setting policy. The questions of how and who, that is, how should the agency go about
reforming its established functions and who should perform these functions, are answered by its
leadership team, which provides day-to-day management of the agency.
What does RTD strategic plan accomplish? First, it provides clear, measurable, and prioritized success
outcomes of RTD's focus to deliver for the community and its customers. Secondly, it provides an actiondriven business plan with milestones, budget, and internal executive owners to produce outcomes. And

third, it provides a transparent performance scorecard that the General Manager and CEO, along with the
members of the leadership team, are committed to producing to share how the agency is proceeding to
deliver on those outcomes.
Organizational alignment is paramount to any strategic plan. In order to produce desired outcomes, there
must be clear actions, the right organizational structure in place to execute, as well as talented people in
those roles and prioritize metrics to monitor our progress. The blueprint for success involves the why, the
what, the how, and the who and translates to outcomes driving organizational focus. This strategic plan
serves as the functional pillars to plan, develop, evaluate, and measure RTD's overall performance.
This slide is a visual representation of a blueprint for success. Its main focus is on how the differentiation
of the roles between the Board and the agency create the environment to deliver successful outcomes.
The Board is responsible for the why and what, thereby determining the agency's mission, vision, values,
and success outcomes. With the adoption of the strategic plan, the Board clearly defined these four
elements, giving the agency direction upon which to focus internal work.
The General Manager and CEO, in partnership with her leadership team, is responsible for the how and
the who, empowering staff to produce outcomes. In that vein, tactics and metrics were established to
advance the strategic priorities. And work is now shifting to building internal teams to deliver results,
monitor progress, and align resources accordingly.
The plan is also structured to be a data-- to be data-driven. The metrics empower employees to examine
and explain their decisions, to back them up with data, and counteract cognitive biases, such as the
recency effect, which is the tendency to select the option presented most recently because it's top of
mind, and inertia bias, which is the tendency to select options that allow one to think, feel, and act in
familiar ways, and confirmation bias, which is the tendency to pay attention only to information that
supports a certain viewpoint.
A quick recap of the actions that have been taken to get us where we are today-- in June 2021, the Board
reached consensus on the strategic plan framework supported by an April 2021 study session and a May
2021 strategic plan workshop. In July 2021, the GMOC finalized the General Manager and CEO
compensation framework philosophy and structure. In August 2021, the Board adopted the strategic plan.
In October 2021, the Board adopted committee restructuring and established this performance
committee. And in February 2022, the Board received a presentation on the community value and
customer excellence net promoter scores that were established when the surveys were conducted.
So that brings us forward to our current state. In this section, I'll review our progress to date and share
some of the systems and analyses we've put into place to support our work. Beginning in fall of 2021,
meetings were held with Departmental Chiefs and Assistant General Managers to discern metrics for
which baseline data is available. A deep dive into the data needed to track progress on the metrics
reveals needed system upgrades and/or new cross-departmental collaborations.
For example, a metric for system reliability is to reduce the number of delays due to safety and security
incidents. However, the transit police reports such incidents in our E-Force system, and operations
records delays in TIES. These two systems do not speak to each other in determining which delays were
caused by safety and security incidents but required data pulls from each in a manual cross reference.

Metrics, objectives, and goals have been refined to be more specific. For example, upon adoption of the
strategic plan, a few metrics had undefined performance goals. For example, the goal was to establish a
baseline and increase by x percentage. That x is now a specific number. In addition, a tracking
spreadsheet has been created and populated with baseline data and quarter one 2022 numbers.
Teams have also met to create a RACI analysis on specific metrics. The RACI model is a tool used to
align employee roles to a project to support its success. The RACI acronym stands for Responsible,
Accountable, Consulted, and Informed.
Responsible is the person who carries out a process or a task. Accountable is the person ultimately
accountable to complete the task appropriately. Consulted are the people not directly involved in the task,
but whose input, knowledge, and skills are sought. And informed are those who receive task output and
need to stay informed. These roles must be assigned to specific team members in order for a project or,
in our case, a metric to be accomplished.
This chart is one example of a RACI analysis performed for the metric of lost time for on-the-job injuries.
This chart is shared to highlight the level of complexity and collaboration required for one metric that, on
its face, may seem easy to manage. Upon investigation, there are several different functions across the
agency that influence this metric. To formulate a plan of action across functional teams, from bus
operations, rail operations, legal services, and safety, is needed.
To reduce on-the-job injuries, we must conduct safety training, analyze injury reports and event
investigations, and conduct root cause analyses. In other words, because the strategic plan is meant to
drive actionable outcomes, not simply report data, we must focus on the how and the who to ensure we
are leveraging our systems and people in a coordinated manner. This type of analysis sets us up to have
specific levels of accountability, checks and balances, and understandable empirical data systems. These
are the things that enable leadership to course correct and improve on outcomes over time.
As I mentioned earlier, a performance-tracking spreadsheet has been created for the quarterly scorecard
and each department within RTD. As you can see in this chart, column 2021 is the baseline data against
which current and future progress will be measured. Figures for each metric have been recorded through
the end of quarter one and will continue on a quarterly basis moving forward. A tracking mechanism is
important, as it provides an early warning of potential problems and allows managers to know when they
must make adjustments to keep on track. And it also provides a means to identify, encourage, measure,
evaluate, improve, and recognize employee performance at work.
We will now move to talking about each of the strategic priorities and cover progress to date, starting with
community value. The strategic priority of community value is defined by-- RTD strives to be a strong
community partner providing value to customers as well as to the broader Denver Metro region while
sustaining planet Earth. The success outcome being measured is the community value index, which is a
net promoter score, and increase it by 5% over the life of the plan. As is indicated on page seven of the
strategic plan, the four success outcomes are for the performance period of 2021 through 2026. Thus, the
goal is to have a 5% increase by 2026.
A net promoter score measures one's experience. It assesses loyalty and word of mouth favorability
among customers and allows for performance comparisons between organizations across different
business sectors. The NPS is a measurement of promoters, meaning those rating a business at a nine or
10 in a customer survey, which indicates that they are likely to recommend the business to a friend or
neighbor, minus detractors, or those who would rate a business 0 to 6.

Those customers giving a seven or eight rating are not passionate either way about the business in
question and are not factored into the score. The Net Promoter Score for community value garnered by
the survey in November of 2021, is negative two.
Before I discuss the contents of this slide, I would like to note the chart differs slightly from the one
submitted in the Board report. I have added more data to make it more contextual. The results of the
survey-- of the community survey, were evaluated to create a key driver analysis, which takes each area
of service and compares its customer importance ranking against its customer satisfaction level. Our
focus is on the areas of opportunity, which consist of areas of service that have higher importance and
lower value. These are ranked as highly important to customers and will have a larger impact on overall
community satisfaction.
As you can see from this analysis, the areas of opportunity are providing access to the region and
adjacent counties, providing access to medical facilities, and reducing traffic congestion. In an upcoming
section, I will describe how we have identified metrics tied to these areas of opportunity upon which to
focus our efforts.
Next, we will discuss customer excellence. The strategic priority of customer excellence is defined by-RTD strives to consistently deliver high-quality customer service. The success outcome being measured
is the Customer Net Promoter Score with a goal to increase it by 5% by 2026.
The surveys for customer excellence were conducted in October 2021. Customers were asked their
likelihood of recommending RTD to friends and neighbors. The Net Promoter Score for customer
excellence is based on three different scores from fixed route bus, rail, and paratransit. The NPS for fixed
route bus is 38. The key driver analysis for fixed route bus identified fair price, route coverage, and hours
of operation as the most important factors to customers. And it also identified fair price, hours of
operation, frequency, and on-time arrival as the most important areas of opportunity followed by safety on
the bus and being able to find out if the buses are running on schedule.
Fair price is the most important factor to fixed bus route customers, but is the one factor with the lowest
level of satisfaction. The Net Promoter Score for rail is 59, and between fixed route bus, rail, and
paratransit, rail has the highest Net Promoter Score. The key driver analysis for rail identified on-time
performance, frequency, and route coverage as the most important factors to customers. It also identified
fair price, frequency, and ease of finding out if the trains are running on schedule as areas of opportunity.
And, similar to bus, fare prices the most important factor to rail customers, but it's one of the factors with
the lowest levels of satisfaction.
Next is the Net Promoter Score for Access-A-Ride, which is 49, and it's the same as the industry sampled
average. On-time performance and drivers being friendly and helpful are the most important factors to
Access-A-Ride customers. And on-time performance is the most important factor with the lowest level of
satisfaction. The areas of opportunity are improving travel time and vehicles arriving within the scheduled
pickup window. So now that we have the Net Promoter Scores for community value and customer
excellence, the next step is using the data to move the needle.
The areas of opportunity identified in the surveys were combined at a high level in an effort to prioritize
the 2022 work plan. This is important because as the old adage goes, if you try to do everything, you'll
accomplish nothing. Synthesizing the areas of opportunity for the customer survey resulted in fare
programs, hours of operations, service frequency, on-time performance, travel time, and system

information. The community survey-- providing access to adjacent counties and medical facilities,
reducing traffic congestion, fare price, regional connectors, and system coverage are identified.
In order to act upon the areas of opportunities, employees need to understand the survey results and key
driver analyses. Having this information enables employees to strategically engage on how to move the
needle. In that vein, education and engagement sessions have been held throughout the agency. And the
areas of opportunity have been cross-referenced to the strategic plan metrics to discern those most
influential in driving outcomes.
The cross-reference exercise identified the following metrics for focus in 2022, all of which will require
cross-functional teams to deliver. The customer experience-- the customer experience with IT is one
metric. For example, the trip planner on our website, next stop info on our buses and trains, and arrival
time information at our RTD stations. The completion of Reimagine RTD, specifically the fare study and
equity analysis-- this metric is very important, as it ties to all areas of opportunity for community value and
customer excellence.
Enhanced focus on system reliability, such as reducing delays, hours of operation, travel information, and
travel time. Customer research investments, such as geofencing and targeted feedback to understand
where our investments are working and where they need to be tweaked. Safety skills training, including
hazard identification and how to report and investigate an incident, the continuous learning mindset, and
jurisdictional relationships with a focus on the Colorado Department of Transportation, the Federal Transit
Information-- Administration-- excuse me-- the Denver Regional Council of Governments, and local
jurisdictions.
This intentional effort to think broadly across functions and teams to bring together needed resources is
crucial for success. No system or role can succeed alone, and when we lift our focus up and out of our
silos, we better understand synergies needed to deliver for our customers and community.
In addition further efforts are underway to leverage the strategic plan as a policy framework for important
agency initiatives. The recommendations coming forth from Reimagine RTD are being aligned to the
success outcomes in the strategic plan. And the work of the RTD Accountability Committee is being
aligned to the success outcomes and metrics in the plan. And additional efforts are underway to prioritize
internal efforts and assign responsibilities to achieve results.
Next, we will discuss efforts underway to support the strategic priority of employee ownership. The
strategic priority of employee ownership is defined as-- RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly-skilled
and engaged workforce. The associated success outcome is to establish a baseline for an employee Net
Promoter Score and increase it by 5% by 2026. Positive steps that have been taken in the area of
employee ownership include alignment of 2021 performance reviews and 2022 performance plans to the
values and metrics in the strategic plan.
The implementation of market competitive wages for both represented and non-representated
employees. Hiring and referral bonuses have been made available for hard-to-fill positions. Employee
appreciation events have been held throughout the agency, and more are planned in 2022. The
professional development program has been reinstated, providing all employees with the opportunity to
engage in continuing education, professional development, licensure, and certifications, and for
memberships in professional organizations.

To establish a Net Promoter Score and identify metrics crucial to improving employee ownership, an
employee survey was conducted in early May. It was made available to all employees online, and several
in-person events were held at various facilities to encourage participation and allow for written responses.
A process has been developed to evaluate the data from the survey, leveraging existing committees with
membership at all levels throughout the organization to provide recommendations on the areas of
opportunity.
Once areas of opportunity are identified, the committees will be tasked with engaging employees to
achieve success. Engaging employees on how to make progress on employee ownership is not a onetime event. Throughout the year, a virtuous cycle will be repeated to track data, understand how it can be
used to make progress, and empower employees to act.
Next, we will discuss the strategic priority of financial success. The strategic priority of financial success is
defined as-- RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources. The success outcome is
twofold. 50% of outcome is that RTD spends less money than it receives. And 50% of outcome is that the
community believes that it sees value in RTD's spending.
Some of the positive steps we've taken to ensure financial success are the 2022 budget was aligned with
the strategic priorities and metrics in the plan. The budget forecast takes into account continued
investments needed to sustain progress. RTD's reserves are being maintained, and the asset
management plan continues to mature and provides a mean to track the state of good repair.
Together, a lot has been accomplished in the last year. Our continued collaboration is needed to build
upon our many successes. And in this section, we discuss how we can move forward together and what's
next.
We come back to this slide to reiterate the roles necessary to move the needle. The Board's focus on the
why and the what will provide the agency with the policy guidance, or the umbrella framework, for the
agency purpose. And the Board will be provided further reports enabling you to continue to monitor
progress and provide feedback.
The General Manager and CEO, with support of the leadership team and all employees, will focus on the
how and the who to ensure we are leveraging systems and people in a coordinated manner. With a focus
on data, RTD will continue to collaborate across functions and divisions to conduct root cause analysis
and monitor data to extract and enact needed changes to course correct and improve.
So what's next for the Board? As previously mentioned, performing the role of setting policy for the
agency and providing the why and the what are crucial. Recognizing that this is a five-year plan, we're
developing baselines and prioritizing critical aspects of what matters to our employees, our customers,
and community. None of this can be effectuated without our being good stewards of our resources and
focusing on financial success. And nor will we move the needle without our people power, necessitating
our continued focus on employee ownership.
The Board will receive progress reports on the strategic plan metrics and success outcomes. In the fall of
2022, the agency will conduct the second wave of the customer excellence and community value surveys
and bring the results to the Board for review to discern areas of opportunities and any improvement
made. And leadership will provide updates on employee engagement and areas of opportunity.

And I know the Board will be discussing meeting cadence later on in this meeting, but we anticipate being
back to you in the fall with another update. That concludes my presentation, and I'm happy to take
questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thanks so much, Leah. Very thorough presentation. Are there any questions for
Directors on the call? Director Cook, I see your hand.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I wanted to wait in case one of the members of the committee wanted to ask. So
forgive me if I'm butting in. I had two questions. Under the customer excellence, do you have rail broken
out by commuter rail versus light rail?
The reason I ask is safety ranked relatively low in spite of the considerable publicity we've had about that.
Is there a difference between commuter rail, where we've got the second crew officer-- or a crew
member, whether armed or unarmed, versus light rail, where we don't? Do you have that information?
LEAH RILEY: Madam Chair, if I may. Thank you. Director Cook, we did not break out rail versus
commuter rail in this survey. They were combined together within the results. And just a friendly reminder,
this was done back in the fall, prior to some of the changes that you're asking about taking place. So I
don't know that that data would have been captured at all.
SHELLEY COOK: Good point. OK. Might be useful, to the extent that we have the ability going forward at
some point, to increase a presence on light rail if we find that it's useful in terms of a difference in rating
between the two. And the second question was I thought you had said that the goal is to increase by 5%
by 2026. Is that the time frame, or is it annually 5% and then accumulating over that time period?
LEAH RILEY: Madam Chair, if I may. Yes, if you refer to page seven of the strategic plan, it clearly
articulates the 5% increases over the life of the plan from 2021 to 2026.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Cook. That concludes your questions? All right, Director Sloan,
you have the floor.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I might have missed this, but when will the employee
survey results be available?
LEAH RILEY: Madam Chair, if I may proceed.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please do.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you. We just completed the-- we just completed the survey a couple of weeks ago.
And so a couple of committees are tasked at looking at both the quantitative and qualitative results and
bringing those forwards. And I anticipate that taking probably two months before we will have final results
that are in a QA/QC mode and ready with recommendations to share.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you, Leah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Any additional questions, Directors Sloan? No, OK. Any questions from other
Directors on or off this committee? All right. Oh, Director Catlin, you have the floor.

PEGGY CATLIN: I don't have a question, but rather a comment. And I just wanted to compliment you,
Leah, and your team on the presentation. It really brought it together in a very clear way for me. Because
I thought it was a little bit nebulous a year ago. And I just appreciate the effort that's gone into making this
a pretty clear document. So thank you very much.
LEAH RILEY: Thank you for that feedback. And I would be remiss if I didn't say that I had significant help
from several people in the organization who helped make this what it is. And I will definitely share your
thanks and compliments with them.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Any other questions from any Directors? All right, well, Melanie, I will
actually kick it over to you for our contract review and performance criteria as well as the compensation
analysis. So you have the floor.
MELANIE SNYDER: OK, thank you, Madam Chair. I'm Melanie Snyder, General Counsel. So in addition
to driving the agency priorities, our strategic plan will also be the basis for which the Board will be
evaluating our General Manager and CEO and assessing any additional increases in her base
compensation or any incentive payments. So today, we're going to do just a quick refresher on her
employment contract that was entered into, including the amendments that the Board adopted.
So starting on packet page 50, you can take a look. As you all may recall the contract also, as amended,
is in your materials as well. So as you'll recall, last year was the first performance period that the General
Manager was evaluated under, and that was based on the job description that was included in the
recruitment for this position before she joined. The Board then adopted the strategic plan success
outcomes in values. And so starting this year, for the January 1, 2022 performance period, the strategic
plan metrics and outcomes are going to be what drives the GM and CEO's appraisal.
So if you take a look on packet page 57, that is part of the contract that talks through and breaks out the
percentages. As you'll see, the GM and CEO is eligible for both a base potential increase in salary as well
as an incentive compensation increase. And those would be 50%, 50% split. The adjusted base salary
compensation is going to be 25% based on the objective criteria in the strategic plan of the weighted
success outcomes. And then 25% of the compensation increase would be based on the more subjective
organizational values that were just discussed.
So that is the breakout. Timing in the contract sets out that the GM and CEO has the opportunity to
provide a self-appraisal. As you recall, she did that last year. Typically, that would be done at the
beginning of November. But certainly, it's for this committee and the Board to determine specific
deadlines. But she'd be given the opportunity to submit the self-appraisal for the Board's consideration.
And then the Board must provide an appraisal for the performance period by the end of the year. If that
doesn't occur, then the GM and CEO's performance would be deemed satisfactory, and it would be
deemed to have met expectations for the prior year. So the contract also includes a compensation and
external benchmarking study that the Board would like to have conducted. So that will be used to set the
compensation and any adjustments starting in January 1, 2023.
So this would be a competitive solicitation with external benchmarking, and that would be used to
determine what the appropriate compensation and any adjustments for this position would need to be in
order to take into account market information and help ensure that the position remains competitive in the
market. So that-- we are in the process right now and working with our HR team and our procurement

team, putting together a statement of work, or scope of work. I do plan to share that with Director Lewis,
as Chair of this committee, and, of course, Chair Buzek as well before that is put out for solicitation.
We anticipate that will probably be-- would probably be put out for solicitation maybe in mid-June, likely
open for 30 days with a selection in August. And then, likely, a presentation to this committee in the
September time frame is roughly what we're looking at. So that compensation and benchmarking would
then-- the Board would take that information and would identify a percentage for a potential increase in
salary and incentive compensation.
I do want to note that in the Board packet on page 50, there is a typo referencing a 15%. That was
actually something the Board originally had considered, but that was eventually changed in the actual
contract. So that percentage is going to be determined based on the compensation and benchmarking
analysis. It hasn't been set yet.
And timing-wise-- oh, another thing for consideration. The contract also does provide that by November 1
of each year, the General Manager does have an opportunity to submit any suggestions for adjustments
to the success outcomes or values and that the Board would take those under consideration and either
adopt those or make any adjustments before the end of the year so that the following year's performance- performance requirements are really clear as far as which success outcomes and any weighting
adjustments. And unless there's any questions, that's all I have.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Melanie. Really appreciate it. Are there any questions for Board Directors?
All right, a few. Director Sloan, you have the floor.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right. This is a question for Melanie because it is a legal interpretation. And that is
could you explain what's meant by the GM CEO is eligible for these compensation items?
And I'm thinking-- well, yeah. There will be things outside the control of the agency that will be involved in
setting compensation, not just the study, but also general economic conditions. And I just would like an
interpretation of eligible for in that context.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, thank you. Madam Chair, if I may.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Please.
MELANIE SNYDER: So eligible in that context means-- and that is what we're talking about there.
Remember, there's going to be an external compensation and benchmarking analysis. So the first step
would be for the Board to review that analysis and determine what adjustments, if any, need to be made
to the base salary in order to remain competitive. And that's really a separate and apart from
performance, the GM's performance.
Really, it's the Board taking a look and saying, what is the appropriate compensation for this position
given the market in order to remain competitive in the market? So that might look like-- it could be a
stepped process. So for example, the Board might say, well, eventually, we would like this position to be
compensated at x level. In the first year, it might be an x percentage increase. The second year, a y
percentage increase, taking into account, for example, some of the economic factors that you're talking
about, Director Sloan.

And eligible also is intended to reflect the fact that this is going to be based on the General Manager's
performance evaluation. And we don't know what that will be. But it's really-- the contract is just setting
the parameters of the potential increases for which the GM would be eligible.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I have no follow-up.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I appreciate your response.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Cook, you have the floor.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, I think that got close to what I was going to ask, too. In that same-- in that work
of setting the eligible percentage or whatever, does that also include the determination about the division
between base and one-time? Is that built into our process here someplace, or is that part of that same
process that you're describing?
MELANIE SNYDER: So the process I was describing would set the percentage increase from which the
GM would be would be eligible for. And then the contract, if you look on at page 57 in the middle of the
page where it talks about-- it sets out 50%, 50% between the adjusted based compensation and the
incentive compensation. So those percentages have already been established. But you would be taking a
percentage of, essentially, the percentage increase that the Board determines, if any.
SHELLEY COOK: I was thinking I saw some place that the Board would-- and I can't find it of course-that the Board would have a chance to determine what went to base and what went to one-time. Did I
miss that? Did I misread that someplace?
MELANIE SNYDER: It would be-- you would be doing that not beyond the 50% distribution that's in the
contract currently. So it's a 50-50 distribution. You would determine the percentage increase based on the
compensation analysis. So let's say it's 5%. That would mean 2.5% would be for the adjusted base, and
2.5% for the incentive compensation.
SHELLEY COOK: OK, great. Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: Welcome.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Cook. Thank you, Melanie. Are there any other questions from
Directors on or off this committee? Great, wonderful. Thank you so much. Really appreciate that.
And then we can move forward into our next agenda item. So Director Dishell and I wanted to open the
floor for a conversation around the 360 performance reviews and potentially having the opportunity for the
Board to participate in 360 reviews. If you all are not familiar with 360 reviews, it provides a platform, if
you will, for colleagues, subordinates to provide you with an evaluation.
And so the reason that Director Dishell and I were speaking about this is because we thought, what a
great opportunity-- as we were talking about the evaluation of our General Manager-- the opportunity for
us as Board Directors to really lead and allow ourselves-- allow ourselves to be opened up to potentially
receiving feedback from staff as well regarding our performance as leaders of this organization. And so I
wanted to open the floor up for conversation and discussion with Board Directors to really gauge your
interest. Before I do that, Director Dishell, is there anything that you'd like to add?

BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks, Director Lewis. I appreciate it. Yeah, I think the other important key piece here
is that, while we've made a lot of progress on sort of Directors, I think it's an opportunity for us to work
better as a Board, but to also understand if there are Directors who are occupying a lot of staff time or
getting in the way of the agency being able to perform at its best, that we kind of need to know that.
Again, it would be unfair to evaluate the General Manager and CEO purely on an outcome if there was a
Director or multiple Directors who were interfering with their ability to do that or interfering with their ability
to manage their staff to do that. And I know we've seen a substantial decrease in Directors sort of being in
internal staff meetings, but it's also an opportunity for us to all work better together, evaluate one another,
and see how we can operate best as a Board. It's often written about across the HR world as a good
practice for high-functioning organizations.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Dishell. Are there any-- before we open the floor up to discussion,
are there any clarifying questions that folks might have or need? Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: I'm back again. Yes, I appreciate your bringing this up, Chair Lewis and Director
Dishell. But Director Dishell's contributions seem to focus on other Directors as well as senior staff.
Who are you proposing to be involved in this 360 review? I know generally, they're people who can
provide actionable feedback, people who work closest with the employee who's the subject of the 360
review. So what are your thoughts about participation in this review? Who would be eligible for it?
Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Sloan. I will give Director Dishell the floor, but I will say I think
that's to be worked out amongst us as we have this discussion as to how broad or not that we'd like to
open that opportunity to receive that feedback up. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I think part of it's why we threw it on, and they're interested in folks thoughts. I
mean, my initial thought is that it would be Directors getting a 360 review and that the general
[INAUDIBLE] is that it would be an opportunity for us to be, again, informally reviewed by those who we
work with most closely where we have an outsized impact on the way in which things happen. So that
would be my initial thought would be the Directors would. And we could structure that, whether it's based
on committees and different leadership roles, or whether that's-- and for the first year, it could be opt-in,
right? If you want to do a 360 review, great, and then see how that goes as a pilot.
Really open to anything, but just wanted to approach that as an opportunity. Because realistically, we all
work together and help run a gigantic public company and agency. And having an election being the only
sort of method of feedback for Directors isn't great, doesn't provide a strong working environment. And I
think it also, to the extent we open it up to more employees, could help contribute to that employee
ownership piece of our strategic plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Sloan, does that answer your question?
MARJORIE SLOAN: I think so. It does sound like to be decided in terms of the scope. And perhaps it
would be incremental starting with just the boards, adding senior staff and then a wider group. Is that
what Director Dishell was suggesting?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Would you like to clarify? Go ahead.

BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, truly, though, I think part of the point of the smaller committees was the
opportunity to have that discussion. So yes, as a starting point. But if folks want to dial it back or change it
up, there's no pride in authorship here. So really sort of wanted to more gauge interest and thoughts and
see where people landed before coming to folks with a fully-baked plan.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Director Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Just one more thought, and that is that we do need to have a semi-baked plan to
take to the full Board. Because this 360 review process is not now under the purview of the performance
committee. So there would have to be a discussion with the Board.
And the Board should have something as a basis for their discussion, knowing that we are responsible for
the why and what, and not responsible for the who and how. We need to have something firm to provide
to the Board that comes out of this committee to actually get consent to perform such a process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. Director Dishell, did you want to respond?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, I would say absolutely agreed. I think that's why we brought it here was in the
spirit of collaboration and wanting folks to give their opinions and take ownership. But if the feedback that
we're getting is no, I don't want that, I only want fully-baked plans, then we're happy to take it back and
come back. But we wanted to come in on the early side in that sort of collaborative spirit to see where
folks were. So if you have substance, great. If not, we'll come back with a more fully-baked proposal.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Director Sloan? I saw you come off mute.
MARJORIE SLOAN: It was a thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. [LAUGHS] Thank you, Director Sloan. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. I had similar questions to those of Director Sloan. There are
professionals who conduct these types of activities for boards. And I think that we might want to talk to
our staff, whether it's Ms. Riley or Ms. Johnson, just to see what resources we might be able to tap to
construct this in a meaningful way.
And I think Chair Lewis, you are often fond of saying, what is the problem we're trying to solve? And I
think we need to have a clear set of objectives if we're going to move forward with this. Those are my
comments. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Catlin. Very much appreciate that. I was taking copious notes.
Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. I guess I'm still not clear on who-- I understand that Directors are
the subject of the evaluation, so they're the target. But who's doing the evaluating? Is it staff, or is it staff
and other Directors? Is it just other Directors? I can just see a lot of potential for interesting dialogue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Chair Buzek, I don't know if we know that answer yet. I think that was the
point of bringing it to the committee to open it up to the Board, to say if we were to do an evaluation, who,
what, how would you all like to be-- how would you like to be evaluated and who might participate in that?
And so I think-- and Director Dishell, please correct me-- that we'd be open to suggestions if you or any
Directors wanted to throw out what it could potentially look like. I think we're open to that.

VINCE BUZEK: Understood. So that being said, if this were to move forward, I guess my preference
would be to have senior staff be the ones evaluating Directors so that we can see how that interplay is
going between the policymakers and the people that have to enact and make the policy happen. And I
think that's the best way to have these evaluations have some substance. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Buzek. I have noted that, and I appreciate that preference. Director
Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Hello, Chair. Thanks for giving me the opportunity to speak. I have participated in a
360 evaluation at a previous agency where I worked, and they're great. They take a lot of commitment on
the part of a lot of people.
In theory, the people above you evaluate you, the people below you evaluate you, your peers evaluate
you, and you evaluate yourself. And then all four of those pieces-- and that's why it's called a 360
evaluation. It traditionally involves those above you, those below you, those equal to you, and your own
self-evaluation. And those pieces are put together.
So I don't know who would be, at RTD, above me, so I don't know who would be filling in that piece of the
360 evaluation, for openers, unless maybe we already got that from the Accountability Committee. I can
see that there are 2,700 people, in theory, below me in the structure of this organization. So that's a lot of
commitment. Then the Directors would be evaluating each other, so each of us would have to do 14
evaluations. And then, of course-- we could do 15, because I would have to do myself.
So that's been my understanding. And I'm not sure what the purpose of all of that work would be. I'm not
opposed to it. If it helps me to do a better job of what I'm doing, then I'm done with it.
But that is a whole lot of work for what, to me at this moment, is an undefined goal. So I would ask that
the first thing we do is define the goal of this exercise in one sentence. To make us do a better job of
running the agency, just as an example. And then I'd be willing to talk about it further. And thank you for
letting me have my nine cents worth. It was a little more than just two.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Director Williams. I don't see why we could not do that, as Director Catlin
said as well, to clearly define the problem as well as the objectives. And we could put forth a proposal
with the preferences that you all have stated, and get some feedback and insight from you all, and
continue to work on it until we finalize it into a product that I think the Board would be proud of. I'm so
happy to do that.
Any additional questions or comments from Director Dishell? Sorry, I have talked a bit more than I
anticipated. So I'll give you the floor, Director Dishell, if you'd like to opine.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, I think all that is helpful, and we will-- thank you for those of you who provided
direct feedback on preferences. So we will take those, and whip them up into a proposal, and then come
back.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah.
BOBBY DISHELL: And yeah, that was all I had on this particular item.

SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, thank you so much. Really appreciate it. Really appreciate you all taking the time
to have that conversation with us. So we will move on to our next agenda item, and that's really
establishing a meeting cadence and timeline for the performance committee.
As you all know from the presentation that Leah was able to give and some of the information that
Melanie was able to provide as well, we should check in regularly. And so I wanted to check in with you
all to see what might be a good cadence, if you all are able to do it in this moment, for when you all would
like to meet on a bi-monthly, bi-weekly-- whatever, and what might work for your schedules as well for the
members of this committee. So again, opening the floor. General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. Excuse me, Chair Lewis. If I just may add, as
you all have a discussion relative to the meeting cadence, recognizing what Ms. Riley outlined with the
second wave of the customer value and-- excuse me, customer excellence and community value surveys
and then the cadence relative to the performance of me and my stead as the General Manager and CEO.
I would put forward for your consideration that as we look at a meeting cadence probably in September, it
would be much more regular than we did. Because we are establishing baselines and, as we go forward,
recognizing the foundation for which I will be assessed. There'll be information that's forthcoming in
relationship to what Ms. Snyder shared as well.
So I would presume that we look at September. And there could be a meeting in September. In October,
potentially, there could be two, and November as well. So I just wanted to frame that just by the
discussion and what was outlined just for everyone's edification and consideration. Thank you very kindly
for the opportunity to speak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you for that reminder. I really appreciate you bringing that back into the
conversation. I am more than open-- and I'd love to hear from other Directors-- if you all would be open to
having a meeting or scheduling, at least, our next meeting when we have that information and that data in
September and then establishing a cadence for more regular committee updates and check-ins. Chair
Buzek? Oh, sorry, Bobby.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, Chair Buzek was first. I forgot to raise my hand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. Chair Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, so I suppose the best thing to do is to start where we need to end and work
backwards. So if we have to end with a final performance evaluation, figure out how long it's going to
take, and work backwards, and determine a cadence that way, I think early efforts may be worth doing if it
helps us in the end. But we have to wait for some of this data to come through.
But if we've got a process, we can identify a process and how we're going to take that data when we get it
and plug it in. All that could be helpful. So we're at the midpoint of the year, and I wouldn't think we want
to do anything less than a monthly meeting from this point forward. Thanks.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Thanks. I think yeah, I agree with the Chair. I think there's an opportunity on the one
hand-- while yes, we need to wait for the data there's also a-- unless I'm messing it up by percentages-half of the evaluation, which is subjective based on the values, based on the Board values.

And I there's a great opportunity there both to provide informal non-binding feedback on the more
subjective component and also, Director Lewis, maybe to flesh out a bit more of the Board evaluation
idea that we had just talked about, recognizing that I know we don't meet in August. So it would be-- and
this is June, so I guess that would be one meeting in July, and then the monthly meeting in September
through end of year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's your suggestion? The first weekend of July?
BOBBY DISHELL: That would be my suggestion.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And then kick it back off in September?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, do a meeting in July and then take August off. I think everyone is not meeting in
August, unless Chair can keep me honest there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm not.
[LAUGHTER]
BOBBY DISHELL: So yeah, my proposal would be July. Tie up any loose ends. We could come back with
a more formal thought process on the 360 review.
We could talk about the possibility of sort of an informal values feedback and then push out September,
October, November. And then no meetings in December either. Right, Chair? I think.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think we might actually have to have a meeting in December.
BOBBY DISHELL: Or have to have one of these in December, yeah.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, do you want to-- do you want to speak about that, General Manager Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure,
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Sure thing, Chair Lewis. I would just add for you all's consideration as we go forward- recognizing that the holidays are in that time frame. And as we did in 2021, there were meetings that
were held, and there were a special Board meeting. But it's contingent upon the timeline, to the point that
Chair Buzek had raised, looking at when we want to have the performance evaluated completed.
If that's the end of November, perhaps we wouldn't have one. But I think it's contingent upon a different
element. So while we said we would go dark, the notion behind it-- and Ms. McManus could speak to this
as well-- it was the notion that previously, there were meetings scheduled two days before Christmas just
because that was the meeting cadence we had. So I just offer that up just as point of reference. Thank
you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, I appreciate that. Any other Directors suggestions? Well, it sounds like-and correct me, anyone, if I'm wrong-- it sounds like that you all would like to meet in July, we take August
off, and then establish a cadence at minimum monthly to meet with this committee. Would anyone-- does
that sound OK?

I'm seeing some thumbs up. It's not official vote, but [LAUGHS] I'm seeing some thumbs up. And then
would anyone have any objections to us keeping it at this time on whatever, the first Wednesday of the
month? Or does that collide or clash with anyone's schedules?
I want to be mindful of that. OK, I'm just going to assume that your silence is compliance, and we'll move
forward with our next meeting in July and then establish a cadence and a bi-monthly-- or, excuse me, on
a monthly basis. Oh, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that works on my end except for October the 5 is Yom Kippur, which is a Jewish
high holiday. But I can also-- the world will not end if I miss a meeting. But if possible, it'd be great to-other than that first Wednesday in October, it looks like that should otherwise work.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think we're early enough, if there are no objections of other members of the
committee, that we might just move that one to the second Wednesday of the month to honor your
participation in that holiday.
BOBBY DISHELL: That would be wonderful.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, are there any objections from both Board members and staff? Well, you're an
easy bunch. Are you checking calendars? I don't want to move too fast. OK, yeah, I'll give you a second
to check your calendars. General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. I don't know who's participating, but I would be remiss to state that APTA's
Transform Conference will be in Seattle, Washington, which commences on October 9 and basically
would probably conclude on Wednesday the 12. But I just offer that up, because I know just your recent
Board action reinstated Board members travel budgets. And I know that this Board, from my engagement
with Ms. McManus, has participated in the APTA Transform Conference. So I just wanted to call that out
for everybody's edification on the 13th.
But that doesn't necessarily mean people will be there, but I just wanted to call that out. And then in
reference to July, it's July 6 after the 4th of July holiday. Not a big deal, but just wanted to call that out just
as this is right after Memorial Day.
But it shouldn't be a problem for us as staff. I know the conversation really is going to revolve around you
all as Directors, but just wanted to offer up those comments. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that. And I appreciate you flagging July 6. And I'll let
Director Dishell know that I won't not be available on that date actually, and so you'll be in charge of this
meeting in July. I don't know if-BOBBY DISHELL: Great.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, wonderful, thank you. That was easy. I don't know if Directors know if they're
going to the APTA Transform Conference.
Excuse me, just went completely out of my mind. But if there are any, could you just maybe give me a
wave? Otherwise, we can schedule it for that day with no objections.
VINCE BUZEK: I might go to that conference, but I'd be back in time for it.

SHONTEL LEWIS: You would-- OK, OK. Thank you, Chair Buzek. Any others? All right. Perfect.
OK, and if I might, would anyone have-- OK, I keep telling you you can go, and then I tell you a lie. So
here's the truth. Would anyone have any objections to us maybe potentially moving the meeting in July to
not be after the holiday, immediately following the holiday? Is anyone else not going camping with their
family? Just me?
BOBBY DISHELL: Do we want, Director Lewis, maybe just given this and October, just choose the
second Wednesday at this time?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Beautiful. I love it.
BOBBY DISHELL: Second Wednesday of the month? I don't know if that creates other issues in
September, but let me-SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm seeing some faces with Director Buzek there. And Director Williams, I see your
hand is up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Yeah, it's been my experience, as somebody who's run monthly meetings of all kinds,
that our GM is spot on again that right after the 4th of July is tough time. People tend to book their
vacations around that, either before it or after it. And so frequently, you don't get good attendance.
Hopefully, you get good attention, but you don't get good attendance immediately before that or after that.
So I just wanted to point that out. And there's no reason that you have to stick to this date. Move it if it-Send out a Doodle poll.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It sounds like-- thank you, Director Williams. It sounds like-- Oh, go ahead, Director
Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Yes, second Wednesday works for me, if that matters.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, beautiful. Yeah, no, that was my next question. It sounds like-- I just grabbed
my calendar quickly-- that folks might be available for the second Wednesday. So maybe we can
establish that as our meeting cadence. OK, I see a yes from you, Director Catlin, Sloan, Buzek, Dishell.
Beautiful. All right, well, are there any other matters? And wore you out, huh? Oh, Director Sloan, there
you are.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Just one more thing. This is kind of going back to earlier. I do appreciate you're
trying to think of ways to make the Board more effective. And I think the 360 review is a thoughtful
approach, so I want to commend you for thinking of that.
And all the ideas like, well, what would that mean doesn't mean we're against the concept, but that there
are a lot of details to be worked out. But thank you for working on Board performance as well as the rest
of the agency. Because we're critical to the performance of the agency.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely. Thank you, Director Sloan. And I have to thank Director Dishell for thinking
about our growth and development as a Board. Great. Anyone else? Any other matters? Oh, Director
Dishell, looks like you came off mute.
BOBBY DISHELL: Oh, just saying thank you.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. Thank you. OK, wonderful. So based on the timeline, meeting schedule, and
the comments that were just made, our next meeting will be on Wednesday, July 13 at 1:30 right here
wherever you are. Oh, sorry, General Manager Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I know we all want to go. Madam Chair, if I may.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK, yeah.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Just so we're clear as it relates to staff and preparing for the agenda-- so it will be-the topics of discussion will be the 360 review and things of the like that you all-- that Director Sloan just
referenced. But we could talk about that. I just wanted to make sure that we had an understanding about
the expectations and what we need to do to support the Board in being prepared for discussion. That's all.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's my understanding, Director-- excuse me, General Manager Johnson. But
Director Dishell, would you add anything?
BOBBY DISHELL: Nope.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great, there you are. [LAUGHS] All right, thank you so much. All right, so next
meeting is July 13, Wednesday, July 13, at 1:30 here on Zoom.
I see no other discussions, so the meeting is adjourned as of what? 2:41 PM. I'm in California. I got
confused. [LAUGHS] So all right, y'all, have a wonderful day. Thank you so much.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. Bye.

