Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

January 15, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15,
2008 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Staff Present:

***
Chair Kemp, First Vice-Chair Martinez, Second ViceChair Busck, Treasurer Tayer, Secretary McMullen, and
Director Chacon. Director Yamrick(via phone)
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue

Call to Order:

Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:01 p.m.

Board Members Present:

I.

January Board Meeting Agenda Review
Cal Marsella reviewed the items listed under unanimous consent and
recommended action. The Committee accepted these items pending
committee approval from P&D and F&A meetings which would be held
later that evening.



Unanimous Consent
Selection of Location for Posting of Public Notice
The Board of Directors officially designates the locked glass enclosure
located on the wall at the entryway to the RTD Administration office
located at 1600 Blake St as the location for posting of public notices
including Board and Committee meetings for 2008.



Vanpooling Agreement with NFRMPO
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support for the expansion of
the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area.
This agreement is for calendar year 2008 and shall be in an amount
not to exceed $400,000.
Chair Kemp inquired if the prices had gone up from last year to this
year and could he get a comparison. A copy of that response is
attached to these minutes.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 6
Director Martinez asked if the public in the North Metro that has been
positively affected by this service aware that this is from RTD.
Perhaps there could be some public awareness campaign to let our
constituents know what RTD is doing.


Cost Sharing Agreement – City of Englewood/art shuttle
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in
the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2008 and
is for an amount not to exceed $273,224



Park Meadows – Cost Sharing Agreement
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into a Cost
Sharing Agreement with Rouse-Park Meadows to provide RTD
financial support for the operation of the Park Meadows Shuttle. This
agreement is for calendar year 2008 and is for an amount not to
exceed $112,302.
Director McMullen asked for confirmation if this is for weekend only.
General Manager Cal Marsella responded yes.



Cost Sharing Agreements – FTA Section 5311 funding
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute all documents necessary to enter into funding
agreements with Special Transit of Boulder and the Seniors’ Resource
Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA
Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams
County and Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar
year 2008 and for amounts not to exceed $301,000 for Boulder
County, $123,860 for Adams County and $91,789 for Jefferson
County.



Vanpooling Agreement with DRCOG
It is recommended by the Contracted Operational Services Committee
that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his
designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support for the expansion of the DRCOG
RideArrangers vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This
agreement is for calendar year 2008 and shall be in an amount not to
exceed $515,000.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 6


May 2008 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee
that the Board of Directors approve moving the proposed May 4,
2008 Service Changes (Attachment A) on to public review and
comment.
General Manager Marsella noted that Director Pulliam had an issue
with one of the routes being targeted for a change and will ask for an
extension of time to work with the City Council on a possible
resolution.



2008 Fiscal Policy Statement Revision
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors update and modify the Fiscal Policy
Statements, Debt Policies – Item 5, regarding the District’s credit
ratings.



Recommended Modifications to the RTD Investment Policy
It is recommended by the Financial Administration Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the attached District Investment
Policy, marked to show modifications.



West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Lakewood
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City
of Lakewood and the Regional Transportation District, the purpose
of which is to set forth the rights, duties and obligations of
Lakewood to fund a portion of the project costs and the obligations
of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and maintain a light rail
transit project within the boundaries of the City of Lakewood. This
IGA does not commit any present funding by either Party.
Implementation of this IGA implies future financial commitments by
both Parties subject to future RTD Board of Directors and
Lakewood City Council approvals, and is subject to each respective
agency’s
legally
required
budgeting,
authorization
and
appropriation process. Nothing herein shall be construed as a
multiple fiscal year obligation by either Party.



West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City and
County of Denver
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
enter into an Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between the City
and County of Denver (CCoD) and the Regional Transportation

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 6
District. The purpose of which is to set forth the rights, duties and
obligations of CCoD to fund a portion of the project costs and the
obligations of RTD to design, construct, own, operate and maintain
a light rail transit project within the boundaries of the City of
Lakewood. This IGA does not commit any present funding by
either Party. Implementation of this IGA implies future financial
commitments by both Parties subject to future RTD Board of
Directors and Lakewood City Council approvals, and is subject to
each respective agency’s legally required budgeting, authorization
and appropriation process. Nothing herein shall be construed as a
multiple fiscal year obligation by either Party.


West Corridor Intergovernmental Agreement with the City of
Lakewood – Bikepath Bridges at Wadsworth and Kipling
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to
enter into an amended and restated Intergovernmental Agreement
(IGA) between the City of Lakewood (COL) and the Regional
Transportation District. The purpose of which is to set forth the
rights, duties and obligations of Lakewood totally funding the
design and construction of two bikepath bridges, one of which will
span Wadsworth Avenue and one of which will span Kipling Street.
The city also agrees to reimburse RTD for the full cost of design
management, construction management, insurance as well as any
property acquisition and utility relocation necessitated by the
design and construction of the aforementioned bikepath bridges.



Request for Approval of RTD 2007 Annual Report to DRCOG on
FasTracks
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee
that the RTD Board of Directors adopt and approve submittal of
the RTD 2007 Annual Report on FasTracks to DRCOG. This report
summarizes the changes to the FasTracks Plan that have been
approved by the Board in 2007. Adoption of the 2007 Annual
Report will constitute approval of revised changes to the Financial
Plan in regard to supplementary SB 97-01 and TIP funds for the
West Corridor and total completion costs for Denver Union
Station. These changes are included and referenced in the Annual
Report.



Resolution No.__, Series of 2008 Regarding Acquisition of Real
property for the West Corridor Subsequent to Certification
The Committee discussed some of the outcome from the General
Manager’s meeting with the property rights group and with Steve
Fesch. Director Busck requested that in a subsequent study
session, the staff would discuss the complete process so Board

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 5 of 6
members would have a full understanding.
Director Martinez suggested that a survey could be done of prior
property owners who had been displaced and their perspective
today (i.e. did it end up being a good move for them, etc)/
Director Tayer asked if the City of Denver would be willing to
provide RTD with a statement of support regarding the property
issues of Steve Fesch. Cal Marsella did not indicate that the City
of Denver wanted to get involved.


Recommended Action
Recommendation for Selection of Outside Legal Counsel – PPP
Concession Agreement
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to award a
contract in the amount of $1 million for the 2008 work effort to the
firms of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer LLP and Kaplan Kirsch &
Rockwell LLP (Freshfields) as the most qualified firm in outside legal
counsel to RTD to assist in all steps necessary to draft a concession
agreement to procure a concessionaire and for construction of the
Gold and East Corridor commuter rail lines and commuter rail
maintenance facility through a Public Private Partnership (PPP).
Funds in the amount of $1 million are included in the 2008 FasTracks
Budget.
Director Busck asked for a clarification of why special counsel would
be required.
General Manager Marsella indicated that these firms possess
expertise, special knowledge and experience with PPP that they have
acquired from around the world and understand the pitfalls as well as
the benefits of how to do these types of negotiations.
Director Chacon asked about the diversity component of this
contract. Cal indicated that the team would be available in the P&D
meeting to discuss this component.

II.

Board-Staff Retreat
Chair Kemp shared that we were having difficulties finding a facilitator
who had worked with the Board before and who could be available for
February 2nd. He stated that it was of the utmost importance that we
have this retreat as soon as possible to set the year off in the right
direction. This retreat will focus on one thing: What is the Board’s
responsibility? Once this is defined, how will staff provide information to
Board to support the Board operating at this level.
The Board members present felt we need to move on with the planning
of this retreat for 2/2/08. Director Tayer provided the name of a

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on January 15, 2008, 12:00
p.m. Page 6 of 6
facilitator from Boulder whom he has used and recommends. Paula
Perdue will pursue this issue.
Some discussion around the venue occurred. Cal Marsella offered up the
Elati facility for February 2, 2008.
III.

III.

Executive Committee Meeting with Governor
Director McMullen recommended that the Board Executive Committee
meet with the Governor to introduce who they are. The Committee felt
this is a good idea and began exploring ways to make this happen. Chair
Kemp expressed that he would like to use this meeting to share the
message that the Board wants to send.
After some discussion, Cal Marsella offered up hosting a 1 hour meeting
at the Capitol with the Governor, Speaker of the House, Senate and
appropriate elected officials to introduce who the RTD Directors are,
share updates on FasTracks, budget and the challenges that RTD faces.
This would be followed by questions and answers.
This recommendation was accepted by the Committee and Cal Marsella
will work.
Other Matters
Director Chacon discussed her request to look at a non-profit foundation
where funds could be obtained to assist in this ever-growing issue of
ADA. Cal Marsella indicated they had looked at this request and many of
the agencies we are already using and may find ourselves in competition
with them. Director Busck indicated this was a far greater policy issue
on access-n-ride on how does the Board drive this issue and exploring
the different options to resolve.
Director Chacon responded that she still feels there are some
untapped/unexplored resources (i.e. private foundations) out there that
may be willing to help.
Chair Kemp requested that a show of appreciation be given to the
constituent who had identified the Avaya parking lot as a possible
parking option to relieve the 120th parking problem.
Chair Kemp shared that they are doing research on executive sessions in
an attempt to help the Board understand the rules and regulations
regarding confidentiality. Several members expressed this was a critical
issue that needs to be understood and supported.

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 2:00 p.m.

