Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 1 of 5

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

July 6, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
July 5, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Cohen, Daly,
Deadwyler, Hoy, James, McMullen, O’Boyle, and Tayer.
Directors Brohl, Malpiede, Riley, and Tobiassen

Staff Present:

Susan Altes, Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Sherry Ellebracht, David Genova,
Mike Gil, Kenn Hardin, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Kate Iverson,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Patrick McLaughlin, Barbara McManus, Doug
MacLeod, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Chris Quinn, Scott Reed, John
Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Julie Skeen, Jim Sterling, Greg Straight, Walt
Stringer, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas, Lisa Trujillo, Mike Turner, Bill
Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, and Phil Washington.

Others Present:

Ken Burns – CAC, David Cohen – Alameda Station, Jeff Leib – Denver
Post, James Roum – DURA, Debra Wilcox – CAC, and Tom Wooten –
Alameda Station.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 6:37 p.m. and
noted that the Board Redistricting Schedule and Process agenda item
was an update and not a recommended action item as indicated on the
agenda.

Recommended Action


Grant of Permanent Easement for Water Line Facilities to the City of Denver through
its Board of Water Commissioners.

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that that Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to execute all documents
necessary to convey a sole, exclusive and permanent 8,223 square food utility
easement as well as a temporary construction license to the City and County of
Denver, acting by and through its Board of Water Commissioners allowing for the
construction, operation and maintenance of Conduit 151 across property owned by the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 2 of 5

Regional Transportation District generally located at Smith Road and Central Park
Boulevard in the City and County of Denver.
Susan Altes explained that the Denver Water Board has asked that RTD sell them an
easement and a temporary construction license allowing for the construction, operation
and maintenance of conduit 151 across property that RTD has acquired for the
development of a Park-n-Ride at this location. For the development of the Stapleton
area, Denver Water has to upgrade infrastructure and that is where we are with this
conduit which will provide water service for the residential development that is
occurring in the Stapleton area. The easement will not interfere with RTD’s
construction; it is sub-surface so that we can landscape and our development plan does
indicate landscape in this area.
To clarify, Director Hoy noted that we are only giving Denver Water sub-surface rights
and RTD will maintain and retain all surface rights to the property. Susan Altes
indicated that Director Hoy was correct.
Director O’Boyle explained that Denver Water usually requires a ban on construction
above their water main easements and inquired if that was the case here. Susan Altes
noted that this easement requires that no structure be built over the easement area, but
this will be in the landscaped area.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 19,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Vote on
Motion:


The Motion passed Unanimously.

Extension of Contract – Alameda Station, LLC at 350 S. Santa Fe Updates

It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the General
Manager or his designee be authorized to negotiate and execute all documents that
may be necessary to extend the contract for sale and development by and between the
Regional Transportation District and Alameda Station, LLC at 350 South Santa Fe
through December 31, 2011 with the provision that 1) a site plan will be submitted to
RTD staff for review and response the week of August 1, 2011, 2) present on
September 6, 2011, a preliminary site plan, financial plan and draft agreements to the
RTD Board Planning and Development Committee and 3) prior to 5:00 p.m., November
29, 2011 submit commercial and financial information to RTD staff for inclusion in the
December 6,2011 Board Planning and Development Committee Report. In addition to
these provisions, the extension will require certain actions and commitments as shown
on the attached Alameda Station LLC, Milestone Schedule. Consistent with the
authority granted in previous Board actions for the property, if Alameda Station LLC
fails to meet any of the milestones described on the Milestone Schedule, the General
Manager, at his discretion, may choose to terminate the contract prior to completion of

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 3 of 5

the full six months, and will inform the Board prior to termination. Final RTD Board
action, presuming all required milestones have been met will occur by December 31,
2011.
Bill Sirois indicated that he first wanted to introduce Kate Iverson who is a new TOD
Manager and has been involved in this project and even contributed to the Board
Report. She will be helping out with TOD matters as we proceed forward. Bill Sirois
explained that this item was a follow up to the discussion that took place last month
where an update was provided to the Board on the status of the Alameda Station LLC
group in reference to the contract extension that was done in December of last year.
To refresh everyone’s memory, the contract was extended in December in order for
Alameda Station LLC to pursue negotiations with Greyhound on the Bus Barn site
which is at Santa Fe and Alameda. Since December, Alameda LLC has been working
very diligently with Greyhound along with involvement from RTD, the City and County
of Denver and the Denver Urban Renewal Authority. A contract extension has been
requested for another six months and staff has reviewed that request. The
recommendation in the Board Report is to grant that request with certain conditions
which would include meeting a series of milestones during the course of the next six
months. Also referenced in the Board Report is the statement that indicates if any
milestones are not met by Alameda LLC, the General Manager has the authorization to
terminate the contract before the six month contract term is complete.
Chair Kemp noted that he would be supporting this item, but only to see the project
completed since it has been in the works for the past six years. Staff has done a great
job setting specific milestones for this project in order to get this done.
Director O’Boyle asked if a Greyhound commitment was one of the milestones set in
place. If it was not, could it be added to the current set of milestones? Bill Sirois
indicated that the more detailed Milestone Schedule has an attached letter of intent
from Greyhound and if they do decide to commit to the project we would receive
information from them first in draft form in September and then in final form in
December. Director O’Boyle further inquired if a commitment from Greyhound is
anticipated or expected. Bill Sirois explained that if Greyhound decided to opt out of the
project then Alameda LLC could possibly experience funding issues.
Director McMullen inquired as to what conversations have been had with the
neighborhood and wanted to know if they have been included in these plans. Bill Sirois
noted that RTD has not had any specific conversations directly, nor has Alameda LLC
to his knowledge; however community engagement will be needed as this project
moves forward. Director McMullen added that while he hopes to see this project be
successful, he has seen the reality of what happens around public bus stations and
while it doesn’t happen every day, there are a lot of things that happen that you would
not want in your neighborhood. Ultimately, we need to make sure that we don’t bring
more problems to a neighborhood since this is a lot to ask for a community to embrace.
Chair Kemp asked if any environmental cleanup costs would come from the $3 million
we would be receiving. Susan Altes indicated that yes, that would be the case and Bill

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 4 of 5

Sirois added that preliminary reports indicate that the cleanup would be relatively minor;
however, the exact dollar amount that the cleanup would cost is not known.
Director Daly indicated that he would be voting no on this item so that it would be
moved to Recommended Action for the Board Members that are absent, allowing them
the opportunity to discuss this item further should they have any questions or
concerns.
Committee Chair Bagley added that he has heard a lot of reservations from the Board
tonight, but the milestones drafted are the best that have been seen so far. Also, local
governments such as the City and County of Denver are responsible for reviewing site
plans and it is up to them along with the developers to hold the necessary public
meetings to inform the neighborhood of this project and the potential impacts it may
have.
Motion:
Director James made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the July 19,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director Anderson seconded the motion.
Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed with 8 in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen, Hoy, Kemp,
James, McMullen and Tayer) and 3 against
(Daly, Deadwyler and O’Boyle). Directors
Brohl, Malpiede, Riley and Tobiassen were
absent from this vote.

II. Updates
 Board Redistricting Schedule and Process
Committee Chair Bagley noted that all of the Board members will be very interested to
know how their districts will be modified and changed based on the recent census that
occurred which showed significant population changes and increases.
Bill Van Meter explained that Chris Quinn would be the project manager for the
redistricting process. Chris Quinn noted that RTD’s enabling legislation requires that
after each decennial census that the director district boundaries be reviewed. The
apportionment is generally based on population, and the redistricting map will need to
be adopted by the Board no later than March 15, 2012. If it is not, the state legislative
council will create a map on their own terms. The process that we are proposing to
follow is that the Board Chair will establish a redistricting committee and staff will
provide an updated map showing each districts current boundaries along with the new
population counts. RTD’s enabling legislation is silent on the population variance
between districts; however a 5% deviation was adopted a few years ago and has been
the standard practice. Districts will not need to be redrawn unless any two districts
exceed the 5% threshold established by the Board, and staff expects that to be the
case this year. A consultant will be engaged to assist with this effort since several

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, July 5, 2011
Page 5 of 5

different scenarios will need to be created and each district must be comprised of
whole voter precincts, which are established by the county.
Chair Kemp indicated that the redistricting committee will be comprised of both staff
and Board members: staff representatives will be Chris Quinn, Bill Sirois, Bill Van Meter,
and Paula Perdue and the two Board members selected for this committee are Larry
Hoy and Bill McMullen. He made his selection based on which Directors had less skin in
the game and could remain more neutral. They will determine the best way to move
this item forward to the Board as a whole. Each of the Board members will have the
opportunity to provide their input to this committee.
Director Cohen asked what the state and districts populations in 2000 were and how
those numbers compared to the 2010 census results. Chris Quinn noted that the exact
figures aren’t known, but that information will be gathered and sent to the Board.
Chair Kemp asked counsel if the state would have to approve the new district maps or
would they only have approval authority if the Board was unable to reach a consensus.
Marla Lien indicated that she would check the language in the statute but as long as
the tenants of the law were followed the state would have no basis for disapproving
the Board approved map.
III. Other Matters
Chair Kemp noted that in the General Manager’s Report a low bidder for the Avaya
phone system maintenance contract that was thrown out due to being non responsive.
He asked if more detail could be sent to him explaining how the firm was deemed non
responsive.
General Manager Washington explained that there has been a lot of discussion lately
regarding the move of the Federal East Station to the west side and whether that
proposal should be reinitiated. Staff does not envision bringing a recommendation
forward to the Board to move that station from east to west due to additional cost
increases this would create.
IV. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for August
2, 2011.
V. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:20 p.m.

