Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

July 22, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday July 22,
2008 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Directors Christopher, Daly, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Quinlan, Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Elfenbein, Kemp, Pulliam

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Bruce Abel, Dave Genova, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Liz Rao, and Phil Washington
Rick Clarke, Terry Howerter, Suzanne Henry, Cheryl Holmes,
Caitlin Magee, Tony McCaulay, John Perry, Teresa Sabrusula,
Daria Serna, Errol Stevens, John Tarbert, Pauletta Tonilas

Others Present:

***
Call to Order:

Jeff Lieb, Kevin Flynn, Tex Elam, Holman Carter, Steve
Roberts, Aylene Quale, Martha Roskowski, Steve Fisher, Bob
Pearce
Chair Pro-Tem Martinez called the meeting to order at 5:35
p.m.

I. Naming of P3 and Construction Effort
Pauletta Tonilas indicated that as RTD begin the construction efforts
associated with P3, we need a name for this project to give it an identity
similar to other corridors in the FasTracks project. Overall they are looking for
an identity which maintains a consistent look and feel for the FasTracks
program. The recommended name Eagle was provided by Brian Middleton and
stands for East/Gold Line/enterprise. Pauletta provided two logos to the Board
for consideration for which one they prefer.
Several of the Board members provided their comments on the Logos. A
straw vote was taken with 5 members favoring the logo using the eagle and
two others not in favor of either. Director Christopher deferred the choice

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 2 of 6
back to the staff.
II. Parking Management Program
Dave Genova introduced this item and turned the presentation over to Errol
Stevens. Errol provided a synopsis of the parking management plan proposal.
For a copy of the presentation, please refer to the Study Session minutes
located in the Board office. Highlights from his presentation include:
 Goal of this program is to get better utilization/more efficient use of
existing capacity.
 Approximately 8600 spaces in the District remains unused
 Approximately 19 of the facilities exceed 90% capacity.
Approximately 10 of the facilities are within 75-90% capacity
 Timeline:
2002-2005: Program Development efforts
2006-2007: Worked with legislature
2007-2008: Attendance fees, technology, phase, field test of
equipment
2009: Proposed rollout of program
 Three Aspects of Program:
1. Extended Stay: For residents, extended stay exceeding first 24
hours up to a maximum of 30 days would be charged. Research
shows 99% of patrons stay 14 days. They would also offer a
50% discount to move from high demand to low demand
facilities.
2. Non-resident: Fee would charge for first day. 50% discount
would apply as incentive to move from high density to low
density facility.
3. Reserved: Guaranteed access from 5:00a.m. to 10:00 a.m. on a
limited basis. This program would only be offered to residents.








Rates and Discounts:
Residents--$2.00 after first 24 hours
Non-residents--$4:00 daily
Discount Incentives:
Low demand—50%
Automated account—15%
Registered van/carpool—50%
Exceptions:
Students vehicles registered out of state
Military
Person with Disability
Newcomers
Phased Implementation Plan based on % of patronage:
Phase 1: North & East (40%)
Phase 2: Southeast (20%)
Phase 3: SW/Central (17%)
Phase 4: US 36 (14%)
Estimated cost is $1100, 000.
Estimated cost recovery is
$1,300,000 and estimated new annual revenue to farebox:
$250,000.

Errol emphasized that the goal is on efficient utilization of existing capacity
and would affect only 12% of the RTD patronage.
Questions and Answer:

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 3 of 6
Board members were generally in favor but had several questions that need
to be ferret out. Dave Genova was asked to create a Q&A sheet capturing
the questions and responses.
a.
b.

c.

d.
e.

f.

g.

h.

i.
j.

k.

l.

Director Kinton: Do you have a strategy on handling/shaping public
response since the focus should be on parking management and is
revenue neutral?
Director Daly: Expressly concerned about the impact of this program on
several park-n-rides in his area. He does not like the focus on nonresidents and feel this will drive away potential transit users. He also
questioned legally if we can charge for a lot that technically does not
belong to RTD.
Director Ruchman: Wanted more elaboration on what are some of the
impoundable (sp) that Errol had stated. Identify some of the variables
that could impact on the proposed plan such as cost for Central
Management, etc…
Director Quinlan: Are we prepared to handle credit card processing?
Will the military exception extend to the military families?
Director Quinlan: This parking plan needs to include the effect of the
zones on why people may be willing/reluctant to park at one facility or
the other-this need to be factored into the model. Also, did a
comparison of the parking scandal in Washington D.C., and want to
make sure RTD will have great internal controls to discourage this type of
issue with our parking management program.
Director McMullen: Feels the guaranteed access introduces some areas
for problems with overbooking and feels this should be re-thought.
Directors Tayer and Yamrick concurred.
Director McMullen: Concerned about misuse of handicap plaques.
Wants Errol to provide him with information on how this program is
used in Chicago which he will visit for the APTA Sustainability
conference.
Director McMullen: Question about airline stewardesses who work
irregular hours and may be gone longer than 24 hours-how will we
handle these type of workers?
Director Tayer: What about towing? Feels the proposed 30 days is too
much and needs to be re-considered. Christopher concurs.
Director Tayer: Wants to see an escape provision in the plan that lets
parking lots that have been expanded or changed to opt out or review
the lot after changes have been made…
Director Tayer: Would like to see a standard set for parking usage
overload which include income (this was later challenged by Director
Ruchman). Director Tayer offered up an option to earmark the revenue
made for increasing feeder services.
Director Christopher: What happens if our continued revenue growth
causes a low demand facility to become a high demand facility? What
administrative management will we have in place?

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 4 of 6
m. Director Christopher: Would like to earmark income for additional
parking spaces expansion fund. Also wanted to know if we had gone
out for bid for this service-Errol responded yes.
n. Director Yamrick: Wants to know what do we have in our contract that
allows RTD to get out of the agreement if our cost for having Central to
manage the facility exceeds the revenue that we are bringing in? Where
is that line drawn? Also, wants to know if there will be felonies
associated with the fines similar to the fare inspection program? How
will we determine who gets one of the guaranteed spaces-feels this
creates some real opportunities for abuse and favoritism.
o. Director Martinez: Concerned about how the student (out of state)
exemption works—appears the out of state students gets better
treatment than in-state students. Would like a better look at this. Also
concerned about rollout and impact of Phase 1 and II on East corridor.
p. Director Ruchman: Suggests putting the guaranteed parking spaces as
far away from the platform as possible.
q. Director Ruchman: Wants information on lessons learned from peer
agencies that can be incorporated into our parking plan.
r. Director Quinlan: Need to review the toll road scenario for comparison to
how people will use the “Lexus” or guaranteed parking
III.

Review of Existing RTD Fare Policy
Bruce Abel introduced this item and referred to the manual that had been
provided to the Board members in their packets. He walked through each
tab and provided an explanation of what was included. Tab 12 provided a
possible 2009 fare increase timeline. For more details, please refer to the
manual on fare and fare prepayment programs dated July 2008.
Questions and Answers:
Director Tayer read from a prepared statement: The mission statement for
the ECO Pass is a tool for increasing ridership, but it must work in a
financially responsible manner. As a tool for increasing ridership it is
excellent. Statistics demonstrate that ridership amongst individuals who get
an EcoPasses is 4 to 5 times more likely to use RTD services. Certainly,
though we currently are bearing the burden of a sudden shift to transit due
to high fuel prices, we don’t want to lose the marketing strength of the Eco
pass.
But, let’s look at the other side of the coin, the revenue that RTD generates
from the EcoPass. There is a perception amongst us that the entire Eco
Pass program is under-priced. In fact, the statistics tell another story. One
of the benefits of the working group has been to provide a forum for
reviewing RTD’s EcoPass ridership data. This data is not perfect but it is the
best we have to rely on until we have the electronic systems. What does it
tell us?...
(Director Tayer then references a one page handout that he provided to the
Board members, a copy that is attached herein to these minutes)
Effectively this analysis shows the cost recovery from EcoPass is 23.7%
compared to 18.9% for non-EcoPass and the EcoPass percent of potential

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 5 of 6
revenue is comparable at 40.8% to the non-EcoPass of 41.6%.
Director Tayer’s conclusion and bottom line is the EcoPass may need minor
tweaking to align prices more closely with actual ridership and address
issues with small businesses. However the analysis indicates that the Eco
Pass is reasonably priced based on potential revenue and cost recovery. The
EcoPass is a valuable revenue tool for RTD as well as an important
marketing asset that must be preserved.
Several Board members thanked Director Tayer for this analysis stating it
was quite good. Other questions included:
a. Director Quinlan: Looks like we have apples to oranges
comparison-wants an audit review of both analyses to validate numbers.
b. Director Kinton: wants to know how we can make tweaks to make
the system more fair and equitable?
c. Director Martinez: Pointed out section 8.7 that cash riders are
bearing the higher % of fare increases and he expects to see the
recommendation to make this process more equitable across the Board.
(i.e. if the rate increase is 1.00, he expects that both EcoPass users and
cash users to absorb this the same across the board-wants to see this in
the proposal going forward)
d. Director Quinlan: Would like to see us address the complexity of
our fare structure. Also need to take into consideration the residential
EcoPass program and how it relates to the TOD around LRT stations.
e. Director Martinez: Would like to see us incorporate employee
suggestions into our system such that there is a reward system based on
the size of the impact of the suggestion to RTD (Juanita Chacon issue)
IV. Other Matter/RouteMatch Update
Bruce Abel provided an update on RouteMatch. He stated they have been
meeting with RouteMatch, contractors, and all involved on this issue and
had discovered there are a number of issues that add to the complexity of
the problem. Some of these are not RouteMatch issues but relates to
more programmatic or system change variables such as user interface,
driver problems, etc. They have requested a drill down of the manifest
and
requested Route Match and First Transit to provide a specific
monitoring
plan. Bruce emphasized they were peeling back the onion and
uncovering various sources of the problem. They have begun laying
groundwork for reverting back to Trapeze but It is his overall assessment
that this would not be a good idea.
While the Board members understood there may be other variables
attributing to the problem, Director Christopher stated very succinctly that
there is a point where we need to fish and cut bait and when it all clicks so
our customers are not inconvenienced. RTD needs to have a clear plan so
We are not still having this conversation a month from now. Director Quinlan
reiterated the same thought-that regardless of “where the blame may lie” at
the end of the day, our transit dependents are being hung out to dry
because they do not have any other options. He raised the question

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, July 22, 2008 at
5:30p.m. Page 6 of 6
“are we incurring any legal responsibilities?” (Martinez question also)
Other comments included:
o Director Kinton: Does not feel we can go back and they need to stay the
course in working the sundry of issues. However, we still need to focus
on the customers.
o Director Ruchman: While he understands that there may be a
combination of problems, he expects RouteMatch who should have had
experience implementing this off the shelf software to be able to identify
the type of problems that would arise and take a proactive/leadership
role with RTD in this implementation. They did not and felled quite flatfooted in their understanding/articulation of what happened. He would
like to see them as a significant part of the solution.
o Director McMullen: Surveyed the call center and understands there are a
myriad of issues being addressed. He understands also we cannot just
pull the switch and go back. However, he concurs that the zigzagging is
something that Route Match needs to fix.
V.

Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 8:31 p.m.

