2021-02-03
GMOC Meeting
NICOLE CAREY: We're ready.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. I'm going to call-- are you ready for me to go?
BRANDY HUNTER: We are live.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I'm going to call to order the February 3, 2021 meeting of the General Manager
Oversight Performance Management Committee. The time is 8:32 AM. I'll take the role. I guess I have
everybody's name here. So Vice Chair Sloan?
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Yay. Director Cook?

SHELLEY COOK: Here. Trying to get set up.
VINCE BUZEK: Director-- sorry, Director Lewis?
NICOLE CAREY: I do not see her on the call yet.
VINCE BUZEK: We'll come back to her. Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Here.
VINCE BUZEK: Chair Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
VINCE BUZEK: Is Director Bouquet present? Anybody see him on the call?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't see him.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. Any other Directors not a member of this committee on the phone or on the Zoom?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis is present.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, great, Shontel, thank you. Any other directors not of this committee on the Zoom
call? OK, great. Everybody from the committee is present. So let's get the ball rolling.
The first topic on the agenda is the GMES/GMOC charter. And we had asked Melanie Snyder to take a
look at the charter because it contained all the language regarding the General Manager executive
search that was no longer relevant to this committee as it moves forward. Everybody should have
received the red-line version of the charter, removing the references to the GMES. Anybody have any
questions or comments regarding that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.

VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I have two questions. The first one can be found on packet page number
7. And it goes into package page eight. But it starts, "committee members must be present at every
committee meeting." And then after the red line it says, "regular attendance is required. And the alternate
committee member will be named by the Chair of the Board to take the place of a committee member
after the third absence."
It seems as though we might be able to strike the committee members must be present at every
committee meeting because it's taken care of in the second sentence that I read, "regular attendance is
required."
VINCE BUZEK: Mm-hmm. Great. General Counsel Snyder, are you on the call? I'm sorry. I can't see
anybody.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. Mr. Chair, I'm here.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. And did you hear the comment by Director Lewis that seemed to make sense? I
guess you really don't have to attend every meeting, right? You get three strikes. You get three-- or at
least two absences. So is there any way we can clean up that language, as Director Lewis
recommended?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes. I think we can strike that first sentence that she was referencing on page
seven.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, Director Lewis. What's your second question or comment?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. The second question is found on packet page 11. And
I'm going to it right now because I just put a note. And now I can't remember what it was. So maybe it
wasn't as important. [CHUCKLING] it appears that it may have not been important this morning as it was
last night when I was reading this. So I do apologize. Those are my final comments.
VINCE BUZEK: [CHUCKLING] OK. If it comes up, if you think about it, let us know. My understanding is
we're going to bring this to the full Board coming out of the GMOC for adoption. So before it gets there, if
you think of something, we can always give it a tweak.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Perfect.
VINCE BUZEK: But thanks for those comments.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: You bet. Is there anybody else that has any questions or comments about this agenda
item?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, Dishell.
VINCE BUZEK: Go ahead, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you. And I know I emailed you about this, but I'm hoping I can use the excuse
of being new and maybe someone can give me an answer of. Is there a reason why it's General Manager
and CEO? Are there separate roles within each title instead of going for the economy of language of
using one or the other?
VINCE BUZEK: General Counsel Snyder, I'll turn that over to you. Director Dishell and I had this
conversation offline. And I kind of tend to agree with what he's saying unless there's a real specific reason
that's required, but--

MELANIE SNYDER: My understanding is it's just sort of a relic of history. The bylaws reference the
General Manager. But the employment agreement, for example, has historically always referenced the
General Manager and CEO. So I think we just keep in existence, since that's what the agreement has
always said or has historically said. The Board staff might have a little bit more history, but that's my
understanding.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I may, Mr. Chair?
VINCE BUZEK: Is that Madam Chair River-Malpiede?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No. It's the General Manager.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, I'm sorry, General Manager. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No worries. So in relationship to the General Manager/Chief Executive Officer, during
the course of the transit industry's evolution and so forth, spawning out of the early '80s, it was customary
in the industry to adopt the Chief Executive Officer in relationship to the General Manager. So if you look
throughout the industry, it's been an amalgamation of the two terms being used collaboratively to
introduce the leader of the organization.
So if you want to look at organizations like the Washington Metropolitan Transit Authority, it's the same
thing, General Manager/CEO, Cleveland Regional Transportation Authority. So if one were to look at the
other agencies that sort of evolved at the same time as this one, you will clearly see that that's the
commonality. AFTA could probably provide more insight on this as well. So I would suggest to you all that
I have a preference of keeping the two.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. Thanks, General Manager.
BOBBY DISHELL: And let's keep the two.
VINCE BUZEK: Sounds good. So does that help, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, and I'm happy to keep the two. I was just really curious.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody else have any questions or comments regarding this agenda item? Hearing
none, Mr. McManus, are we going to need a motion to move this out of our committee to the full Board?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis. I just remember what it was that I was going to ask about.
VINCE BUZEK: I'm sorry, too late. No, go ahead. [CHUCKLING]
SHONTEL LEWIS: [CHUCKLING] OK. It says-- it reads in here that "the agenda will be reviewed or
approved on Wednesdays." And so my assumption is that we will have these meetings on Wednesdays.
Is that a fair assumption?
VINCE BUZEK: That's something that we're going to talk about. So that's under Other Matters, GMOC
moving forward. So, yeah, I'd like to set up a day and time regularly so everybody could be thinking about
that as we get to other matter items. So-SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. And the second-VINCE BUZEK: And I-SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, go ahead.
VINCE BUZEK: No. I'm sorry. I interrupted you. You finish up.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh. So the second comment was just in reference to the alternate. It's pretty silent in
the requirements of attendance for the alternate and if the alternate isn't able to attend these meetings,
which I'm only asking because I know Director Bouquet teaches during these hours. And so it might be
difficult for him to be able to attend all of these meetings as an alternate. And in the event that any of the
committee members missed three or more, I just wonder what we would do if that were to happen.
VINCE BUZEK: Good question. General Counsel Snyder, what would be your interpretation of the charter
with regard to the alternate attendance?
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think that Director Lewis is right, that it is silent, and we don't
address that. So we could certainly clarify that the charter language. And my understanding is really the
intent was that all of the members, including the alternate, were intended to be attending all of the
meetings, that that same requirement, or that provision that talks about missing three meetings would
have applied to everybody. But certainly that's up to you all.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. I think that probably makes the most sense that the attendance requirements are
across the Board. And I think we should probably adjust the charter to make that more clear and as we
move forward, try to set a time and day for these meetings. Let's take Director Bouquet's schedule into
account. It'd be useless to have him as an alternate if he can ever attend a meeting. So I'd like to have
him involved. So is that OK with you, Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes. Thank you, Mr. Chair.
VINCE BUZEK: And Miss McManus, back to you. We're going to need a motion to approve the charter as
amended and as amended through the discussions here today to move it out of our committee.
BARBARA MCMANUS: We would just need a head nod because based on the amendments that we've
made, this will have to go through committee, Executive Committee, into the full Board.
VINCE BUZEK: OK. I can't see anybody nodding their heads. So anybody have any issues with this or
would not want this moving forward out of our committee? Hearing none, that's great. Let's move on to
the GM/CEO employment agreement. And I think you all received the copy of the amendment, with
regard to Miss Johnson's contract.
The rationale, my understanding of the rationale-- and Miss Snyder, correct me if I'm wrong-- is that the
timeline for developing the performance metrics is really tied hand in hand with our strategic goal setting.
And so that's kind of been pushed off and up in the air. We need to give Miss Johnson some more time
until we have that strategic goal-setting process in place. So did I summarize that in clear enough terms?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, Mr. Chair. This is Melanie Snyder. That's my understanding of the intent. And I
would defer to Miss GM/CEO Johnson, if she'd like to elaborate on that. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you very much, Mr. Chair and Madam General Counsel. That does
reflect the intent behind this amendment relative to us working collaboratively to do some strategic
planning to create that north star. What spawns out of that will help inform the goals collaboratively
amongst the Board, as well as myself. So that is my intent, with the request to set amendment. Thank you
very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Miss Johnson. Miss Snyder, thanks so much. And just for the rest of the
committee, I've asked Miss Johnson to include me and keep me in the loop on the strategic goal-setting
process, getting our facilitator and things like that. And I'll keep reporting back to this committee on that
the process because I think this committee and strategic goal setting, these things kind of go hand in

hand. So it's important that we, as this committee, know what's going on. And I'll keep you all appraised of
that.
Anybody have any questions or comments regarding the GM/CEO employment agreement amendment?
BOBBY DISHELL: I do. I have two. Dishell.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Dishell, go ahead. Thanks
BOBBY DISHELL: Sorry. Yeah, the first is, I guess, for Miss Johnson, or GM/CEO Johnson. Is there
anything else-- since we're opening up the amendment, is there anything else within the agreement that
you found to be unworkable or would be preferential, anything along those lines?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Director Dishell. Recognizing that we just negotiated this
contract a couple of months ago outside of the goal-setting aspect, I am fine as it stands today. Thank
you.
BOBBY DISHELL: Great. Thank you. Second question is, the delineation on the strategic planning and
goal setting between the Executive Committee and General Manager Oversight Committee, from what I
understand, it sounds like based on the Executive Committee's charter, there would be substantial
overlap in that space. And it would be great to see a clear delineation. Is the strategic goal setting going
to be monitored by and consulted with by on the GMOC side or the Executive Committee side? And if
they disagree, where do we land?
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody want to take that, General Council, General Manager?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, Mr. Chair, if I may, I think there is some confusion collectively, because as we
talk about the intent of strategic planning, that will be encompassing the entire Board. And one aspect of
the success outcomes will help inform the decision relative to the metrics and in turn culminate with the
tools used to appraise my performance. So from my vantage point, this is a collective undertaking with
the Board holistically in adopting those goals going forward and wouldn't be a delineation from any subset
therein.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, General Manager. Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: Yeah, that's certainly preferential. Yeah, certainly preferential from my end. I just
wanted to sort of clarify that. So thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. and just so you know that, yeah, this is-- even though this is not a committee of the
whole and the Executive Committee is not a committee of the whole, everything we do moving forward
requires full Board participation. So thanks for that question. Anything else, Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: That's all. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody else have any comments or questions?
PEGGY CATLIN: This is Peggy Catlin. Yeah. I think this is a prudent approach. And as General
Manager/CEO Johnson pointed out, she would rather have it done well than-- or done right rather than
maybe force fitting a target. We put 120 days in for purposes of negotiation in the contract. But I think as
we move forward with a more strategic approach for this organization, I think it's appropriate to make this
adjustment. And Chair Buzek, you and I have both long expressed our concerns about how we set our
previous goals. And I'm just really pleased that we're changing our course this year. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Catlin. I agree 100%. Any other comments or questions on the GM/CEO
employment agreement? Hearing none, does anybody have any problem moving this out of here, moving
it forward to the Board for approval? Sounds great.

Next, other matters. And we've got the GMOC going forward. So in the past, the GMOC met fairly
regularly. The most important meetings tend to occur after the strategic goal setting, and then we work to
develop the performance measures and the process to make that happen.
So I would like to see monthly meetings from this point forward just to keep abreast of what's going on
and how we're doing and moving things forward there. They may be pretty short meetings in the
beginning. But ultimately, as we get toward the end, they'll be more comprehensive. Does anybody have
any comments or input on that in that regard?
Let's talk about a regular meetings schedule. So mornings don't work for Director Bouquet. And I'd like to
have him involved as much as we can. So anybody have a different proposal for that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Mr. Chair? Mr. Chair, I know that Director Bouquet shared with me that his
planning time was 11:00 to 1:00. So it would seem to me that might be a good time.
BOBBY DISHELL: Madam Chair, if I may, I would-- while I know he offered that time. Teacher planning
time, as a former teacher, is incredibly valuable and often can be intruded upon by things like IEP
meetings, which Director Bouquet would be legally obligated to attend if he's the teacher who's in charge
of that IEP. So I would really like us to consider possibly scheduling, I think he said, 2:30. After 2:30
works on his time. Because I don't want to have a situation arise, coming from that world, where
sometimes your planning just gets taken over. And it's harder to set boundaries in that space than it is if
it's after school hours.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. So sorry. I'd have to agree with Director Dishell. As a former
educator, it does-- students, parents can really swamp that time. And I would be more than happy to
make myself available to hours that Director Bouquet might be available after 2:00-- I think he said 2:30-as I think his voice and his experiences, as you've said, is really important on this committee.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, absolutely. Does anybody have any problem if we went with the first Wednesday
at 2:30 PM? And staff as well, please, everybody, chime in.
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. Chair? The only thing that I-VINCE BUZEK: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: The only thing that I see on my calendar is that one of the subcommittees for the
Accountability Committee meets at 3:00 on the first Wednesday. I personally like the 2:30 time frame
because I had to I had a meeting this morning at 7:30 that I had to cut short. And I have a regular first
Wednesday meeting for Evergreen.
So I personally would prefer the 2:30 time frame. But I'm just not sure that Wednesdays are the best day
because of the Accountability-- because of the Accountability Subcommittee.
VINCE BUZEK: Understood. Does Thursday work for everyone, same time on the first Thursday of the
month?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yeah. That looks good for me personally. I can make that work.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks. Director Dishell?
BOBBY DISHELL: I'm seeing. Sorry. I'm [AUDIO OUT]. I'm seeing that I have an RTD calendar hold for
1:30 to 3:30 on Thursday, March 4. I believe that's an orientation or a finance workshop or something. Or- oh, no, that's a Jeff Co LCC meets at that time, Thursdays, the first Thursday of the month, which I'm

fine just joining them for the first hour and hopping off. I don't know, Director Catlin, what your thoughts
are for that overlap.
PEGGY CATLIN: I think that's probably-- I think they would be fine with that. Those are not always
consistent.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. The first Thursday in February is a Senior
Leadership meeting on the schedule currently.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very much, Miss McManus and Chair Buzek. Considering the nature
of this meeting, I can clearly alter that meeting. So I don't want that to be an obstacle as we go forward.
That's why I didn't broach it. But I appreciate you doing so. That's easily manageable. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: I appreciate that. And Miss McManus, it was the first Thursday in March that you
mentioned. You said February.
BARBARA MCMANUS: March, I believe.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah, OK. Because we're not going to meet tomorrow again.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Right.
VINCE BUZEK: How about Director Lewis. Are you good with that?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have to move some things around, but I don't mind doing so. Do you anticipate
scheduled for an hour or an hour and a half?
VINCE BUZEK: I think an hour should be good.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Perfect. I'll make it work.
VINCE BUZEK: If it goes too long, I'll just cut everybody off.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Perfect. Good to know.
VINCE BUZEK: Director Cook, how about you? Is that workable?
SHELLEY COOK: Could you hear me? That works just fine. Thank you very much.
VINCE BUZEK: Great. And Vice Chair Sloan, how about you? Is that workable for you?
MARJORIE SLOAN: It's good for me, thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. I think I've touched on everyone, did I not, on the committee? Did I
did not call on anyone? OK. Well, there it is. Miss McManus, if you could put that into our recurring
schedule for the first Thursday of the month at 2:30. And Miss Sloan, I may need you to share the April 1
meeting because I'm in the fourth day of a jury trial, if it goes. So anyway, we'll make that work.
Anything else? Other matters?
BOBBY DISHELL: I just-- if Director Bouquet says, could we do 2:45 or 3:00, is that also fine, given we're
playing around his schedule without his being here?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm OK with that. I have a hard stop on some Thursdays at 4 o'clock.
VINCE BUZEK: Mm. Yeah. So if we did 2:45, just to make sure we have enough time to get our GMOC
done and make sure Director Lewis can participate as well, it's-- let's call it 2:45. Does anyone have a
problem with 2:45?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr.-VINCE BUZEK: Hearing nothing-- go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Mr. Chair, this is General Manager/CEO Johnson. I did [AUDIO OUT] my calendar.
And for my participation, I do have a meeting with Mayor Hancock at 2:30 on some of those Thursdays
going forward. It's a weird kind of recurrence. So recognizing what we're saying here, that only usually

takes about 30 minutes. So if we can do 3 o'clock, perhaps, because 3:00 to 4:00, that would be
something and maybe would accommodate Director Bouquet. Or I'm wondering, perhaps should we do a
Doodle poll at this point.
VINCE BUZEK: Yeah. Let's do that. I think we're all good on the first Thursday. Let's nail down the time
to-- if 2:30, 2:45 or 3 o'clock is workable. And let's do a Doodle poll on that and see what happens. And
obviously later is better for Director Bouquet and for General Manager Johnson, so I'm good with that. We
could avoid a Doodle poll if everybody said 3 o'clock's OK.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It's OK for me.
VINCE BUZEK: Anybody-- anybody have a problem 3:00 PM?
SHELLEY COOK: No, that works just fine.
PEGGY CATLIN: Actually, 3:00 works better for Directors Dishell and Cook and Sloan and myself with
regard to the LCC, Jefferson County LCC, so.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm here too.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Chair. So done and done, I think. Let's do it for the first Thursday, 3:00 PM
and cancel the Doodle poll. And General Manager Johnson, if you're meeting goes late, please, that's-just come on in when you're available.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate that. Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Is there anything else to come before this committee under other matters? Director
Dishell, were you done with comments?
BOBBY DISHELL: Yes. I apologize. I'd started eating almonds So I put myself on mute.
VINCE BUZEK: [LAUGHING] Good deal. OK. Hearing no other matters-- who's this?
MARJORIE SLOAN: This is Marjorie-- Director Sloan. I appreciate Director Lewis's bringing it-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
MARJORIE SLOAN: There's a lot of other noise going on. I-VINCE BUZEK: Sorry. Go ahead.
SHELLEY COOK: --appreciate Director Lewis's bringing to my attention that an alternate was expected to
attend all meetings because that's contrary to the culture I was previously in, when the alternates
attended if the main person said, I can't go, can you? So that's always good to learn about a new situation
and our new position. Thanks.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Director Sloan. And this committee is kind of different in that our work tends to
build from meeting to meeting. And it's pretty important that everybody-- hence the requirement for
attendance is that you need to know what's going on in those past meetings. But thanks for those
comments. Anybody else?
BOBBY DISHELL: Director Buzek, It's Director Dishell. I apologize. I do have one more, which is in the
charter, it says we have buddies or a buddy system. And I'm just wondering, just to make sure we're
complying, one, who are the buddies, and, two, do we need to provide updates following this meeting to
said buddies?
VINCE BUZEK: Good point. Yeah. We've done this buddy system before. I have mixed feelings about it
because a buddy typically gets a filtered assessment of what happened, but that's fine. Miss McManus,
how was the buddy appointment done in the past? Was it self selection or was it--

BARBARA MCMANUS: No. It was assigned by the Chair. And just for the record, we only did the buddy
system for the General Manager's executive search portion.
VINCE BUZEK: Oh, OK, right.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So it would be up to this body to decide if they wanted to do that or not. All Board
members are invited to all meetings.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And the other thing, Chair Buzek, is all these meetings are being recorded.
So Board members can go back and review it.
VINCE BUZEK: Right. Yeah, I would rather stick to that process. That is if someone wants to listen to the
audio, just tune in and listen and get the unfiltered version of the meeting. So let's leave it at that, if that's
OK with you, Director Dishell.
BOBBY DISHELL: That's completely fine with me. Do we then need to strike the buddy provisions from
the charter before it goes to the Executive Committee?
MARJORIE SLOAN: No, we don't. The charter says the group may use the buddy system. So I think it
ended on this situation.
PEGGY CATLIN: Chair Buzek, if you remember-- this is Director Catlin. If you remember, we were going
fairly and furious in our process for the GMES. And it was just a way to socialize and update progress
with other Board members on a regular basis. So-VINCE BUZEK: Right.
PEGGY CATLIN: I just-VINCE BUZEK: It was kind of a one off.
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't think it-- given this new set up and also the fact that our progress is going to be
recorded and given the fact that we're going to be meeting monthly rather than a couple of times a week, I
think it's-- it's not as relevant as it used to be.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So this is Barbara McManus. John McKay brought up a good point that we could
implement the buddy system should we have an executive session because that would not-- anybody
wanting to listen to an executive session has to come into the office and be monitored during that
listening session. So leaving it in there, I think is prudent, as Vice Chair Sloan has brought up, just in that
instance.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Miss McManus. And Director Dishell, anything further on that?
BOBBY DISHELL: No, all set. Thank you so much.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much. And thanks, everybody, for being here. Thanks for your
participation. Look forward to all your input. If anybody has any questions or anything as we move
forward, feel free to reach out to me or to Vice Chair Sloan at any time. And we'll get answers as quickly
as we can for you.
Our next meeting will be, what, April 1 at 3:00 PM, I think. Or, no, I'm sorry. Is that right? March.
BOBBY DISHELL: No, March.
VINCE BUZEK: What's the date? I don't have my calendar.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

VINCE BUZEK: OK, so it'll be first Thursday in March, 3:00 PM. Anything else to come before this
committee?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, thank you for a productiveness meeting, Mr. Chairman, and efficient.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Absolutely.
VINCE BUZEK: Hearing no further comments, this meeting is adjourned at 9:02 AM. Thanks, everybody.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
VINCE BUZEK: Bye.

