2024-05-21
Performance Committee Meeting
PEGGY CATLIN: --convened. I'll start over. The Tuesday, May 21 Performance Committee will now
come to order. We are convened as of 8:30 AM, and I would respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining the meeting this morning. Please note that committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on
the Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are also providing communication access real-time translation, also known
as CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board Office
at RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com, and a link will be provided. A livestream of this meeting is also
available via RTD's YouTube page. I would now like to call the roll for the committee members. Director
Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Dr. Davidson?
JOEY DAVIDSON: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Dr. Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
PEGGY CATLIN: Dr. Guzman? Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PEGGY CATLIN: I'm the chair, Peggy Catlin, And I am here. I also note, for the record, that Director
Jaime Lewis has joined us. Am I missing any directors? OK. Board Office Manager Kroll, would you
please let me know if Michael Guzman joins us later on?
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any
topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you
wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on
your phone.

During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would
like to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the rtd.boardoffice@rtd-denver.com.
Are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Director Catlin, at this time, I do not see anyone present who has raised their hand in
indication that they would like to provide public comment. I do want to note, also, that Director Guzman
has arrived.
PEGGY CATLIN: Welcome, Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Hi, everybody. Sorry. I was having some technical difficulty. Good morning.
PEGGY CATLIN: So did the chair, so [LAUGHS] we cut it down to the wire. Mr. Kroll, did we receive
any email comments for today's meeting?
JACK KROLL: Chair Catlin, there were no email comments for today's meeting.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. So we will close the public comment period at this time. There are no
recommended actions at this month's meeting, but we have quite a bit of discussion item to go through.
What we're going to do today is to discuss progress made on our agency performance dashboard, as
well as the metrics.
We have a presentation that our GM/CEO, Deborah Johnson, executive business partner, John McKay,
and I will share before we jump into the broader conversation. I'm going to hand the floor over to GM
CEO Johnson in a minute. But first want to thank Board Chair Erik Davidson, who has continued to
contribute significantly to this work. Thank you, Chair Davidson. And with that, I believe John McKay
has the presentation, and I'll ask him to put it up now. And once that is up, I'll ask GM CEO Johnson to
take the floor.
But as Mr. McKay is putting up the presentation, at the last meeting, many of you saw a spreadsheet
that Director Davidson and I had worked on that aligned a lot of the questions that we had on the left
vertical axis and then-- followed by some metrics.
And GM CEO Johnson and executive business partner John McKay have worked really hard with their
staff to come up with a dashboard model and a metric that really aligns the strategic goals and priorities
with operational metrics, and then more strategic metrics. So, John, are you able to get this presentation
up?
JOHN MCKAY: I believe it's broadcasting right now.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, it's not. We can't see it.
JOHN MCKAY: Oh, that's interesting.
DEBRA JOHNSON: [LAUGHS]
JOHN MCKAY: How about now?

DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, there we are. John, Thank you very kindly.
PEGGY CATLIN: There you go. OK. GM CEO Johnson, the floor is yours, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Good morning to all that are assembled.
As introduced, I'm Debra Johnson, and serve as the general manager and CEO. As the chair of the
committee has outlined, we have a presentation for you this morning to orient you to various questions
which were opposed during the course of the Board of Directors retreat, and showcasing the nexus as
relates to performance metrics that staff are working on collectively, but better provide you with ample
information to build increase from your constituents and members of the general populace. Next slide,
please.
So recognizing what we plan to do this morning, we will go over those performance questions,
specifically that germinated from the course of that discussion at the board retreat by board members. I
will then, in turn, provide a strategic plan orientation, as well as touch upon the elements and then talk
about what will feed into the performance dashboard.
So with the next slide, I will yield the floor back to Chair Catlin. Thank you. So, John, you can go to the
next slide as well.
PEGGY CATLIN: Next slide, please. OK. Thank you, Ms. Johnson. So the questions that were posed
at the retreat and then summarized here-- how is RTD achieving its vision to be the trusted leader in
mobility? How has RTD delivered value to the community it serves? Those are under the strategic
priority of Community Value.
Then under Customer Excellence, how is RTD meeting customers' needs, and how is RTD creating a
welcoming transit environment? Employee Ownership-- how well is RTD attracting highly skilled and
engaged job seekers? What is RTD doing to inspire employees to build a career? And then Financial
Success-- how is RTD demonstrated good stewardship of taxpayer dollars, and how has RTD developed
trust as the leader in mobility?
And as we were trying to create and distill some of these performance metrics into to answering these
questions, this is where we started. And then Ms. Johnson and her staff and leadership have worked on
developing metrics to answer these questions. And I'm going to let John take over, and he'll show how
some of these fold into the dashboards.
But first, I wanted to ask the Performance Committee if they had any questions and if these were indeed
the questions that were posed at the retreat and in subsequent meetings and if we need to make any
course corrections. Do I see any-- any committee members with their hands raised? If not, then I think
we'll go ahead and proceed with the presentation. Thank you, Ms. Johnson.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. And John, if you could advance to the next slide. So in an
effort to ground the conversation-- and the purpose of the strategic plan is really three fold, as you can

see on this slide. First, it provides clear, measurable, and prioritized outcomes that RTD is focused to
deliver for the community and its customers.
Secondly, it provides an action-driven business plan with milestones, budget, and internal executive
owners to produce that outcome. And thirdly, it provides a transparent performance scorecard I, along
with the members of the executive team, are committed to producing, which we are, to share with you,
the board and all public stakeholders, as to how the agency is proceeding to deliver said outcomes.
All of you, in your capacity as the governing body of the Regional Transportation District, provide clarity
with the agency's why and what, which is the mission, vision, and values, as well as measurable strategic
outcomes, and empower me in my capacity as the general manager and CEO and my colleagues to do
the, how. Since we have been established as the who, we develop work plans, milestones, and budget
in addition to performance metrics.
This slide illustrates the board's paramount role with the strategic plan. The board provides oversight
and monitors staff progress towards achieving defined outcomes. This has been demonstrated through
the course of the Board of Directors evaluating my work in my position as the general manager and
CEO, as well as key measurements in the form of the employee ownership, community values, and the
customer excellence surveys.
I, along with executive leaders, develop staff work plans, provide progress reports, which are reflected
in non-represented staff's performance goals, and ensure there is budget and resource alignment with
the assistance of the chief financial officer.
This graphic is one of which you're familiar as it demonstrates the nexus between the general manager
and CEO's performance and the agency's performance, specifically under the current framework.
I, in my capacity as the general manager/CEO, is assessed using the agency values, the CEO's job
description, as well as the short term SMART goals-- SMART being specific, measurable, attainable,
realistic, and time-bound goals, which are based currently on the strategic initiatives of back to basics,
people power, and welcoming transit environment, which I will touch on further in just a moment, and
finally, the GM/CEO's performance measured by progress toward the overarching success outcomes
by way of agency performance metrics.
Referring back to the diagram on page 7 that depicts the who, the what, the why and the how with
respect to the strategic plan, the strategic plan priorities are the what, meaning what the agency strives
to achieve. The strategic priorities were developed collectively among the board and staff and serve as
the functional pillars to plan, develop, evaluate, and measure RTD's overall performance.
And specifically, I'm going to take a moment to read these into the record. Community Value-- Chair
Catlin made reference to this relative to the questions that the board members posed during the course
of the strategic planning workshop for the board. But as we define community value is that RTD strives

to be a strong community partner, providing value to our customers, as well as to the broader Denver
metro region.
Customer Excellence-- RTD strives to consistently deliver high-quality customer service. Employee
Ownership-- as we all know, we are people moving people. And so, to put a finer point on it, RTD seeks
to attract and retain. And the emphasis, quite naturally, is on the retention aspect of a highly skilled and
engaged workforce.
And then Financial Success-- recognizing that we all have a role as being good fiduciaries, RTD takes
very seriously the management of all financial resources, which I believe we can collectively rally around,
recognizing our current bond ratings and things of the like. Moving on to the next slide, please.
So the 2023/2024 strategic initiatives are tied to the strategic priorities and reflect a renewed collective
focus to deliver meaningful progress toward established success outcomes. Now, these were
collectively agreed upon by the leadership team and management team as a result of survey feedback.
Moreover, recognizing the strategic plan is for five years, I, along with staff, are being intentional in
listening to the opinions, perceptions and attitudes of survey respondents. Simply put, it's a plan, do,
check, act cycle. As I previously referenced, these initiatives have been interwoven into the fiscal year
2024 budget, as well as work plans created by employees throughout the agency.
So lastly, depicted here are the performance metrics captured in the agency scorecard that are included
in the printed copy of the strategic plan on pages 20 and 21. Let me be clear. This conversation will
inform impending updates because no updates have been made at this juncture.
So transitioning, I now want to talk about these disparate elements of the strategic plan and how they
all come together to form a cohesive whole. So this slide will be used to orient you on the performance
metrics assessed by staff. So together, they inform the strategic priorities. The success outcomes are
the goalposts used to determine whether the agency, as well as I, in my capacity of the general manager
and CEO position, have performed as intended.
So as you can clearly see, with the dark blue circle, we have the strategic initiative and then the definition
of success. You add that together with the performance metric that then ties into the strategic plan. That
equates to success outcomes. So those are the critical elements of the plan.
I can recall vividly when the discussion ensued at the board retreat where questions were posed-- are
these questions replacing the strategic plan, and how might these metrics or KPIs be interwoven into
what we're doing? We're not throwing the baby out with the bath water. We're showing, collectively, how
they are interwoven into the strategic plan.
So as we advance to the next slide, I will walk you through the questions that you saw from Director
Catlin in slide 4 and showcase how the various elements feed into that.

So with the question posed-- how is RTD achieving its vision to be the trusted leader in mobility? So as
we look at the strategic initiative of people power, which is one of the three initiatives that, basically,
we're honing in on, recognizing the importance of attracting and retaining talent in a competitive market- how we define our work plan in that element is to train a minimum of 400 managers and supervisors.
When we talk about training a minimum of 400 management and supervisors, we want to ensure, based
upon feedback that we were able to garner from the employee survey, that our colleagues have the
tools and the resources that they need to do their job and deliver their performance at an optimal level.
So recognizing the performance metric tied in to the community survey is the community perception of
equity. And that ties into-- RTD strives to be a stronger community partner, providing value to customers,
as well as to the broader Denver metro region, while sustaining planet Earth, and keeping in mind that
the success outcome would be establishing a baseline for the community value index and increase it by
5%.
Now, keeping in mind this is what was and nothing has been modified relative to the strategic plan since
you adopted that back in August of 2021.
Proceeding to the next slide-- utilizing the welcoming transit environment strategic initiative, and then
asking the question, how is RTD creating a welcoming transit environment, going back to the board's
questions. So recognizing that one of the critical measurements, as the definition of success here, is
decrease group "A" crime by 3%.
Now, when we talk about group "A" crime, that source is the Association of State Uniform Crime
reporting progress. So we can bring up the list. But for all intents and purposes, it's assaults and things
like that that may be happening on the system. And Chief Fitzgerald and his dedicated team of law
enforcement officers are basically tracking the metrics relative to what they're doing.
And as we drill down, you will see, in a demonstration, in a couple of slides, whereby we're utilizing
aspects of the pilot program, for instance, with the elevators at our three stations that we commenced
in March of this year, whereby we have elevators resting in an open position. That is helping to deter
unwanted behavior.
Additionally, as we use data points as relates to the welcoming-- sorry, not, welcoming. As we use the
Transit Watch app-- as Director Tisdale likes to say, if you use that, you will never ride alone. Those are
data points to inform where we are collectively. And the performance metric is the overall satisfaction
with the bus and rail service that feeds in to the strategic priority of, RTD strives to consistently deliver
high-quality customer service that then basically equates to increasing the net promoter score by 5%.
Going on to the next slide, once again, leveraging the strategic initiative of people power. The question
posed is, how well is RTD attracting highly skilled and engaged job seekers? As we define what it is that
we're doing within the strategic initiative, implement a eSkills skills program for skill evaluation efficiency.

So eSkills, quite naturally-- electronic skills. Basically, what we're trying to do is ensure that our
employees basically have the tools in order to be successful. Utilizing these programs, we can then
double back and assess the efficiency and efficacy of said programs.
And then, basically, performance metric is based upon the employee composite index score. When
we're posing specific questions to employees that are working, currently, at RTD-- do you have the tools
and resources needed to do your job? And then, basically, that feeds in, once again, to the red circle
there. RTD seeks to attract and retain a highly skilled workforce, and then basically, it feeds into the
increase in employee net promoter score by 5%.
So rounding out with the question of, has RTD demonstrated good stewardship of taxpayer dollars,
leveraging back to basics as the strategic initiative, as we define that element of our metrics,
demonstrating a commitment to infrastructure-- i.e. looking at the performance metric about budget
variability?
As we drill down, when we're committed to infrastructure and we're not upending our schedules because
we are doing isolated repairs on our rail alignment, we basically are leveraging our taxpayer dollars in a
much more fiscally prudent way. And that lends itself to the red circle of-- RTD takes very seriously the
management of all financial resources equating to the success outcome of community sees value in
RTD spending.
So as we transition, I am going to yield the floor to John McKay, who has been doing a yeoman's job in
reference to stepping in and addressing our performance dashboard, recognizing that this has been a
work in progress. I don't say this to make excuses. But I've been very transparent with the board in
reference to coming into this organization, whereby we had to start from scratch, creating baseline data
points in order to build out various elements where we can showcase our transparency by being
accountable.
It's not that we weren't keeping these metrics. Of course, we track key performance indicators as it feeds
into our National Transit Database that basically is one element that helps determine formulaic funding
from the federal government as it relates to section 5307 and other grant funds that we are eligible for.
So I just want to ensure that everybody has an understanding. So going to the next slide.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, Ms. Johnson. If I might just pause right here and ask the committee
members if they have any questions about what you've presented and the organization of the strategic
priorities, the strategic initiatives, how they answered the question. Are there any questions from
committee members?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I can just say, also, those were just samplings, and they're not allinclusive. So I just wanted to [INAUDIBLE] that before we went to questions. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: We didn't have all eight questions outlined there, nor all of the priorities. But it is kind
of a model, and I just wanted to gauge committee members and see if this makes sense, going forward.
Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate that. And I especially appreciate
the last comment that this is not the all-inclusive summary of the questions because I looked at page
15, which reflected the community perception of equity, and then page 16, the overall satisfaction.
And I was wondering if we were essentially measuring our success based upon how people thought we
were acting in terms of equity, as opposed to how we were acting in terms of providing transit services.
So I appreciate that amplification.
And then the other thing is each of the three measures on pages 15, 16 and 17 use, as a measure of
success-- they lead to this 5% increase in net promoter score. You will recall-- and I forget which meeting
it was, I have to refresh my recollection, although I've recently been provided with a document that the
state put together assessing some of the Performance Committee. So I think I can find the meeting.
I talked about the fact that we had come up with the use of net promoter score at great discussion, and
then, essentially, jettisoned that notion and then came back now and say, we're going to use that.
So there seems to be some-- in my own mind-- and it's undoubtedly my fault and not the fault of the
committee or anyone working on this-- confusion associated with where the net promoter score is to be
placed in our analysis. Thank you, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. And Ms. Johnson did state, I think, after the first one was
presented, that these were the net promoter scores as they stood, but that they-- and that they had not
been changed. And Ms. Johnson, if you might want to respond to that, we can certainly carry that
forward. But you were basing it on the information that we had at the time.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may proceed?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very kindly. So in the course of the presentation-- I know we paused for
questions-- I provide further clarification. It's intentionally been done because recognizing that there
have been statements made relative to I and members of my team that have changed the strategic plan,
I have not changed the strategic plan. Hence, that's why I referenced, as we all collectively agreed.
And in the conclusion of said presentation, while we pause for questions, I will be seeking direct
guidance from this committee and you all capacity. Hence, that's why I initially started the presentation
by grounding us in the elements of the strategic plan and calling out the role of the board, specifically
as it relates to what is.
This is a five-year strategic plan. And recognizing when we came together with me being here for nine
months-- recognizing that we did not have a lot of elements in place, as we have gone through. That's

what's so great about a plan. A plan allows you to be flexible and agile to pivot as we garner perceptions,
opinions and attitudes about what might be optimal.
So to Director Tisdale's point, I just wanted to qualify, and further clarify that this is how it stands as is.
That's why I leveraged that slide as relates to the general manager and CEO's performance guidelines,
relative to the short-term goals and how there is a clear-cut nexus with the overarching agency goals
and how there is a nexus amongst the board, the agency, and the individuals that comprise the
workforce.
So further, to amplify, when meeting with the chair of the board and the chair of the committee as a
sampling, we intentionally showcased just four elements as related to each strategic initiative to give
you a flavor. And as we proceed, the guidance which I'll be seeking from the committee, facilitated by
the chair of the Performance Committee, is getting an understanding from the board what it is that we
would like to showcase, recognizing that you will see a demonstration of the performance dashboard.
There is a myriad of information, in the course of the meeting, that we would have, be it monthly, bimonthly, or whatever this committee deems to be most appropriate, whereby we would not go through
each performance metric as there wouldn't be fodder to yield itself, to be productive in ensuring that
there is a collective understanding of progress being made. So with that, I will yield the floor back to the
chair. Thank you very kindly for the opportunity to expound upon what the intent of this presentation
actually is.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Director Tisdale, did that answer your question? Director
Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I think it's difficult to move the cursor between the screens. Yes, it does. Thank
you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you very much. And I see Director Lewis's hand is raised. But if I might first call
on committee members, I'd like to call on Second Vice Chair Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Good morning. I have several questions, but I want to mostly wait until
we've seen the rest of the presentation. But just to make sure I understand that, I think, Peggy, you said
something about this as a net promoter score as they exist. Are we doing the net promoter score
surveying this year, as we've done in the past?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So recognizing that we do have surveys that we are leveraging, we just
completed our employee survey. And basically, there's a couple of ways to look at it. Yes, we are
surveying. And we can garner, from that, a net promoter score, as well as satisfaction with the
community.

Hence, as I shared-- I know we paused for questions-- but I asked-- I put out a call to action to the board
at the completion. And if I could-- finish the course of the presentation. Director Guissinger, this will
basically enable us as staff to better understand what it is the board is seeking because we need that
direction from all of you.
This is not a fait accompli in reference to I and my role making a determination of what might be best
suitable. I am looking to work collectively and cooperatively with all of you so we can rally around the
best course of action and ensure that there is alignment.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms Johnson, and thank you, Director Guissinger. And I think, perhaps as
we go through the presentation, some of your questions may be answered. I really just wanted to gauge
the board's impression of the organization of the questions and strategic priorities, strategic initiatives,
and moving forward, is this a graphic representation that works for the board. And that's really kind of
why I paused for questions right now.
But it might be better if we moved through the rest of the presentation, and some other questions might
be answered. Would that be helpful. Director Guissinger? You're on mute.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes, thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Thank you. Director Lewis. Keeping that in mind, would-- I'll go ahead and yield
the floor to you.
JAIME LEWIS: Yeah, just a comment. Again, I apologize because I know I've-- coming in in February,
you guys have done a lot of work with this. But to me, success should always end up with the words,
increased ridership. I mean, this is what RTD is about.
I'll give the analogy-- it's like a brand new department store. You go in. The floors are clean. The
bathrooms are clean. The racks are full of product. The employees are fantastic. But yet, there's nobody
at the door. And I just feel that's where we're at as RTD's-- we're not increasing the ridership.
So I just felt like there needs to be said-- there has to be a nexus between all these efforts-- has to end
with the expression, equals increased ridership. So I just wanted to say that. And maybe it's out of line,
but I just had to give that input to you from my perspective.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Lewis. Ms. Johnson, would you like to reply?
DEBRA JOHNSON: I would. Thank you very kindly. And thank you very much, Director Lewis. I
appreciate your input. There's a couple of things I just want to share. And I do recognize that you have
come in in February. And something that I have been firm with is if transit agencies solely rely-- or relied
upon ridership data, then most transit agencies would be failing, collectively. There's a myriad of different

elements as we talk about ridership, because we can increase ridership by making our system entirely
free. But would that garner the results that we needed to see?
So collectively, there are various inputs relative to increasing volume of usage of our system. And in
doing so, to the analogy that you raised, there are various throughputs. And ultimately, through the
promotion of our system by having folks that would recommend this system, will net increase ridership,
potentially.
So as we go through the presentation, there's additional slides that will feed into that. And once again,
to amplify the point, I am seeking guidance from this policy body relative to what that may look like
because just saying, increased ridership-- I think oftentimes, within the transit industry, folks that are
less familiar with the inter-workings of delivering transit services rely upon that. And I want to respectfully
say I think there's a multitude of different elements that feed into that collectively, and that's what we're
trying to showcase here this morning.
So with that, thank you so much for your comment. I just wanted to provide a little more color to that.
Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I don't see any other hands raised in the queue. So, Ms. Johnson, did you
want to turn this back over to Mr. McKay?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. So Mr. McKay will go through a quick demonstration, and then he'll yield the
floor back to me so we can complete the presentation. Thank you very kindly. John, please proceed.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you very much. I'm John McKay, Executive Business Partner. And already, the
cat's out of the bag here. This is the performance dashboard as it looks today. This is just a snapshot of
it right now. and I'll get to the actual demonstration here in a moment, but just highlighting that this is
going to live on the RTD web page. It will be prominent, easy to use, as suggested by external parties
to RTD.
Going on to the next slide. So this is just a snapshot of what this will look like. And I do want to note that
web traffic-- most of web traffic comes from mobile devices. So we do have to make sure that whatever
program we use-- whatever dashboard you use, has to be compatible on mobile devices, because that's
the bulk of what we see here.
So I would like to give a shout out to the teams who have been working on this, including IT and
communications and engagement, digital team staff and of course, the performance analysts who are
putting this together.
I do want to highlight that the data right now-- so the data that will be populating the dashboard itself
lives with staff. So this is a live, updatable database here. It's not a static CSV file or Excel file or
something like that. This is going to be live data that will be published regularly, as often as is needed
to support the data.

And with that, let me pull up the-- here, if you can see my screen, if you can just confirm that it's here.
OK, so this is the dashboard. This is not on the website just yet. It's not live, but we expect that it should
be live in the coming weeks here. As I noted-- that each of these big headings here-- there are reports
that are embedded down below. And these are just samples for right now. But there are toggles to show
the data that's associated with this.
So right now, staff is providing some of the descriptors of what this data means. That's going on in the
background right now. We have a business intelligence team. There's a program from Microsoft called
Power BI that basically powers this information. It's able to publish this in a form that's-- that we decide.
So right now, this is a chart form. You could make this a graph. You could make you could make this
show up however you want in order to really showcase the data and tell the story behind it. And so each
of these major headings-- and I'll click back one-- each of these major headings, you'll be able to see a
bunch of reports below each of them.
And let me just go down to the survey data, which really encompasses about 2/3 or more of our agency
scorecard as currently printed. And so this is an important source of data for everyone, and these are
the presentations as given in October of 2023.
Rather than having people know exactly which meeting that these occurred in and having to navigate
to them to dig, page after page, in order to find these, these are front and center on RTD's website. So
let me navigate away from here.
And as I said, these data are being currently populated right now. This is a very flexible format. Tiles
can be added to this as necessary for performance information-- financial performance information,
rather. The budget could be linked here. The monthly financial statements that currently appear in the
board briefing documents can show up here. I anticipate that to happen, as well as people power
statistics, all, again, front and center in a one-stop shop that's available to the public at any time.
I do want to point out that this does not supplant or replace the open records page on the website. This
is in addition to that. So if anybody has any specific records requests, they can still go through the
website and find it that way. So I'll pause at this point and take any questions.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr McKay. I will start out. For example, under the Operational
Effectiveness tile, would I be correct in assuming that, under that particular one, we would have-- the
reports that we normally get on operations, number of boardings, service hours-- all of those that we
had seen previously would reside in this particular area?
JOHN MCKAY: Potentially, yes. So some of them are couched right now in the monthly financial
statements that CFO Doug MacLeod provides. So if we wanted to show that data separately, that could
happen here.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Madam Chair?

PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So recognizing this is about operational effectiveness. So traditional key
performance indicators that we leverage through our National Transit database, i.e. on-time
performance, our mean distance between failure-- that basically would be elements that would be
captured here because they feed into our on-time performance by mode.
So when you say, provide dependable service, we're talking about bus, rail. We are going to add
paratransit as well as we go forward-- as we populate this-- and recognizing percent boarding change
by mode.
There is a nexus to financing as we define this going forward because we need to ensure that we're
capturing it in the appropriate place. But as I said before, delivering transit services and trying to provide
information to a general populace that may not understand the effect of it, relative to most of the moneys
that come out of a transit agency in reference to operating costs, are basically embedded in the schedule
because we're talking about revenue cost per hour. That's critically important. So we will shore up where
it best suits. And it could be some redundancy, as well, as we go forward.
And as I shared, once we go through the presentation, I am going to be asking for some guidance from
this body in reference to feedback and things of the like.
And I'm really getting ahead of myself, but want to ensure that this is an area where we want feedback
as we have certain KPIs that we have for the betterment of service delivery and all support functions
therein. We want to ensure that we are providing information that is useful, that feeds into the ultimate
aspect of what our core business is, which is transit service delivery. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. And you actually answered my question with regard to your
comment about redundancy, that you can cross-pollinate some of these data into different tiles or into
different questions. So that answered my question. I see Director Tisdale's hand is raised.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just to confirm your point, these data already
exist. These data already are available. The goal of this performance dashboard is to make these data
presentable, easier to access, perhaps easier to understand for some people by having these displays
under these various tiles that have been put together. I think that's a fair summation. Am I correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: That is correct, Director Tisdale. We didn't just whip this up yesterday. These have
always been in existence. And we want to ensure that they're in a place that's easily accessible and
we're not pulling out Excel spreadsheets and doing this, that and the other. So thank you very much,
sir.

PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale, and thank you for succinctly summing up the intent of
this. I wanted to point out that this dashboard, as it's evolving, is definitely answering the-- or addressing
the-- accountability committee's request that we provide a dashboard. So just wanted to point that out.
Are there any other questions from directors regarding what Mr. McKay has presented so far? If not,
then go ahead and proceed, Mr. McKay.
JOHN MCKAY: So that's the bulk of the presentation at this point. As I said, this is expected to go live
in its current form within the next couple of weeks, once we have descriptors for all of the data here, and
it will be available on the website.
As I mentioned before, there is an opportunity to add to this, based on financial information, other
dashboard, or sorry, excuse me-- scorecard metrics that need to be populated here. And as the
scorecard morphs, so, too, can the dashboard morph. And with that, I will go back to the presentation,
unless there are any further questions.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I just want to share, if I may, Madam Chair, that this will be evergreen, quite
naturally. With anything, when you put forward, you know, data, there could be elements whereby we
receive feedback about how we can enhance. And so that is something that I want to note as we go
forward.
And we would share that with the board. Quite naturally, the feedback would come from all of you. The
feedback would come from the general public, recognizing we would assess the feasibility of that. And
so I just wanted to qualify that once we put this up, it's not as if it's going to stay as is. We pride ourselves
on being evergreen, so we want to continuously grow.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And I appreciate that you said that any material changes to this would
certainly come before the board, and I appreciate that. There might be some. Technical corrections that
really wouldn't affect the outcome so much, that could probably be done administratively.
And this committee's job, then, is to take this information and glean from it, what we-- what we will, those
elements that will be used in our performance evaluation of the agency, and then subsequently, the
GM/CEO. Am I correct?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So when the board renders some alignment, relative to what that may be, yes,
agency performance metrics, collectively. So that gets toward the end of the presentation.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. I got ahead of it. Thank you. Proceed, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome. Next slide, John. Thank you so much. So looking back at the
questions committee Chair Catlin referenced earlier, the performance dashboard is a tool that this
committee can use to answer these big-picture questions of just how the agency is doing in these areas.

So it also serves as a one-stop shop of agency performance data, as we just showcased-- an easy-touse reference library for interested jurisdictional partners, stakeholders and members of the public.
So transitioning now to the next slide, I want to highlight that this dashboard, as you heard from Mr.
McKay, is a work in progress. To paraphrase a somewhat tired expression, staff is trying to lay the track
as we're operating the train. And so the purpose of the next few slides is to orient you on how staff has
approached creating the framework for the dashboard and a starting point that can be morphed over
time.
So much of the data, as indicated in the previous discussion, routinely has been collected. And currently,
the agenda packets and the monthly board briefing documents, such as our people power stats, OTP,
On-time Performance measures, financial reports and other such data-- as Director Tisdale so
eloquently stated, what we're trying to do is, now, have something live, front and center, in an easy-touse manner. And so you can see how y'all were stealing my thunder because I was getting to this.
So recognizing that the operational considerations which are depicted with the dark blue heading, and
categories seen here are based upon metrics currently measured via the agency's scorecards depicted
in the strategic plan-- so just to walk you through with community value. So as we look at the day-to-day
operational considerations. And let's be clear that these aren't all of them. I'm just showcasing a
sampling because there's a myriad of them.
Day-to-day operational considerations-- enhanced perception of personal security, increased access to
service for persons with disabilities, perception of access to employment and impression of mechanically
safe vehicles. This feeds into the strategic considerations relative to where the board is coming, from
relative to the questions posed, i.e. the perception of value provided, community net promoter score,
community perception of equity and partnership engagement.
So to reiterate the point, there are certain data points that feed into the enhanced perceptions. And that's
what members of my team collectively do, on a day-to-day basis, relative to what we're doing from an
operational vantage point, to deliver service.
And this comes full circle in reference to Director Lewis's comments about, we should be increasing
ridership. Well, ridership can't be increased if there's not an enhanced perception of one's personal
security because they may feel as if they aren't in a welcoming transit environment.
So I just want to showcase that those are the different elements. And we're creating a nexus,
overarchingly, with the operational components into strategic considerations. So going to the next slide,
please, John?
So as we look at customer excellence-- I don't want to go through each one. But this is just a sampling,
once again, after working with the chair of the committee to showcase what that means.

So as we talk about customer excellence, customer excellence is for naught if we aren't achieving actual
on-time performance, if the customer's impression of personal security on vehicles is not there, or the
customer impression of personal security at stops and stations and the system reliability and the
mechanical safety of vehicles, because there's a difference, as we delve in and we ask questions of our
community, as well as customers, that personal security is different than safety. And as we look at
mechanical safety-- but all that feeds into the customer satisfaction from a strategic vantage point with
this board.
Going on to the next slide, as I said, I won't read through each and every one. But just to put it another
way, as we look at the employee ownership, the elements on the left in blue give an insight into the
performance on more of a granular staff level. So here, employees understand their role in
organizational success.
That's why when we get back to the questions about retaining staff, do they have the tools that they
need to do their job? All of these basically build upon one another-- the psychological safety within a
work environment. And for those that aren't familiar with psychological safety, as I an employee, can I
come into this space and basically ask questions and not be retaliated against? Am I treated as an
ultimate professional? Are people leveraging the values of respect.
And so psychological safety is very important for all of us here. And that feeds into one's perception of
how they're going to rate the agency as an employee. If they're discounted and people are talking to
them as if they have a tail, then that's not going to be for the betterment of somebody actually wanting
to stay here and work. And that includes all levels within the organization.
Getting more specifically to the professional development opportunities, if I am hiring staff and I am not
training them or providing them with the competencies in which they need to do their job successfully,
then that's not going to yield a good return on investment because if we don't have employees that are
comprising the workforce that are delivering services that we would equate to be achieving customer
excellence, then, to the point that Director Lewis raised, we will not be garnering additional customers
and increasing our customer base.
And so basically, this just gives you some elements-- and I'm not going to read them all to you-- but this
is where the elements on the right give a broader view of the agency's performance as a whole.
So transitioning to the next slide, once again, financial success. Suffice it to say that staff will be tracking
and measuring all of the scorecard metrics in addition to the other dashboard elements. But as we talk
about the day-to-day operational considerations, the cash flow operating reserve compliance with
appropriated budget, the budget and forecast accuracy, and, quite naturally, the strategic considerations
with the board saying, OK, this is the what and the why-- the financial stewardship, and the revenue
diversification clearly plays into that as we come full circle.

So if you advance to the next slide, John-- recognizing-- to recap, as we talk about the potential
performance dashboard categories and reflecting back with the questions that were posed, these are
the strategic considerations reflected in the right-hand column, in the previous slides I just showcased
that were designated in red, with the strategic considerations.
So my request of the Performance Committee is to provide input and direction on a path forward
whereby the strategic considerations can be acted on by this committee, and subsequently, the board
can approve those considerations, as well as a scorecard, and ideally, within the June, July meeting
cycle. Hence, I will yield the floor to the chair to facilitate a discussion, and you all can discern the best
path forward, relative to what that may be and what it is relative to a timeline, because this will inform
how we go about populating the dashboard and things of the like, and then feeding into that agency
performance, holistically.
So with that, thank you very much for the opportunity to present this information and ground us all in the
strategic plan elements and where there is connectivity.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Johnson I'd like to open it up to directors if they have any questions.
I'm assuming, Mr. McKay, that we may want to point back to certain slides within the presentation as we
pose our questions. I actually would start out-- I don't see any hands raised. But I'm assuming that some
of those operational considerations would be those elements would be populated in different tiers on
the dashboard. Am I correct, John?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, you are, if I may, Madam Chair. Yes, basically, if we talk about what we do on
a day-to-day business, we have to ensure that we are measuring because if we don't measure, then we
can't manage.
And so as we talk about those different considerations, that may feed into the mean distance between
failure; that may feed in how many miles between a mechanical breakdown; it may feed into if in fact,
the buses and cycling to nail it, that we can't put it into service because we're not providing transit equity
relative to ensuring that everybody has a means in which to utilize the system. So those are all key
components that feed in, holistically, to our core business model of service delivery.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just wanted to make sure that we understood that those data, even
though-- those data would be available to inform the strategic priorities that were on the right-hand
column of those slides. I see. Director Guissinger's hand is raised? Please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I just make just a small note. Not the priorities, but the
considerations relative to the board because we have the priorities that are outlined, so it's the
considerations relative to the operational inputs.
PEGGY CATLIN: I stand corrected. You're right. I didn't have that verbiage in front of me. Director
Guissinger, please.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you very much. This is great. I think this answers a lot of requests from not
only the Accountability Committee, but the general assembly and OSA. And so I think it's really good.
Have we looked at-- as we're putting together the metrics of what we're showing-- I know we're
answering the questions the board raised. But since then, the general assembly did have some specifics
about what they would like to see in a dashboard. I don't think any of them passed. I've got to get up to
speed now, back. But they could well come back and others. Have we looked at those proposals to see
if there are things we should add to what we're doing?
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah. So thank you so much, Director Guissinger. Yes, we have looked at some.
Some aren't viable, recognizing the inner workings of transit service delivery and how you would garner
some aspects of showcasing what might be optimal in reference to equating our cost per revenue hour
and things of the like. Some of the factors aren't really applicable.
But with that as a backdrop-- and I don't want to delve into a conversation that we should not be having
in this forum-- but considering that we're going to make informed decisions for the betterment of the
organization and how we're being good fiduciaries, that's what we're taking into consideration.
Not to discount any inputs that have been received from external entities, without sounding too boastful,
I believe my team and I are the subject matter experts as it relates to transit service delivery. And I'll
give an example. Back when I first came into the organization, I was looking at recommendations put
forward by the Accountability Committee. And it was suggested that we should be monitoring escalator
and elevator service. And the point of reference was the Washington Metropolitan Area Transit Authority.
And having worked there and considering that they have the 10 deepest escalators in the Western
hemisphere, whereas we do not have a subterranean system, that's clearly comparing apples to fish.
So with that as a backdrop, we will be intentional as we move forward to do what's best for our transit
environment so you all, as policy leaders, can ensure that you have the information that is benefit to
satisfy the increase that are put forward by your constituencies. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And I totally agree. But I also agree-- I'm glad to hear that you have
looked at those other things because those could well be back next year. And getting ahead of them in
some way is good. I know a lot of the actual metrics are in the monthly board reports. When will we see
what other metrics there are?
And I have an example of one that I've mentioned before-- the old family of services that-- oh, Jeff-- I've
forgotten his last name right now put together that showed for a lot of our different routes, boardings per
hour and subsidy per boarding. I thought that was very helpful in terms of effectiveness of routes and

ridership and things like that. Are we picking up those sorts of things, or can we get the metrics that are
going to go up there soon so we can say, what about these other things?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So, Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes. Wasn't it Jeff Becker?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Jeff Becker. Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK, I didn't work here when Jeff Becker was here. So for everybody's edification, I
believe that he was a senior manager of service planning or something of the like. Is that correct, John?
So-PEGGY CATLIN: The point I think Director Guissinger is making is that was really useful information.
And maybe it was a little bit too granular. But it was helpful to understand, within each district, what was
happening. Is that right. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: It is. And just that that's an example of some things that maybe aren't in our
monthly board reports. But that would help the board to see how we're doing on some of our other
strategic things. so that seeing what we're putting in, sooner rather than later, could be helpful in terms
of giving feedback.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much for that. Madam Chair, if I could answer the question.
PEGGY CATLIN: Absolutely.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you. So this is what I'm seeking from you all as board members. But I would
want to qualify-- there has been ample discussion around, air quotes, "family of services." And we have
more-- our service delivery model-- that was done through our comprehensive operational analysis that
was branded by this agency as the System Optimization Plan.
And while we talk about different elements, I'm a step outside of myself for a little bit here because as
we talk about what the cost per hour may be or the subsidy, I do think that there is a better way to
capture that, and have explored that somewhat with staff as we talk about economic impact reports that
can be done going forward because the missed opportunity is the delivery of paratransit services. The
missed opportunity is the leveraging of usage at a park-and-ride lot.
So let me give you an example. A couple of months back, I had the opportunity to be joined by staff and
Director Bouquet as we presented at the Parker study session-- the town of Parker study session. And
when I prepared for that, intentionally, I looked at the number of individuals that were registered
paratransit users. Nearly 10,000 individuals within the city of Parker utilize paratransit.
And then, more specifically, Michael Davies and I were driving back here to Denver. And he just said, I
wonder how many of these people are actually parking on opening day. So he planted a seed. And

basically, we did a parking assessment on the Rockies' opening day. Can I tell you, at the park-and-ride
lot, the largest proportion of individuals were registered in the town of Parker.
So when we talk about what kind of services that we're delivering, there's a missed opportunity when
you don't capture paratransit and when you don't capture park-and-ride lot facilities because that's
expensive to deliver for the agency.
So I'm just using that as an example. But we're going to look holistically because as we go forward, an
economic impact report would be quite useful because it delves into the indirect and the direct benefits
from the Regional Transportation District, not only within the region, but the state and the nation as a
whole. And I have seen some success with that a different agencies at which I work where we leverage
that.
So I don't want to get ahead of myself, but wanted you all to know, as we look at all these different
elements, that that's something that we have done. And CFO MacLeod has reached out to the Leeds
School of Business to see what might we be doing in that realm with them, considering that they already
give us a forecast relative to our revenues and things like-- sales and use tax. Thank you.
That was more than you asked for, but I thought I needed to provide that context. Just so you understand
that we're not just stepping back saying, this is what we used to do, recognizing that was eons ago. But
we have to be flexible and agile-- not to say that that's not valuable.
But I think there's elements in which we can enhance going forward to really showcase a much more
robust illustration of the value that RTD provides to not only the community but to the state and to the
nation as a whole, in reference to transit, because it is an economic driver, as we clearly saw during the
course of the pandemic, recognizing we were moving critical people to get to their jobs to keep the
economy afloat. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks. And I think those are great examples. I guess I'm just wondering- I was giving examples of some other metrics that we have done, and you've given some here with how
much parking there is on opening day. Just-- I'd like to see what the metrics are going into the dashboard,
I guess, before it's all a final product, is the request. So thank you-DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm sorry to make it a dialogue. I apologize. But I want to say, most definitely. That's
why the board would have to vote on the scorecard as we went forward. So that's what I was trying to
put forward. If it wasn't clear, then I'm restating it as we go forward because I was starting by grounding,
saying that there's two entities in all of this-- i.e, I with members of my team, my colleagues, and then
the board as the policy makers.
So we need to ensure that there is alignment, and putting a final amplification on the point where people
have been purporting that things have been changed and the board wasn't involved. Well, that's not
true.

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. I'm going to quit for now. I might have a couple more questions,
but I'll see other hands.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Guissinger. And thank you, Ms. Johnson, for amplifying. And what
I'm hearing is that a lot of these data that we had seen in the past are being repackaged to provide more
meaningful information rather than just data.
I wanted to circle back to something Director Guissinger said, and that was with regard to requests made
by the general assembly and also the Accountability Committee. And Ms. Johnson, you alluded to the
fact that some of those data are not necessarily. Industry best practices or whatever.
But I'm suggesting that if-- we just don't dismiss some of those out of hand, but that we provide a fairly
good explanation as to why that particular request may not be beneficial or relevant. So I just wanted to
make sure that we-DEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, of course. And as we did with the Accountability Committee when
we provided responses, perhaps somewhat well-received, but we did outline as to the genesis of why
that would not be a prudent course of action. And as I said, I want to be careful about having this
discussion, but recognizing that we would do the same going forward. And whether or not entities
appreciated or agreed-- that that would be what would happen and we would not just blindly turn an eye
and not address whatever entry came from whatever entity. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. I just wanted to avoid the term, yes, but. [LAUGHS] So moving on, Director
Rosenthal, please.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. And thank you, general manager and CEO for all your
work, especially noticing the wonderful presentation and walk-through yesterday and-- for not just
ourselves, but also the community. That got some good press, so good job on that.
And so, actually, two questions. One related to the dashboard. And I know it's easy to drill down on just
that one issue, but it also raises a question building on what you and Director Guissinger were
mentioning-- is, how do we compare what we're doing and how we gauge your performance relative to
other transit agencies?
And I know that's very dangerous because not everybody is-- we're very different, obviously, from others.
And that goes to the dashboard issue, which is-- we can look at some of this data. We can look at it over
time. But how do we relate to other agencies?
And especially, it was mentioned the legislature and data they're looking at and they're throwing around,
well, look at APTA. Look at some of the averages, like how many board members, things like that. And
so what I'm curious about is-- is there a way that we can compare our data with a standard, with-- with
top five agencies that we're similar to so that we can say, well, we are better in these regards; we're not
as good as in these regards? And does that also inform your performance?

So I know that's a lot I'm throwing out there. But to summarize, how can we compare RTD, our
performance as an agency, with other agents-- similar agencies, maybe data we get from APTA? And
how does that inform your performance as well? Hopefully, I'm clear.
PEGGY CATLIN: Before you guys dialogue, if I might-- and I would like you to do that-- right now, we're
looking at our dashboard, internal. And I'm hoping you're not asking that we put that particular piece of
information, other agencies or anything, within our dashboard, but perhaps use information from our
performance dashboard to maybe look at a comparison outside of this particular exercise. Sorry, that
was very inartful way of putting it. But go ahead, GM/CEO Johnson and Director Rosenthal. If you want
to dialogue for a few minutes, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: OK. Thank you very much, Madam Chair. And thank you for your question, Director
Rosenthal. So I think, first and foremost, it's important to note that, as we look at transit service delivery,
I'm more focused on what we're doing here for the betterment of our ridership and customer base.
That's not to discount what you've said. Recognizing, last year, that we embarked upon a contractual
agreement with a different third party that did our survey collection, our data collection relative to the
survey, you may recall that there were some questions that were posed that compared us to different
geographic areas. So that's one element.
And it's just in a general sense of the services in which we provide, because when you start delving into
a myriad of different factors-- and let me just say this in a succinct fashion. RTD is different. We have a
2,342-square-mile service area. We have portions of our district that don't receive transit services.
Most other transit entities-- I said, most, not all of them, because I can't speak to all of them. But ones
in which I have been greatly familiar with basically have some level of transit service delivery in every
facet of their service area. And so when we're talking about comparing one transit agency to another,
as I've said numerous times, once you've seen one transit agency, you've seen one transit agency, not
to mention utilizing the aspect of the show and tell that we had yesterday.
While we are dealing with intersections, as I was sharing later in the day with the media, in different
areas of the country where I worked, we didn't have the same issue because things were running in a
dedicated guideway. Some elements are subterranean. Look at Chicago. Their system is known as the
L because it's elevated. You do not have vehicular traffic crossing their tracks because it's on an elevated
guideway.
So I just couch that to say we have to be careful when we talk about what it is that we're-- what we're
comparing, because there's a myriad of different factors. When you think about-- I came here, and
somebody said, oh, my gosh, you came from this area that was smaller. So what? We provided more
service because it's a more densely populated area.

So when I was at the city and county of San Francisco, 49 square miles. But on a daily basis, we were
moving-- this was back about 10 years ago. We were moving about a million people a day. But you
would think, 49 square miles versus 2,342 square miles-- whole different set up, whole different aspects.
One other element that we've been part of-- and John can speak to this because he's going to participate
in a session in the very near weeks-- is a national aspect called TransDASH, whereby we have been
working in partner with a myriad of different transit agencies across the country that have been convened
by a third party. This was introduced at APTA as well, where we're utilizing comparative data to try to
garner a better understanding of the economic impact.
Those types of things are more comparable as opposed to what our mean distance between failure is,
or what is on-time performance rate and things of the like.
So as it relates to how I'm performing, I would encourage individuals to look at me in this operating
environment in alignment with the goals that you have set for me because showcasing what somebody
else may be doing in a different geographic region, whereby there's 20-plus other agencies feeding into
it, really isn't a fair comparison of my leadership abilities nor the capability of the agency as a whole,
with all the contributors being the dynamic individuals that comprise this agency.
So with that, John, would you want to just quickly highlight the aspects of TransDASH and ETC what
we're doing with surveying questions and things of the like?
JOHN MCKAY: Yes. Thank you very much, Madam Chair.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excuse me, John, if I might interject. I'm doing a time check here, and we have a
couple of other directors to get to. And I would like Mr. McKay to highlight that. But first, Director
Rosenthal, did that answer your question, or-PAUL ROSENTHAL: It sure did. Excellent, yeah.
PEGGY CATLIN: So if I might, can we just-PAUL ROSENTHAL: Can I just mention my other question? And then you don't have to answer it right
away, but we can-- I just want to mention it and then keep this in mind. It sort of relates to the financial
priority.
And certainly, as I'm in community and we're hearing more and more, as an agency, folks who are
rightfully giving us input and feedback on how to conduct our financial practices and decisions-- and I
even heard from a legislator who told me-- he was like, well, you know, you're not a profitable agency.
You're not supposed to be. So why don't you go deeper into debt and offer more services and purchase
more of these types of equipment?
And, that kind of concerns me. But also, it relates to the performance of the general manager in that we
do have this priority.

And I would just like to hear more, at some point, about drilling down about, what does financial success
really truly mean? And why is it so important that we-- as the general manager and Mr. MacLeod and
their team has done, increased our credit rating, increased our financial standing? Obviously, it's short,
medium term. We have labor issues, et cetera.
But the point is this financial picture I think is really key, and I'd like to discuss it more in the future. And
that's all I have for now. Thanks.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Rosenthal. So we can park that issue, I guess, till a subsequent
meeting. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse me. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I need to realign with what Deborah's question was
because maybe I didn't understand it. The request was for input and direction on a path forward whereby
strategic considerations can be acted upon. What do you need me to tell you right now? And I've got
two quick questions. There'll be a, yes, or, no, answer after that, about the dashboard. But that's what I
need to know so I can give you feedback.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Director Guzman, for the question. And working
through the chair, what I would like to see from this committee is some direction relative to what we
showcase. If there's different elements that we want, I would ask, after we conclude the discussion,
when might the next meeting be, how can we package this in such a way that committee members feel
comfortable with what's being posed. We could bring something back-- showcase what's in the
dashboard.
So I didn't want to make it seem as if I was orchestrating the conversation. But collectively, that's what
I'm seeking so there is alignment. And if, in fact, the direction takes us to a place as we look at what
we're doing holistically, that's when we can have a refresh of the strategic plan.
I mean, as I shared before, hearing that I had some draft of a strategic plan that I have not seen is mind
boggling, relative to conversations that ensued during the course of my general manager/CEO
performance, where a conversation ensued, to Director Tisdale's point, about the net promoter score. It
seems as if there was some desire to maybe modify those metrics. But we held that in abeyance until
we could get to the discussion around the agency metrics.
Hence, my question to all of you is let's ensure there is alignment so my colleagues and I know what
we're producing for the betterment of the agency's performance that, in turn, has a clear nexus with my
established goals. Does that help you. Director Guzman?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Yes, thank you. I just wasn't sure what you were actually asking for, and I wanted
to make sure I understood it so I could provide that feedback.
PEGGY CATLIN: If I might interrupt. I apologize, Director Guzman. But recognize that what was
presented today is a sample. And it will be populated much more thoroughly at a subsequent meeting.

But I think what GM/CEO Johnson wanted was-- are she and her staff proceeding in a logical fashion
and one that this committee and the board can relate to as she moves forward? Or do we need to make
some sort of course correction right now? I think that's kind of what we're aiming for with this
presentation. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I'm looking at our strategic plan and the scorecards while we're having this
conversation. And that's where I got confused. Like, am I supposed to just go through and randomly
pick one, or are we going to have a conversation about this?
And so to that end, I would-- please, if it please the chair-- move that we add these specific conversations
onto our performance calendar, our work committee calendar, and ensure that we move quickly and
efficiently on making sure that we have these conversations continue in good order, as was requested
by the general manager/CEO both in June and July.
I don't know if we need to take a formal action on that, but I am suggesting very strongly that we do that.
So that's one thing. Second thing-PEGGY CATLIN: [INAUDIBLE] If I might, Director Guzman, we are, if we have time, going to have a
discussion about how we formulate subsequent agendas for this committee based on these requests.
So you hit the nail on the head. I appreciate that.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great I'm grateful that Director Tisdale is here because we're on finance. Talking
about the financial piece, I'll just take this one quick moment to say, I really do think that we need to look
at the economic impact reporting process and work on that with Mr. MacLeod and with Debra Johnson.
I think that's a better way to proceed. We are data-rich. We are info-rich. Our data informs our info. Our
info should inform the public.
However, we have a lot of room for improvement as an agency and a board about how we tell our story.
And I think we're going in the right direction, but there's more to be done there. And so I'm excited to
hear that from you, Ms. Johnson.
Finally, super easy question. And this may be Mr. McKay. Debra, you might know this. But I'm going to
assume, because this dashboard will be housed on our website, that the reporting information will be
immediately available in the translated languages as we roll those out and continue to be available to
people who are non-English speakers. Is that correct?
PEGGY CATLIN: Mr. McKay?
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do believe that is the case, but I will confirm and get back
to you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: That's all I have. Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Director Davidson.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah. Thanks for the discussion. And Madam Chair,
thanks for working on this with Ms. Johnson and Mr. McKay here. I just want to confirm my understanding
of something, and then I, maybe, will offer my feedback. Ms. Johnson, to your question.
So on the packet pages 19 through 23, those are where we had the bubbles that showed the-- how a
strategic initiative combines with a performance metric to feed into a strategic priority to then feed the
success outcome.
Am I interpreting this correctly that, essentially, what we're talking about doing is mapping out the
success outcomes, which was the net promoter score when we went through the strategic plan, and
working back and saying, OK, here are the strategic priorities that would feed into that outcome. And
then for each of those, here are all of those performance metrics, and then how that ties into when we
were looking at the dashboard.
So as we go towards those categories on packet page 32 of each-- of the strategic priorities and their
respective outcomes, essentially, that would frame how we categorize the dashboard, so how those
kind of funnel up. Am I characterizing that correctly?
PEGGY CATLIN: Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Yes, Chair Davidson. You are.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK. So with that being said, I mean, one thing that occurs to me-- so we do-- we
have these strategic outcomes and the metrics that are coming out at that outcome level from the
priorities, which has largely been the net promoter score, which has been a lot of the conversation here.
We haven't felt like it's giving us a complete enough picture.
But what I think I'm hearing is there are so many metrics that are feeding up into that through multiple
strategic priorities that to just throw it all on paper would be quite overwhelming. So perhaps one
approach-- and I know, Chair Catlin, you've raised this, so I just was curious if Chair Catlin and General
Manager and CEO Johnson might opine on this a little bit-- would be for the Performance Committee to
have the dashboard that we're talking about, have all of these pieces of data available, and then have,
to Director Guzman's point here-- have information-focused sessions that the Performance Committee
is doing.
So we say, hey, we want to delve into how things are-- or all the things that are impacting the net
promoter score of community value, for example, or customer success. And in particular, we want to
focus on security and safety and security information. And therefore, we'll do a deep dive of, what are
all the strategic priorities; what are all of the metrics; how do all those feed in; and kind of get the context
and information.

And maybe there's-- as we get this going, there's a calendar by which, Performance Committee is asking
the board at the beginning of the year and the work plan, maybe has some ad hoc time, kind of like an
audit, to say, what are the topics that we want to learn about this year or be looking into? What areas of
concern are there? What areas of concern does management have that they want to escalate?
And then we could do these deep dives to diagnose everything that goes underneath. I guess-- does
that resonate? I'm curious if, Madam Chair, just based on this presentation as well as General Manager
and CEO Johnson, if that resonates and what your thoughts are on that sort of an approach.
PEGGY CATLIN: No, I think you outlined that correctly. It's quite a bit of work, and we need to prioritize
those areas in which we want to delve. But GM/CEO Johnson has reminded me that there are certain
of those information pieces that are only updated on an annual basis. So we would want to put those
into the work plan so that they coincide with when we get that information, like the surveys.
And there are other pieces that get reported to the National. Transit Database that-- those are on a
different cadence. And so we would want to make sure that we are in sync with some of those reporting
elements so as not to overburden staff, I guess.
But I think you outlined it well. And it will be incumbent upon this committee, in developing the work plan
for next year, that we keep some of those things in mind and really look at those areas that we want-that are of concern or of immediate-- that need immediate attention as we go through the work plan.
And that's not to say it won't change. So as we look at the end of each meeting, as our other committee
chairs are wont to do, we will look at what we need to do for the next meeting and subsequent meetings
as we move forward. Does that answer your question? And I yield the floor to Ms. Johnson if she wants
to go ahead and amplify.
DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may? Thank you so much. Thank you, Chair Davidson and Chair Catlin for
broaching that. So I would say, yes, to the question that Chair Davidson raised relative to doing a deeper
dive in meetings. Yes, we can do that. However, I'm still in the midst of a conundrum in reference to
what it is that we will be doing going forward.
And let me give an example. So recognizing Director Guzman referenced the. economic impact report
that I suggested. So there's yet to be alignment around what we're actually reporting on. During the
course of the Finance and Planning Committee last week, Director Tisdale requested that there's this
ROI dashboard.
So I'm seeking clear-cut direction from this board because it seems disparate and recognizing who's
putting forward. Is the board collectively giving me direction? In turn, I can share that with my staff
because we-- I feel as if I'm getting a disparate direction relative to what it is, and nothing has been
formalized.

So my request is for this committee to come together, recognizing it is the Performance Committee, and
we're talking about how we're going to assess the agency's performance. But I am seeking clear
direction, by means of action from this committee, that subsequently would be acted on by the full body
so nothing is lost in translation relative to what it is that my team and I should be tracking that could help
you all collectively address questions of your constituency.
So as we get back to the questions that were posed at the outset of this presentation that Chair Catlin
referenced on slide 4-- slide 4 of the presentation. I want to ensure that we have an opportunity so there
is no confusion about what it is that we're doing going forward, and that it could be memorialized in a
document because Director Guzman is referencing the strategic plan that was voted on in October of
'21, recognizing there is a caveat that states that the tactics can be changed, which, in my opinion, are
operational in nature.
On page 10 of the strategic plan, it says due to circumstances, work plan, taxes are subject to be
changed during the duration of the plan.
Now, that's totally, I believe, within the auspices of staff relative to operations and administration,
because if, in fact, I find that we're having a problem with on-time performance, I may capture that a little
differently. If I know that we are having a problem with the mean distance between failure and what
we're capturing, or when I'm hearing from people that comprise this organization that they don't feel safe
in their work environment as relates to safety, I feel that's within my auspices to make adjustments so I
can better ensure that they have a welcoming transit environment.
So I call that out specifically to share-- while it was purported that things had been changed, there are
caveats that are stated in here from an operational administrative nature. But I want to ensure that the
board's request, relative to what might be coming out of finance and planning or what's coming out of
operations, safety, and security-- that there is a general-- general alignment with clear-cut direction that's
been provided to me by the Board of Directors to which I report so there's no confusion about what we're
doing.
And I feel as if I'm still in this murky situation right now, and hence, why we can have discussions going
forward, standing in my truth. And what I'm asking of you is to provide direction relative to what it is. So
if that's us coming back at the next meeting, further refining what the questions are, and working with
the chair of the committee and the vice chair and the chair of the board, I am happy to do that.
But right now, it seems as if we're going down the same path in which we've done in previous years that
have left us all with some level of frustration. So thank you for allowing me to speak my truth. That's all
I'm seeking as we go forward about this body, collectively, providing direction through the form of an
action about what we're doing. And does that rest with the Performance Committee, or does it rest
independently with other committees saying, we're going to have a dashboard here; we're going to have
a dashboard there, where nothing seems to be consolidated? Thank you so much.

PEGGY CATLIN: I personally appreciate that. And it's incumbent upon us to work with the chairs of the
other committees, that being Finance and also Operations, Safety, and Security, to make sure that we're
not operating in silos and that there's a definite cohesiveness about how we approach this. Chair
Davidson, did you have anything else to add?
ERIK DAVIDSON: I just will say, thank you, General Manager and CEO Johnson for stating that clearly.
I think what would help me-- what I think I've heard directors say from the retreat and moving forward is
having more visibility to the metrics that feed into the success outcomes, which may just come down to
that quarterly performance scorecard, and also perhaps augmenting that.
Perhaps it would be beneficial for this committee to look at a more complete mapping of those metrics
to the success outcomes and clearly articulate, these are the things that would be good to see on a
dashboard. These are the things that would be good to see in a monthly board-- the board briefing
documents.
I'd like to give that a little bit further consideration. Based on your feedback, I'm committed to work with
you and the chairs of all committees to help with that. I think what you've articulated is clear in terms of
the ask. And I think it's probably incumbent upon this committee to have further discussions. But Madam
Chair, I'll yield the floor back to you as I consider this further.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And we can dialogue about that, too. And harking back to the my statement
that this is a sampling. And I wanted to see if this model was something that this committee felt was
useful so that we can, as Chair Davidson suggests, populate these success outcomes a little bit further.
But is this pointed in the right direction? And that was really what I wanted to ask this committee today.
I'll see a thumbs up from Director Guzman and a thumbs up from Rosenthal. So would you be able,
GM/CEO Johnson, to proceed to amplify this particular model to further populate these success
outcomes with data?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, we could most definitely have that done probably within the next couple of
weeks. And then recognizing that, would we then track down a path where we will delve into what the
success outcomes are?
Because as I said before, with the comments that were raised by Director Tisdale and Director Guzman
and others virtually assembled here, we all agree that that may not capture our success the best. And I
want to ensure that we can populate. But how might we define success going forward? And that's
something that I believe the board-- not I believe-- I know the board needs to act upon because that will
change the trajectory of the strategic plan, and we need to ensure that we have an updated version that
we can all rally around and support.
PEGGY CATLIN: Certainly.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you.

PEGGY CATLIN: Director Tisdale, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Because the dashboard item regarding return
on investment has been discussed a number of times in the past, and because it comes up in the context
of the Finance and Planning Committee, I feel I should respond to that because I do empathize with
GM/CEO Johnson relative to the potential of being peppered from all sides with, well, we're measuring
this. Now can we measure this? Now can we add this to the dashboard? And that is frustrating.
The reason for the initial return on investment study that was done in, as I recall, I believe, 2018-- I think,
while I was chair of the board-- it was in response, principally, to the comments from a number of people
throughout the district.
But in one particular area, without naming names, Boulder, the idea is that it is, as much as anything, a
politically necessary item in our dashboard.
And I see disagreement there. But I have to tell you that we exist as a political entity, and we are elected
leaders who respond to voters. And if you ignore the cries of voters, you do so at your own risk. And I
don't think that's a wise way for us to govern. And therefore, I think that responding in some meaningful
manner would be helpful.
And I don't think it's a horribly difficult job to do. We did it once before. You may criticize how it was
done, but the answer is not to throw the baby out with the bathwater. The answer is to change the
bathwater and see what you can do to make it right.
And I think that we have to address that. And simply ignoring it and saying, no, we really can't do that
or we shouldn't do that, runs the risk of putting us at odds with the voters and, ultimately, therefore at
odds with the entity that created us, which is the general assembly. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Tisdale. I see John McKay's hand is raised. Would you like to
clarify something or add to this?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you Madam Chair. I just wanted to respond to Director Guzman's question. I
did get confirmation from Communications Engagement Officer Stuart Summers that the website will be
translated into-- right now, it's Chinese, Spanish, and Vietnamese. And I believe that Russian is being
tested. I'm waiting for confirmation on that, too.
PEGGY CATLIN: Excellent. Thank you for that. Are there any other comments? I appreciate GM/CEO
Johnson's concern about being peppered from all sides about these metrics. And this Performance
Committee exists to synthesize all of that into one area.
So I would respectfully ask of the chairs of the other committees that, as it relates to performance
metrics, that we have a discussion in this body about what would benefit you as committee chairs for
your respective committees in informing discussion. So Director Davidson, do you have any other
thoughts as you mull some of this today?

ERIK DAVIDSON: No, not at this time. Thank you. I'm happy to dialogue. I think what would make sense
to me is to see how this maps out from a matrix standpoint. So I'm happy to put my thoughts into some
notes and share out with yourself and ultimately the full committee. So thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: I agree. I just wanted to see if we were kind of on the right track. I didn't-- to quote
Director Tisdale-- want to throw the baby out with the bathwater. I think that this presentation really does
set a pretty good course for moving forward, and that's my general feedback. Granted that we will have
to populate the data and see what really constitutes success outcomes, but I think we can proceed with
the work as it's ongoing.
Time check. We're all ready over here. I didn't know if any other directors had comments. Director Buzek,
you've been silent.
VINCE BUZEK: I've been taking notes.
PEGGY CATLIN: Let's move on with our agenda, then. And thank you all for the valuable dialogue. SoDEBRA JOHNSON: Madam Chair, if I may?
PEGGY CATLIN: Please, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. Thank you so much, as we move on With the agenda. So I'm just trying to
garner a better understanding-- we have a meeting that's scheduled 10 days from now on June 3. So
what would be happening at said meeting? And that's what I'm trying to ensure that-- serving in my
capacity as the General Manager and CEO and clearly being the liaison to the Performance Committee,
trying to manage expectations.
So relative to this meeting date that we have, if, in fact, collectively, we are going to delve a little deeper,
should the meeting be on June 10, or are we just going to meet and have a further discussion about
what we just talked about?
I want to ensure that we are being intentional and purposeful with the time that we have afforded and
that I could be better prepared to address these inquiries so we could come to some resolution about
the path forward and the critical comments that were made by Director Tisdale and the bathwater and
the baby and so forth, recognizing that I put forward a suggestion about an economic impact report to
enhance and do these various things-- when will we have an opportunity to discuss what might be
prudent as we go forward to memorialize.
And I'm just sitting here and I'm still in this place of murkiness where I'm not clearly understanding what
we're going to do on June 3. Thank you.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. And yes, June 3 was scheduled to be a follow-up discussion. But we have
a couple of other matters, and I'll let Board Executive Manager Kroll address that in a few minutes. But
before we do that, I'd like to call on Director Guissinger.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I think the sooner we get to the specifics, the easier it will be to give
feedback. And I certainly understand where you are in terms of what you want. But-- I think this is sort
of I think what Chair Davidson was saying as well. But if we can see what is going-- what the metrics
that we are looking at. And now and considering and use those as a way of talking about, do we add
ROI? Is it already in there?
I assume ROI-- you're talking about the county-- who puts in what. But there were suggestions in the
legislature that we should be looking at each town and-- but I haven't been in these discussions with the
chairs and Ms. Johnson. But it seems to me like the sooner we can get to specifics, the easier it will be
to give guidance.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Would you like to respond to that, GM/CEO Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Oh, yeah. Thank you for that input. Recognizing we have to populate a scorecard
and today is Tuesday, I don't know how viable June 3 would be if you're asking us at that juncture. So I
know we had scheduled a meeting, and then it was changed. And I'm not trying to constantly change
the schedule. But perhaps we could have a discussion-- perhaps it's June 10. I don't know.
I'm just saying I want to ensure that I am providing the board, with the assistance of my colleagues, with
information that will help you provide direction to me. And I don't know if we'll be able to do that by June
3, recognizing that this would be a notice meeting. So that means we would have to have this out the
door next week.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you for that response. And I would agree that we need to make sure that this
is done well and not done quickly. So we can dialogue about that. We do have a couple of other matters
that we need to talk about, but Director Davidson, I'll yield the floor to you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thanks, Committee Chair. I'll keep this short. I just I think what would help me-- so
I'm going to use an example from the slide deck. So again, I think those-- packet page 19 and through
the next few slides where it had the bubbles and the mapping, the mapping is helpful. And just in thinking
about this in a table here-- so let's just take financial success.
So we have strategic priority in one column. That's financial success. And the definition around that is
RTD takes very seriously the management of all financial resources. Then success outcome, attached
to that, which there were more than one. So the success outcome community sees value in RTD
spending.
Appended to that is this question that we think the public is asking, that came out of the retreat-- how
has RTD demonstrated good stewardship of taxpayer dollars? The example that was provided was a
performance metric of which I would expect there would be multiple that map to that strategic priority,
which was budget variability.

So what, to me, would make sense is if we could hone in on, OK, we have the strategic priorities. We
know we have those. Great. We have success outcomes. And what I was seeing in the presentation is- let's say we're committed to those because we're not changing the strategic plan right now. We'll be
coming up to that soon anyway. But what we do want is to say, what are the performance metrics that
feed into that outcome? Budget variability was one example. On community value, the same kind of flow
happens, and the performance metric we saw was community perception of equity.
I think what would be helpful is if we could get a list together of all of those performance metrics that are
going to feed into the dashboards that, then, this board or this committee could react to and say, great,
we think that's going to answer it. So I don't know how that resonates. I know we're tight on time, so I'm
happy to work offline with that. But perhaps a material next step is to just do that mapping and identify
all those performance metrics that map into the success outcomes that map into the strategic priority.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Director Davidson. And I would ask GM/CEO Johnson if that is doable. I
do not think that it would be doable prior to a June 3 meeting. But we can survey and see what dates
work for this committee as we move forward. Ms. Johnson, is what Director Davidson outlined something
that you and your team can provide?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, what I heard from Chair Davidson was that he'd be willing to map something
out and, we can confer as we go forward and discern who's doing what. But yes, recognizing the
direction Director Davidson said that he would champion, we could lean into that and identify a date.
That would be helpful because we'll have to work together before this committee is convened-reconvened.
PEGGY CATLIN: And I think what Director Davidson was asking for was really just a list of items that
then could be populated into this dashboard. Is that correct. Director Davidson?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, I think the mapping would help. I'm happy to take it offline. I started to jot down
some notes, and I'll send it-- I'll send it out to you. Chair Caitlin, and the general manager as well so you
can see, and I'm happy to help think about what the next step could be for this committee.
PEGGY CATLIN: Sounds good. And I apologize, GM/CEO Johnson, for the perception of disparate
direction here. We'll try and pull all that together. A couple of the other items that we have that we will
need to talk about in the next committee meeting-- we have the 360 assessment and total compensation
analysis that Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer, has been championing. And we're going to be
needing to address that fairly soon so that we can get that done. She's not here right now. Mr. Kroll, do
you have anything to add to that right now?
JACK KROLL: Yeah. Thank you, Committee Chair Caitlin. This is Jack Kroll, Executive Manager of the
Board Office. I just wanted to share a quick update on this. It should not sneak up on any of us this year
or anybody in this group that there are obligations to fulfill with respect to the GM and CEO's contract
that approach towards the end of the year, one of which, as you all agreed to an amendment earlier,

this cycle-- this assessment cycle is to do a compensation analysis. It is anticipated that a firm would be
selected to do that compensation analysis no later than the end of June.
We are also in the process of pursuing a procurement for a firm to conduct a 360 evaluation and
assessment. And there will need to be work done on that latter piece with this committee to determine
the extent to which the questions and the group that's going to conduct that assessment.
And so that work is going to have to occur if you all are going to meet these deadlines, really, in July
and September. There's a deadline set for the compensation analysis to be completed by the contractor
by the beginning of September so that you all can discuss and then take any appropriate action in
October. I believe the amendment to the contract that you all agreed to requires the board to assess
that no later than October 31.
So this update is really just to serve that you're on track for those to be completed, but that there will
need to be a fair amount of work done by this committee in the July time frame, specifically with respect
to that 360 analysis and preparing for the work for that to occur in the fall.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With that said, we do have June 17 on hold for this committee
to meet. And recognizing that June 3 might not be achievable, I'm suggesting that we hold that June 17
meeting date for our next meeting to further work on this performance scorecard and dashboard. Is that
something that-- Ms. Johnson?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, just wanted to share the committee can proceed, but I will not be available on
June 17. And I know that Mr. McKay is on some well-deserved personal time off.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. So I'm not sure that this committee proceeding with the work that we have started
today would-- I'm not sure that we could proceed without the benefit of your participation.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, no, I was. I was sharing that I can't be present. But recognizing the report that
Mr. Kroll just gave, I thought that it would be germane for you all to be working on different elements.
So that's why I presented that. But we could be available on June 10 instead of June 3.
PEGGY CATLIN: OK. Well, I think we'll work with that-- those parameters. OK. We'll take that offline
then. Are there any other matters to come before this committee? And I do apologize for this going on
beyond the time frame. And I definitely appreciate your patience and your hanging on to this meeting
for as long as you have. Are there any other matters before the committee? Seeing none, I have 10:22
as the time, and we are adjourned. Thank you.

