Feb 5 2019
Communications & Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: New name but we're not quite there yet. Please note that the official
meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are digitally video recorded and will be captioned and
made available to the public via the Board's website.
At RTD we have a safety moment. I think once I get used to that, I may edit it, but now I'm just
going to read the whole safety moment. So safety is our core value. If you have a medical
emergency and need 911, I'll ask our RTD General Counsel to make the call. Any medically
trained individuals in the room are respectfully requested to assist.
If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator is in a glass case outside the room to the right on
the wall. In the event we have to evacuate the building, please kindly exit at the door you came
in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first floor, around the security desk, and exit
through the front door. Police and security officers will be there to direct you to a safe meetup
area. Anyone needing special assistance in evacuation, please indicate.
While RTD takes every precaution to ensure the safety of its passengers, vehicles, and facilities,
the agency relies on staff and the public to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or dangerous
activity. As such, I encourage all employees and patrons to download the RTD Transit Watch
App, which allows people to report questionable activity. We learned about it today. It looks like
a great app that's been very helpful.
Let's see. Tonight we have no Recommended Actions on the agenda. I think we have several
updates from our various-- ooh, where'd I go to here? Just when I was following directions-from our various lobbying firms. And I think, Roger, that you are from CRL will kick it off, if
you would, please.
ROGER SHERMAN: Good evening. Happy State of the Union night.
KATE WILLIAMS: We have to cancel this meeting so we can listen.
ROGER SHERMAN: I just-- you know, I'll reiterate a couple of things. We've got the Metro
Mayors meeting tomorrow. I know a couple of you typically attend. That's at 7:30 tomorrow
morning. The City and County Managers Association conference is this week, today, tomorrow,
Friday-- or tomorrow, Thursday, Friday. I'll be up on Thursday. It's just a good opportunity meet
with city staff and county staff and managers, and again, just to maintain relationships there that
hopefully, if you ever need us to intercede or work with you on something, that's why we go to
those types of events.
And then I mentioned also the Legislative Conference and I'm working with Barbara. I'll keep in
touch with the Board office regarding who's going to be there. Not trying to infringe on our
federal folks, but I'll be there. It's a good conference to be at.

The CAC meetings with Board members, we've had three. We had three that canceled, the first
three that canceled. It was just a quirk of illness and snow. So I will be rescheduling those with
those three Board members. But the three that we've had have been very positive, and we have
the rest scheduled here in the next, basically, 10 days. And they are going very well.
And lastly, I've just kind of mentioned, we've been reiterating this at the CAC meetings, but
please call on CRL if we can be of assistance in arranging meetings or attending meetings with
you. Director Lewis, I was on a panel at DPS a few weeks ago. That was a lot of fun. So we are
available to assist. Director Whitmore today talked about Thornton meeting coming up. So that's
what we're here for, so please call on us.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Any questions, comments? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks, Roger. I am asking, first of all, about the mobile app workshop
results. And I was there that day watching and have photos of the result, but was in contact with
two of the members of the CAC, and they noticed that it is marked confidential. And we're not
clear why.
ROGER SHERMAN: I'm not clear why either. So that document was produced by the
communication team. And the program may just put confidential on it. We'll have to find out.
But I'm sure that we're happy to share that with you.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll check it out.
ROGER SHERMAN: Absolutely. It's public information, of course.
NATALIE MENTEN: I agree 100%.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah. And you know, I'm glad you brought that up. The committee
feedback on that has been tremendous. That tool to allow, really, in a two-hour period, the
committee to kind of equally, without any one person dominating the discussion, collect input,
collect priorities. I'd love to have you all take a look at it.
NATALIE MENTEN: So is there a way that-- since we're going to be having individual
conversations, it would be most helpful if we were all just presented that same document. And
since there was hesitation with it being marked confidential, could you please be so kind to share
that with all the Board directors?
ROGER SHERMAN: Absolutely. We'll get it done tomorrow.
NATALIE MENTEN: Great. In speaking again with some of the Citizen Advisory Committee,
we understand that in the original FasTracks language, there was mention of this committee
continuing as part of the FasTracks project, which may be decades out. And frankly, some of the
committee members are wondering why they are meeting once a month when their thought going
into it was it was about FasTracks.

And granted, it's nice how you had, for a little bit, the dining with the Director, ride and dine
with the Director thing going. But some of the committee members I know personally have said
that's not really what they thought they were getting on the Board for. So could you comment on
that, please?
ROGER SHERMAN: You betcha. So the mission or the direction of the committee was changed
by Board action maybe three years ago, so it is broader. But this is a continual issue I think that
all public entities have with advisory committees is it's really not the committee's role to decide
what they're doing. It is the agency's, you know, how to bring issues that they would like input
on.
So I think we have a very engaged group of citizens that are knowledgeable about RTD and
bring a lot of important and varied backgrounds to the table. I think Dave Genova is-- I mean,
this year it feels like we're really getting some synergy going. Dave is already on the agenda. So
is Michael Ford. We've got kind of laid out where they are going to hopefully plug in early, as
policy's being discussed, to bring forward to the Board, which is really what they're there for is to
advise, not to just receive reports at the end of the session.
ROGER SHERMAN: So it feels like we've got some good traction this year.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I've noticed one of their main things they would like to achieve this
year is to be able to weigh in on policy with this Board. There's been mention on this Board as to
limits as to what topics we should be addressing.
Where do you think will be going forward in discussion? It'll just be the one on one, or we'll be
perhaps having a get together with the committee early on to see where we go with policy
discussion?
ROGER SHERMAN: Sure. I think that's in the Board's realm and the Senior Leadership's realm
to decide what's appropriate. But the committee-- I mean, I think ideally, one of our committee
members participated on the past working group. So that was a good example where they're
bringing their expertise into a process.
I mean, policy-- I don't know how you pick what you bring to them. But as you're deciding-- say
you're working on a discussion around how you're doing schedule changes, as you're thinking
about how you're communicating with the public around schedule changes, that group would
have input along the way. So as that is being developed, that's when they can be helpful, useful.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Great. And Dave, did you have a comment?
DAVE GENOVA: Excuse me. Yes, I would just add on that-- and we're going to hear in the next
committee about the Transportation Transformation work and the RFP and that effort in a little
bit more detail in a later committee. But that body of work is going to be an excellent
opportunity to engage the CAC in a broader role around. So that's just one example of ways in
which we can engage them. And I do want to reiterate what Roger said we did. The Board did

decide to broaden that group to go beyond FasTracks and just be an advisory committee on a
whole.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right, thank you. That's all my questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you, Director Menten. Anybody else? Any other questions?
Our second update is from Brandeberry-McKenna, our state update. And I should remind you to
please state your name for the record.
MEGAN WAGNER: Sure. It's Megan Wagner from Brandeberry-McKenna. Just wanted to give
you a brief update. The legislature is already a month in, and they've put wonderful proposals out
there for us to consider, not so much related to transportation. There's just a few so far. But
they're still working up their great ideas for us all to look at.
For RTD, we've had some meetings with leadership, and we continue to schedule meetings for
General Manager Genova and Sherry and others, as well as Board members, with the new
legislators to kind of discuss our interests, what we're doing in the District, and what we're on top
of, and also what we're looking at for the future, which is really important for them to hear.
On a separate update, the Public Utilities Commission is going through the Sunset process. So in
order to reauthorize the Public Utilities Commission, the legislature would have to run a bill to
reauthorize the Public Utilities Commission. That legislation should probably be introduced in
committee within the next couple of weeks.
Leadership is running that bill. Senator Fenberg from Boulder and Representative Hansen from
Denver are going to be the sponsors of that bill. And we're working with everyone to make sure
to keep RTD's interests in mind in reauthorizing the PUC.
There's nothing controversial, at least from our issues. There are some other issues of concern to
other folks and other industries within the PUC's sunset. And that's it for mine. I'll pass it to
Jenifer.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: The other kind of topic of conversation-- and I know some of the
RTD Board members came and attended a stakeholder meeting that was held by Representative
Hansen and Representative Gray-- they, along with their counterparts in the Senate, Senator
Winter and Senator Zenzinger are looking at running a bill late in the session after the long bill,
the budget, closes.
And their goal is to see if there is a plethora or a portfolio of potential fees on various industries
that are somehow a nexus to transportation and roads to see if they can come up with $350
million dollars of new fees that then they could potentially bond off of.
And I think the overall conversation is they've seen loud and clear that at the ballot measure,
people don't really have an appetite to increase taxes. And so they're looking, with their majority,
Democratic majority, is there a way to kind of spread, in a portfolio way, some fees along
potential transportation users that then they could then send out for a bonding measure.

And so it was really great to see so many Board members come to that meeting. And the
proponents of the legislation said they would have another stakeholder meeting. We'll make sure
the Board knows when that is, and we'll keep you up to date as that proceeds. And that's all from
our end. If you have any questions, we're happy to answer them.
DOUG TISDALE: Point of order, Madam Chair.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I'm sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: Just for the sake of the record, that was Jenifer Brandeberry who was
speaking last. I just wanted to make sure that the record reflected that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I had a couple of questions, and one of them was
about the PUC. I know there was a lot of anger about their decisions with the G Line and how it
kind of pushed things back. And I was wondering if that has come out in any of the discussions.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Not today. The PUC internally did recommendations, and we've
reviewed internally all the recommendations. And none of them are of problematic nature to us.
And then the processes, they introduced the bill committee to talk about the recommendations.
Then the committee identifies bill sponsors. The sponsors will then get a bill drafted. And it's in
that draft that they will take some of the recommendations or all of the recommendations and
then do other potential changes.
So it's kind of a cumbersome process, the sunset process. But we will continue to monitor that
for RTD. But as the recommendations came out of the department, there was nothing that our
legal department found concerning.
JUDY LUBOW: And no complaints that came up.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: No.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. Thank you. And I was just wondering what's been happening with the
potential bill to revamp the RTD Board.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: There's been no legislation introduced at this time. I think that
there was some conversation that took place at the 36-- or what is it called now? Commuting
Solutions. And we've met with various legislators who expressed some interest.
And I think that there is recognition that although that's an idea that's out there, I think the history
of how the Board became an appointed Board is lost on some of those folks. And we've shared
with them the history of how we've gone from once an appointed Board to an initiative process
that created the elected Board.

I think, also, meeting a lot of the new Board members and knowing they're Board members,
they're recognizing that they're not maybe ready at this point to go any further in terms of
drafting legislation. So at this time we've seen no bills drop.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you very much. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Going back to where you spoke about a bill or multiple bills,
perhaps, that would add on fees. So with that, I I'm just wanting to know where I'm going to be
going to hear the audio on this. Would it be in the Transportation Legislative Review
Committee?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: No, it was a stakeholder meeting that legislators sent out an email
to any interested parties and they held a meeting over on the sixth floor of the Sherman Building,
where a lot of legislators have their offices. And we attended because we got notice of it. And
then I think other Board members got it as well.
We'll be sure and pass it along so everyone knows about it going forward. And then what they
said, the legislators, is that they hope to have a draft by the end of March that we could share
with interested parties for feedback.
In the meantime, they made it very clear if they had ideas-- if anyone had ideas about
transportation funding and solutions-- they are welcome to give that input to them as proponents
of potential legislation this session.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So that wasn't a public meeting advertised in policy making
going on.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: No.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. Then one other question is the Colorado Public Radio had brought
forward to the attention-- I don't remember hearing about it before that-- about the Smith and
Chambers issue. So within your document is one paragraph that I'm not very clear about. So
could you give me just a little bit more information? What does this mean, pursuing now federal
relief as the legislature has rejected proposals?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please state your name again for the record.
MEGAN WAGNER: It's Megan Wagner. I'll just start off, and then Dave can follow up for me.
During the Transportation Legislation Review Committee, there was kind of a discussion about
addressing that issue through legislation. But that was rejected by the Transportation Legislation
Review Committee. They didn't feel it was something they were interested in pursuing. They
thought it was something that needed to be pursued between Aurora and other folks.

So there has not been a bill to date to address that issue, and they had sent a letter. I'll let Dave
follow up on the federal issue.
DAVE GENOVA: This is Dave Genova. So the Colorado Motor Carriers Association sent a
letter to US Department of Transportation Secretary Chao, And I did supply that to the Board, I
think. Well, I did supply that letter to the Board. I think it was about maybe a week and a half or
two weeks ago.
And essentially they addressed the letter to Secretary Chao asking the DOT to do an analysis that
they didn't like the local stakeholder process and thought it was biased. So they're appealing to
the DOT to look into it. We've not heard anything from DOT on that issue. We will be writing
our own letter to the Secretary Chao as well as a response to Colorado Motor Carriers
Association.
We continue to work with the stakeholder groups. We're in the process of setting up another
meeting that we will facilitate as we've facilitated the other stakeholder meetings. And
everyone's invited to participate. Whether the Motor Carriers Association continues to participate
in those stakeholder meetings or not is really up to them. And we'll see if they do. But we're very
much wanting to work this out at the local level and at least facilitate the dialogue with all the
stakeholders that need to be involved in the conversation.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. So as we digest all a lot, I think for me, boil it down, it was
about safety. There were some inconvenience factors, but this was about a safety issue,
considering what the truckers are carrying. So am I remembering that correctly in that-- this is
the same conversation.
DAVE GENOVA: It is the same conversation. So the Motor Carriers Association came in about
2015 bringing up concerns about the crossing because there's a fuel depot nearby. And so
traditionally the route that has been used by most of the trucks going to and from that facility use
that crossing, where there has been freight crossing previously to the University of Colorado A
line crossing.
So we did a study and a report on that, and there's a lot of history prior to when motor carriers
entered the conversation that goes back to early 2008, 2009 when we were in the planning stage
and the environmental impacts statement and going through the NEPA process. And so there's a
lot of history around that process.
The concern the motor carriers have brought up is that they carry a number of loads of hazardous
materials across that crossing. The work that we've done with the stakeholders identifies a couple
other alternatives that can be used. And one of those alternatives does not even cross the A line.
Another one, I think, does. But then there's another one that doesn't have any crossings.
What the motor carriers would like to see on those alternatives is some improvements to those.
And there's a couple other factors I won't get into all the details. But they would like to see some
improvements on those other routes. And then they have concern about the hazardous materials

rules about using the shortest, most direct route. But you know, it's their choice what crossing
they choose to use.
In terms of the improvements on the other two alternatives, it's not something where RTD would
be the decision maker. And that's where we need to work with the local stakeholders like Aurora
and CDOT and Colorado State Patrol.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all my questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I just had a quick question. Sherry Ellebracht
gave us a heads up about a potential bill, the Right to Rest bill. And I was just wondering what
the status of that was.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: That's perennial piece of legislation. I think in the last four years it
has been introduced at the General Assembly and it has been defeated. And the proponent of the
bill, Representative Melton, did share with interested stakeholders that he is not going to carry
the bill. It's called postpone indefinitely. His bill, which is effectively killing it, upon
adjournment on February 26.
So that will be an issue, but not at the state house. It'll be an issue more in the city and county of
Denver as proponents of that idea have secured a position on the ballot, and will be a decision
that Denver voters get to make. But it won't be at the capital this year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. There was a letter to the editor in the Denver Post about the
crossing or lack thereof and the motor carriers being concerned about it. What I've learned from
the city is that at the time this was originally approved, the motor carriers didn't come forward
and lodge their complaints. And so now they're coming in after the fact and complaining that
there's a train every seven and 1/2 minutes.
So the fix, obviously, would be a major structure there, which of course would really cost a lot of
money at this point in time and cause lots of disruption. So they're going to have to simply work
out another alternative mode to get over to I-70, which is where they're trying to get, Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any other questions? Our next update is our federal update
from Squire Patton Boggs, Mike Dino.
MIKE DINO: Good evening.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Please state your name.
MIKE DINO: Excuse me?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Please state your name for the record.
MIKE DINO: Yes, it's Mike Dino with Squire Patton Boggs. Good evening, Board members.
Appreciate the opportunity to give you a quick update. As Roger pointed out, it is the State of the
Union. So we'll see if anything comes out of it that we can count on moving forward. I think it is
nice we're at a period where the government is in operation, but we're 10 days from the next
deadline. And there doesn't seem to be any agreement that we'll keep the government open past
the 15th.
The Speaker of the House has stated that any legislation that they would propose would not
include any money for a wall in the legislation, or funding, at least, for it. And of course, the
President still seems to be focused on having that in there. So we'll see if they work something
out in the next 10 days.
And of course, there's also the indication the President could act in emergency situation to do
something about funding for the wall. But both the polling-- his public polling and also the
opinion of a lot of other leadership in Washington, Republican leadership, is that they do not
want him to pursue that. And so it'll probably come down to the last minute. We'll see how that
goes.
There is some hope that infrastructure will get more attention, and particularly starting tonight in
the State of the Union. But everything that points to what he's going to say seems to point to
other things. So we'll have to wait and see what actually happens. In the report we gave you, we
pointed out that the House seems to want to take on infrastructure.
But I think Director Lubow said it perfectly when we chatted before the meeting that well, will
the Senate follow? I mean, the House might have the momentum, but certainly the Senate has to
concur, and then ultimately the President. So that's the big if.
And then in about a month and a half, for those of you going to Washington, we'll see what type
environment we go into. We do know that, at least right now as it stands, the week that usually
we go up to the Hill there won't be any of the principals on the Hill. That's a week of recess, or at
least not being in Washington for the House and the Senate.
But that could change. If the government's not functioning, they may decide they need to stay in
Washington. So stay tuned on that one. And I think that's basically about it for the time being,
and we'll continue to keep everybody apprised of any developments. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Any questions, concerns? Great. We have a communications
update from our newly returned Communications AGM Pauletta Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, good evening, everyone. Let's see here if I can remember how to
do this. Green means go. Go. There we go.
Well, I am pleased to be back. It is with my distinct pleasure to be here. And I thank very much
Mr. Genova for enlisting his trust and faith in me and all of you for your support as I come back

and we start a new adventure together. So I appreciate you giving me a couple of minutes to just
lay out my vision and the goals that I am marching into right away here, starting yesterday when
I began my new career here.
You're going to get this PowerPoint that's going to be uploaded in your packet, so I'm not going
to go through all of the detail. You'll be able to see a little bit more about my background. But
what I'll just highlight is I have over 30 years of communications experience that started after I
graduated from CSU in Broadcast News. I was a broadcast news anchor and reporter. I'm a
Denver native. My husband is Bruce, and I have two beautiful daughters. I'm also a very, very
loyal Bronco and Nuggets fan.
My personal brand that I worked on about three and 1/2 years ago was an exercise that I did
because I feel like we all should really know who we are and what our value system is, what we
stand for. And so again, I won't read this. You can read this on your own. But some of the things
I'll point out is trustworthiness, accountability, loyalty, commitment to excellence, growth,
positive energy, collaboration. And that is really the guiding light for me in terms of how I plan
to lead the Communications department and the communications effort here at RTD.
The three overall goals, as I looked at how I would approach my first 90 days-- so when I came
for my interview for this position, I brought a 90-day plan. And that plan is framed with these
three main goals. Building an image of trust, transparency, and accountability to position this
agency as an industry leader, which it has been for many years and continues to be, as an
instigator and an integrator of how mobility will transform in the future.
Also, to establish a strategic communications roadmap for the agency and to focus the
Communications department to optimize its role as a collaborative, dynamic, accountable, highperforming team as we serve our internal customers and our external customers.
And so how I really put together what I think the first 90 days looks like is really in the spirit of
listen, learn, and launch. I'll be doing a lot of listening in the next 90 days, including from each
of you, because a key part of this is for me to understand how everybody feels about what the
communications priorities are for this agency-- the Board, the senior leadership team, my
management team, our key stakeholder partners externally, and also the media-- to learn as much
as I can in what we need to do to embrace the mobility future of this agency, and then how we
then launch into a framework that we can all look towards as success.
So that first 90 days, the people will be scheduling one-on-one sessions with each of you Board
members for me to listen and for us to have a dialogue. Also, Mr. Genova and I already started
first thing this morning. And I'll be doing that with various other folks.
We're going to be holding media visits. Getting out front and being very assertive with our media
strategy is one of my key goals to start with, one of my main action items. And then, as I
mentioned, scheduling meet and greets with some key stakeholders.

The first 90 days, the progress. It's all about telling the RTD story, us being bold and powerful in
our narrative for this agency, showcasing all the progress that we already are making and will
continue to make in the future.
And then the priorities. Holding a strategic communications and goal-setting retreat with my
team, building a proactive media strategy, establishing a unified and consistent voice for the
agency that will be a guidepost for all of us in speaking the same language.
So some early communications priorities, just to round this up. Design a strategic
communications plan, optimize the structure of our Communications department, empower our
communications staff to own their role in communications excellence, and to be bold messagers
and bold messengers. So it's how do we create these bold messages, and how do all of us,
including all of you, be bold messengers?
And the opportunities that I see on the horizon, these are just some of them. But I think we have
a great opportunity to capitalize on our already wonderful customer satisfaction and customer
experience. Even our customer satisfaction surveys show that the people that we serve every day
think we do a pretty darn good job. And there's a lot of other people out there that I think see that
we're doing good things.
We also have an opportunity to showcase the benefits of transit and the value of time because the
value of time in what transit brings to people is very unique and different for their life. For some
people, taking a bus or a train is quicker, and that's a time value.
But for some people, it's not maybe necessarily minutes quicker, but the value that you get back
in riding a train or a bus because you can check your emails, you can do work, you can read, you
can listen to music, you can de-stress from the day and not be stuck in congestion. That's the
value of time to people.
Also, we have an opportunity to influence the state and the national narrative and policy for
transportation. We heard from our very capable lobbyist just now that hey, we're at the table.
And we have an opportunity to influence and instigate that. So I think that's another great
opportunity. Also to develop a P3 operations and maintenance Lessons Learned.
We did that when we created the Eagle P3, when we put that together. And how did we do it and
get it into construction? It was an amazing process that the industry learned from. We now have
an amazing opportunity to do the same thing, to be a leader for the nation in how we implement
this and how we deal with the bumps in the road.
There is an opportunity in that, and I have to say, last week at the Board meeting, Director
Lubow asked Mr. Genova, well, you had the BNSF and Chicago officials here to learn how we're
doing this with the Eagle P3. Why would they want to do what we're doing? It hasn't worked
very well. That's what you said last week.
I think it's an opportunity, and I think we have an opportunity to turn that around and say hey,
once again, opportunity from RTD. We're the trail blazers. And guess what, guys? It's tough

being a trailblazer because we're the ones that are out front taking the hits and blazing the path
forward for everybody who comes after us.
So I see it as an opportunity. And yes, it's tough, but we're going to do this. And we're going to
do this for the betterment of the industry because RTD has a history of making transit history,
and we're doing it again.
And so those are my few words to offer perspective. We'll be setting up meetings with you,
working with the CEO to make sure our communications framework meets the goals and vision
of the agency and of the CEO, providing monthly updates to you. And I look very much forward
to that, and getting your input as key leaders in this community on how we approach
communications, development of our strategic communications plan, and all of us telling the
RTD story.
That's what I look forward to, and I look forward to serving with you. And I'm happy to answer
any questions.
Thank you, Ms. Tonilas. You got a lot done in the first two days. Our first question is Director
Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair. Welcome back, Pauletta.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: It's really great to see you again. I had a couple of questions. Number one,
I was wondering, in your process of building a strategic communication plan, could you also
include a strategic marketing plan?
PAULETTA TONILAS: All will be encompassed in it. When I say communications plan, that
includes the whole Communications department, Marketing, Public Relations, Community
Engagement, Customer Care, Government Relations, all of those elements are within
Communications, and they will all be components of the strategic communications plan.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK. Well, I'm really curious to see a distinct marketing plan for this
agency moving forward. So I know it's going to fall within the Communications, but I'm very
interested in a distinct marketing plan.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Then if I could continue with my other question. What exactly-- and
maybe you haven't thought, because you're just fresh back-- but for thinking moving forward,
what is your vision for creating a collaborative communication with our partners, and most
importantly, not just our stakeholders, but our constituents so that it's a two-way street? Because
what they're good at RTD is talking at people and not hearing them, and really reflecting what
our various constituents are concerned about, and communicating and having a dialogue, which
then perhaps could grow into building a robust ridership. Thank you.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. And thank you for those comments. And the question of
what vision I have for that, for me, it's really very simple. It's how we parlay our efforts into
authentic engagement for diverse audiences that touches people and communicates people in the
way that is comfortable, convenient, and safe for them. And it's different for various sectors of
our community.
And so authentic engagement and working with the various diverse audiences across the area,
where they're a part of helping frame what we do. It's not just us telling them, here's what we're
doing, is absolutely where I am on engagement.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Pauletta, welcome. I had a few questions for you. So
what comes to mind, top of mind for me as I'm hearing from my constituents, is about the
affordable fares. And I'm curious how you and your team will market that and get the word out
in terms of community engagement. I do see this as an opportunity, and so I appreciate you using
that language. I'm excited about seeing some authentic community engagement coming from
RTD. And so if you could speak a little more about that, I'd appreciate it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. So as far as the new fare structure goes, obviously, there was,
again, RTD being a leader in putting together the program to come up with the new fare
structure, which was very bold in launching it, very bold, which is key kudos to this agency. But
I think working with the constituents that we worked with on the committee for that, we would
want to also continue to work with them on how we communicate that and how we engage folks
to help them understand why we've done what we've done.
That's a key thing. People may not always like, and they may have concerns about what we do.
But if we can help them to understand the reasons why, and how it's benefiting them as it relates
to mobility in general, I think that's a key part of how we have to message it. But people are
going to have very different perspectives as it relates to the fares.
And it's tough. Nobody wants to pay more for anything, whether it's food at the grocery store or
gas at the pump. But this is how we do business. And I think that there are some powerful
messages that we can work from. And our team will be working on that. We actually we're
talking about that item today.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Just a quick follow-up. So I wanted to know specifically the outreach plan
for the low income pass, like actually getting those who certified for that in the hands of folks
when that's rolled out in July. I'd just like to see folks from my district and other districts actually
being enrolled in that program in some more specific detail.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, absolutely. We will make sure and do that, and we'll be reporting
back to you guys on that in our monthly updates.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. Well, welcome back.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
JUDY LUBOW: Some of the folks before you came had what I thought was a really good idea.
And then it kind of fell by the wayside because they left. And the idea had to do with going to
the community district by district, having a district by district interaction with the stakeholders
and with the citizens to find out what's going on there, and if what's happening with transit is it
working, is it not working?
And I think that's a wonderful idea, and I was looking forward to it being rolled out. But
apparently it fell by the wayside as there was a change. I was wondering if you knew anything
about that plan and if you have any ideas about actually doing it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I don't know about that plan, but I am very interested in talking to you
about what it was that you liked about that, and what it is that we can do across the district to
make sure that we're doing what you say, which is talking to the people because again,
sometimes we talk in-- the folks who are in the weeds with us all the time.
And for me-- and I talked to my team about this. I said this today in our all hands, and they're
going to hear me say it 1,000 more times-- that we need to continue to think about the 99% of the
people who we're serving in some capacity, even if they don't ride transit daily, who aren't in the
weeds with us and aren't as informed and up to speed on things.
And so engagement in all 15 districts in a way that helps us learn what the people think, and how
they want to get information, and how they want RTD to mobilize more in their community is
what we should be doing.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. And I was just wondering-- because I know Dave, you and I talked
about this-- is this something you're still interested in even though the people who had been
interested have gone?
DAVE GENOVA: Absolutely. And Pauletta and I talked briefly about it today as I was going
through our briefing together, we talked about the community engagement piece. And I said both
as a whole, as an entire district, but then by district by district, Board member district by Board
member district.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: We'll be working on it.
JUDY LUBOW: Excellent. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker.

JEFF WALKER: Thank you. It's good to see you. So I like your points, especially the boldness
leading the way, and we take the hits being out there in front. And I still get asked-- I was at
some conference, and somebody said, how does Denver do it? It's been a long time since the
Eagle project turned dirt, since it started construction, and we still get questions, or I still get
questions about how that came to be.
It's been a long time since FasTracks passed, and I still get questions about how that came to be.
And I say it's because we're bold and we're willing to take chances in Colorado. People come
here for that reason. I came here for that reason. I'm sure a lot of people in this room came here
for that reason. So I like that face, carrying that forward, carrying that willing to take chances.
I also like the idea of pushing the benefit of transit. I read an article recently by a friend of mine
who used to be a Board member in Houston at Houston Metro. And it was about RTD. It was an
our clips a week or so ago. And it said how transit doesn't go where people want to go. I would
like to see something about how developers haven't built their developments where people want
to go near transit, so transit can serve those a lot more easily. I've been preaching that for years.
I know Denver's really cognizant of that, and they try to push development towards transit
corridors, bus and rail, rail and bus, especially, because there's a lot more bus lines than there are
rail lines in Denver. But that's something that I would really like to see, the benefit of transit, not
just to our passengers, but also to the developers who we serve by bringing employees,
customers, and tourists to their doorsteps and to their facilities.
So anyway, glad to see you here again. I was really excited to hear that you're coming back. So
I'm looking forward to working with you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much. You, too.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Hi, Miss Tonilas, and I'd echo the welcome that other people have offered.
Also agree with some of the comments about the two-way nature of the communications piece,
and engaging people who aren't just the riders, but the various stakeholders and so forth.
But I had a question, actually. On the P3 part that was up on the PowerPoint, you talked about-or maybe I'm not sure if you were talking about compiling, or actually just getting the word out
about lessons learned. I wanted to clarify on that.
Are you actually kind of going in and identifying the lessons learned? And if so, can that be
extended to the bumps along the way, because that part is real valuable in terms of going forward
in other projects and so forth.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. And Mr. Genova and I talked about this this morning. Maybe
Dave, you want to talk a little bit about that.

DAVE GENOVA: Yes. Actually, the team, we've been gathering our various lessons learned for
some time now. So we actually published a document right after the procurement phase that was
Lessons Learned About P3 for Procurement, which is a very important part of the process.
We started to pull together some of the information about the design build period. But as we're in
kind of a combination operation and maintenance, and still a little bit of design build, since we
haven't opened the third line yet. So this is something that I told the team probably a couple of
years ago, to just make sure we're capturing this information. And we actually share a lot of
lessons learned, both the good-- well, I'd say three, the good, the bad, and the ugly parts.
We do that quite frequently as we have city visits come in, fly in visits, we visit other
organizations, or when we present at various conferences and things, a lot of people are very,
very interested in the lessons learned piece. And I'm not shy in talking about them, just so it's
helpful for all to understand.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And then just to piggyback on that, I think that there's definitely a
Lessons Learned document like what we did before that is of value. But I think speaking and
making it part of our narrative of how we talk about what we're doing can be part of how we tell
the RTD story now, any day, with what we're going through.
SHELLEY COOK: And if I could just piggyback one last thing. The communications is a huge
piece of that, I think. I thing there must be a special focus or demand on the communications
element that I would think would be good to get in to parse and kind of derive those lessons as
well.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chairwoman. Well, Pauletta, welcome home.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It is really very nice to see you. And I'd like to piggy back on
some of the comments that have already been stated. The first one is I'm kind of thinking that
this is like a RTD 2.0 point for me in terms of going to that next level of communications.
I want to talk first about the affordable fares, and I agree in terms of the marketing outreach and
explaining to our communities, working and collaborating with all of our schools so that the
youth and the parents know how to access these passes.
And then secondarily, languages. And I think that it is really very vitally important that as you're
looking at the marketing and the outreach, that we truly do look at our constituency bases, and
who's out there, who's utilizing it, and what languages they need to be reading these in.

And as a transit rider-- and that's all I do is I'm on the buses and on the trains-- I've learned so
much of just sitting and watching and listening to people and navigating. And I think the simpler
that we can make our communication, the better.
And so I would just like to say to you, I would love to see a text plan in place so that if there is a
bus that's going to be late or there's something coming up, it's not just Twitter or Facebook. For a
lot of people, they have texting available. So I just wanted to throw that out to you and say
welcome.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Well, welcome back aboard, unintended. I want to thank you for your
presentation. That's very impressive after two days on the job. And maybe you had a little head
start last week. But I can't wait for the two-month or the two-year presentation.
Manager Genova will not be surprised by this question. Earlier on our orientation process, as
new Board members, I had mentioned that we had I think, Dave, three communications positions
opened, including yours.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, there's four.
TROY WHITMORE: OK. So I was just curious what the status of your team is at this point.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah, that's a great question. We do currently have four major positions
in Communications open. We have two Senior Manager positions open, one in Marketing, one in
Public Relations and Media. And we have two managers, one in Digital Media and one in
Market Research. These are all major positions. Now that's not to be said we don't have work
marching forward in those areas because we have a very capable staff, very hardworking,
committed people doing these jobs and making sure we cover the bases every day.
But that is one of my priorities is getting those in the mix and recruiting for those positions and
trying to get those filled as quickly as possible.
TROY WHITMORE: All right. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. And Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First of all, again, let me join others in
saying welcome back. And we appreciate your expression of many great ideas and plans,
positive, affirmative plans that you already have out there demonstrating collaboration with so
many as you communicate.
We are borrowing a little bit on next month by having you speak here today, as you undoubtedly
know, because we are hopefully-- not prejudging anything-- but we are hopefully going to

amend our bylaws next month to have this committee become the Communications and
Government Relations Committee. And the charter, hopefully, will also be adopted at that time,
which addresses communications and having this committee take the responsibility for oversight
as to that.
At that time when we do it, I give you an idea to think about that it might be quite useful, tying
into something we spoke about earlier, to have the Citizens Advisory Committee regularly report
to the Communications and Government Relations Committee to express what it is that they are
doing, what it is that they see, and to receive assignments from the Board through the avenue of
this committee.
There are many things that they are currently addressing, but I know there is a sense of
frustration because they don't, as I have been told, have a clear image of specific projects. And
with things like the Transportation Transformation, about which we will hear more in the next
committee meeting coming up, there is a lot for them in which to become engaged.
And I think that the communications between them and you and you and this committee and
them and the outside world would be really a very strong part of expanding this team in
communications and having a greater impact. So I just urge that for your consideration and for
the committee's consideration.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I just wanted to add my welcome and to point
out that Pauletta is a constituent of mine in District N, and I'm very happy to know that. So
welcome back.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Anything else? Well, I will just join the group. It's very exciting to
see so many people who have known you and are just really energized to have you back. And I
think it was Director Malpiede that said hopefully take us to RTD 2.0 in terms of
communications. And I think we're all excited to have you on board.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. We're on our way. Thank you very much.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Okey doke. I think that's all of our updates. Does anyone
have other matters? Our next meeting date is April 2, 2019. Do I have a motion to adjourn? And
a second?
INTERPOSING VOICES: Second.
OK. All in favor, aye. We're adjourned. Five minute break. Great. Thanks.

