Regional Transportation District

1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2307

Board of Directors
Chair – Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
First Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Second Vice Chair – Shelley Cook, District L
Secretary – Vince Buzek, District J
Treasurer – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Bob Broom, District F
Claudia Folska, District E
Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Judy Lubow, District I
Natalie Menten, District M

Ken Mihalik, District G
Doug Tisdale, District H
Jeff Walker, District D
Troy Whitmore, District K
Kate Williams, District A

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
January 28, 2020 at 3:30 PM

I.

Call to Order

II.

Roll Call

III.

Executive Session
Personnel matters, CRS 24-6-402 (4)(f)(I)

IV.

Adjourn from Executive Session

V.

Recommended Action
A.

Appointment of Interim General Manager

The Selection Committee of the Whole for the Interim General Manager (Selection
Committee) presents to the RTD Board of Directors (Board) a motion to identify and
appoint the Interim General Manager (Interim GM).
B.

Budget Transfer for General Manager/CEO Search

It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $200,000
from the Unrestricted Operating Reserve to Board Office expense budget to fund
activities associated with the General Manager (GM)/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO)
Executive Search. Any funds remaining after the search is conducted and a new
GM/CEO is hired will be returned to the Operating Reserve.
This action addresses four of the General Manager’s goals for 2020:
 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership
 Core Goal #4 – Ensures Equal Employment Opportunity
 Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach
 Task Goal #1 – Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/ Collaboration

VI.

Other Matters

VII.

Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

5.A

BOARD INITIATED AGENDA ITEM
To:

Board of Directors

Requested
by:

Selection Committee of the Whole for the
Interim General Manager

Date:

January 23, 2020

Subject:

Appointment of Interim General Manager

Date: January 23, 2020

Board Meeting Date: January 28, 2020

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The Selection Committee of the Whole for the Interim General Manager (Selection Committee) presents
to the RTD Board of Directors (Board) a motion to identify and appoint the Interim General Manager
(Interim GM).
BACKGROUND
The Selection Committee received and reviewed application materials from over 40 individuals from
across the country.
During a Special Board Meeting held on Thursday, January 9, 2020, the Selection Committee
interviewed the five preliminary Interim GM candidates and, during a subsequent Special Board Meeting
held later that same day, adopted a recommended action approving all five preliminary candidates as
“finalists”, as that term is defined in CRS §24-6-402 (3.5).
The Selection Committee also solicited feedback from the public and from RTD employees regarding the
candidates in order to inform the committee’s decision-making.
DISCUSSION
In adopting this Recommended Action and its associated resolution, the Board, acting in its capacity as
the Selection Committee, formally identifies and appoints an Interim GM from among the pool of finalist
candidates.
Following the formal appointment of the Interim GM during a Special Board Meeting held either on
January 28, 2020, or as soon as practicable on such date as the Board determines, the Board of
Directors will promptly negotiate an employment agreement with the Interim General Manager.
The Interim GM will assume all duties delegated to the General Manager according to the Board Bylaws,
existing resolutions, and previous Board actions, unless otherwise terminated by the Board of Directors.
ALTERNATIVES
1) To adopt the recommended action and resolution to formally appoint the Interim General
Manager.
2) To postpone the appointment of the Interim General Manager to a date certain.

Packet Pg. 3

5.A

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The financial impact associated with the adoption of this recommended action is as previously
discussed.
ATTACHMENTS:


2020 Resolution - 001 Appointment of the Interim General Manager

(PDF)

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 4

Attachment: 2020 Resolution - 001 Appointment of the Interim General Manager (2020-001 : Appointment of Interim General Manager)

5.A.a

Packet Pg. 5

Attachment: 2020 Resolution - 001 Appointment of the Interim General Manager (2020-001 : Appointment of Interim General Manager)

5.A.a

Packet Pg. 6

5.B

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Heather McKillop, Acting Interim General
Manager and CEO

Date: January 22, 2020

From:

Barbara G McManus,
Board Office

GM

Date:

January 21, 2020

Subject:

Budget Transfer for General Manager/CEO
Search

Executive

Manager,

Board Meeting Date:

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $ 200,000 from the
Unrestricted Operating Reserve to Board Office expense budget to fund activities associated with the
General Manager (GM)/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Executive Search. Any funds remaining after
the search is conducted and a new GM/CEO is hired will be returned to the Operating Reserve.
This action addresses four of the General Manager’s goals for 2020:
 Core Goal #2 – Strong & Ethical Leadership
 Core Goal #4 – Ensures Equal Employment Opportunity
 Core Goal #5 – Effective Communications & Community Outreach
 Task Goal #1 – Strengthen Transparent Public Communication/ Collaboration
BACKGROUND
Funding for GM/ CEO search is not an item that is budgeted on a yearly basis in the Board Office. In
order to avoid funds being dormant in a cost center and not be able to be used for other expenditures,
funds are allocated for the search in the year/years that a search needs to be conducted.
DISCUSSION
Funds are being requested to be budgeted to fund an executive search firm, communications outreach
activities associated with the search, and external legal counsel for the purpose of negotiating both the
interim and permanent GM/CEO. A separate function code will be used within the Board Office budget
to track expenditures related to this search for transparency.
FINANICAL IMPACT
This is an impact of $200,000 from the Unrestricted Operating Reserve. This will leave a balance of
$15 million in that reserve. If there are unspent funds at the end of the recruitment, those funds will be
returned to the Unrestricted Operating Reserve.
ALTERNATIVES

Recommended Action: It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of
$400,000 from the Unrestricted Operating Reserve to Board Office expense budget to fund activities
associated with the General Manager (GM)/ Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Search. Any funds
remaining after the search is conducted and a new GM/CEO is hired will be returned to the Operating
Reserve.

Packet Pg. 7

5.B

Alternative #1: Change the amount of the request to something more or less than $400,000. This
is not the recommended action as it might result in too much or too little funds being appropriated
for this work.
Alternative #2: Don’t approve the request. This is not the recommended action as their will not be
funds available causing a delay in issuing the RFP’s for all the elements needed in conducting the
executive search for the GM/CEO.

Prepared by:
Barbara McManus, Executive Manager, Board Office
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

