January 28, 2020
Special Board Meeting
[AUDIO OUT]
BARBARA MCMANUS: I apologize for the delay. But because my team didn't know what the
outcome of our meeting was going to be, we have to relaunch the Special Board Meeting down
here. Just another moment.
[AUDIO OUT]
You'll have to re-sign in when they launch the meeting.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
[BANGS GAVEL]
The Special Board Meeting will now come back to order. There are two action items on the agenda
this evening, labeled as item 5, actions A and B. The first item is appointment of the Interim
General Manager. The selection of the Committee of the Whole for the Interim and General
Manager Selection Committee presents to the RTD Board of Directors a motion to identify and
appoint the Interim General Manager.
May I have a motion and a second to approve the resolution in the packet?
KATE WILLIAMS: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And then, all right, moved by Director Williams, seconded
by Director Guissinger. And now, may we have a unanimous consent substitute for the newly
worded resolution?
BOARD MEMBERS: Yes.
BOARD MEMBERS: Yes.
BOARD MEMBERS: Head nod.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Head nod?
BOARD MEMBERS: Yes.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, for the benefit of the public, this resolution includes the name
of the designated candidate and the deadline for completing negotiations. Seeing no objections,
the resolution is substituted. We will now read the substituted resolution. If I may have Mr. McKay
read the resolution in its entirety for the benefit of Director Folska, who is our board member who
is visually impaired.
JOHN MCKAY: "Appointment of the Interim General Manager, whereas on November 21, 2019,
General Manager David A. Genova submitted his notice of voluntary retirement from employment
with the Regional Transportation District, and whereas in searching for an Interim General
Manager, paren Interim GM, to lead the agency until such time as a permanent General Manager
can be hired, the RTD Board of Directors, paren Board, expressed that successful applicants would
have enteralia the following qualifications and attributes--" [CLEARS THROAT]
Excuse me. "One, a passionate, dynamic, and forward-thinking leader; strong interpersonal and
communication skills and exceptional negotiating skills; ability to manage and lead an
organization in a highly political, complex, and transparent environment; ability to work
collaboratively and build bridges internally and externally to create opportunities to advance
RTD's strategic objectives; progressive approach to identify technological initiatives and other
forward-thinking business practices that maximize efficiencies and offer service options to
customers; proven record of working closely with the community and advocating for their needs
as they relate to mobility and regional development."
"Whereas acting as the Selection Committee of the Whole for the General Manager, the Board
received application materials from over 40 candidates from across the country, and ultimately
identified and interviewed five finalists for the position of Interim General Manager, and whereas
the Board sought input from the public and from RTD employees, and used that feedback to inform
their decision-making, and whereas the Board desires to remain open and transparent during the
search for a permanent General Manager, and is committed to working in a positive and
constructive manner with the Interim General Manager, now, therefore, be it resolved that subject
to the execution of the employment agreement identified below, paren one, the Board of Directors
of the Regional Transportation District appoints Paul Ballard as the Interim General Manager for
the Regional Transportation District, effective upon execution of such employment agreement
through the period until a permanent General Manager replacement is named.
And paren two, the Interim General Manager will assume all duties delegated to the General
Manager according to the Board bylaws, existing resolutions, and previous Board actions.
Following the formal designation of the Interim General Manager, the Board will promptly
negotiate a contract agreement with the Interim General Manager, provided, however, that such
employment agreement shall be finalized and fully executed on or before February 12, 2020, or at
such other time as the Board may determine in its sole discretion. Passed and adopted by the Board
of Directors of the Regional Transportation District on the 28th day of January, 2020, to be signed
by Angie Rivera-Malpiede, Chair of the Board, and Vine Buzek, Secretary."
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. McKay. Is there any discussion? Seeing none, I
would ask that we go ahead and vote. Director Williams is first, and then Mr. Director-- oh, sorry,
I'm so sorry, Director Folska.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, sorry, I apologize, Madam Chair. I am afraid I can't support this for a
couple of reasons. One of them is that I don't feel that the characteristics that are outlined in the
resolution are in alignment with this candidate, or the one that is proposed here. And two, I think
it's a misuse of our tax dollars. So for that reason, I'll be voting no.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: I will be joining Director Folska in a no-vote for a various list of reasons.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Menten. Seeing no one else in the queue, I
would ask that the vote proceed. Director Williams, you are the movement, and Director
Guissinger. Please, cast your vote.
OK, the motion has been adopted, 10 yes, 5 no. The nos are Director Tisdale, Director Walker,
Director Menten, Director Folska, and Director Mihalik. Thank you for that vote.
There is another motion that we have before the Board. And it has to do with the budget transfer
for the General Manager CEO search. Before we-- yeah, before we do that, let me go to Director
Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I actually voted incorrectly. My vote was supposed to be
a no for that. I'm so sorry. I ask that the record reflect that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: It will be reflected. Director, or Ms. McManus, it will be-BARBARA MCMANUS: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, so all right, thank you. All right, so here's our second motion,
budget transfer for General Manager CEO search. It is recommended that the Board of Directors
approve a budget transfer of $400,000 from the unrestricted operating reserve to the Board Office
Expense Budget to fund activities associated with the General Manager, the GM/Chief Executive
Officer, paren CEO, executive search.
Any funds remaining after the search is conducted and a new GM/CEO is hired will be returned
to the operating revenue. This action addresses four of the General Manager's goals for 2020-- core
goal number two, strong and ethical leadership; core level, or core goal number four, ensures equal
employment opportunity; core goal number five, effective communications and community
outreach; and task goal one, strengthen transparent public communication, collaboration. May I
please have a motion to approve this action?
DOUG TISDALE: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: Second.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Let the record reflect that the movement is Director Tisdale,
and the second is Director Whitmore. Is there any discussion? And I see a few people in the queue,
so let me begin. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, I would like to make an amendment to this motion to reduce the
$400,000 to $200,000. And I have a reason for doing that. Madam Chair, would you prefer that I
speak to that now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please do.
NATALIE MENTEN: An inspection of the expenditures from 2015, which included the search
firm themselves, a contractor for public outreach, and a firm that conducted two single public
outreach sessions, and the legal counsel for both the candidate and for the agency, the figure that
I am able to come up with from the 2015 search was $110,000, approximately. There may be a
couple minor items missing from that, as an example, the ballroom that we rented at the hotel for
the public meeting, the room we used at Denver Athletic Club for, I believe, our interviews. In all
of that, I would expect that we should be able to keep within the $200,000.
This agency is facing a financial crunch. And I would feel much more comfortable if we started
with a $200,000 figure. And if there needs to be an amendment to add additional funds, that can
come back to us as an action item. But we must be absolutely as careful as possible with the public
dollars in this process. The motion is to amend to $200,000.
KEN MIHALIK:: Second.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right, so it has been moved by Director Menten, thank
you, and seconded by Director Mihalik to reduce the Board of Directors budget transfer for
operating reserve for the budget for the General Manager/CEO search to $200,000. Do we do an
electronic vote on this? So if you two-- yeah, is there any discussion? Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: No, I'm done.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, all right, thank you. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, I was to speak on the main motion, not on the amendment. So
I'll withdraw and wait to speak on the main motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: I'm inclined to support the motion, understanding, though, that we may need
to increase it. I'd rather start from the low amount and see if there's a way we can work within that
lower budget. So just wanted to offer comments on my vote here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. I am in agreement with the position of starting lower,
especially since the only information that we have is from Director Menten and her search of the
RTD records that show that the actual expenditures were much lower than the $400,000. And I
don't know if that's accurate, but we haven't seen anything showing that it isn't accurate.
So if folks know that it was a lot more than that, maybe they could speak to it. But as of now, the
only thing I'm aware of is Director Menten's search. And it doesn't warrant a $400,000 request, in
my opinion. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Miss McManus.
BARBARA MCMANUS: So none of that information was requested of the Board Office, which
is why it wasn't shared. We know that the $400,000 is probably higher than what we need.
Unfortunately, the way the search was done the last time, the money was taken from all over the
place. And so there's really no good way to track all the expenses that were made.
What Director Menten did find was trackable, but it was not in any way, shape, or form complete.
What we have done to change that this time is had a single budget code set up in my budget that
everything for this search will come out of, from soup to nuts, so that we will have a full picture
and all of the elements, whether it's internal supplies that we need-- binders, paper, whatever-- plus
all of the contracts that will be tracked, as well as all of the internal and external focus groups and
community outreach. So I did want to say that.
And then we did add in the Board report that any money that was not used would go back. And
we would have a clear picture of what everything costs, so that none of the waters would be
muddied. And we would know exactly what was coming out over time, if that's what the Board
wanted to track as well.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I am in support of Director Menten's motion as well. I do
think we should-- well, I'd actually like for us to know what we would like to pay for before we
put a dollar amount out in general. But I would support us decreasing that amount and being
responsible with taxpayer money. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I think that we had this information. I did, in fact, call the Board Office to ask
why, which everybody else had the opportunity to do before this meeting. And my understanding
was that any money that is not used or necessary will be returned.
So I don't see any reason with us not budgeting enough for us to do a good job at what we want to
do. Miss McKillop, you want to--

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. Yeah, I was going to call on her next.
KATE WILLIAMS: I thought you were going to help me out here.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Well, I will when you're done.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. So it's not like we're giving away money. We're just setting it aside so
that we have it if we need it. And I think that we owe it to our constituents to do the best job
possible, and not do a halfway job because we haven't allocated enough funding. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just on those lines that Director Williams
was speaking to, and also Barbara McManus, I mean, our thought process behind this was to have
adequate funds to allow the Board to do what they need to do in their search. The numbers that
were quoted were probably the best information that could be found at the time. Remember, that's
five years ago. So from even an inflationary standpoint, that number should be well over $200,000
in today's dollars.
My concern is that you will pick a selection firm or some attorney or whatever it might be through
the RFP process. And then you'll have to wait for another Board meeting to be able to increase that
amount to be able to award that contract. And I know from what at least of what I've heard is time
is of the essence now to move forward in the selection process.
So that's how we came up with the number. We looked at just some rough information out there
as to what a search firm might cost as well as the external recruitment. I know you want a lot of
outreach, and that is going to cost some money, and then also any potential legal fees. So we felt
$400,000 would be sufficient to cover anything that the Board might want to do. And we are, as
Barbara said, going to track it very specifically, which it was not done the last time.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. While I support the effort and the sentiment behind this motion, I
won't be supporting it. Although I am very much in favor of being a good steward to the tax payers'
dollars, the last thing I want to do is sit through another meeting, and all the expenses that go along
with that also. And given this last process, I could see quite a few of those if we have to come back
for a scope-- for budget amendments. So I appreciate the effort, but I don't think-- but I won't be
able to support it for those reasons. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, we'd just like speak to-- so I did present that spreadsheet both to our
Purchasing Department. And while the reasoning was we don't exactly know what we need to add
on to your sheet, Director Menten, it was-- what I was able to search in our true blown check
registry you get under special request. But this almost goes to the same point as if you were to-- if
you have a contractor sitting in that audience right now, and they hear, oh, the Board has said

they've got up to $400,000 to spend, what's going through that contractor's head is, how much of
that pie can I get? That's what it's about.
So that is the purpose in limiting it. And the fact that we spent, I think, nearly $40,000 just on local
outreach last time, when we have a full-blown Communications Department-- full blown-- we
should be using our own skills, our own abilities, and we shouldn't even need to be paying out that
amount. So I think $200,000 is quite reasonable.
And, again, we are just-- let's not forget that in November our CFO said, we won't even know how
we'll pay for operations and maintenance of our current existing system every-- in 2026. We won't
even know how to support-- we won't even know how to run the buses. We won't know how to
repair trains unless we start to really tighten our belt. And that is the purpose of this motion is to
start right now, right here, $200,000. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'm in complete support with Director Menten's
motion. I'll be voting yes on it. I think that we've seen time and again, and even the Colorado State
Legislature has made it clear, that they think this Board is not taking care of their fiduciary
responsibilities. And just spending money wildly like that I think is inappropriate, in particular
because of the cuts that we're looking forward to seeing in May.
So, again, I don't think it's a good use. And I don't think we're good stewards of the taxpayer dollar
if we go ahead with this. And so $200,000 is even a lot. But you add that up with the Interim
General Manager costs at $400,000, to search for a permanent one, you're pretty close to $1 million
now. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. I'm reminded of the discussion we had about the-- putting
money into the budget for legal, for some of our legal matters. And this same discussion was had.
And it's-- just because it's authorized, to use that term, doesn't mean it will be appropriated. And it
could be returned back to the operating reserve. So I would much rather not have to go through
the exercise, as Director Walker said, but be very, very mindful and very, very careful about how
we expend those funds.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. While I am not interested in sitting in another meeting, I
would like us to be responsible with taxpayer money and not make a decision because we don't
want to sit in another meeting. We have no idea how much any of this is going to cost, what exactly
we'll be spending money on.

We haven't talked about what it is we want in terms of pieces of this, what materials are needed.
So we're just kind of putting a budget forward and hoping that it either takes care of it, and we
have money left over. That feels very irresponsible. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. OK, so we have the amended motion before us, which
is to move the budget for the Interim, or the CEO/GM outreach from $400,000 to $200,000. The
movement was Director Menten, and the second one was Mr. Mihalik. Do you want to vote, and
then the rest of us can move forward? Thank you.
ROLF ASPHAUG: And, Chair?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is Rolf Asphaug. Just to be very clear, voting yes means you want to
change the amount from the $400,000 initial recommendation to $200,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Voting no means you want to keep it at $400,000.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Correct. Thank you, sir. OK, the motion passes, 10 yes and 5 no.
The nos are Director Tisdale, Director Catlin, Director Walker, Director Whitmore, and Director
Williams. Thank you.
BOB BROOM: Call the question on the main motion.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Speaking on the main motion now, as amended at the
$200,000, and whereas I voted against it, I recognize, appreciate, and applaud the concern over
fiscal responsibility. And I am certain that whether the amount was $400,00 or, as now proposed,
$200,000, the Board Office staff, all of the staff and this Board will be judicious in their
expenditure of funds associated with this process.
And certainly, a bright light has been shown on this process, through this meeting and other efforts.
So I have every confidence that the public will be watching this and that we will. The important
thing behind this motion is that it simply begins the process of, as First Vice Chair Catlin pointed
out, the authorization. It's not the specific appropriation of the dollars, because we don't have the
process outlined yet.
That will come. That's the next step. And the Chair will share with us some elements of that process
going forward, once we conclude this.
And I think it's important that we have an opportunity, now that hopefully we will adopt this
resolution and have authorized funds, to have a clear articulation of a process that the board can
take forward in pursuing this, the most important task that the Board has. We spent a lot of time

looking at an Interim General Manager process. Now, this is called the show. This is the big
leagues. This is the majors.
We're looking for a permanent General Manager. And so it is important that this be done in as
careful and public and transparent a way as possible. And I urge your support of this recommended
action as amended. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. For the record, I think it's been pointed out by
Director Lewis and Director Tisdale that we don't know. And I think moving forward, when things
come to the Board and we want to do something, I would like to put the horse before the cart,
right? I'd like to have the whole scope of work and what it is we're looking at, and that we agree
on that, and then look at pricing it out.
I can't imagine running my household like that, or running my own business like that, or going to
investors like that. So I really urge this body to put some effort into bringing the whole list of
things together. And, yeah, there could be some changes and modifications. But I think it would
be helpful just in general, moving forward, that that is our practice. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you, Madam Chair. Just a question for our general counsel for
clarification. I guess I was under the impression that was a substitute motion we voted on, and
we're done. Or was it a motion to amend the main motion, and we need to vote again on the main
motion now?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes, that's correct.
VINCE BUZEK: Got it. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right, with that in mind, I don't see anyone else in
the queue. Let me go back to the original motion.
It is recommended that the Board of Directors approve a budget transfer of $400,000 from the
unrestricted operating-- I mean, $200,000-- I'm sorry, from the unrestricted operating reserve to
the Board Office expense budget to fund activities associated with the General Manager/Chief
Executive Officer executive search. Any funds remaining after the search is conducted and a new
GM/CEO is hired will be returned to the operating reserve.
This action addresses the four General Manager goals for 2020-- core goal number two, strong and
ethical leadership; core goal four, ensures equal employment opportunity; core goal five, effective
communications and community outreach; and task goal one, strengthen transparent public and

communication collaboration. I have Director Tisdale on this one as the motion of movement, and
Director Whitmore as the second. So if you could please vote.
It passes unanimously. All right, we're now at other matters. Does anybody have any other matters
to bring before this Special Board Meeting? Seeing none, I'd like to enter a motion to adjourn from
the January 28 Special Board Meeting.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
TROY WHITMORE: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you all for coming tonight. We're going to take
five minutes before we go into our regular RTD monthly board meeting. Thank you.
[BANGS GAVEL]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]

