2025-05-12
Performance Committee
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Good morning. Monday, May 12 Performance Committee will now come to order. We
are convened as of 8:31 AM, and I would respectfully request everyone attending this meeting to mute
yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Please note that the committee meetings of the RTD Board
of Directors will be held remotely via Zoom, and we will be audio and video recorded. The meeting
recordings, along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable on the
Board's website.
During today's meeting, we are providing Communication Access Real Time translation, also known as
CART. Anyone who would like to access this service should send an email to the RTD Board office at
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com, and a link will be provided. Additionally, the CART transcript can be
automatically translated into Spanish for anyone who would like a live transcript of this meeting. A live
stream of this meeting is also available via RTD's YouTube page.
I would like to call the roll for the committee members. Director Vince Buzek is on an excused absence for
this meeting. Director Lynn Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Vice Chair Chris Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Matt Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Chris Nicholson.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Present.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Director Peggy Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: And I am the Chair, Michael Guzman. I am also present. All right, for the record, I
also see that we have the Board Chair Julien Bouquet present and First Vice Chair Patrick O'Keefe. And I
do not see anybody else at this time.
I would like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee regarding any topic
listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding month. If you wish to
speak or have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press star 9 on your phone.
During this time, the committee will not offer any direct comments or responses. However, if you would like

to be contacted regarding your public comment, please email the RTD Board office at
RTD.BoardOffice@RTD-Denver.com. Are there any hands raised?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there are no hands raised.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Did we receive any comment via email or in writing prior to the meeting?
JACK KROLL: Committee Chair Guzman, there were no submitted email or written comment to you all with
respect to the topics of this meeting or the preceding month's meeting.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Mr. Kroll. With no participants in the queue, we will close the public
comment period at this time. We have one discussion item on today's agenda. That is for the 2025 draft
update of the General Manager Performance Assessment Form and Process.
I'm going to be introducing this, but I would like to bring this before you at this stage, to have a discussion,
to receive feedback from both the Directors on this committee and any other Directors that have something
to add, as well as to receive feedback from our General Manager/CEO. The performance evaluation form
was fully developed last year. It needs only to be updated annually to reflect the performance assessment
outcome ratings and corresponding point distribution of the short-term goals and associated adjusted base
salary percentage increase, for which the GM/CEO is eligible for this year's performance period.
I want to have the conversation regarding this draft to get a sense from all of you and the General
Manager/CEO regarding the suggested update. The draft was created with input from both myself and Vice
Chair Chris Gutschenritter, relying heavily on the instruction and information from RKL last year about the
performance evaluation tool and process.
Adjusting the numbers and the evaluation form is a first attempt. And so I want to make sure that everybody
is comfortable and aligned before we continue. A couple of things to note, in your Board packet, you should
have received, also, the process that was described last year, with the slideshow that was prepared for the
Board at the time that we received this performance evaluation tool, and their suggestions and best
practices.
For reference, you can review the video that is available for that meeting. But most of the information is
written therein. As part of the process, RKL ran the process last year as our third party vendor, and they
used the system Qualtrics. That will become important later. That was how we distributed the evaluation
form and where information was compiled to be presented to the committee and then to the full Board after
all of the Directors had an opportunity to respond to this evaluation form.
They will not be doing that process again this year. So, we will need to internalize this. And working with
our Chief People Officer, Charlene Polege, we will create that form in Qualtrics again. Because we do have
access to that-- Hello, Director Chandler. Thank you for joining-- for the compilation and the review of the
performance feedback on this.
So, I'm trying to document this process as we go forward and create the roadmap for next year's committee
and chair to be able to do these updates and know what benchmarks look like as the year progresses, so
that we avoid not having to do a full-on tackle at the end of the year, and we can have things set up on a
timeline that can be moved, depending on how we establish our goal-setting process, as we've been
discussing, but also, to ensure that we have everything set up and, in order to continue this forward, the
adjustment parts are easier.

There is more to come on this. This is just the draft of the evaluation form questions that will be used, with
some insight to how the point evaluations might look, based on what we confirmed and affirmed as a body
in January of 2025. So, I believe you all have the document in front of you. It is available for public display.
I'm going to open the floor to anybody who would like to speak. Just raise your hand, and I will take notes
scrupulously for this process. Are there any questions or discussion at this time? Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: So on the part of the document that, I guess, relates to the short-term goals, let me make
sure, first, that I'm understanding this correctly. So we have these short term goals, many of which or most
of which have a specific number that needs to be achieved. Is the idea that we are going to, each of us,
rate whether or not that short-term goal, or to what degree it's achieved, versus just setting a criteria
whereby there's a number of points provided based on just objectively how close the number is actually
achieved?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I want to understand your question fully. It sounds like-- and please correct me if I'm
wrong-- that you are asking whether we're going to be rating this on a yes/no process or on a scale.
MATT LARSEN: Well, I see there's a scale, a section rating scale with point values from 0 to 12. And I
guess, I mean, to me, if, say, short-term goal one is to increase light rail service availability to 96%, why
would we be rating that? Why wouldn't it just automatically be a 6? Or if it fell short, why wouldn't we set a
scale whereby if it fell short by a certain amount, it would be 0? If it was partially short, there'd be some
range between whatever benchmark or starting point and 96%, where it would automatically be a portion
of the six points.
And then also, if it exceeded the 96%, there would be an automatic linear or other scale, where it would get
more than the six points. I mean, I guess it seems like, if I'm understanding this correctly, we have this
objective number, a quantitative number, that we're basing most of these short-term goals on. But we're
still saying, we're going to ask the Directors to subjectively evaluate whether that objective number has
been achieved. Am I reading this right?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Well, I am, essentially, using the goals that were approved by the Board within the
framework that was established for the review process. So yes, you are reading it correctly. This is also
why I wanted to have this discussion today.
MATT LARSEN: Right. OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Because I am working within the confines of the tool that we use to do this evaluation
on goals that did not necessarily match the process on how we do the evaluation. So, we need to have a
conversation about how we would like to proceed here with respect to this. And really, I want to emphasize,
we don't need to reinvent the wheel here. We do have a performance evaluation tool that simply needs to
be updated. How you would like to do that update is important.
But what we did not discuss in January, as I had flagged several times for committee members, was this
part of the process that also needed to be done with the goal setting. And it was ignored advice. So we
need to now adjust and move forward. So do you have some thoughts?
MATT LARSEN: Yeah. What I would recommend we do for each of these short-term goals is rather than
ask the Board members to rate whether or not they're achieved or to what degree they're achieved, I mean,
I would set, basically, a linear scale of achievement, where we have a point below which there are zero
points awarded.

So, say, for example-- and I'm not saying these are the right numbers to use. But, say, for example, with
the short-term goal number one, the goal is to achieve 96%. But let's say the prior year, that we had
achieved 92%. So I would say, one way we could do this is say, OK, well, between 92%, which was last
year, and 96%, which is the goal this year, we could allocate six of the points between there.
So, below 92% would get 0 points. 96% would get the meets expectation points. And above 96% would get
additional points up to whatever sort of threshold we want to use to the maximum point. And it doesn't have
to be just like that.
But, I mean, my goal is to try to rather than subjectively evaluate whether or not these numbers are achieved
and to what degree they're achieved or exceeded, we set up in advance a scale that says, based on the
end result, this is the number of points that are awarded and whatever that is. And then we set it in advance
rather than later. And I just think as a practice, that makes a lot more sense than subjectively evaluating
whether or not an objective goal is achieved after the fact.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. Thank you. Director-- sorry, Vice Chair Gutschenritter, your hand was up next.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Yeah, I just wanted to respond to Director Larsen. I mean, absolutely valid.
You're saying, hey, it's an objective. It shouldn't be subjective.
But I think the lens I was looking at it through is we don't want to be overly prescriptive in the rating scale
and take all control out of individual Directors' ability to assess. And so, that's certainly a route we could go
down. But I think there's also some benefit to letting the Directors look at the information and assess how
they think the agency did relative to those.
Because it could be did not meet objective, did not meet the hard numbers. But there could be very valid
reasons. And even if we came up very, very short of those numbers, and a Director might think, well, that's
a 3, and another might think that's a 0, and I think that's OK. So I just wanted to share that thought.
MATT LARSEN: Can I respond?
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: It's fine by me.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I mean, I just think that it sort of defeats the whole purpose to have objective
measures if we can basically, just decide later whether or not they're actually going to be applied. I mean,
I think that makes the incentive or the meaningfulness of these is measures a lot less significant for the
CEO/GM, as that person doesn't really know what's going to happen if they're achieved or not achieved.
And I think that the purpose of objective measures is to give clarity and to set a concrete goal. I mean, we
do have the whole other 50% of this-- this performance evaluation is based on subjective measures
determined by the Board. And certainly, if the goal falls short and there's still an opportunity within the
performance evaluation to apply subjective measures-- and even further than that, I mean, if there were
circumstances that arose, I guess, like if we had another COVID-type situation, I mean, there's really
nothing stopping us from revising the entire arrangement, based on special circumstances or whatnot.
But to me, it seems like we have a large subjective portion already. And it makes a lot more sense to do as
much as we can to try to set objective measures in both directions, to say, look, if the performance
overachieved-- and I mean, I'm not sure how much it matters for this year. But I mean, if there is
overachievement, it should not be the subjective Board's decision to decide whether or not whatever reward

might be associated with that overachievement is really deserved. I mean, if it was achieved, it should be
rewarded, as we said we would.
And vice versa, if it was not achieved, the discount versus the app plan reward should be applied objectively
as well. And I really just think that's just best practice for any kind of incentive, any kind of evaluation or
incentive compensation system, is to do as much as you can to make it so that the objective measures are
what's driving that portion of the evaluation.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Nicholson, your hand is raised. You're recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: Yes, thank you. I understand significantly where Director Larsen is coming from on
this one. But I actually happen to agree with Director Gutschenritter, which is to say that I think that, first
off, each of these goals has a different type of sliding scale to them. For some of them, Does Not Meet
Expectations would, for me at least, be a much lower benchmark and perhaps a more curved benchmark
than something that might be more linear, where if you miss it by 1%, it goes down by 1%, if you miss it by
2%.
So I think, first off, it's not that subjective, but that it requires significant amounts of objective analysis. If
we're going to try to create a reasonable benchmark. The second thing I would say is that I think some of
these goals were more aggressive than other ones. And a recognition that, in some cases, the goal-- first
off, if you look at, for example, the Vision Zero goal, it's very hard to exceed expectations on something that
is basically designed as a binary.
So, I'm not even sure how with that one, you could exceed expectations if it's designed as a "you shall do
this. Did you do it? Did you not?" And I think for some of them, the goal was set as very much an industryleading number, as opposed to middle-of-the-pack number. And so I feel like recognizing it would take a lot
of time to effectively set benchmarks for these.
And to Director-- sorry-- Chair Guzman's point, we didn't do that when we set these goals. And it makes a
lot of sense, if you're going to hold people to an objective standard, to set the sliding scale, to set the rubric
at the same time that you set the goal and vote on them at the same time.
So I think that, recognizing where you're coming from, Director Larsen, I think, given the changes we make
and the manner in which we made them, it is more reasonable for us to make those decisions using a rubric
the way that it's been laid out in this case, and then to have discussions about how we feel those goals
could be analyzed and to frame that for ourselves in making those evaluations.
We shouldn't be doing it just from the, oh, we're all going to come up with numbers. We should be having
a reasonable discussion about, how do we feel about each of these goals and what constitutes what they
are? But I think that, at the end of the day, having the framework the way we've laid it out is the more
thoughtful thing to do.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Nicholson. I am simply going to say this. What I don't want to do
is have a Charlie Brown-Lucy moment. We need to set this up and be clear about it. But we don't want to
move the goalpost. We don't want to pull the ball at the last minute. And we do need to get to consensus
around how we proceed.
At this point, I would invite the General Manager/CEO to add any comments you might have, having heard
the previous discussion. And we have talked briefly about this process. She has also been aware of what's
going on along with you with this draft. And so I would like to get your input and feedback. This is your

review process. And this is the time that we should be discussing with you, as well, if this is suitable and if
you find it acceptable, or if there's something that you can flag that we might need to address.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Greetings, all; Debra Johnson,
General Manager and CEO. Thank you for the opportunity to offer my opinion relative to this discussion. A
couple of things, as we talk about some of the goals that are outlined here, I'm in agreement relative to
having something that doesn't limit us, but keeping in mind, when we're talking about key performance
indicators that are very finite relative to service delivery, there's not going to be too much wiggle room.
The subjective aspect of it is exactly what was said by Vice Chair Gutschenritter and Secretary Nicholson,
relative to knowing whether or we're achieving reliability at 96%. Those are metrics you can look at. But
then there could be extenuating circumstances. If, in fact, you had a tanker truck that basically, impeded
the embedded track, and the catenary wires fell, I have no control over the ability to achieve service
reliability when that has now become some catastrophic zone.
So, keeping that in mind, I think if anything, it's prudent to ensure that there is some flexibility. Because the
subjective aspect comes in. Did I, with the leadership of this agency and folks that comprise the team that
have responsibility for day-to-day light rail service delivery, was everything done to the best of our ability to
minimize or mitigate the impacts that were caused by an external factor? That's how performance reviews
are done here within this organization with all non-represented staff.
So, it's not just black and white. In certain circumstances, there could be shades of gray. Director Larsen-no, it was Secretary Nicholson talked about the Vision Zero goal as well. Either you did it or you didn't. But
there's a lot less wiggle room relative to what that is, when you keep in mind that I've been charged with
aiming to decrease fatalities. When, in fact, with DRCOG serving as the MPO, that planning entity has not
been able to achieve any type of decrease in fatality goals for the period in which they've been in existence
with the creation of vision Zero.
So, thinking about those aspects, that has to be taken into consideration. And I think there is a rubric that
will provide some guidance relative to reviewing quick tip sheets. And not to mention, when we go forward
with this-- and I agree, we can't move the goalpost. That's constantly happened throughout the tenure of
my career here at the Regional Transportation District. It's, more or less, looking at where we're going.
Because when I provide you with updates in our quarterly check-ins, I would appreciate this being
established. Because that will be an unfair advantage to you all, recognizing where we are, and we haven't
established what the scoring rubrics are going forward. So that's what I have at this juncture. Committee
Chair Guzman, thank you for the opportunity just to share that.
But in closing, really quickly, I want you to know that this is a bilateral process. I'm willing to lean in and
ensure that you all have what you need to assess the performance. Because the short-term goals are 50%
of my goal. And keeping in mind that if I'm not doing my day-to-day job, and I'm not achieving the goals,
then we have an opportunity to seek out somebody that can meet the needs of this organization for the
betterment of the constituency serve. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Madam CEO. Just a quick fact check as well, Legal Counsel Snyder-General Counsel Snyder-- excuse me-- are you on? Hi. Good morning.
MELANIE SNYDER: Good morning, Mr. Chair. Yes, I'm on.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: So the framework and the performance evaluation are part of the current amended
contract. Is that correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that's correct.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: They're to find it in here. And so what we also want to be very careful of is that we
are contractually bound to this process, and we want to make sure that we proceed forward with what we
can change and should change, based on the current performance year. Correct?
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that's correct. I think it's important to make sure that we're all using the term
"framework" in the same way. So the "framework," when I use that term, I'm talking about the framework
that's established in the contract that establishes the values, the job description, and the short-term goals
are the components of the assessment. And then the contract also speaks to the Board's ability to make
adjustments on an annual basis as to the relative points for those different components, that point
distribution, as well as tying that point distribution to any percentage of increase in the adjusted base salary
for which the GM and CEO is eligible each year.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you.
MELANIE SNYDER: You're welcome.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK. I'm going to call names, sorry. Director Guissinger, Director Catlin, you have not
had a chance yet to speak. I would invite you to make any comments before I return to the Directors who
have already spoken at this time.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, Chair Guzman. I think that the important thing, in terms of how
we move this forward, these are objective goals. And as, I think, Secretary Nicholson said, they are-- have
said it, industry-leading numbers. So I agree with Ms. Johnson that we need to be thinking about some
flexibility towards achieving the goal and issues that may come up that get in the way. That would be my
main concern.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Yes, thank you, Chair Guzman. I guess I would caution this group to not overcomplicate
this process. And I also agree with GM/CEO Johnson that sometimes there are things outside of her control
that have to be factored in into an evaluation. So I would just say, let's establish it, but let's not
overcomplicate it at this time.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. There are other Directors that joined us today. So, Chair Bouquet, Director
Chandler-- Director O'Keefe was on, but it looks like he has dropped off. Do either of you have anything to
add to the conversation at this point? I would invite you.
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: Thank you, Chairman Guzman. I agree with Director Catlin. This does not need
to be a complicated proposition. It should be a thorough proposition. And I appreciate the lively discussion.
But I also don't think it needs to be complicated.
Transportation is complicated in its nature because there are so many external factors that need to be taken
into account. But I think the easier it is, not only for the Directors to come up with a solution, but also for the
public to understand how we are evaluating the CEO, is very important. Transparency, really, is where I
think we need to err on. So the less complicated, the better. So thank you for bringing that up.

MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you. Board Chair Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes. Thank you very much. Committee Chair. I think it's been a very valuable
discussion so far. I think there has been some valuable points that have been brought up that I wasn't
actually considering. But again, just piggybacking off of what the other two Directors have said, I think that's
the message I'm hearing, is let's keep it simple. Keep it to that. Follow within the specific framework.
But I think it's been a meaningful discussion. And I there's a lot of points that we could take going into the
future. So not much to add on, but I'm going to keep listening on. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: All right, thank you. Director Larsen, your hand is raised.
MATT LARSEN: Yeah, I'd just like to respond mainly to Director Nicholson's comments. I don't think we
necessarily-- if we were to set the goals, it doesn't necessarily have to be a linear scale in terms of how we
evaluate the performance against the goal. So for example, if it was 96% reliability, you could set it so that
it's at 95%, you get 90% of the points. And at 94%, you get 80%.
I mean could set it however you want to, based on what the goal that was set and the judgment we make
about how difficult it might be to hit that goal or how easy. You can make it fall off quite a bit if you wanted
to. If it falls below, you could go at 95%. It could get only 25% of the reward.
I mean, I think you can build the scaling around these concerns. And I understand that, we're now well into
the performance period and haven't set this at all. And it seems kind of late at this point. I accept that. But
I do think that is the way to do this.
You set up objective scaling and objective, predetermined, before the year starts, ways that you are
planning to evaluate the performance against these objective goals, with what the over and
underachievement means and how it works. I think that is the correct way to do it.
And the other part of it, I guess I would say, in any business, in any organization, there's always unforeseen
circumstances that occur with everything. And I think sometimes, those things are so substantial that you
do have to reset goals. But at the same time, I think it's every management team's job to try to achieve the
goals, knowing there will be unforeseen circumstances that occur.
So if your goal is to achieve 96%, as a management team, I would say, well, our goal is going to be to
achieve 90-whatever, 97%, knowing that that way, if something happens that is out of my control that
prevents me from achieving 97%, or our management team from achieving 97%, we will still have a cushion
in there, a buffer, so that we can still achieve the goal. And I think that's always something.
You can't set up the expectation that there's always going to be reasons why-- you know not everything's
ever going to be in the control of a management team. And you have to operate accordingly, not to say that
there aren't sometimes truly huge events that really throw it off. But it's got to be balanced with just the need
to prepare for the unexpected.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for the comments. I would say one of the-- I'm going to point to one thing
that you said, Director Larsen, that it should have been predetermined, and it was not in this case. And so
I do believe it's a little late to have this conversation. However, I'm going to document it. Because while we
go into the next few months, where we're discussing goals and setting of goals for the following year, we
need to consider that as part of that goal-making process, so that there is clarity around what is expected
and how it is to be reviewed going forward.

It's my recommendation, and the Vice Chair may disagree with me. I don't know. But it's my
recommendation that we do keep this as simple as possible, and we follow the rubrics that we have already
established for the goal review process, the short-term goal review process, in the form that we have
available to us. And so I'm listening to what you are saying. It is important.
But I also think that fairly, that was not included in the original discussion we had around these goals. And
the goal was pretty clear when it was approved by the entire body. And so the best heads or tails I'm able
to make of it at this point is that based on what information I had that were hard numbers, i.e., the point
values that were assigned to each of the sections and how we split the values from the core job function,
I'm just working within that framework. That's all I'm trying to do at this point and make sure that we move
it forward just a little bit. Vice Chair Gutschenritter.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Yeah, I agree with what you've stated. Again,
Director Larsen, I respect your point of view and appreciate you sharing that. I stated my own point of view.
And I think we've heard from everyone on this call their point of view.
And I mean, to put this to bed, I don't know if we're able to. But I mean, is that something we could just vote
on? At the end of the day, I think whatever the majority of this committee thinks is the right approach, let's
go with that. And I'm confident it's what we've already stated, the simple approach. But I'll pause there.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I would say we don't need to necessarily take a vote. This is just a discussion item to
receive feedback at this point. Director Larsen, I'd love to engage with you further about this, so that I can
make some very clear recommendations in the notes that I'm keeping on this process for upcoming
discussions regarding goal setting and review process for next year.
The intent right now is to get us through this year, based on what we have approved, but also, to keep a
record of how we have made any adjustments to these tools and within the performance framework, so that
there is a clear guide on how to proceed following this. And I say in that manner, because this is the second
time only that we have used this process.
Gentlemen, please lower your hands for just a moment. Flipping back and forth is making me nauseous.
Director Nicholson, please lower your hand. Thank you. The process needs to be adjusted per the contract.
That contract would change with another General Manager and CEO being contracted or could potentially
change at the extension or recreation of a new contract with the current General Manager/CEO.
Either way, we need to have a process where we're not recreating the evaluation method and the
performance cycle every single year. We have established a foundational process. We just need to figure
out how to adjust it.
Now, there is no guideline for this. There's no map for me to follow. I am simply taking my best first crack
at it as the leader of this committee, and I'm looking to all of you for feedback. I want to make it as simple
as possible for everybody to understand.
And I think what you're saying is very important. So I do want to get clarification from you, Director Larsen
later. But I will follow up with you offline about that so I can better understand some of what you're saying.
That way, we can include it maybe in the June retreat, when we are facilitating a conversation regarding
the next year's goal-setting process.
What I don't want to do and what I would like to avoid at all cost is any attempt to change goalposts and
change parameters at this point. Because we are five months in, which is more, because we actually set

some of these goals back to September of last year or October of last year. And we're more than halfway
through the review period.
And so we need to be clear on how to proceed. And I'm looking to you all for consensus and advice on how
to do that. What you have said is important. I just want to make sure that we move forward with this and
that everybody has clarity around it. All right, one more comment, and then I have some other matters to
discuss with this. Go ahead, Director Larsen.
MATT LARSEN: I think I'm the only one with my hand up right now. One thing that I think would help with
this process at every stage of the game, but including right now, is to find out where we are at this point on
each of these short-term goals. In other words, if the goal is 96% for whatever period it was, where are we
at, as of right now, from the starting point to where we are right now? And then also, to get a forecast from
management as to where they think where we're going to finish the year on these goals.
Because I think that I agree, we don't want to change the goalposts. But as we think about how we might
or how we would or we could set point allocations with the amount of time that's left in the year, knowing
where we are right now and the likely achievability of any of these short-term goals would be, I think, really
important to making that judgment. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Nicholson, you are recognized.
CHRIS NICHOLSON: I appreciate it. I would just add, to quote Former Vice Present Harris, we exist in the
context of all that's happening around us. And to the point about evaluating even private companies,
sometimes a company can perform terribly, but because the market does very, very well, the stock goes
up regardless. And the reverse is true. Sometimes a company performs extremely well, and because the
market tanks, the stock goes down.
I think in an era where we look at how other transit agencies are performing in terms of service recovery,
in terms of service reliability, in terms of safety, it absolutely behooves us to recognize that our framework
for thinking about these types of questions may very well be different in October, November, than it was in
January. And giving ourselves the ability to reevaluate in that way is extremely reasonable from where I sit.
And I would also just come back to, our ability to agree right now on a hard framework in terms of numbers,
I don't know that that's any more valuable than our ability in October to say, we're going to have a
discussion. We're going to look at what we think is reasonable. We may not take an actual vote, then, on a
rubric, but I think that we will come to some form of consensus over what is a reasonable way to evaluate
these numbers and to have an informal understanding at that point.
So I wouldn't say necessarily that that process is entirely subjective. Whereas, coming up with a rubric now
would be objective. I think there's measures-- there's degrees of that. So I just would caution us from
thinking that a more consensus-based process in October leaves us completely out in the wilderness in
coming up with an understanding of what these numbers mean.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you, Director Nicholson. I also thank you for the reference back to former Vice
Present Harris. Because I don't think anybody's falling out of any coconut trees today. So let's just make
sure we keep moving forward.
We definitely have data and statistics available publicly and internally. The good news, Director Larsen, is
that one of our upcoming meetings is going to revolve directly around performance information, the
feedback from the customer surveys and the employee surveys, where we'll be doing the deep dive into

our customer experience and customer value initiatives. And so there's probably some room to talk about
some statistics there that will matter and be relevant at this point.
Also, the next meeting of the committee is our quarterly check-in with the General Manager and CEO. And
I believe the intent that CEO Johnson and I discussed was to be able to discuss exactly what you have
asked for, where we are at with current goals, and what information is supposed to be brought up, which is
why we split them apart-- good information, but bulky and heavy.
And we want to make sure that we dedicate the time to meeting with our General Manager CEO to do that
check-in properly on the goal-setting process halfway through the year, and then later, turn and pivot to the
deep dive on the customer experience surveys and the employee surveys, which matter a great deal to our
agency and inform our review process going forward. So that's definitely been a concern.
Part of why I'm bringing this forward now, instead of doing this next month, is because we need to begin a
set of processes. So, in that situation-- I'm so sorry. Director Nicholson, did you have something further to
add? OK.
Along with this process, so this is multifaceted, there are a couple of other things I would like you to know
that are upcoming. And here we go. So have your note-taking pens ready, y'all. I'm open to receiving
feedback. I know Vice Chair Gutschenritter is. Anything that you think of post this meeting, please email
both of us and let us know. I'm happy to share what I received directly with Vice Chair Gutschenritter, and
he shares with me as well.
I will follow up with you, Director Larsen, on your comments and concerns about the goal-setting process,
to make sure that pre-work is done before we get to this point next year. Updating this, as you can see, I
certainly tried to keep in line with what the point distribution and allocations were from last year, based on
what we were told this year, and then broke down, with the advice of Vice Chair Gutschenritter, each of
these goals at a 12.5%-- or 12.5 point allocation, just to keep it simple.
The recommendation from RKL was that you evaluate each portion of a goal that has subparts on its own
merit, and then combine that score to achieve the 12.5. So as you can see, the first goal has four distinct
parts that we are measuring. I would also like to point out that some of those numbers are lagging indicators,
which means we may not have, at the time we look at this for the first time and start doing the review
process, the necessary data.
And so we might need to consider the time frame in which we are doing the review. But that will come later
in the process, with very clear instructions and fully fleshed-out numbers when they're available. Oftentimes- and Madam CEO, please correct me if I'm wrong. It's a one-month to two-month lag before we have some
of the ridership or the boarding numbers and alightment numbers when they have been verified. We have
what are raw numbers, but they haven't necessarily gone through the process of cleaning up data and
doing all of that.
And so, let's say we do this process beginning in September. We won't have September numbers likely
until November. So when do we want to actually put the marking there? And so to your point, Director
Larsen, those numbers are going to matter a great deal. And we have to have a conversation about the
timeline and not throwing everything out right at the last minute, like a rugby team chasing a ball. Director- sorry. Madam CEO.

DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Committee Chair Guzman. Just a point of clarification,
recognizing 50% of our services contracted out, We're. Receiving data from vendors, not just cleaning up
the data. So I just wanted to ensure that I put that on the record so everybody understood. Thank you.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for the clarification, just something to keep in mind for everybody's sake.
All right, also with this, we don't want any confusion with what the alignment. Again, to Director Larsen's
keen insight on this, there is a clear alignment from point value to percentage increase that was agreed
upon in the contract.
And so the adjusted base salary and the points alignment-- and I will give the heads up to our CPO Polege.
I'm going to pivot to you in just a moment. We are working together to ensure that we have a clear alignment
ahead of time, so that there are no surprises on what that looks later. And no post-evaluation determination
would need to be made. We will have a clear understanding of what point value equals what percentage
increase.
And we're going to work on that process and ensure that we have those documents available for the
transparency question and purpose, so that there is no confusion later. CPO Polege, do you want to speak
to that process a little bit? And then we don't have the document ready, but we will provide that when it is
complete.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thank you, Chair Guzman. Charlene Polege, Chief People Officer. If I may, just a
point of clarification, just want to ensure, are we speaking of the form? Or are we speaking of the
assessment, the calculating, or both?
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So, right now, the assessment-- sorry-- the total points to percentage of adjusted base
salary that we had previously discussed, so that we don't have any surprises later or any confusion about
rounding up or rounding down, we have a process defined within the agency on how this is done. And we're
going to create that output beforehand, so we know what we're doing.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes, thank you for the clarification. Yes, so we, we being our Director of total
rewards, we need to do the same process. Although, this one will be slightly modified for the GM and CEO
specific to the criteria and the points as outlined.
We do a similar process for all of our non-represented employees who, when their performance is
assessed, then there is a correlation that equates into a percentage increase. It's not identical to the GM
and CEO, certainly. But we will create. We will work together under the Committee Chair and Vice Chair's
direction to create a form that then would be available and transparent and reviewed, to ensure that all the
calculations make sense, that everyone is in alignment, so that there's full transparency, including for the
GM and CEO, to see how all that information comes together.
So we will build that out, and it would then come forward for approval. And that would be the final document
that gets used to calculate everything. So it's completely clear and transparent at the end of the year, once
performance has been assessed.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Great. Thank you. Stay with me for just a moment. So, I made reference earlier to
RKL as a third party doing this process last year. The form was created in a system called Qual-- I always
get it wrong, Qualtrics. I have a hard time saying that. Sorry, y'all. They will not be performing the function
of distributing or receiving that information.

And so both Vice Chair Gutschenritter and I are confident in our subject matter experts internally. But as a
matter of good governance, we will both keep an eye on this process very closely. And I will invite the Chair
of the Board to also have visibility into this process, to ensure that no-- no funny business is going to happen
anyway because these are professionals. But good governance requires that we monitor the process as it
goes forward.
So the three of us will have insight to that. Where RKL did that separately last year and reported back, we
will be doing this as an internal process. And so, Charlene-- sorry, CPO Polege, would you please speak
to the good news that we found out about Qualtrics and not having to do another form a different way?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yeah, thank you, Chair. So, RTD also has a license with Qualtrics. And so we will
take the form as in its current approved state, and we will build it into Qualtrics. So that is, again, sitting in
a third-party system, if you will, a SaaS solution. We will build the survey. We're going to try to have it have
the same look and feel, if you would, from last year, to have consistency.
But regardless of its look, all the questions will be identical. It will be locked down in Qualtrics. And for
anyone who's familiar, there's a trail, if you would, whatever happens within systems like that. And so once
it's approved through the Performance Committee and the Chair, and as you said, Vice Chair and the Chair
of the Board have had a chance to look at it, that will be the standardized tool. Then it will be communicated
out to all the Directors to complete, as was last year, and then the tool itself will tabulate the results.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So, in order to complete that work, looking at these initial questions, the point
valuations, et cetera, are an important step to getting there. And so that's why I'm bringing this before all of
you now, so that we can have some conversation. If anybody caught a mathematical error or had any
questions that I could clarify at this point, I would like to deal with that on a very logistical level, just so that
that work might begin. And then we can take further steps forward.
I'm not trying to do an end zone run on this. I'm trying to do it in steps, if that make sense, and build a logical
progression. But putting it out before the members of this body, this committee, and then the Board certainly
help at the end of the year for understanding and the complexity of what we're trying to do. It doesn't get
any easier when we have to do our individual assessments.
One note of reference in the RKL presentation, you will see references to a 360 review. We did not choose
to follow that option this year. That was in agreement with our General Manager/CEO that it was
unnecessary to do at this juncture. So we are going to simply be worried about and focus on the Board of
Directors' Performance Evaluation Survey, that we need to update for the current performance period. Any
questions about that? I see none. OK.
Like I said, any other questions, please email me. Email Vice Chair Gutschenritter. We will share with each
other anything that we receive. And we will proceed forward. I get the sense that things are OK, but I take
great note of concerns about how to evaluate.
Are there any other matters to discuss? And I froze again. (SIGHING) Oh.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Director Guzman, do we have you?
KATHLEEN CHANDLER: I can still see you, Michael.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK.

KATHLEEN CHANDLER: You're OK.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Sorry. I know that we've got an extra person in our house using internet, so it's
affecting us right now. I did not see any hands raised. Just quick double check, there's no other matters to
discuss? Going once, going twice. OK, thank you.
I appreciate all of the conversation input and feedback. The next meeting date of the Performance
Committee will be June 2nd of 2025. We will have two distinct meetings in June for the Performance
Committee. The second will be our quarterly check-in with the General Manager/CEO. We look forward to
an update on short-term goals and any other relevant matters that you would like to bring to us.
That will be held in executive session with the Directors. So we can have a robust conversation regarding
personnel matters. And then the following meeting will be Monday, June 23. We will be doing a deep dive
into the data for the surveys. That is in specific regard to the strategic initiatives of customer value and
customer experience, as well as employee ownership.
And we will be receiving information regarding those three surveys. I believe it's all of the modes that should
be prepared by that point. Is that correct, General Manager, or Mr. McKay? I'm not sure. I don't want to
speak out of turn on that.
JOHN MCKAY: Thank you, Mr. Chair. The intent is to have the employee survey data ready for the first
meeting in June. And then the latter meeting will have both the rail and bus and also, paratransit and
community value surveys as well.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: OK, so we might have just a little bit of time dedicated to employee feedback survey
the 2nd. And then the other two will be in June. OK. I would like to advise everybody that is here and present
that we want to reserve the majority of the June 2 meeting for the General Manager/CEO's quarterly checkin, but certainly are not going to turn away any updated information regarding our employees. That's also
important for us to hear in this committee. Thank you so much.
Seeing we don't have any other matters to discuss. So, seeing no other hands raised, thank you very much
for a good conversation. I am going to call the meeting adjourned at 9:30 AM. Thank you very much. See
you next time.
CHRIS GUTSCHENRITTER: Thank you.

