Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board of
Directors

Date:

April 14, 2011

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14,
2011 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room
***
Board Members Present:
Chair Kemp, 1st Vice-Chair Tayer, 2nd Vice-Chair
Cohen, Secretary Malpiede, Treasurer Bagley
Subject:

Other Board Members
Present:
Board Member Absent:
Others Present:
Call to Order:

I.

Directors Deadwyler, Daly, McMullen

Paula Perdue, General Manager Washington
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 12:05
p.m.

April Board Meeting Review
General Manager Washington reviewed the Board meeting action items.
There were no changes to the agenda.
Motion:

Director Malpiede made the motion to
approve the April Board meeting agenda.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Vote on
the Motion:

Director Malpiede expressed concern for
good public relations in those
neighborhoods where the new Call-n-Ride
service was approved (i.e. Federal
Heights and Belleview). RTD needs to do
our due diligence.
Chair Kemp requested a quarterly update
from staff on the progress of these new
call-n-rides.
The Motion PASSED.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 2 of 6




Unanimous Consent
Agreement for the Master Planning of property in the Yale Station
area at E. Yale Avenue/Yale Circle, Denver, Colorado
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to
formalize an agreement between the Regional Transportation District
and the Yale TOD Partners for the purpose of developing a TransitOriented Master Plan for the Yale Station area that would include
parcels of land currently owned by Koelbel and Company, Mile High
Development and the Urban Land Conservancy. The agreement will
provide for an exclusive cooperation period of time not to exceed
twelve months and will further provide that the master planning
process will be at the sole cost and expense of the Yale TOD
Partners.



Agreement for the Exclusive Cooperative Planning related to RTD
property adjacent to the Alameda Station Light Rail Station, Cherokee
and Alaska Place, Denver, Colorado



It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his
designee, to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to
formalize an agreement between the Regional Transportation District
and D4 Urban LLC, a Colorado limited liability company for the
purpose of the creation of specific plans for the coordinated
development of the property owned and property currently leased by
RTD and the approximately 60 acres of real property adjacent to or
nearby the RTD Alameda tracts owned by D4 Urban, LLC. The
agreement will provide for an exclusive cooperation period of time not
to exceed twelve months and will further provide that the creation of
more specific plans for the coordinated development of the RTD
Alameda property and the D4 property will be at the sole cost and
expense of D4 Urban LLC.



Payphone Management Directive
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt a policy to not require pay phones at
stations and park-n-rides except where a specific need has been
identified.



Agreement for funding the Belleview Call-n-ride
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee, to execute all documents necessary to enter into an
Agreement with the South East Business Partnership (SEBP) and/or

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 3 of 6
South I-25 Urban Corridor Transportation Management Association
(SEUCTMA) for SEBP/SEUCTMA to provide local match funding to
RTD for the Belleview Call-n-Ride. This Agreement is for the period
2012-2014.


Agreement for funding the Federal Heights Call-n-Ride
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager
or his designee, to execute all documents necessary for RTD to enter
into an Agreement with the Cities of Federal Heights, Northglenn,
Thornton and Adams County for the assignment of the CMAQ grant
awarded to the City of Federal Heights to operate a new Call-n-Ride
service to the RTD in order for RTD to provide the service and for the
Cities and County to provide local match funding to RTD for the
Federal Heights Call-n-Ride. This Agreement is for the period 20122014.



2012 Proposed Performance Measures
It is recommended by the Financial Administration & Audit Committee
that the Board of Directors adopt the 2012 Performance Measures for
Goals 1-7.



Recommended Action



Establish Policy for RTD Competitive Grants
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors adopt a policy that specifies that all future
grant funds be used for already planned base system projects, such
as capital improvements or service increases. In the case of
FasTracks projects, from this point forward, all grant funds matched
using RTD FasTracks funds should be applied against the applicable
corridor budget to fill the FasTracks funding gap. Adoption of this
policy will require staff to:
a. pursue any grant funds that can help close the FasTracks
program funding gap and account for those funds as such;
b. assure that any grant funds awarded to a FasTracks project
will be applied to that project’s base budget wherever
possible, not for enhancements or out-of-scope items;
c. for the Base System, advance at least one of the following
needs: operational improvements, cost effectiveness, or
safety/security improvement;
d. retain sole discretion in determining which grant opportunities
satisfy the criteria listed in (a and b) above. However RTD
staff, at its sole discretion, may pursue grants for
enhancements so long as that grant cannot be used to help
close the FasTracks funding gap.
Any additional grants or other funding obtained by other parties, in

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 4 of 6
support of any FasTracks project as defined in that project’s
environmental document, will not reduce the RTD FasTracks
commitment to that project without prior agreement among all parties
involved. In this situation, RTD would not be responsible for, nor
provide, any funds for local funding match without approval from the
RTD Board of Directors.
Additionally, it is recommended by the Planning and Development
Committee that the Board of Directors direct staff to:
a. Case #1: If stakeholders do not agree that DRCOG’s $60
million Second Commitment in Principle can be used to fund
the existing FasTracks project scope, then RTD will request
that DRCOG require each corridor’s stakeholders to apply for
the designated $60 million Second Commitment in Principle on
their own, thereby providing the stakeholders more flexibility
on how these funds are spent and removing RTD from the
responsibility of coordinating stakeholder consensus;
b. Case #2: Allow an exception for accounting for the $20
million DRCOG TIP funds and $4 million in FASTER funds that
that were previously awarded to RTD for US 36 since at the
time of the award, no formal policy on this matter was in
place.

II. Other Matters
 Director Daly wants to add the Brandeberry-McKenna contract to the
May Executive Committee meeting for approval. This is the 3 rd year
extension.
 Director Daly shared that HB1211 dealing with per diem is under
consideration at the Legislature. No decision has been made. Paula
indicated there would be implications to the Board members related to
travel to APTA events.
 Director McMullen asked for a policy around bus passes. Several of the
Board members expressed concerns around the process for distribution.
Chair Kemp assigned an ad hoc committee to review allocation process
and criteria and bring back a straw proposal to the next Executive
Committee meeting.
 Director Deadwyler asked about the impact of the Federal government
bill on the status of the RTD FFGA and would this be retroactive to
2010? General Manager Washington explained his understanding that the
CR must first be approved and it is scheduled to be passed on 4/15.
Afterwards, the FFGA will come up for consideration. He does not
anticipate any problems.
 Director Deadwyler indicated that the DBE work appears to be
progressing and stated a number of DBEs have expressed confidence in
her and wanted to know if she can be the vice-chair for the DBE
committee. Chair Kemp indicated that currently Director Brohl is the
Chair and Director Malpiede is the Vice-Chair. Director Deadwyler
indicated this was not clear.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 5 of 6




General Manager Washington shared he has started a General Manager
Roundtable with a number of city managers, business executives, and
others of his peer. This does not include any elected officials. The first
meeting held today was around FasTracks and was received positively.
Director Bagley stated this was a good start and expressed optimism this
could be rotated and include others so it would not be perceived as a
select group.
General Manager Washington suggested the Board might consider
hosting a similar Board roundtable.
General Manager Washington shared that the work of the Presidential
Board that he is on to elect a new APTA Chair has started to heat up and
he will be spending many weekends working toward their timelines. He
anticipates leaving on Friday afternoons and coming back to Denver on
Sunday so he will not miss any important meetings. APTA is paying the
full expense.

III. Adjourn to Executive Session
Motion:

Director Bagley made the
motion to move into
executive session for the
purpose to discuss C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(F) – Personnel
Matters.
Director Malpiede seconded
the motion.

Vote on
the Motion:

The Motion PASSED.

The meeting adjourned into Executive Session at 12:50 p.m.
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 1:30 p.m.
IV. Discussion Items

Education and Outreach Plan
Chair Kemp opened the discussion on next steps by the Board members
relevant to taking FasTracks to the ballot. General Manager Washington
conveyed the information that will be shared at the April 26 special
Board meeting including the public comment opportunity. He also
conveyed to the Board that based on the action that they took on March
8 to approve the 2012 FasTracks Plan, there is technically no action they
need to take on April 26. However, the Board will be briefed with talking
points and can choose how they want to share information.
Director Tayer emphasized that the theme of this effort is for RTD to get
control over efforts to consider going to the ballot in 2012 while working
collaboratively with our key stakeholders.
There are three key things that the new process must address:

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on April 14, 2011, at
12:00 p.m.
Page 6 of 6
1. Educating the public around the potential need for additional
funding to expedite completion of the FasTracks program;
2. Better coordinate our PI efforts to meet RTD’s goals; and,
3. An 18 month plan of activity that needs to occur with military
precision.
Several of the other Board members offered comments including the need to
further digest the plan. Director Deadwyler emphasized that the message
needs to address the “what is in it for me?” to get the support from the
public. Other Board members concurred.
Chair Kemp emphasized the importance of adhering to the timeline and
asked the Board members to provide their feedback to the plan in the next
week.
Chair Kemp designated the 1 st Vice-Chair Tayer to meet with him and the PI
team on May 9th (and future meetings)to review the education and outreach
plan. If the 1st Vice-Chair is unavailable, the 2 nd Vice Chair who is also Chair
of the FasTracks Committee, Director Cohen, will fill in.
V. Adjournment
The meeting adjourned at 2:25 p.m.

