Summary of the Operations/Customer Service meeting held on Wednesday, December 12,
2007
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

December 13, 2007

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
December 12, 2007 at 5:00 p.m. Rooms T&D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Bill McMullen Co-chair, Daryl Kinton Co-chair (via teleconference)
Bruce Daly, Bill Elfenbein, Lee Kemp, John Tayer (via teleconference),
Barbara Yamrick

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Ron Dodsworth, Scott Reed, Carolyn
Conover, David Genova, John Tarbert, Tony McCaulay, Bill Porter,
Daria Serna, Caitlin Magee

Others:

Roger Chapin (First Transit), Gary Forbes (First Transit), Howard Alton
(ATU 1001), Jeff Leib (The Denver Post), Tex Elam (DRMAQ)

Call to Order:
I.

****
Co-Chair McMullen called the meeting to order at 5:05 p.m.

Mandatory Overtime by Operators in Longmont – First Transit – A memo was
distributed to the Board in the Friday, December 7, 2007 Board packet outlining the
steps that First Transit is taking to eliminate/reduce mandatory overtime for operators
at the Longmont facility. A copy of this memo is available for review in the
Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting Minutes Notebook.
Director Daly had many questions, concerned about wages, complaints, and compliance
with DOT hours. Bruce Abel responded that First Transit is complying with DOT hours
of service and that is closely monitored by the District. Director Kemp said that the
customer base in Longmont is not afraid to call him with complaints and he has not
been receiving complaints about the local service in Longmont.
Cal Marsella asked Roger Chapin, Operating General Manager of First Transit to address

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday,
November 14, 2007
Page 2 of 4
the Committee. Mr. Chapin spoke about the efforts they have been making to hire
employees. Currently, there are nine people in training for Longmont which is the
highest number they have had since July of 2007. First Transit is reaching out into the
community, taking a more “direct marketing” approach. They had a job fair in
Longmont and held six interviews and hired three new employees. They have
accelerated training days, 10 hours a day. It takes five to six weeks to get operators
through training. There is 3% unemployment in Longmont so it is tough to find
employees. First Transit has changed its training to Longmont for Longmont operators
instead of Denver.
Kemp asked about raises for the drivers. There are step increases of 50-75 cents a
year. April 1, 2008 they get a 1% increase. On November 1, 2008 the contract
expires. Mr. Chapin spoke to the wages. First Transit pays health and dental insurance
for the employees so it balances out against what the other contractors pay their
drivers.
John Tayer would like a progress memo on mandated overtime.
II.

Video Camera Update at all park-n-Rides (example Dayton Station) – Director
McMullen spoke about touring the security center and suggested all directors take a
tour. Director McMullen feels that security is well managed and that the District’s
park and Rides are very safe. Rick Clarke and security staff put together a cost
estimate to install video at the Dayton park-n-Ride, it would cost approximately
$150,000 to install cameras. David Genova reviewed the criteria for surveillance at
the new southeast park-n-Rides. Station platforms, parking structures, pedestrian
bridges, and pedestrian tunnels have security cameras. Surface lots are not included
because they are easier to patrol. Director McMullen expressed his concern that
technology is changing so much that he doesn’t want the district throwing money at
installing cameras on surface park-n-ride lots. Director McMullen recommended a
Board tour of the Security Command Center.

III.

Bike Lockers (follow up) – David Genova provided some background on the bike
lockers. Planning and Development handles the utilization and rental. P&D will report
back on bike locker procedure at the January 2008 Committee meeting.
Director Elfenbein asked about the signs at the light rail stations. The District has not
accepted the system from the supplier. They have to go through a sixty day trial
without errors before the system can be implemented and that has not occurred.
There is partial functionality of the system where manual messages can be displayed.

IV.

Bus stops at medical facilities (follow up) – Staff is working with several facilities
about way finding and improving signs. Making some progress and the facilities are
very receptive. Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager, Operations, will keep
Director Kinton informed of what hospitals the District is working with and the

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday,
November 14, 2007
Page 3 of 4
progress made.
V.

Customer Service Peer Review (follow up) – Staff is looking for a scope of what the
Board would like to have studied. Bruce Abel distributed a memo in the Board
package to the Board that contained a list of items studied in previous peer reviews at
other agencies. Mr. Abel asked for the Directors input as to what they would like to
see on the list and what they would like removed.




Director Yamrick – would like to see information flow to special needs
customers added to the list.
Director Elfenbein – Would like to see the item regarding corporate pass sales
programs removed from the list.
Director Daly – training and how is sensitivity training conducted in other
districts

The Committee expressed desire to see this come through as an action item at the
next Committee. The Board needs to make any additional comments on the list by
December 31, 2007 to Bruce Abel. A requested action will come at the January 8,
2007 committee meeting.
VI.

Review of GM Goals – The GM goal from the Operations/Customer Services Committee
reads: Implement a web enable system to allow for bus drivers to input suggestions
related to transit and customer services. This system will be fully implemented by June
2008. The system availability will be widely advertised to all employees and the Board
will be informed as to how many comments are received, subdivided by categories of
comments and what was done to follow up. All submissions will be responded to within
10 working days of receipt.
Cal Marsella thinks this will help improve communication between employees and the
General Manager.
Motion:
Director Kemp made
a motion to move it
forward as a goal
Second:

Director Yamrick
seconded the
motion.

Vote:

The motion passed
unanimously.

VII. Other Matters – Director Yamrick asked about “texting for bus information” that she
saw advertised on the bus. Scott Reed, Assistant General Manager, Public Affairs,
said that it is not real time information, it is schedule information and this is a product

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Wednesday,
November 14, 2007
Page 4 of 4
from an outside vendor. RTD does offer the same information accessible from the
internet or a mobile phone.
VIII. Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Operations/Customer Services
Committee will be January 8, 2007.

IX. Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Co-chair McMullen adjourned the meeting at 5:54
p.m.

