December 3, 2019
Communications & Government Relations Committee
LYNN GUISSINGER: Local government liaison services, I think Pauletta Tonilas is going to
take that over, please.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes, Thank you. Thank you very much, madame chair and directors.
We're tonight with our first recommended action. Can you guys hear me?
AUDIENCE: No.
PAULETTA TONILAS: It's acting wacky.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, yeah. I think I'm supposed to read the action here. I'm reminded here.
Recommended action-- it is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations
Committee that the Board of Directors authorized the General Manager or his designee to enter
into an agreement for local government liaison services with CRL Associates, Inc.-- CRL-- to
exercise the first option year, January 1, 2020 through December 31, 2020, to extend contract
number 16DOO25 at a cost of $105,000. Funding for this contract is included in the annual
budget. This recommended action supports the following general managers' goals, core goal
number five, effective communications and community outreach.
VINCE BUZEK: So moved.
KATE WILLIAMS: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have a motion from Mr. Buzek and a second from Director
Williams. All right, Ms. Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: OK, Thank you. So we have a longstanding relationship with the team
from CRL Associates. They have an extensive knowledge of RTD, of our programs, services,
our issues, and also the culture here, and also a very extensive network of relationships in the
local government sector. And as we, especially, are heading in to transition with leadership here
at RTD, I believe continuing them on as our partners is significant.
They are one of our best partners in working with outside stakeholders. And I expect that they
will be an asset to us in this next year. And so we ask for approval of this committee to move
forward this item for approving the first-year option on this contract. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Do we have discussion? Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. While I have concerns about the performance of the
suggested contractor, I want to bring something up, but this is a fairly difficult conversation,

even for me. And I thought about this today when we were having the opening of our meeting,
where if you see something, say something.
And what I have noticed is, since I have been on this Board, which is now going close to seven
years, there has been a consistent theme, in that it is acceptable for some contractors to give
campaign contributions to some people, whether they are wearing a hat-- when they are wearing
a hat as a candidate. Now, Colorado law does not prohibit a contractor giving a contribution as
an individual of that contractor, whether it's a principal of this specific contractor or an
employee. But those individuals in their individual capacity, over the years, have given campaign
contributions to members-- the candidates for the RTD district, who then became Board
directors.
And there are certain times where an individual is wearing a hat as a candidate and as a Board
Director because they're an incumbent. I have not done this myself. But I have been in a position
where we've had a contract before us, and I've had a personal relationship with that contractor
and felt the need not to vote on that contract, to recuse myself, because I felt from the outside
view, from the public, who expects that transparency. And in no way to question whether there is
some circumstances that-- there's a term for this. It's called pay to play.
And the voters actually passed this with amendment 54 some years ago. And it was overturned
by the court. But the voters themselves passed it, with the feeling that in government, they
wanted it very clear that campaign contributions were not what contributed to somebody's
contract being passed. I won't specifically name any names. But there are a handful of
individuals that have taken contributions from individuals at this firm.
And I've seen it with one of our other lobbyists, where we have approved a contract and are in
existing contract right now. If I don't say something now, then that means I spent seven years
when I saw something and didn't say something. And I don't sleep well with that.
I can't make anybody recuse themselves. But I think if the average public person-- because I've
surveyed friends and political activists what they would think. It doesn't have a good appearance.
So as I stated at the beginning, this was not an easy conversation, but this has been burning me
for seven years, each time we do one of the lobbyist contracts.
The choice is either they can-- the employees and principals of these lobbyists firms stop
contributing to RTD candidates, or the Board of Directors can make a personal choice to recuse
themselves. It appears our ethics policy that we revised last year was not clear in this, when it
prohibits gifts and things of other monetary value. That may not be clear enough.
But at the beginning of our ethics policy, it talks about we want this agency to be a shining star
not have questions. So I will leave it at that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Call the question?

LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. I guess, all in favor of calling the question-- as there a second?
VINCE BUZEK: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right. All in favor say aye.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed?
SEVERAL SPEAKERS: Aye.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All opposed is no. [LAUGHING] OK, so people are opposed. All right,
we'll carry on. Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chair Guissinger. I very much appreciate the
sentiments of Director Menten. I really do. And I've had long conversations with her about this.
And I've been reflecting on it deeply. And I think it is appropriate that we don't even have the
appearance of impropriety here on the Board, and it really is important.
It is my recollection that the folks who have donated to my campaigns in the past did so
individually, although they may have worked for different companies, and it could be a lot of
different companies, like developers. And so in that way, I think, anyone who receives a
campaign contribution could fall into that category. So while I appreciate that, I don't think I've
received contributions from companies but more from individuals. And so for that reason, I'll be
supporting this contract. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Director Folska. Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. As a new Director, I respect the sentiments, and I hear
about the blurred line, and I'm reflecting on my own campaign. I'm not yet elected, and so I
wouldn't have had any contact with CRL and Associates. However, campaigns move really fast.
And sometimes you don't always see the folks who are donating to your campaigns. And so I am
happy to recuse myself from this vote because I cannot say for sure that I have or have not,
because I have not gone back and looked at my contract campaign contributions since my
election.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. I wanted to support Director Menten's raising of
this issue, which I feel is important. I think it's everyone's responsibility to decide whether to
recuse themselves or not. That being said, when I first came to work here, having been employed
by the federal government for many decades prior to this, it was always very surprising to me
that we could have people contribute to our campaign who we would then be analyzing whether
to approve their contracts.

It just wouldn't go into the federal system. And it was very surprising. So I, myself, feel it would
be nice not to accept that money and to recuse oneself if one had. But again, it's a personal
decision. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I would like to just say that in my last
campaign, I got contributions from a great variety of folks. And again, I did not get any from a
company, but from individuals that might be part of a company. And so I understand where
Director Menten's sentiments are. But I have to say that I was voted in this seat to make a
decision on behalf of my community.
It didn't matter who gave me campaign funds. That doesn't own me. I'm my own person. And I
feel like we're also working in a collaborative methodology here. Truly, we need each other. And
so I will not recuse myself from this because I did get campaign contributions from employees I
think that did work at CRL but did not get campaign contributions directly from CRL. And so
I'm absolutely comfortable with moving forward with my decision and supporting this contract,
not because of a campaign contribution, but because of the work that they do in the community.
And at this time, I have seen their work for-- since 2010, from the last time I was on this Board
and the impact that they have, not just locally, but nationally in extending our voice and our
ability to really get some things done. And so for that reason, I'll be supporting this contract
tonight. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We lost-- there you are, Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just want to say that nobody contributed anything to my campaign.
[LAUGHTER]
And you can go and look at it online. I raised no money. I did all of my own stuff. And I think
that CRL does great work, so I'm not recusing myself.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, seeing no one else in line, if the movement-- who moved this? If
Director Buzek would vote and the second vote, then the rest of us can vote as well. The motion
passed. There are two no votes, Director Menten and Director Mihalik and Director Lewis
abstained. And all of those are yes votes. 13 to 2, with one abstention.
See what's next. Second recommended action is on-vehicle advertising contract extension. The
recommended action-- it is recommended by the Communications and Government Relations
Committee that the General Manager or his designee be authorized to exercise a contract
extension with Lamar Advertising of Denver for the one-year period, January 1, 2020 through
December 31, 2020. The proposed extension would include one activation option.
In the event RTD is unable to select a contractor or contractors for a combined on-vehicle and
digital system advertising contract by July 31, 2020, RTD would extend the period of

performance one year, January 1, 2021 through December 31, 2021. Under the terms of the
recommended action, Lamar would remit to RTD either, one, a minimum guarantee of $3.4
million in 2020 and $3.4 minimum guarantee for the activation period in 2021 or, two, 60% of
net sales, whichever is greater. This recommended action supports the following General
Manager's goals, task goal number one, fiscal sustainability.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have with me Adrian Mabrey, who is our
Manager of Projects and Contracts to answer any questions you may have. But as a refresher, we
were before you last month as an information item, asking for your thought process, for us to
come back to you this month with this contract extension that allows us to do a more robust
approach to system advertising. And this would be us putting out a new RFP that combines our
on-vehicle advertising with digital advertising, which is a new deployment for us and a new
revenue generator.
And this also allows us to enhance the customer experience through the information that we're
able to share through these digital customer information displays that also display advertising
that helps to pay for them. And so while we go through this process of a new procurement, this
allows us to continue our on-vehicle advertising and generating that revenue from advertising
until we get this new contract in place.
TROY WHITMORE: I move for approval.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, motion from Director Whitmore. Who was the second? Director
Walker is the second. Director Lewis, you had something to add?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a question. Pauletta, in the alternatives in the second two paragraphs,
it says, "in the event that RTD does not select a contractor for a combined on-vehicle--" you can
read the rest. I won't read it out loud to you. I trust that you can read. Do you anticipate that you- we would not be able to fund that, and that's why you've added that into this?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So the activation period is really designed that if we-- if our process,
for whatever reason, doesn't allow us to select a contractor through the new RFP process by the
end of July, then this activation would kick in. And this would then extend the Lamar contract
for another year. That gives us time to basically get the new contractor, if it wasn't Lamar, and if
they were not one of the proposers, to transition and still keep our advertising program going. So
that's the intent of the activation period. But it isn't so much as it relates to any kind of funding,
as much as it is just process.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, sure. So you would not essentially have an opportunity to not have to
come back to the Board in a year and say-PAULETTA TONILAS: Exactly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: --can you do this thing that you did last year?

PAULETTA TONILAS: Right. And we will be coming to the Board to keep you updated
throughout the whole process anyway because this. I believe, is going to be a landmark
opportunity for the Board. And we want to be able to keep you up to speed as the process goes
forward, as we look to deploy this new way to advertise across our system.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Great. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, seeing no one else, if Director Whitmore, if you would vote as the
movement and Director Walker as the second, then we can all vote. Motion passes unanimously.
Great. Revised system advertising, the recommended action-- it is recommended by the
Communications and Government Relations Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
approve the revision to the RTD system advertising policy. The revisions bring the policy up to
date to reflect current trends and factors that impact advertising policy.
The proposed policy attached provides two specific updates from the previous version. One
includes stations, buildings, facilities and properties as well as RTD's electronic communications
channels to expand the assets available for advertising, two, formally prohibits the advertising of
cannabis and electronic cigarette products on RTD assets. The first provision is needed in order
to provide the forum for RTD to entertain proposals for digital advertising. The second revision
formally excludes cannabis as a product allowable for advertising on RTD properties.
Despite not being excluded previously, RTD has not entertained any cannabis advertising to
date. This recommended action supports the General Manager's 2019 goals, test goal number
one, fiscal sustainability. Do we have a motion?
BOB BROOM: So moved.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Broom is the movement and Director Folska is the second.
General-- Assistant General Manager Tonilas.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. So this brings us up to speed our advertising policy to
reflect current trends and also give us the opportunity to deploy that digital advertising, those
customer information displays, when we move forward with that process by expanding the assets
that we're able to advertise on. And I'll ask Mr. Mabrey if he has any other points that you'd like
to make?
ADRIAN MABREY: No, this was something for us to bring forward to make sure that we were
in a position to release the RFP for digital advertising. We didn't want to put an RFP out and be
trying to award a contract that we weren't in a position to be able to do, based on our current
policy. So we're really just trying to make sure that we're in-- we're ready to be able to put that
policy-- that RFP out on the street this year.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams?

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you. Pauletta, I just-- I'm reading this sentence where it says
excluding the advertising of cannabis on the system, maintains RTD's good standing with regard
to federal funding. And my question then would be, does the federal funding prohibit us from
doing cannabis advertising, specifically?
ADRIAN MABREY: I think in the best interest-- it's in the best interest of RTD to not be taking
on funding from a product that is not recognized nationally. And so while it is not a strict-strictly defined term out there, it is something that it's in our best interest to make sure that we
don't run afoul of perceptions or otherwise.
KATE WILLIAMS: I understand that. The question was, does federal funding specifically
prohibit us from doing that?
ADRIAN MABREY: Not to my knowledge.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I'm trying to think. There-- I haven't read of in other examples where
local governments in Colorado that have or the state itself has not received federal funding since
Amendment 64-- sorry, since legalization has taken place. Are you guys aware of any?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm not. Are you, Adrian?
ADRIAN MABREY: Not off the top of my head. No.
KEN MIHALIK: Are you aware of any withholding of federal funds to any state agency since
the legalization, like, CDOT or something like that?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I'm not aware of anything.
KEN MIHALIK: And then, I just-- I guess I take a little bit of issue when you say we're
bringing-- or this policy is to reflect current trends. I think it's almost going backwards. It's sort
of rejecting current trends. And with the cannabis, does that include CBD as well or just THC
products?
PAULETTA TONILAS: It's all cannabis products.
KEN MIHALIK: OK. Well, it's derived. It's a-- sure.
ADRIAN MABREY: Director Mihalik? This is Adrian Mabrey. I would add that from an
advertising perspective, when we go to review ads that are submitted, it becomes extremely
difficult and really onerous to try and differentiate between CBD and THC in that marketplace.
And we certainly-- we run a little bit of the risk that one product that we might approve could be

offered by an entity that has other products. So we've taken a position in this case to just say, let's
just not-- let's just not enter into that field at this point in time as a safety precaution.
KEN MIHALIK: The producer of one would potentially produce another and-ADRIAN MABREY: Exactly.
KEN MIHALIK: --crossover. OK. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. My question also was in line of the CBD. And if-- I've got a
map here in front of me that CBD is legal in all states, federally legal, as long as it doesn't
contain more than 0.3% THC. And I see on, as I ride the 16th Street Mall shuttle or the 15 or
whatever, we do not have all of our advertising slots filled.
I would like to have a motion to allow CBD. This would-- it'd be one of the things that would be
in alignment with our fiscal sustainability plan, which we haven't found much to tap into.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I second.
NATALIE MENTEN: So I would like to make a motion to amend this policy. And I'm trying to
figure out where to put the words. And I would ask to our legal counsel for a suggestion on the
best way to insert allowing advertisements that are clearly CBD.
We have a second?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yes. We had a second. I believe it was Director Lewis. Is that right?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, I think I've got to get the language first, really, before.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead, if you will, Rolf.
ROLF ASPHAUG: This is real Rolph Asphaug, General Counsel. Without taking a position,
obviously, for or against the motion, if you wanted to just put it at the end of the tobacco,
nicotine, and/or cannabis products, semicolon, back on nicotine- cannabis-related products you
could put paren excluding CBD closed paren.
PAULETTA TONILAS: That's what we were thinking.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Where are you?
PAULETTA TONILAS: It's on page two of the policy.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Page two of the policy.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Packet page 10.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Under prohibited content or subject matter, item one. It looks like it's packet
page 76, according to the-LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, yeah this is-- oh, sorry. Do you see where it is? Oh, page 10. I'm
sorry. If somebody could just-- OK, under tobacco, nicotine, and cannabis, what's the language?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So it would say under the tobacco, nicotine, cannabis, what we would
propose then is tobacco nicotine and/or cannabis products, tobacco- nicotine- cannabis-related
products and then in parentheses excluding CBD products.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And then we would need to do that. Is that right, Rolf?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Excluding CBD, I think you could just say in paren.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And then we would need to also make a change to the recommended
action, I think, right? So we're number two, formally prohibits the advertising of cannabis and
electronic cigarette products, we could say formally prohibits the advertising of cannabis,
excluding CBD-- paren excluding CBD, end paren, and electronic cigarette products.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Yes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I guess we are taking-- I'm sorry?
NATALIE MENTEN: That is the motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: On the-- the recommended action-NATALIE MENTEN: Amended-LYNN GUISSINGER: Go ahead. You want to-NATALIE MENTEN: I agree with that wording and those insertions. And that is the motion.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We you asking to hear it again?
KATE WILLIAMS: Yes, please. Sorry.
LYNN GUISSINGER: So under recommended action, it would say on number two, formally
prohibits the advertising of cannabis, paren, except CBD, end paren, and then-ROLF ASPHAUG: --including CBD.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Excluding CBD. And then down below on page 10, do you have that
language, Pauletta?

PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. On page 10, it says under the prohibited content subject matter
under number one, tobacco, nicotine, cannabis, it would say tobacco, nicotine, and/or cannabis
products, tobacco- nicotine- cannabis-related products and, in parentheses, excluding CBD.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you. So we are taking comments right now on the motion.
I'm sorry. I'll say that here, taking comments on the motion. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Guissinger.
DOUG TISDALE: Motion to amend?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: No. My question is, do we advertise alcohol?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. We do.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: We do?
ADRIAN MABREY: Yes.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Alcohol advertisements, yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Tisdale, or Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Before supporting an amendment that
would insert that language, I recognize the intent meant behind it relative to Director Menten
saying CBD is legal in all 50 states. I believe that could be a correct statement, by the way.
However, I do not know what other transit agencies do in all 50 states.
And before making an amendment to this policy, I'd like to know if other transit agencies have
faced this question and answered it the way Director Menten proposes in this amendment.
Because if it does run the risk, even potentially, of impacting federal funds, when we're in a
situation where we are desperately in need of maintaining that federal stream, I would be
reluctant to experiment with this. And I would suggest that following an investigation by staff,
advising us what other states do, and answering the question whether, in fact, it poses a risk, I
would be more than happy to vote in favor of the proposed amendment at that time. I would
suggest that now I'm going to vote against it because I don't have the answers to those questions.
Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: And Mr. Chair, if I can a moment, I do know that other transit agencies
who have done updates to their advertising policies that prohibit cannabis-related products and
electric cigarettes and vaping instruments, they don't call out CBD at all. It's just cannabis in
general is prohibited. So that's the experience that I've had. But we can look into that matter.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Kind of along the same lines, it's my
understanding that there are products that have both CBD and TH-- whatever the other thing is-so that it is a mixture. And I think we need to be careful if we just say excluding CBD, what if it
is those products that have both? So again, it's kind of a slippery slope once you start allowing
this. But I do think we have to be careful with that. If it's excluding CBD, it shouldn't be CBD
that's a-- that is a mixture. We want to be careful not to tie our hands.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thanks. Yeah, I have the same concerns, that CBD products can contain some
level of THC. And without having a foot-long or a five-foot long disclaimer underneath the
advertisement, I'm not going to support this now. But I think if we find some way to advertise
CBD in its legal form and to the exclusion of everything that's illegal, which would be in
violation of-- my guess which would be in concert with item 8, illegal activity or products, then
we-- then I'd be good for amending the policy to allow for CBD, if we can narrowly define it to
0.3% and under content.
But right-- the intent's good because there's probably a whole lot of demand for advertising those
products, especially as more uses are found for them. But right now, with my questions, I can't
support it. But maybe next week I can. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: This is, I guess, not really hypothetical because it would come up, but would
we accept advertising from a company that produced CBD products, not necessary the CBD
product themselves, but a company that has a product line, and one of them happens to be a CBD
product?
PAULETTA TONILAS: I would say that if it's something that's the Board's purview for us to
include this language, then if an advertiser comes to our contractor and wants to deploy
advertising to advertise CBD products or their company that produces CBD products, we would
see that as acceptable.
KEN MIHALIK: Well, I'm saying without the exclusion.
PAULETTA TONILAS: If we don't include this language?
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, if we don't include it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Well, at this point, we would not accept it.
KEN MIHALIK: Because that's things like Coca-cola, Pepsi, and, well, Frito-Lay and Kroger
and King Super and all these companies. Yes. Oh, sorry, General Manager.

DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. I think we would be product specific, right? Because it would be what's
being advertised. So I think we still have that leeway to do that. One thing we could do is, if I
may, is that we could-- well, of course the Board can take action on the amendment. But we can
always come back at a future date, give you more information on this. And we can always amend
the advertising policy, if the Board chooses.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair? Excuse me, Chair? This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I do need
to note that back last year in August, we had a proposal to have an ad containing CBD. And I had
provided a response at that time, indicating that at that time, it was considered a Schedule-1 drug.
In November of last year, cannabidiol-- as of late September, cannabidiol has been taken out of
Schedule 1 and is now Schedule 5 under 21 CFR Section 1308.15F, if it meets the following
standards, approved cannabidiol drugs, a drug product in finished dosage formulation that has
been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration that contains cannabidiol-- and it goes
into a huge chemical formulation-- derived from cannabis and no more than 0.1% residual
tetrahydrocannabidiols, THC.
So it is a-- that's the current state of the law, as I understood it back in September of 2018, when
this question came up. If I had been contacted prior to this meeting to look into this, I'd be-- I
could have looked into this or provided a response. As it is, I just realized that I've heard about
this before. And I did do a report on this to our staff back in September 2018.
So I would, as RTD's Counsel, counsel against taking action that just flat out says excluding
CBD. Perhaps you could say excluding federally-approved CBD. I don't know.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten, would you be OK if we just asked them to look at this
without spending too much time and bring this back as a potential amendment in the future?
NATALIE MENTEN: I would love that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK.
[LAUGHTER]
I guess we will-- how do we move that? Do we need to put it to a-- you want to withdraw your
motion at this point?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, with the timeline that we're dealing with all of this, is it possible
that we could-- and we've got the holidays coming, jingle, jingle.
[LAUGHTER]
Do you think we could get an answer in January?
ROLF ASPHAUG: Sure.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Motion's withdrawn. And they'll look at it and try to give us an
answer in January.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Withdraw my second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'm sorry?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Withdraw my second.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And Director Lewis has withdrawn her second. Thank you, Director
Lewis. We are back to the original motion to adopt a revised system advertising policy. Any
further comment before we have our vote? All right.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I have a quick. question
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, I see. Well, we blew by it. But Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Do you all happen to know offhand how much revenue
this agency receives from alcohol advertising?
ADRIAN MABREY: Not specifically by that complete designation, no.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, roughly.
ADRIAN MABREY: I couldn't even give you a rough estimate. At no point in the last several
years have we done any kind of an analysis what the revenue streams of advertising are, given-by product type.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, well, that would probably be something you should look into,
actually. That's all. And I would like to know for the alcohol, how much we get from that. But
you should know how much revenue you're getting from every different product. So maybe you
could go over some more of the ones that are really big.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I have a note that says three Board members waiting to speak. But I don't
see them. Are we-[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin? Or Director Folska, do you have more?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: No, we didn't vote yet. I don't know what happened.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin, are you waiting to speak?
PEGGY CATLIN: I don't know if I should bring this up or not. But under item 10-- well, it's
gone. Excuse me. I just have some concerns about some subjective language. And I can't find it
because it just went away. Item number 10, disparaging subject matter, subject matter that is
intended to be or reasonably could be interpreted as being disparaging, disreputable, or
disrespectful to persons, groups, businesses, or organization, and then it goes on.
I think that's a little bit subjective because there are a number of issues that have come up from
some certain interest groups that are perceived to be disparaging, that-- it just could get a little
tricky. So I don't know if we want to take a look at that or not. But we can talk offline about it.
I just-- since we are going to bring this back perhaps for some further discussion, I just wanted to
mention that that's just a little bit subjective. And I know that we're all pretty reasonable people,
but some people may take offense at some-ADRIAN MABREY: I would add on that note, I think, when the policy that is currently in place
was put into place, we made a major adjustment to our advertising, specifically to create a
commercial only advertising policy. And as such, that policy specifically dictates and is usually
the go-to phrase when I turn an ad away is that somebody will submit an ad that is for a nonprofit
or something that is for-- that does not support the sale or the products or services. And that's
what our policy specifically says, is we are setting up a policy where we aren't doing advertising
for the promotion of the sale of goods and services.
When you move into that realm, we find that we have a lot fewer circumstances where we deal
with disparaging subject matter or tone or whatnot. When we're doing commercial advertising,
it's people wanting to sell something, draw you in, and engage in that type of commerce. And so
I have not had a-- I've not reviewed an ad in the last five years that had anything with regard to
disparaging subject matter. It always comes down to is this a commercial ad or not.
PEGGY CATLIN: Great.
ADRIAN MABREY: So that does help us in that. I'd be happy to chat with you about it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Folska, are you still waiting to speak?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I am not.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, let's take our vote. I need the mover and the second to vote, please.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: I think it was-- I think it was Director Broom and Director Folska, right?
[INTERPOSING VOICES]

[LAUGHTER]
LYNN GUISSINGER: You're clicking? OK, where there are now. All Directors can vote. Where
are we? I think we messed up the system when we were all away.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Menten, I don't believe we have your vote.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, we have 13 yeses and 2 nos. The nos are Director Lewis and
Director Mihalik. The motion passes. Thank you very much. We have five updates tonight.
We're starting off with Communications Update, Pauletta.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. And in the interest of time, I'm going to make this really
quick. The PowerPoint presentation that was included in your packet, you can grasp most of this
information from this. So I do just want to draw attention to the outreach that I'd like to highlight
real quickly.
Obviously, one of the big efforts that we do to assist all of you in engaging with the communities
in your districts is we assist you with engagement across your districts, and we do that in a
number of ways. You see the statistics on some of what we've done this year. As we move into
2020, some of the things that you can expect that we'll be working with you to do outreach and
engagement will be another round of telephone town hall meetings, also outreach efforts related
to our Live program, and the N Line opening as we get ready to open the N Line, more safety
and security, and then having a presence at your community festivals and events.
Our community engagement team will be giving you each a packet of how we determine what
events and festivals that we're going to support you at in your district. We have some criteria that
we use, no-cost or low-cost types of opportunities and some of the other things that you can give
us guidance on, what would be helpful for you and your community. And so you'll be hearing
more from our community engagement team on that.
And we're utilizing videos more, informational and educational videos. And we're going to be
working on some how-to video tutorials about how to use our system, how to use our mobile
ticketing app, and various things, as we try to educate the people across the region. And looking
ahead, we are going to deploy our enhanced rider alert system later this month.
That will allow us to do more advanced and detailed rider alerts. It's going to help us a lot in us
giving the information we have been giving about the disruptions to our service. We also will be
putting out our annual report to the region and our annual fact book that has many different fact
sheets in it.
Of course, continuing our public input process, based on the draft temporary service reduction
the staff will bring to the Board. And if the Board so chooses to release that for public input, our

strategic communications plan, which our team has been working on, we plan to bring you, is
send to you a draft in January for you to review initially and then bring it to you during our
committee update in February. Also, our Reimagine RDD engagement will be ongoing. And we
will be adjusting this outreach to not conflict with the public input that we do on the potential
temporary service reduction.
And then of course our CAC are great partners in helping us with engagement across the district,
including with Reimagine RTD. And I'm happy to answer any questions.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Any questions? Mm, it's a blank screen. But I'm not sure what that
means. All right, Director Vice Chair Caitlin. Last time? Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: This is from this time. Thank you. Pauletta, I noticed in the packet that there
were a number of directors who had already had their outreach meetings and that you were
scheduling those of us who have not in the near future. Can you tell me how soon we could have
that happen?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Right. So we do-- we work on outreach meetings based on what your
needs are within your particular district. And it's different for each of you in some of the things
that you want our support with. Obviously, our staff is mindful of what we have resources to
assist you with.
But if there's certain festivals or events or something you'd like us to accompany you at an event,
that's what we're happy to do. And it helps to have more advanced notice. So we'll have our team
talk with you about if you have some things coming up that you want to proactively pitch to us
or have us look for opportunities that then we can make sure that Board Members are available
to be with us. That's one of the things that we're really trying to improve, is when we're out there
for anything in your districts, making sure that you know so that you can have a presence there
with us.
KATE WILLIAMS: So those people who have already had an outreach meeting they were listed
in there are directors who came to you and said, I need your help on this. And then you-PAULETTA TONILAS: Sometimes that's how it is. Sometimes, if we know there's something
going on in your community that we think is broad enough that we have opportunities to share
other information, or it's a great resource for us to have a presence with people, we will schedule
it and make sure that you know about it so that you can accompany us.
KATE WILLIAMS: But if I want to have an outreach meeting in general, then I need to call you
and say, I have these things I need your help with.
PAULETTA TONILAS: I think if you have an idea of something that you'd like to do,
absolutely let us know, and we can talk through the best way to do that with you, for sure.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, Thank you.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Sounds like the outreach meeting should be had. Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Can you provide us with additional detail, either now or
later, about the rider alert system and what that will mean for our riders? What's enhanced about
it? And how does that change the experience that people have of accessing the accuracy of the
information, that sort of thing?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah. Real quickly, I can say what it does give us the opportunity to do
is to give more detailed information. And so for instance, if people always are going to want
information about a certain stop or a certain rail station, then we're able to give that to-- they're
able to sign up for that. The other thing is starting in December, well, this month, later we're
going to have staff from our customer care that will be at the light rail operations center in the
AM and PM peaks that will allow us to get more rapidly out rider alerts and also assist with the
variable messaging signs that are at the rail stations that scroll.
And that's another way that we're going to be able to enhance getting information out on those
signs, understanding that the electronic signs at the rail stations are not real time. And we're not
able to change that information out when we have to drop trips for certain light rail trips. That is
scheduled information, and that is our ability, at this point, is just to leave the information on
those signs as scheduled light rail arrivals.
SHELLEY COOK: Well, at least having people at the rail operations locations so that they can
expedite information when we have disruptions, I just think that's so key. Thank you. Thank you
for doing it.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Sure.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. Two questions for you, Pauletta. The first one is, have
you all seen any positive impacts or results from your outreach plans?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So our outreach plans just in general across-- so what we do is we
collect the data of the number of touches we have, for instance, if we have an information table
at a community event or festival, and the people-- about how many people were touching at that
point. When we're doing presentations, we capture how many people are actually there, that were
touching through a presentation. And so we have those kinds of analytics.
I think one of the things we have gotten some good feedback on is the enhanced email
communications we've done, particularly along the University of Colorado A-Line communities
and the G-Line communities to keep them up to speed, especially as we were working through
the quiet zones process. And so some of that comes organically through us on the input that we
get from people. And always looking for ways to continue to improve our metrics on how
successful our outreach is.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. And then one last question. It says the CAC monthly meetings and
involvement opportunities. Can you delineate what it is that RTD does with the CAC and what
CRL would do with CAC?
PAULETTA TONILAS: So the Citizens Advisory Committee function comes under the
Communications Department. It's one of our outreach and communications efforts. CRL assists
us in the facilitation of the Citizens Advisory Committee. We also have community engagement
staff that do a lot of the logistics in planning the efforts of the Citizens Advisory Committee.
One way that we have been utilizing the CAC more is using them as more of a focus group, an
existing focus group, and having them help us with the transit experience opportunities, to help
people learn how to use our transit system. And many of them have offered to help us with
engagement through Reimagine RTD. Some of them already have. And some of them did help
us with the pop-up events at stations that we did through the outreach process for the operator
shortage, temporary service reduction.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's helpful. I think it would be really helpful to know that we're being
more intentional with the folks on the CAC with their time and how we use their input and their
time and their talents and their treasures to really benefit the agency and just appreciate them and
their commitment.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Agreed. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Good thoughts. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. Have we already initiated and executed the contract for the
telephone town halls?
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yes. Yes, we have that under contract. And so the next round that we'll
be doing it's just going to be determining the right time and working with all of you on the
content for each of those. But yes, that's under contract.
NATALIE MENTEN: I had asked about this during the last town hall, not to you specifically.
But in some ways, I feel maybe I'd be better spent having multiple meetings face to face within
the community versus a telephone town hall. So moving forward, I don't know if there might be
a way to ask directors which they might prefer. And I could see where the response might be
we'd like to have it uniformly, like to have 15 town halls.
But for me, to have three, four, or five community meetings face to face for that same value, I
might feel that might be better for the district. So it's just a thought moving forward, since this
contract's already been executed.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Mm-hmm. Thank you.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.

PAULETTA TONILAS: Appreciate talking to you more about it.
NATALIE MENTEN: Cider at the stations or who knows? But great. Thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Chair. Every two months, I am invited to speak, along with a
number of other elected officials, up at the Conifer town hall. And I just wanted to read this
aloud. I got a nice thank you note. And because your staff is always so good at providing me
with content to present in my three minutes, I just wanted to read this letter. It says, "dear Peggy,
thank you so much for presenting for RTD at our snowy town hall meeting in Conifer. We love
RTD, and we will always appreciate current updates for an ever-changing schedule of
information for the community. Happy holidays. We'll see you in the new year."
I just wanted to share that because the information that you provide to me is very much
appreciated up in our mountain communities. So thank you.
PAULETTA TONILAS: Thank you. And I will say that if any of you need information or
PowerPoint presentations, this is the way that we assist the Board. So make sure you let us know
about that. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you so much. We have a CAC update tonight from our
Chair of the CAC, Mr. Lamers. Are you hiding behind the lectern there. Yeah. Joe Lamers and
Roger Sherman are giving our update. Thank you. Yeah.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JOE LAMERS: Thank you all. First off, on behalf of the CAC, we'd like to thank you all for the
opportunity to participate in the RTD process. And one of the most exciting things that's
happened this year and over the past few months is the CAC has gotten very energized. And
Pauletta kind of summed up a lot of our work.
We are involved in the Reimagine. We've done a few sessions, focus group sessions, with
Reimagine. We have two members on the Reimagine Advisory Committee. And I will say that
now that I'm sitting here, I'd like to make a request.
We have some really long-term folks that have lots of transit experience. We'd really like to get
one on the technical advisory committee. That's my pitch. That's my ask for today, because
nobody ever asks you guys for anything.
And the other things we've done, we've done the Transit Experience. And Pauletta and her group
have been fantastic in supporting that. And I'd just like to point out that there's a range of folks
that we've done that for. The ones I've participated in are people from Somalia, people from, I
believe, Guatemala.

And I took a group of folks that were in their 80s and 90s from southeast Denver to the end of
the G Line. And now they ride the train downtown. So I think there are some successes there.
My point is we are energized. We have skills. We are chomping at the bit to do stuff. And we
have a really active and vibrant committee that's growing every day and wanting to do more. So
thank you all for the opportunity and thank you for your hard work. Oh, and I'm going to say,
Roger's my chauffeur.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, great.
[LAUGHTER]
Thank you so much, Joe. And it's great to hear that you're energized and are coming up with
great ideas. And I think we're all committed to making it meaningful. And I'm glad to hear that
Pauletta and Roger are getting some good work in and putting it-- because you got a lot of smart
people on there, so we appreciate it.
JOE LAMERS: And the other part of this that I think is really-- a couple of more points. One of
them is we are here, and we are a resource for you all. And so sometimes it's hard for you. So
one of our directions is to generate stuff from the ground up. And one of the key elements in that
effort for us to generate and say, how can we help instead of waiting for you to ask us for help, is
the senior leadership team. And Dave Genova has been key in supporting us.
When we went to Dave for the-- to start the Transit Experience, he was all over it right away. So
I'd like to say thank you to them, too. The senior leadership team has been behind us 100%.
LYNN GUISSINGER: That's great to hear. Thanks so much. And I think Mr. Van Meter, you
heard the request about technical advisory group. So it's good to come here and make it. So
thanks very much.
JOE LAMERS: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: And I guess, Roger you're staying here. Is Maria Garcia Berry joining
you?
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Seems like she should, huh? We'll have the CRL update. We can keep it
short and skip to questions.
ROGER SHERMAN: Yeah, I don't have too much to add to-- I will say that we've got a followup Governor's Transportation Forum this Thursday. Dave will be there again, I think. We
touched on a couple of things where RTD is in the middle of discussions that are happening, both
at the state level with the legislature and the governor's office and our metro mayors, which we
knew about. But this is an interesting time, where everyone is really focusing on that.

And they're looking for solutions. And I think RTD, we need to continue to be vigilant that our
RTD is included in that discussion because we have seen-- we've seen legislators take off. We
heard a report from some discussions here-- Jennifer will probably talk about that. But the same
thing is happening at the local level, where mayors are wanting something done. They have no
idea what that looks like.
But we are working really hard and continue to work hard with you all to make sure we work
collaboratively with our local jurisdictions and stay ahead of-- I'm not going to say crazy ideas
but-- proposals that maybe aren't the best way to move forward, and they're brought forward in
haste sometimes. They're brought forward with all good intentions. But there hasn't been enough
dialogue with the agency to really flush them out. And that's what I think we're spending a lot of
our thought and time on.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Anything to add?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: No. I think-- and Dave, Pauletta, at the last Metro Mayor's Caucus
Transportation Committee, obviously the task force, they're waiting. Now that we've got 10 new
mayors as to what the task force will look like to work collaborating with RTD jointly just sort of
make recommendations. I think there is clearly-- and we've pointed that out. I think clearly, there
is starting to be a split among the mayors as to whether the EMPO, Enhanced MPO is actually
the right solution for the region, a lot of it having to do with ultimately RTD's ability to do
something in the future and where that goes and whether there's another level of government that
ought to be created or not created.
So I think there's a lot of dialogue going on. The Metro Mayors Retreat, which we always
sponsor, will happen on January 11th. And we'll be present. And I think that'll be a critical time
to get a sense as to where they're headed in terms of some of this discussion.
ROGER SHERMAN: And I encourage that. Typically we've had the Chair at that and Director
Lubow has attended. I certainly think it's open until noon. The first part of that, I think, having
Directors sit in and listen-- I'm certain we haven't seen an agenda. But I'm certain transportation
will be one of the-- transit will be top, probably the top issue.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. I think that would be great to attend. And this, on January-- I'll ask
a first question. The agenda for next meeting of the Transportation and Mobility Committee is
how they engage with RTD? Is that-MARIA GARCIA BERRY: That's right. That's right. It's on the 13th.
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll try to come to that.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: It's, I think, at 9:30 on Friday the 13th, no pun intended for the 13th.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Friday the 13th?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Yeah. But it's at 9:30 at the Chamber.

LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Roger, you inspired me to come up with a crazy idea.
And it's so crazy. I really love it. So I think it might be useful for Denver, at least-- I know that
congestion and traffic is a top of mind for the leaders of Denver. So they could have an invisible
ring around the central business district prohibiting all cars. They do that in other cities, like in
Barcelona and Paris, Belgium.
ROGER SHERMAN: I think, if that were to happen, it'd have to be in a lame duck's term with
Americans. I think they'd get voted out of office. But-CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, I mean, that's how you get rid of congestion, get rid of the cars.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Madam Chair. A question, now that you guys are
out there talking to all the municipalities, have you heard anything else from Denver about their
new Transportation Department?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: We actually have had a couple of sessions with them. I think that it's
an interesting dilemma that Denver has. I believe that Eulois Cleckley really wants to embark on
a strategic plan that will take them a year to 18 months. ' I think the biggest pressure Denver is
facing that there's some council people who want to go to the ballot in 2020 to raise taxes for a
dedicated revenue source for transportation and not sure that that's necessarily supported by the
mayor's office right now because it's unclear as to what the priorities would be.
I think that Eulois is very focused on creating, I guess what he would call sub-districts to RTD.
He does believe passionately that the regional system has to be delivered by a multi-county
agency to be able to do that. But they're trying to explore what they could do. Obviously, the
BRT on Colfax is a very big priority.
But I think that right now they're moving fast to start doing some things. They have an ongoing
committee that Councilwoman Black and Councilwoman Kniech sit on. But they are at a
dilemma because I think everybody thinks that 2020 would be a really good year to go the ballot.
But their attitude is if we don't have a defined program that works regionally with everything
else that we can explain to our voters, I'm not sure we want to do that. So I think that's one of the
big challenges he'll face in the next couple months.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You said dedicated revenue?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Yeah, revenue source.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Oh, thank.

LYNN GUISSINGER: In a recent meeting, Director Folska and Pauletta and Sherry and I talked
about having Eulois Cleckley coming in and meeting with the Board. So that'd be good to put on
our schedule in January.
ROGER SHERMAN: And I'll also mention that the Council President Clark had reached out a
few weeks ago, again, about we had made an inquiry through the council staff about a social
hour, meet and greet with council members and this Board. It went to the Executive Director,
who then, I think, two weeks after that request went in, he was fired, and there was a vacancy
there. So Jolon has been reminded that this is on the agenda.
And he-- it's-- his staff's supposed be in touch with the Board's staff to start coordinating dates.
So that's been kind of on the back burner. But it's still something that he wants to see happen. So
hopefully early next year that'll be scheduled.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you. Angie, are you finished?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I am.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Chair, I was just wondering in you report on the Governor's Transportation
Summit, it mentions there were some pointed comments related to RTD. Could you give a little
more specific?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: Sure. I think that a couple of people mentioned-- actually I think
who closed the session was Majority Leader Alec Garnett, who was very forceful about, quote,
"making comments about reforming RTD," that that was very top of mind of the agenda. I would
not-- this agenda was-- this session was very disjointed. There was a lot of quite candidly, the
Rail Commission, took a-- Front Range Rail Commission took an enormous amount of energy
and a lot of disagreements as to whether we should have been spending time on that, including
the Speaker of the House, who got very aggravated about it.
So I think that there were some very pointed comments but no substance and no detail. I think
everybody's hoping that Thursday's session, which is from 10:00 to 12:00, will have more form
and more direction, because it was kind of a little bit all over the place. I think it was a little bit
more of a stream of consciousness among some members of the stakeholders who were there.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. I'm just wondering what's heading our way, if you've got a sense.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: I think-- I think there's some governance issues. I think there is-- I
mean I'm not-- this is out of our wheelhouse. This is Julie and Jenifer, who are coming up next.
But clearly, I think it's very clear that governance is on the table.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Sorry. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Oh, go ahead.

JUDY LUBOW: I'm not done. When-- well, there was also a mention that there was some
concerns expressed about EMPO. What was an alternative that they were thinking of instead of
that?
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: There are some areas in, primarily, your area, in the north, that
believe that giving DRCOG the power of taxation may mean that the south controls it again.
That's about as direct as I can be. So there is some thought that maybe if we're going to go this
way, that maybe if there's going to be a tax increase, then we've got to talk about the unfunded
transit projects that are left and that maybe they should go through RTD, not through DRCOG.
I think no one has an appetite to create a new government, a new level of government. But I
think that there is now a concern that if you give it to DRCOG, depending on the-ROGER SHERMAN: Because they're going to have the same number of repre-- they'll have the
same representatives at DRCOG that then are tasked with how-- determining how those funds
are spent. And those representatives represent the entire metro area. So of course, it's not going
to all flow towards one part. So if our ultimate objective is funding that corridor and some of the
unfunded corridors, it's probably got to be done through RTD rather than through a new regional
taxing source.
JUDY LUBOW: All right, thank you. I'm not done.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, I'm patient.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes, I'm just basically reading. OK, in the Metro Mayor's Transportation
Committee, the agenda, the next meeting will be Friday the 13th. The agenda will include a
discussing a process for engaging with RTD in 2020. Could you elaborate a little on that?
ROGER SHERMAN: I mean that comes from the discussion at the last Transportation
Committee, which we, I think RTD has also offered to engage that we want to be at the table
through that discussion. And I think it is just-- it is rather than hearing various proposals coming
from a mayor here or mayor there, let's have a formal process around some of the areas that
people are concerned about and creating a formal dialogue.
Similarly, if you go back to one FasTracks spending was in question following the 2008
economic downturn, we had a FasTracks task force that was created. And it had two board
members. It had a number of local elected officials it had some other interest-- you know,
DRCOG. And it was there to just make sure everyone was hearing the same thing, had a level of
information that-- and the dialogue was based on kind of reality rather than throwing out ideas
that-- proposals from mayors that have never been vetted or discussed with RTD. So it's just a
way to formalize that process.
MARIA GARCIA BERRY: I think we've advocated that in order to be more effective, RTD
needs to be at the table. And whether that's through board members or staff or a combination of
therefore, having conversations where RTD is just a passive participant with limited ability to
respond or even not have enough preparation time to be able to bring actual data to the table to

discussing is actually a waste of time and energy, and that if they really want to be productive,
then what they need to do is have RTD at the table.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much. I appreciate it.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, thanks very much. That's great. Very helpful. All right,
Brandeberry-McKenna, who's back there? Julie, Jenifer, and Megan. I was like, you already had
some questions on what you're working on.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure. So thanks for having us. It's been a very busy interim and fall
for our activities at the state house. I think for the first time in our 20-some years of lobbying,
there were over 17 interim committees that were created last legislative session, and our team
monitored those on your behalf and, in particular, really tried to look at all the various interim
committees and make sure that bills that are being discussed and drafted that potentially may
have impact, operational impact, the RTD, get forwarded through Sherry to legal counsel and
others.
And I think those drafts are currently making their way through legislative drafting, and this
upcoming session, I think we'll see a handful of bills, whether directly impacting the operations
and/or governance of RTD to issues as diverse as sexual assault legislation, family medical
leave, and others. I think there's also interest in the legislature looking at how we compile and
report data.
So it's been a very, very busy interim. I would really like to thank staff and the Board of directors
who have worked with our team to meet with their local officials and others to be at the table and
say, look, you know, you have interests. There are things that you're concerned about. I think you
all represent the same kind of constituents that elected officials do, and they're aware of the
challenges that the district faces and that we've really tried to work hard to say, let's meet them
together. Let's collaborate. Let's have a conversation. How can we work together to best meet the
citizens' needs as it pertains to transportation?
So a big thank you to you all for spending time with us in our little weird world, meeting with
folks, and to staff, who's been very responsive about doing those meetings. We've always worked
with you all in terms of meeting with your legislators, and we've have always worked with staff
to get around to the leadership, transportation chairs, the minority members of the transportation
committees to say, you know, check in. Julie can talk about some specific transportation-related
stakeholder meetings that we've participated in with you all and at the legislature.
JULIE MCKENNA: As Jenifer mentioned, it has been a really busy interim, and, in particular,
the speakers one that has had particular interest in what RTD is doing in data collection. And one
of those questions that she had asked was, what are the expenditures per county that RTD
makes? And that is a huge undertaking for the staff to put out there, and kudos to the staff,

because it's not something that they have the ability to do automatically. They have to do that
manually to respond to that request, but it's really meaningful and important to a lot of the
interests of the legislature of where are those expenditures? Where do those dollars go per
county?
And so we are following up. We had a telephone meeting with the speaker, and then we're
having a meeting to follow up in December with the speaker to present that data, and then,
hopefully, going forward, that'll be something that will be more automatic. But that will be very
meaningful, I think, not just to the speaker, but to others as well. So we really appreciate that. I
know that was really, really a big undertaking by the staff.
The speaker also convened after the election and the defeat of Proposition CC. A group of
interested parties in transportation and General Manager Genova and Director Guissinger were
both there on, what are the next steps to fund transportation, and how can we participate together
in what those might look like? And I think on the table are, is it a statewide solution? And I think
that's kind of the preference of legislators is, what can we do? But also out there are districts that
believe there are real needs out there that need to be met. So the RTO concept is something that
will be on the table.
So those are conversations that we've been invited to in the very beginning and will continue
throughout the session. And we appreciate everybody's participation in those.
MEGAN WAGNER: I wanted to thank all the members of RTD Board that were able to be
present for General Manager Genova and Chair Tisdale's presentation to the TLRC in October. It
was very well received by the legislature. They appreciated having that dialogue, and they
appreciated the attendance of Directors Cook, Guissinger, Williams, Malpiede, Catlin, and
Tisdale, and, of course, Sherry and other staff that attended. It's really important that they all saw
us there listening to what their concerns were and participating and being at the table during
these discussions, so they know how much we're engaged on these issues.
We're excited to have worked with staff to coordinate Senator Dominick Moreno, Senator
Rachel Zenzinger, and Representative Chris Hansen, three JBC members that were invited to
speak and kind of give their thoughts on transportation moving forward at the December Board
meeting-- or I'm sorry, at the December 17th meeting. Representative Kim Ransom regrets she
cannot attend but would like to participate in a meeting in the future, since she's a member of the
district and a member of the JBC as well.
Lastly, we had set up regular monthly scheduled telephone meetings with legislators that were
interested in participating. We sent that email out to all 100 members of the legislature, and we
had-- at the last meeting in November, we had Senator Bridges, Senator Winter, Representative
Gray, and Representative Titone participate. We continue to build on those our next call is
scheduled for December 12th at 3:00 PM. Anyone is welcome to attend. I'm happy to send it to
everyone.
But we're excited. We already have some folks that are excited to participate in that as well. And
I think it means a lot to the legislators that they're not only getting one on one meetings with you

as Board members and with us, that they have this opportunity to kind of get together and talk
about the issues as a group.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Questions, Dr. Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. Thanks for the update. So I'm looking through, and I noticed last
night that anticipated legislation includes RTD appointed board, right? So we just had a really
long discussion about the process to hire a new GM, and I guess there's a possibility that this
Board may not exist in this form by the time or soon after a new GM is seated. What type of
conversation has been had since Mr. Genova turned in his letter of retirement?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure. The idea of an appointed board is really nothing new. I think
we've had the history of representing you all for over two decades, and our first legislative
session representing the RTD before the General Assembly, Governor Romer, in his last year in
his state of state called for an appointed board. I think when people feel frustrated and may be
concerned that there's challenges, that is kind of a go-to piece of legislation that's been out there.
I'd say two months ago, we would hear, when we were in the capital meeting with legislators,
that was an alternative. They were interested. I'm not saying there aren't people that are interested
in that.
I think when we have more one-on-one dialogue with elected officials, elected board members,
and staff, what folks really care about is, how do we meet them where they are, and how do we
work with them to solve the challenges that the district has as well? I mean and acknowledging
the state has very similar challenges-- if you boil it down, our challenges at the core deal with
revenue. The state's challenges, at a core, deal with revenue. And how do we take the revenue
that we have and use it the most efficient and effective way?
So I don't think that conversation has really been impacted by Dave's resignation or retirement. I
think it's just a conversation that has been around at the state capital for the last 20 years. When
people get frustrated, they're like, oh, let's look at this. And then when you go to talk to them
about it, that's not really the problem they want to solve. It's no surprise the problems they want
to solve are the problems you all are trying to solve, which is, hey, we have a driver shortage.
Hey, we have revenue shortages. Hey, we are a little bit frustrated that things haven't moved as
quickly as we want them to move.
And so with your participation and staff's participation at the capital meeting with them, then
they move quickly to, OK, governance may be an issue. And I think what we've tried to say is
your advocates is, we're not saying no to any idea. We don't have the permission from you or
authority from your staff to say yes or no to any of those ideas.
What we're saying is, tell us more about what you're frustrated about, and tell us more about how
we can work together. And I think what we're hearing more of is kind of what Roger and Maria
alluded to is transportation and the funding challenges are real. And so how do we, both from a
governor standpoint-- I think they're very interested in looking at alternatives and innovation.
Local governments are looking at that. The state is looking at that.

You know, it's been a long run of tried attempts to get revenue, because we have challenges. And
those have been rejected by the voters. And so if they're rejected by the voters, you have to take
that seriously and say, what do we have? What tools in our toolbox are available for us to do
better? I would really like to applaud Lynn, who's been our government affairs chair, to say-- and
has a lot of good relationships with folks in-- and a lot of the leadership in the capital are from
Boulder. Let's just face it.
And they have a lot of long-standing frustration. I think what she's been able to do and what
many of you have been able to do is say, we hear you, and we want to partner with you. So what
are tools that-- are there things at the state legislature that are in statute, that have been there for
two decades that maybe you guys could remove that would allow you all to have more flexibility
in how you make decisions, whether it's parking, whether it's fare revenue, whatever? What
should-- how can we look through Colorado state statutes, because you are a creature of the
state? Are there barriers there that we should just take away?
And I'll give you an example of way back in the day, when Faster Pass, which is probably the
last big statewide measure of tax money that went to transportation-- you know, it was
Republicans and the Republican minority leader who said, why is it in state statute that you, as
RTD, has to come to us to ask permission to go the voters for a tax increase? And it was
Republican minority leaders like, you have an elected board. Why are we doing that? I'm not
saying you should. I probably wouldn't support a tax increase if we went, but that is your
prerogative. That is your realm as elected officials of the district.
So it was the only bipartisan amendment to the last big transportation package that passed was an
amendment to remove a restriction that said that you all have to go the legislature first before
you can go to a tax increase. So I think what we're trying to do in partnership with you and staff
is saying, what else is on the books, as we look at these challenges, that makes sense for the
legislature to say, hands off-- let's give you more tools, not less-- more invasiveness? And I think
as we partner with them, they're open to those conversations.
So we'll see bills. I mean, we don't have the ability to see every bill that's been pulled. That's a
confidential process before the deadline. Deadlines will be coming up. The legislature comes in
in January. We'll see a lot of legislation, I think, that has to do with us. We'll go through our
regular process of forwarding those bills to Sherry. Those will go to legal counsel, and then we'll
do a review of how they impact us and have a conversation of, where do we stand on those?
So I think governance is an issue. It's just one of many, because I think people feel the need, after
the rejection of CC and other transportation fundings, how do we work together to deliver the
services we want to deliver to the constituents we all represent?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, and thank you for that response. That's really good.
I'm sitting here thinking next year is going to be an incredible year with all the elections. Half of
this Board and the legislators are up for-- a lot of them are up for re-election or are termed out.

What are you guys thinking in terms of the dynamics changing in the legislature for this next
election, and how could it impact us as an agency?
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]
[LAUGHTER]
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: I mean I think one of the things that we are very committed to at
Brandeberry-McKenna is knowing and meeting all potential candidates and legislators and
working with them. And it's a challenge, because it used to be-- I think Maria had the last spouse
that was the speaker, who was not there under term limits. And since then, we really get a third
of the legislature new every single year. So I think what we'll continue to do and always have
done is make sure we meet them, make sure they understand who we are, how we work with you
in the district. If they have questions about transportation, get them to the right resources.
I think, you know, health care, and this governor, is a big priority for him. I think transportation
continues to boil up, especially on the front range, whether it's a municipal level, RTD level, a
state level. And so our job is to make sure that they know you want to work with them and
partner with them and that you know who they are and that we are a facilitator in those
relationships.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: If I might, I'm wondering if in preparation for something like
that, that we might consider hosting a celebratory kind of social hour so that they could meet us
as a Board, and we could meet them as new legislators to congratulate them and start that
relationship building?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: That's a great idea, and I think Claudia, Director Folska, has
worked with us in the past to do something very similar to that. You know, it's hard with
Amendment 41 and the finances to pull that together. We are certainly happy to partner with you
and look for ways to make that successful, and I think a big part of the downside of term limits is
people don't have time to develop relationships. And a lot of this is just developing the
relationship, and they know they have someone to call on or to connect with. And it doesn't mean
we all have to agree.
That's part of being an adult. We don't always agree on the solutions, but if we, as a district, can
sit and partner with folks, that helps folks build confidence and kind of settle down in the, I'd
better decide what to do. And kind of to what Roger said earlier is like, you know, avoid reacting
to bad ideas. Let's get in before those are formulated and say, you care about this. What are you
thinking, and how do we work with you to get there? So I think that's a great idea, and we're
happy to help with that.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Dr. Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Very quickly, I was just wondering, you've got an anticipated
legislation about RTD oversight. Could you be a little clearer about what that means to you?

JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure. I mean, we've heard-- we talked about the appointed board. I
think there has been some conversation with legislators about, are there things that the state
should do? So for example, some legislators really don't know, because they don't sit on the audit
committee and others, that there is oversight of you and that there are statutory requirements for
the state to do audits of RTD. So I think it's a lack of if you don't sit on the audit committee or
the Transportation Committee, and you're brand new, and maybe you just sit and add, but
someone says to you, RTD has got an issue. We need to do something.
So oversight is kind of a general tagline. I think what we're trying to say is, oh, we heard you
have interest in that. What is that? What does that really mean? When you dig a little deeper,
nine times out of 10, what you hear is, well, we know you have challenges with drivers. And
then Dave and whomever is in the meeting walks through all of the basic facts of why there is a
shortage. And they're like, oh, I get that. So they don't necessarily want to go down a legislative
idea.
It's more without those ongoing conversations with new people at the capital, in a vacuum, they
might feel like they need to pull a bill title to do something. And so our job is to say, we heard
that. How do we-- what is it that you want to do, and what is your goal, and how can we work
with you to accomplish that?
JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you. One more thing-- is that all right?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Sure.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah. I imagine you heard when we were discussing the 2020 audit, and is
there some way that we could impact what that audit would be about? And is that something that
you could talk to us about?
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: I mean we monitor all the state audit committee meetings for you
all, and so from a statutory standpoint, they are allowed, as a state audit, to pull. Today when we
were having a meeting, it sounds like-- it's never come up at an audit meeting recently that says,
we want to audit RTD on X. I think we're in the queue, and I believe that the auditor has reached
out to the district, and they have kind of eliminated that they might want to talk about fare box
revenues.
DAVE GENOVA: We got the engagement letter today, and they did state the topic in it.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Yeah. And that's, I think, coming from the auditors, not from the
legislators, because when we monitor the-- it has never really been a discussion from the
legislators that sit on the audit committee that that's what they want to do. It may have been a
confidential conversation between legislators and the audits that that's the interest.
If that's something, we can dig in further and see how that-- I would have talked to Dave and
others of what the intent is that they want to do. But we're happy to pursue-- meet with the
auditor and the members of the audit committee to say, what is it that you're looking for, and
how can we work with you on that?

JUDY LUBOW: OK, thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Chair Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Yeah, well, we expect you to change
the audit subject matter by the 17th, because we're meeting with them on the 17th. That's a joke.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: OK. To what, I guess, is the question?
DOUG TISDALE: OK, and I'm intrigued by the comment that the legislative bills are
confidential, so it's hard to tell what they are. Seems like nothing on this Board is confidential, so
I'm wondering, how do they manage to maintain that? That's wonderful. But the notion of getting
together with the legislators, we are having a dinner on December 17 with the legislators here in
this room, I am informed. So that's something that you should be aware of.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: I know Megan was alluding to that earlier.
DOUG TISDALE: Say it again.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Well, first, to your first question, it is a rule of the legislature that
bill drafts are kept confidential until they're released. So we only hear about ideas that are out
there, but we don't have drafts to share with staff and you all until they are officially released. I
think what you're referring to about the December 17th is, yeah, we're absolutely aware that we
have legislators coming. Per staff and Director Guissinger, there was a conversation about since
there is so much interest in RTD, is there a way to have folks come and present from the
legislature and I think from-- I think the first person was from DRCOG?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, we've had somebody from-- Jackie Millet came from DRCOG and
the Metro Mayors, and we had the state demographer here.
JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Right. So we were asked to invite members of the joint budget
committee. And we invited all members of the joint-- there are six members of the joint budget
committee. We invited all members of the joint budget committee that represent part of our
district in particular, and three of the four that are in district have agreed to attend.
And so they'll be here on the 17th to just share with you a general overview of the state budget,
because we have a very complicated state budget. And I think two of them, in particular, have
been longstanding advocates for additional transportation funding. And I think they can share
with you some of the ideas that they're talking about or considering introducing as transportation
funding in this upcoming session.
DOUG TISDALE: Excellent. Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Williams.

KATE WILLIAMS: I love it when I sit down at a meeting here at 9:30 at night and get told that
I'm having dinner on December 17 with legislators, because that's the first I've heard about it. So
I just wanted to make that comment to the people who did hear about it earlier.
LYNN GUISSINGER: We haven't brought that up recently, but when we talked about our new
program of bringing in guests, we did talk about it. And as Jenifer was saying, we started with
the state demographer, and then we've also had Jackie Millet come in. I think we were limited in
our dates. Pauletta might remember better, but I think we were limited in our dates, and the
Board agenda is kind of a very prescribed agenda.
So our way of dealing with that was to be-- and when we could get them was to get these three
joint budget committee members to come. And they could come in at 4:30 on the 17th. I don't
know the logistics of how we'll do dinner, if it'll be in here or what that is, but I hope-- I
apologize. We haven't talked about it recently, but I hope that everyone can make it.
I think it will be really enlightening to hear how transportation funding goes through the JBC,
and they are generally supporters of RTD. So I think that would be good. Did you have anything
else, Kate?
KATE WILLIAMS: Just for future reference, I want to point out that there are some of us here
who work full-time jobs, and our calendars are really full. And that kind of thing, the sooner we
can get that information-- I have something else on my calendar. So I mean I guess I'll move it.
But for future reference, the quicker that we can be advised of that kind of stuff, the easier it
makes the life of those of us who, unfortunately, are not able to dedicate all of our time to RTD,
because we have to make a living to eat.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Got it. That's on me, and we will keep that noted. I would also just say
that those meetings-- I was in the meetings the last couple of days with Dave and this crew and
today with-- it was my senator, who's Senator Fenberg, and yesterday with the heads of the
transportation committees. And I know that they're scheduling a number of people. It really
makes a difference.
They start to realize there are problems with figuring out how to appoint a Board, and they start
to respond to ways of thinking about how they can help us. I think the transportation chairs were
both in a meeting with the governor after our meeting yesterday, and I think they were-- they
kind of became-- they were asking tough questions and making some pointed comments. But
they kind of became supporters in that later meeting.
And so take advantage of that. And I think that's true with our local governments with CRL as
well, but I've been-- these guys have been doing a great job moving them to different topics and
how to be more constructive. So thanks.
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
I think that's it. Thanks so much.

JENIFER BRANDEBERRY: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: All right, we've got our special guests in from DC tonight, Patty Doersch
and Mike Dino, who's here in Denver.
LYNN GUISSINGER: What's that?
PATTY DOERSCH: Ann is here as well.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Oh, great. And Ann. Good.
PATTY DOERSCH: OK, I think we-- thank you, again, for the opportunity. We love coming out
at the end of the year. We do a little bit of taking stock in the annual presentation we do, because
I think it pays to get us focused on what we need to do in the coming year. It's a very cyclical
legislative cycle, and things get geared up again in January. So that's going to be the cadence of
this presentation as well.
I think we gave this to you at least 10 days ago. I'm sure you've seen it, so I want to move
quickly through things. Just a little refresher to folks-- you know, a year ago, we came in here.
Dems had taken the House. The place for finding common ground is on infrastructure and
transportation. Grand plans for formulating, big and bold, incredibly expensive plans. So they
were talking about even doing a gas tax.
And so here we are a year later. Where are we on infrastructure? I'd have to say that the climate
in political Washington is difficult-- very little substantive policymaking right now. Very little
legislating is getting done. So how do we advance RTD's priorities in this environment? We're
going to touch on that. We're also going to touch briefly on the 2020 national elections. They're
already capturing a lot of attention in Washington. Look at how it's going to affect transportation
and how it's going to affect RTD.
Year in review-- again, it makes sense to take stock. There's some very notable successes this
year. I think chief among them may be kind of the forward-thinking initiatives with the example
of Reimagine RTD with first in the world, literally first in the world deal with Uber to provide
the transit services riders want and have come to expect from RTD.
One question for us to consider now are congressional grant programs and grant eligibilities of
existing programs. Are they keeping pace with what our riders expect? Do you see areas for
improvement? And if so, those are things we need to advance in the next authorization bill.
I'll pivot to Ann now.
ANN MILANO: Thanks, Pat-- thanks, Patty. You know, in the sphere of taking stock of 2019,
we're looking at RTD's ability to take advantage of some of the discretionary grant awards. And
in this year, you were able to complete the Landmark Eagle P3 project and get the final $213.3
million of the federal contribution to that project, which was just a great achievement. You had a

total of about $426.6 million in federal grant money, and in addition, there was loan money, $1.3
million in federal grant and loans.
But for the appropriations, you had the $213 million this year. Previous year, $63.3 million, and
in 2017, $150 million. So that's an amazing project that we're very happy to seek to completion.
And your sustainable transportation options, which is a very big policy issue for you, you're able
to secure some $2.6 million in funds for low emission buses.
You had some funding for security, transit security for a canine team. And that money came out
of Department of Homeland Security. And then you also have an application pending for a rail
grant for some permanent rail maintenance improvements along the N line.
So that's an important part of your program to access some of those discretionary funds that are
key to your policy goals. Looking, again, at the current state of play on transportation in
Washington, sometimes I just kind of feel like we're a broken record coming here each year and
tell you that everything is tied up in knots, but everything's tied up in knots, so that's kind of a
familiar feeling by now. Partisan gridlock, squabbling, nobody agrees about anything.
Everybody is in their corner of the sandbox throwing sand at each other. So you try to make
sense of it, but basically, all the appropriations bills are waiting to be finalized.
You know, if we had a crystal ball, we could tell you there is a number of different outcomes that
could happen. You could have complete gridlock, and the president decides to close down the
government. I don't think that would stop the impeachment proceedings, but that is one option.
And apparently, he is upset that the southern wall funding that he's very committed to is not
forthcoming. So that's the option of closing down the government, or you could continue with
another continuing resolution.
The government is open right now just until the 20th of December. You get another 17 days to
do something, which could be to enact another continuing resolution and kick the can into next
year, which is quite a good possibility. Or everybody could be very reasonable, get together, and
pass one omnibus bill that takes in all 12 appropriations bills. I'm not counting on that, but you
never know. You just never know. Or they could do a couple of small what they call mini buses
and put groups of bills together.
So we don't know. We really don't know. It would be better to have complete bills. The omnibus
bills would reflect the work that the committees were doing all year rather than just stopping
music and not reflecting any changes that we need to see made. So not clear yet what's going to
happen there.
And then looking also at the-- what might happen to your allocations from FTA, if the work is
not finalized on the appropriations to the degree that FDA can start allocating funds, you won't
be able to get the formula funds allocated unless there's at least about a half a year's bill in place,
because it's just too time-consuming to try to allocate the funds. So FTA really has its hands tied.

And then moving forward, trying to see if there's going to be any movement on surface
transportation, again, the parties are not working together. Everybody's kind of in their own
corners. And there's not a lot of progress. So with that, I think I'll throw this back to Patty.
PATTY DOERSCH: Thank you so much.
ANN MILANO: You fix it, Patty.
PATTY DOERSCH: OK, this is my favorite subject, our RRIF CRP issue. You know, I was just
thinking before I came out here just of places where I've worked on things, trying to cut-- we got
so close in June. I mean I would-- I was actually abroad at the time and awake in the middle of
the night and trying to cut a deal with Perlmutter on what's our pay forward to get this through at
the House aprops side. But getting close isn't good enough. We had a beautiful amendment. It
worked. It didn't score. It had no problems.
The Dems wouldn't take it. They refused the amendment, from a fellow Dem. It was frustrating.
So we're not there yet. We're not there yet.
The biggest hurdle now is cost. We've gotten DOT to back down to stop opposing it in concept,
this change to the RRIF program. But we finally got a cost from OMB just this past week. The
bill isn't-- the cost of our fix, the cost of fixing what we call a fix is to return all the CRPs upon
repayment of individual loans within cohort 3 will cost $70 million.
It's tough to kind of explain how to get RTD, its $29 million back. We have to find 70. But that's
the burden. That's what we have to carry. There's no point fighting OMB, so that's what we're
working on right now.
They've sent, I think, a very effective letter, November 18th, to the Senate side, because, again,
this is a Senate problem. The house appropriators are sympathetic. Again, they didn't move the
amendment in June. They refused to sacrifice their funding for the RRIF program.
They said this is a Senate battle. Senate must fix it, sent a letter where he made clear that RTD's
top federal legislative priority is fixing this, getting our $29 million back. This will remain our
top priority until it is solved, and he still saw very many opportunities in the 2020 appropriations
cycle, the mess we're in now, to get this fixed.
The message was received. I heard from Kelsey Foy at Gardner's office Monday morning after
Thanksgiving recess, and she's determined to get this done. We're trying to take advantage of the
dysfunction. Move on to the next slide here a little bit. This is the progress we've made, the
efforts we've made. But we're really trying to use the dysfunction of not a single appropriations
bill cleared yet.
So everything is gray. Everything is up in the air to get our language included. The question is
now, a bill has passed the House. A bill has passed the Senate. We know the budget numbers.
We have those caps there. We literally have to find $70 million to steal from another program.
That's where we are. And so that's the game that we're playing.

Ann made clear, the current spending bill ends December 20th. Back that up. The House and
Senate have to have a new deal to keep the government open for whatever length of time they
agree to by around December 15th. So now we have about two weeks to push to find it, pay for,
and to get it in on the Senate side. That's where we are. We're not giving up.
So still working on the Senate. On the House side, Perlmutter's been the hardest fighter for us.
But a conversation, again, that I had this week with his staffer, Jeff O'Neil, is that he lost in June.
So he can't get it in, our fix in on the House side appropriations bill. He's willing to push again
next year in 2021. He's willing to get a fix in the FAST Act reauthorization bill next year. But on
the House side, our plays are over. That's why all our eggs are on the Senate basket right now.
Where we stand as of today on RRIF fix is that I wrote a beautiful fix today on the airplane, sent
it to Kelsey Foy at Senator Gardner's office. We're hopeful that they can get it in. She's a bit
negotiating from a position of weakness, because she's going in there, and Gardner's biggest ask
right now is, listen, I'm the number one vulnerable Republican. You need to take care of me. You
never want to negotiate from weakness, but that's all he's got. So she's pushing it.
Our other priority, where we're working now and continue to work-- and I know it's a priority for
Director Folska-- is to get a revised definition of bus rapid transit as an eligible new starts
project, one that recognizes BRT without exclusive bus only lanes, if traffic flow can otherwise
be managed to ensure reliable travel times. Again, this is-- why should the federal government,
say, dictate the lane configuration from Boulder to Denver? That's ridiculous. If we have a
performance-based standard, whatever means you need to use for your BRT to maintain reliable
travel speeds, why can't we do that?
It's because our main authorizing committee in the Senate, the Senate Banking Committee,
Homer and Jen don't like this idea. Their idea of BRT is dense, urban development supported by
high frequency transit. The notion of BRT connecting cities is unacceptable to them. So this isn't
an issue where we can solve by convincing them. They can't be convinced. We've tried on two
authorization bills.
This isn't something we can fix with money, like the RRIF issue. This, I think, we have to give
Homer and Jen the opportunity to prove it to themselves. They need to come out here. They need
to ride the BRT. We need to show them the studies that say the only corridor with better travel
times is US-36, so come out here, ride it, and also, it's something of a numbers game. We need to
show that what works in Denver will work nationwide.
You know, they push back and say, well, this works for you. How do I know it's going to work
nationwide? I'm doing a national program. We worked with RTC of Southern Nevada last time
around. We got them on board. We need to build more partners in here who are on board with us
to make this happen.
So early next year, we invite-- we should get Homer and Jen out here to tour, to ride the line, and
we need to look for like-minded transit agencies across the country. And that's going to be our
push. I think that'll make it happen. All right.

ANN MILANO: OK, back to the FY 2020 funding appropriations, and looking at what the
different scenarios might mean for RTD. We know that if the CR is enacted, that that goes for a
full year. That will at least allow FTA to apportion the funds, the formula funds, because that
will-- they are not going to apportion the money until they have a full year bill in place. We're
already a couple of months into the fiscal year.
So I mean would be one scenario, so you'd have the FY 2019 funding levels, which are good, but
they are not as good as the formula funding levels that are in the 2020 bills that were put together
by the House and Senate. Those are at a $10.15 billion level, which is over $200 million more
than what was in the 2019 funding. So we would like to see the 2020 levels, because that would
be better for you.
Also, under the 2020 bills that the committees have worked on, the BUILD program, also was
called TIGER, Better Utilizing Investments to Leverage Development. The BUILD funding was
provided at the level of $1 billion in the House bill and in the Senate bill. That's $100 million
above the FY '19 level, which is-- that's a good thing. We would like to see that.
The program that really got whacked was New Starts. New Starts got-- was funded at the $2.55
billion in the 2019 bill. The administration wants it cut by about 40%. The House gave it about a
10% cut, and Senate gave it about a 20% cut. We don't know what exactly was going to happen
on that.
We are hopeful that if the House and Senate actually get together to do some negotiating on an
omnibus bill, that, perhaps, that number will go back up, because it is a popular program,
especially in the House. And the House is at the $2.3 billion level. That is the authorized level in
the FAST Act program.
So I think they'll want to keep at least that level. They won't want to go for the big cuts that the
administration or the Senate put in. Looking at the reauthorization bill, the FAST Act, which is
the Fixing America's Surface Transportation Act, that will expire at the end of September. Not
much of anything is happening on that. Senate EPW committee has taken some action. They've
reported out a bipartisan bill in August.
Problem is the same problem we've talked about with you all for years is that they've put in a
number for their bill. They've put about a 30% increase over the last reauthorization bill. But
there's no money. It's kind of a game. Like, this is what we'd like to have. And now you guys go
find it. And you guys are the president. You go find it. Finance committee, on the Senate side,
and the Ways and Means Committee on the House side, and everybody kind of throws the hot
potato around.
And you don't know who's going to end up holding it, but with the Congress, the way things
have been going lately, nobody will hold the hot potato. Somebody will just drop it, and it'll be
on the floor. And the program will expire at the end of September, and we'll get continued on a
piecemeal basis.

And that is-- we don't expect-- it's not going to be a highway program or transit program, but we
just expect they'll be extenders until we have the elections completed in the next year, and it's
more clear what the policies are going to be and whether there is a willingness to put the money
in the program that it really deserves. And as far as the Colorado representation on some of the
relevant committees, we have Senator Bennett, who's on the Senate Finance Committee. And
that is helpful. And he can weigh in there on helping out funding for transportation.
And we also have Senator Gardner is on the Commerce Committee, which is part of the
authorizing group of committees for transportation. So we're hopeful that those members will
help us out when the time is right for a reauthorization effort. But right now, it just looks like we
will be going along on a stop-get kind of a progress with the reauthorization.
All right, I think we're going to go back to Patty and talk about infrastructure.
PATTY DOERSCH: And I'll go fast on this. I almost didn't want to mention this about this big
infrastructure package. I mentioned it at the start. If someone asked me a month ago, I'd say, oh,
it's dead. That was a short-lived pipe dream. But now it's back again, because the Democrats are
in a position where they have to show, in spite of the impeachment hearings that you can still
govern. They can still just do basic legislation that Congress expects of them like the 12
appropriations bills. And so that's why they're advancing this.
Infrastructure is the-- in my mind, it's the antidote to impeachment. So and to some extent,
Trump is also supportive, because he's also in a position with the impeachment hearings, where
he still wants to look presidential. He still wants to look like he can accomplish something. But
there's a few things weighing against that.
First of all, to look presidential, Trump is basically preaching to his base. And his base isn't
saying, raise the gas tax to pay for infrastructure. And also, both sides, House Dems and Trump,
they don't have to get this grand deal done, because they have a fallback. Their fallback is
surface transportation authorization.
That's going to be a very big bill. It's not going to be rural broadband and everything else, but
that's going to be a fair amount of money every year. That's going to be-- say, it's $20, $30
billion a year. That's huge. That can be their victory, and they can wait for next year.
But then again, another hurdle here is that next year, when the FAST Act expires, it literally
expires six weeks before the presidential election. Nothing is happening then. So I know that
they're talking infrastructure. I'd love to see a deal happen, but I almost think that it's lip service
to show that they can function.
But now a little bit more on the 2020 elections. we are making Mike Dino speak.
MIKE DINO: Yeah, and I'm not going to say much. I mean two months from now is the Iowa
caucuses on February 3rd, and we'll begin to see how the presidential campaign shapes up for the
Democrats. And then three months from now, we have the Super Tuesday, which we participate
here in Colorado.

And just four days later, the caucuses will happen, and we'll see if the Democrats hone in on a
candidate for US Senate against Senator Gardner. More than likely, one of the candidates will
pursue signatures to get it on the ballot, and another will pursue the caucus system and the
nomination through the party, so more than likely, we'll have a primary at the end of January-- I
mean June on the Democratic side. And then the real game begins for the fall election.
And speaking to what Ann and Patty talked about in terms of getting rid of gridlock, one party
probably has to control Washington. And the reality of that is not too great. But there is a chance
the Dems capture the White House, eke out a victory in the Senate, hold onto the House, and
then maybe they march forward with an aggressive agenda for at least two years. So that's
something to look forward as we turn the dial out of this decade into the next one.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, that's great. Thank you. Questions? We have-- let's see-- Director
Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair. Thank you. This is always a pleasure to have you guys
here at the end of the year, and it's interesting to hear what you have to say. Patty, could you go
into a little more detail about the CRP and the interest rates?
PATTY DOERSCH: Sure. Last time I was out here in October, you asked about what interest
rate would be paid on our CRP when we get it back. You know, I asked DOT, you can't ask them
a speculative question. You have to ask them a question they can answer, so the actual question I
asked DOT was, for your cohort 1 loans, where you are repaying CRPs, how is that interest rate
calculated? And I got an answer.
Interest rate is-- interest begins to accrue upon payment of the CRP. So that-- basically, back in
2010, interest begins to accrue. So that's a good thing for us. It's not like it starts to accrue once
you pay back the loan. Once you pay to DOT your CRP, the interest begins to accrue. The not so
good news is the interest rate. I think it's the lowest standardized interest rate in the federal
government. It's the federal funds rate, which is the rate that banks and the Federal Reserve
charge each other for overnight loans. So it's very short term loans, so very low rates, and it's
loaned among friends, so it's very low.
So that rate is determined-- it's determined monthly for federal funds rate for banks. For purposes
of RRIF CRPs, they go with the federal funds rate on October 1st of each year. And that funds
rate locks in for the entire year. The federal funds rate for this year, as of October 1, was 1.88%,
and I'm told by the Build America Bureau, that's much higher than in prior years. So this rate
hovers much closer to 1% than 2%.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that's better than a kick in the head. Thank you.
PATTY DOERSCH: Absolutely.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Well spoken. Director Broom?

BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I had a question about the same subject. You know, it's kind
of intriguing that you're looking for a $29 million donor. I can't imagine who gives up a $29
million appropriation to somebody else, unless you're training or something like that. If you stop
and think, California sends us a lot of stuff that we don't want.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: The people?
PATTY DOERSCH: This is why we try and steal-- we don't try and steal from formula funds,
which go to all states. So the amendment that it all-- it's very, very technical. But we took from
the budget authority to-- that funds the TIFIA program. That's money taken off the top before
any money goes out to any of the states and the highway program. And it's money that stays in
DOT. And DOT doles out that money when they make a TIFIA loan. So it's already taken from
the states and given to USDOT.
That's people-- when we need to fund somebody at the last minute, we steal from DOT. We steal
from their admin. We steal from the program money that they control, so we're not stealing from
other states.
BOB BROOM: So it's not like saying, well, I guess the federal government's turning down-putting more money into the high speed rail in California. And so, therefore, that appropriation
might be available to be reprogrammed.
PATTY DOERSCH: Don't think Heather and I haven't got a plan for that. We've been working
on that. When that money comes back, we're trying to see if we could get some of that.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. With regard to the redefinition or the definition of BRT and
trying to get that changed, I would appreciate some language that we could use maybe at TRB in
the third week in January in my Managed Lanes Committee and my Congestion Pricing
Committee, maybe to see if we could garner some interest in some partnerships with some of
those representatives on those committees.
PATTY DOERSCH: Yeah, happy to.
PEGGY CATLIN: So that would just be great to get some persuasive language, if you wouldn't
mind. Thanks.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thank you very much. That was great. It's always good to see
other matters. Do we have any other matters in this committee before we move on? Nope. I am
told that there's pizza outside. John suggested we take 10 minutes. Let's try to keep it to seven,
max. Judy'll-- I'll pass the gavel on to Judy, and what's that?
JUDY LUBOW: Next meeting?

LYNN GUISSINGER: Next meeting is February 4th. Our meeting is adjourned.
[SIDE CONVERSATIONS]

