Summary of the Board Budget Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 26.
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 5
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 24, 2009

Subject:

Minutes of the Board Budget Workshop held May 26, 2009 in the
RTD Room

Board
Members Present:

Board Member
Absent:

Chair Kemp; Committee Chair Tayer; Directors Bagley, Brohl,
Chacon, Cohen, James, Martinez, Pulliam, O’Boyle, and
Tobiassen
Director Daly, Busck, Christopher, McMullen

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Bruce Abel, Dave Genova, Paula Perdue, Scott
Reed, Phil Washington, Dean Shaklee, Cal Shankster, Rick
Clarke, Terry Howerter, Robert Merriman, John Tarbert, Lisa
Trujillo, Todd Nikkel

Others Present:

Jeff Lieb (Denver Post), Matthew Stearns

***
Call to Order:

Director Tayer called the meeting to order at 5:37 p.m.

I. Opening Comments
Committee Chair Tayer challenged the Board members to question the
assumptions and to speak up on concerns. The goal is to not have people on
the back end of the process question the assumptions that went into the
budget. These are foundational principles for the budget. To the extent that
members remain silent, they will assume this is consent and acquiescing to
these position assumptions. We will move fast so if you have questions or
think it is moving too fast, let me know. Otherwise we will move
expeditiously through this process.
Phil Washington kicked off the meeting by sharing the retreat objectives and
reminding the Board members that the discussion will look at the short term,
near term and long term planning items as attached to their agenda. He also
stated that this discussion would focus primarily on the base budget (.6) and
the associated assumptions. He stated that everything being discussed
tonight and going forward will lead to some decision that goes into the

Summary of the Board Budget Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 26.
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 5
budget.
For a complete copies of the information discussed in this workshop, please
refer to a copy of the Board Budget Retreat Workshop manual located in the
Board office.
II. Results: Last year’s Board Budget Retreat-Tab 1
Phil Washington referred to tab 1 of the budget retreat workshop manual to
describe the board principles under revenue enhancement and expense
management. There was general consensus that these principles are still
operative.
III.

RTD Board Budget Policy-Decision # 1
Decision #1 which is expected from the Board tonight is to adopt the
proposed budget objectives or to revise the budget objectives and/or adopt
final Board budget objectives. The proposed objectives included:
 Seek to maintain existing Board service level policies for bus and light
rail systems
 Per Board policy, maintain operating facilities and parking structures
in state of good repair and preserve security posture.
 Maintain reasonable compensation structure for both salaried and
represented employees
 Fund Transit Development Program (TDP) mission critical, nondeferrable projects in accordance with RTD-Board approved Capital
Improvement Policies. The TDP has been cut to the bones with
critical, non deferrable projects.
Q & A:
Cal Marsella stated he asked Phil to put together some themes for capturing
the over-all spirit of the budget.
Phil shared that although this focus was on the base budget, some of the
FasTracks themes include complete EIS, Major property acquisitions, construct
the West corridor, optimize investments in all corridors consistent with
financial responsibilities, the public-partnerships, and the full funding grant
agreement on the East and West corridor.
The .6 base budget is referenced above. He would add a smooth transition
for a leadership team as we go forward in 2010.
Director Bagley: Wanted to know what the bus and rail service standards
were. Cal Marsella provided an explanation of these standards.
Director Cohen: Wanted to know about the preserve security position and
asked if in the wake of some developments, do we need to consider
enhancing our security position. Cal Marsella responded we are in good shape
with the steps we have taken to use 3 rd party off duty policemen, undercover
fare enforcers, etc compared to other properties.

Summary of the Board Budget Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 26.
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 5
Director Tayer wanted to know if we need to say something about marketing.
Marketing is one of the best business tools for increasing ridership and
building business. He would like to see this called out as something we want
to build upon.
Director Cohen: asked how staff was defining the funding paradox. Ridership
is going up but the economy is hurting so revenues are going down. Cal
responded a big part of marketing is scheduling changes, proactive marketing,
etc and identify lower ridership routes that they concentrate their efforts on
where we have under-capacity, not overcapacity. We also look at redeployment of resources where it works best during our service
recommendations. Cohen noted that this funding paradox issue that the
Board operated under yesterday is still relevant today.
Directed Bagley noted the observation that things are different today than
they were 9 months ago so different variables are still in effect.
Director Martinez commented that he would like to see more focus on public
relations.

IV.

Review of uncontrollable, high Impact Budgetary Variables (Wildcards)
Fuel costs in 2009 was budgeted at $3.10 per gallon, a total of $36.0 million
which was reduced to $35.5 million with the May service adjustments. 2010
diesel fuel is estimated to decrease to $2.00 per gallon an anticipated
reduction to $22.8 million.
Director Cohen inquired why staff did not pull the trigger when the diesel fuel
was at $1.87. In hindsight he regrets he was not more aggressive in following
his instincts. Cal Marsella commented that staff follows and tracks these
changes on a regular basis and that there was a sudden spike in the trending
that they could not predict and did not have time to react. We are still
following the trending but the recommendation coming from Suncor is that we
do not lock now as they would anticipate a reduction after the holidays.
Robert Merriman referred to other wildcards such as the collecting bargaining
agreement and the unknowns associated with the economic recovery or the
unpredictability of the impact on the sales tax recovery.
Terry Howerter referred to the insert sheet on base and use tax that was
passed out and indicated that based on some discussion of the CLC data, staff
has provided a revised recommended forecast of (-5.2%) for 2009 versus the
earlier worse case assumption of (-7.0%) or the CLC of (-3.45%)

V.

RTD Board Budget Policy-Decision # 2
Decision 2, Tab 4 referred to the revenue enhancing strategies and the
expense management strategies. The Transit Cooperative Research Program
Report (TCRP) provided in the manual provided five categories of local and
regional transit funding.

Summary of the Board Budget Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 26.
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 5






Traditional tax and fee based transit funding sources
Common business, activity and related funding sources
Revenue streams from projects
New “user” or “market based” funding sources
Financial mechanism

Terry Howerter danced through this section relatively quickly but referred to an
insert chart that he has created on potential local and regional transportation
revenue sources. He requested the Board members to complete this chart
indicating the areas they think could be potential sources to consider and
return this form to finance.
Action item: Terry Howerter will send this form and the Board budget input
form electronically to the Board members for their input and response by June
12, 2009.
Director Chacon challenged one of the assumptions that the property taxes
was not a potential source and referenced a “doc fee” of about 10cents per
1000 that could be a potential source. Cal Marsella indicated they would look
into this.
Director Brohl expressed a concern about how do we keep the Board’s concern
over the need to take into account demographics (i.e. rural areas or outlying
borders where riders have no or limited alternatives) when making these
decisions. Bruce Abel explained that within the service policy this is explicitly
addressed.
Some discussion incurred around whether this form should use “n/a” on
revenue sources that could require legislative action or state action. Director
Tayer was concerned that by using this indicator, this could preclude some
viable ideas. No decision was reached.
Action Item: Phil Washington to provide a copy of the Blue Ribbon Panel report
that looked at various sources and categorized them as possible, not possible,
etc. This report can be obtained from Cari Kennedy per Cal Marsella.
Expense Management Strategies—Tab 4
Director Martinez indicated that in addition to what was listed, we could look
at other “behavioral changes internally” in the way that we handle supplies.
Example of this is using b/w instead of colored documents, 2-sided copies, etc
that could reduce the overall printing cost and is more environmentally friendly.
Director Cohen wanted to know what is the expected % of impact the CBA
would have. Cal Marsella responded it depends on the items. There are
separate issues with the biggest ones being wages followed by health and
welfare issues.
VI. Transit Development Program (TDP)
The TDP program identified seven capital improvement policies that are being
considered. A list of these are provided under tab 5 in the Board budget
workshop manual.
Director Martinez inquired on item 7 on the FasTracks financial plan and
wanted to know who pays for this. Cal Marsella indicated it will be broken

Summary of the Board Budget Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, May 26.
2009 at 5:30p.m. Page 5 of 5
out appropriately.
Director Tayer asked for a full explanation of the rationale to go from (3.45) to
(5.2) in the recommended forecast. Terry Howerter explained that by looking
at historical data and trends, understanding that the financial recovery may not
be that fast to reverse some of the trends, etc, he feels that the (5.2%) is
more realistic.
Director James concurred that a more conservative approach may be best.
Director Bagley requested if under tab 5, they could walk through the 3
priorities listed in more detail. These priorities are:
1. Legal, regulatory, and contractual requirements
2. Critical Infrastructure replacements
3. Staff Scheduled Projects
Director Cohen and Bagley asked if this report could be re-distributed with the
associated cost identified by each item.
Director Cohen wanted to know if different vehicles could be used for ADA
and is there some potential savings with this. Cal Marsella responded they are
looking at a different vehicle now which has a higher upfront cost but has a
longer useful life and could get 14 mpg versus the current 8 mpg. Director
Cohen wanted to also know what actions have been taken to address our
legislative leaders on the cost of the ADA mandates.
Cal Marsella indicated little or no progress has been made in this area and as a
matter of fact, looks like some of the latest state level requirements would
drive this in the wrong direction. The Federal government does not dictate at
the operational level how funding will occur. Rather, they provide through
their overall advocacy for transit funds and expects the agencies to manage
within these parameters.
Director Brohl queried if this was a discussion by the Board members who
went to Washington in March. She also asked the question if we should refine
our policy position under tab 1, revenue enhancements, point 2.
Action item: Director Tayer requested a relook at our policy on ADA and wants
to see a work plan from staff on what we plan to do or the best approach.
VII. 2010 Department Budget Information
Director Brohl had questions on the pie charts of the department budget and
wanted to know what some of the sub-categories under these big items were
(I.e. General Manager office- personal service-83 %,)
The Board would like to see these items broken out so they can better
understand.
VIII. Board Budget Input—Phil Washington indicated they would like to see any
requests or changes provided by the June 12 timeframe. These forms will be
sent electronically.
For more questions or information, please refer to the Board budget workshop
manual provided to the Board members. A copy is available for review in the
Board office.

