1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Lorraine Anderson, District L
First Vice Chair – Kent Bagley, District H
Second Vice Chair – Larry Hoy, District J
Secretary – Bruce Daly, District N
Treasurer – Jeff Walker, District D
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I

Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Natalie Menten, District M
Paul Daniel Solano, District K
John Tayer, District O
Tom Tobiassen, District F

AGENDA
DBE Committee/Financial Administration and Audit Committee/Operations and Customer
Service Committee
Tuesday, February 12, 2013
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

DBE Committee
Chaired by Barbara Deadwyler and Angie Rivera-Malpiede

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• DBE Committee Name Change
C. Updates
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - April 9, 2013
F. Adjourn to Financial Administration and Audit Committee

Financial Administration and Audit Committee
Chaired by Jeff Walker

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement
• Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Taxable
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A

• Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the issuance of RTD Sales Tax
Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A

C. Updates

• Bus, Ticket Vending Machine, and Other 2013 Financing Update - No
Backup

• Fourth Quarter 2012 Investment Report
• General Manager Contract Review Summary –No Backup
• Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report
• December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report
D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - March 19, 2013
F. Adjourn to Operations and Customer Service Committee

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Paul Solano

A. Call to Order
B. Recommended Actions

• April 2013 Service Changes
• Amendment to MV Public Transportation ADA Contract ADA 17-DH-007 for
award of the Belmar, Green Mountain and Golden Call-n-Rides.

C. Updates

• Smart Card Project Status Update
• Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and Automatic Vehicle Location
(CAD/AVL) Project Status Update

D. Other Matters
E. Next Meeting Date - March 19, 3013
F. Motion to Move into Executive Session
CRS 24-6-402(4)(d): “Specialized details of security arrangements … including
defenses against terrorism, both domestic and foreign, and including where
disclosure of the matters discussed might reveal information that could be used for
the purpose of committing, or avoiding prosecution for, a violation of the law.”

G. Adjourn from Executive Session

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date:

From:

Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights
Division

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

DBE Committee Name Change

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Committee that the Board of Directors
change the name of the Disadvantage Business Enterprise (DBE) Committee to the Civil Rights
Committee which is more inclusive and comprehensive in scope and responsibilities.
BACKGROUND
The DBE Committee is currently a standing committee, and a quorum is reached with five board
members present. The DBE Committee meets every other month to discuss the policies, procedures and
implementation of RTD’s Small and Disadvantaged Business Enterprise Programs that provide outside
contracting and subcontracting opportunities for small, minority and women owned businesses. The
committee reviews the procedures of the Small Business Office (SBO), the diversity of participation on
RTD Base System and major capital projects such as FasTracks, small business advocacy, compliance
monitoring and the overall efforts of the SBO to assist the growth and development of small and
disadvantaged businesses through the implementation of various technical assistance initiatives. The
committee supports the outreach efforts of the SBO by attending community, organization and
association meetings when required. Designated members attend the quarterly Disadvantaged Business
Enterprise Advisory Committee and provide information on how to do business with RTD to the
community at-large and our Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) stakeholders and other community
partners throughout the metropolitan Denver area.
DISCUSSION
The scope of the DBE Committee has expanded beyond merely receiving reports regarding the Small
Business Office (SBO) and third party business related activities. Currently, the DBE Committee
receives reports from and provides advice on the Title VI Program, Equal Employment Opportunity
(EEO) Program, Workforce Initiative Program (WIN) and all Diversity related matters associated with
RTD’s overall Civil Rights responsibilities. The revised name better describes the role and
responsibilities of the Committee and is comprehensive enough to include future related
responsibilities that may fall under the responsibility of “Civil Rights”. Every other month, meetings
will be helpful to the Board of Directors as they make decisions for the benefit of the agency and the
public we serve.
ALTERNATIVES
1. Accept the Executive Committee’s Recommended Action to change the name of the DBE
Committee to the Civil Rights Committee.
2. Do not accept the Recommended Action and continue with the DBE Committee as it now
stands.

Packet Pg. 4

1.B.1

Packet Pg. 5

1.B.1

Civil Rights Committee Charter
Committee Purpose:


This Committee’s function shall be to:
o

o

o

Receive status/update reports from all components of the Civil Rights Department
for review to ensure that RTD’s continuing civil rights responsibilities/obligations are
being fulfilled.
Keep the RTD Board of Directors informed on progress and changes that may
impact on RTD’s ability to identify, execute and monitor opportunities for significant
participation by the small business community, disadvantaged business enterprises,
and other entities as covered under the Civil Rights provisions.
Assist with the development and implementation of strategies to improve the
understanding of, and support for, the District’s Civil Rights Programs, objectives,
goals and to foster positive and effective ongoing relationships with the RTD’s
internal personnel, and the external business community and stakeholders including
the community at large.

Operating Procedures:







By noon on the Thursday of the week preceding the committee meeting, the Civil Rights
Department Sr. Manager will submit his agenda along with appropriate approvals and the
supporting documentation, to the IQM2 paperless packet system.
The agenda will normally follow the order: Recommended Action, Updates, Other Matters
and Next Meeting Date. The Co-Chairs of the Committee has the discretion to change the
order, as appropriate.
During the Committee meeting, staff will present the agenda items as appropriate.
The Co-Chairs of the Committee should call for a motion on any action item requiring
Board action, following a discussion of the item.
Items that are moved forward by a motion and properly discussed will be voted on using
the voting module of the paperless packet system. A quorum of five is required to move
an action forward to the full Board for approval.
Minutes of each committee meeting are included in the Board packet for Board review and
approval.

Authorization:


Section 32-9-109.5 and Section 32-9-114 of the RTD Act describes the administrative
powers and authority given to the RTD Board of Directors. The Board Bylaws provides
further description of Standing Committees.

Membership and Leadership Composition:



The Chair of the Board will appoint the Co-Chairs of the Civil Rights Committee.
The Civil Rights Committee is a standing committee of the whole.

Packet Pg. 6

1.B.1





As elected officials, the standing Committee of the whole allows maximum participation
and representation of the respective Districts in the decision making process.
All Board members are participating and voting members of this committee.
A quorum is reached with five members participating.

Roles and Responsibilities:


Co-Chairs of the Committee:
o Work with the Civil Rights Senior Manager to develop and approve agenda for the
monthly meetings.
o Co-Chairs facilitate Committee meetings following established Board protocols and
procedures.
o Discuss items on Committee agenda and calls for a vote on recommended action
items to move before full Board at a formal Board meeting.
o Follows established order for agenda as approved in Board Bylaws but maintains
flexibility to change when appropriate.
o Maintains proper communications flow and order for involvement and balanced
participation of Board members.
o Can make the decision to invite public comment or speaker if appropriate.
o Appoint working groups or sub-committees as needed on specific issues.
o Can request Executive Session on items that are allowed per Open Meetings Act.
CRS statute must be properly quoted and posted.
o Approve meeting minutes.
o Perform all Co-Chair responsibilities in the absence of the other Co-Chair.



Committee Members:
o Preview presentation/materials provided by staff before the meeting and come
prepared to discuss or take appropriate action on items brought before the
Committee.
o Attend meetings regularly.
o Review Committee minutes.

Reporting Requirements:







All Committee meetings are noticed and recorded per Open meetings/ Open Records
requirements.
Meetings with three or more Board members are considered open meetings and must be
noticed and posted at least 24 hours before the meeting.
All meetings must have approved agenda.
Minutes are taken of each meeting (along with attendance) and included in the monthly
Board agenda for formal Board meetings.
Minutes are reviewed by the Committee Co-Chairs of the Civil Rights Committee and the
Civil Rights Senior Manager.
Minutes from the Committee meetings are permanent records and retained in the Board
office. Minutes from the meetings are available to the public upon request.

Staffing Requirements:

Packet Pg. 7

1.B.1






Board members rely on Civil Rights Senior Manager and designated staff for preparation of
presentations, Board reports and other materials used in the Committee meetings.
Civil Rights Senior Manager participates in meetings and addresses any questions or
concerns raised by Board members on a particular item.
Civil Rights Senior Manager and/or designated Staff perform analysis and provides followup to Board members on requested items.
Civil Rights Senior Manager (or his designee) meets with Board members in one-on-one
sessions or as requested to brief Board members on a particular issue.

Meeting Schedule and Process:




Civil Rights Committee meets every other month and become a part of the committee
rotational schedule for the second Tuesday meeting of the month.
Prior to the meeting, the Co-Chairs of the Committee meet with the Civil Rights Senior
Manager or his designee to discuss or review the agenda and any items of concern.
The Co-Chairs will follow the established order on the agenda which is normally prioritized
by Recommended Actions, Updates, Other Matters and Next Meeting Date. The Co-Chairs
have the flexibility to change the order of the agenda when deemed appropriate but should
keep in mind that the purpose for doing recommended items first is to ensure a quorum is
still present for voting the motion forward.

Approval Process:






Civil Rights Committee members vote to move a recommended action forward to the full
Board for approval at the official Board meeting.
A quorum vote of five members can advance an item forward.
Action items are placed on the Board agenda either under unanimous consent or
recommended action according to whether the Committee passed the item forward
unanimously or had any opposing votes.
Action items passed by Committee do not become official part of record until approved in
the formal Board meeting by the full Board.
A new item may be discussed for recommended action if brought forth by three or more
Committee members and has been provided to the Executive Director of the Board by
Thursday of the week preceding the Committee meeting.

Prepared by:
Kenn Hardin, Senior Manager, Civil Rights Division
Adrina Gibson, DBE/SBE Compliance Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 8

1.B.1

Packet Pg. 9

2.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Proposed 2013
Statement

and

2014

Fiscal

Policy

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
accept the modifications to the 2013 Fiscal Policy Statement as well as accept these modifications
for 2014.
BACKGROUND
Proposed modifications to the Fiscal Policy Statement are brought to the Board for approval during the
year, as necessary. In addition, each year staff presents the proposed Fiscal Policy Statement for the
following fiscal year for approval to the Board of Directors as an initial step in development of the
Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) and Recommended Budget.
The most recent modification to the Fiscal Policy Statement was approved by the Board of Directors in
October 2012 for the 2013 fiscal year. The approved policy modifications for 2013 were primarily to
define the FasTracks Fund Balance Policy to maintain three months of operating expenses excluding
depreciation for FasTracks operations. This modification was approved to be consistent with the Base
System Fund Balance Policy which follows GFOA recommended best practices to provide stability of
service levels during economic downturns or other unforeseen financial events. The 2013 Fiscal Policy
Statement modifications specifically addressed the operating fund balance needs of the FasTracks
program because the opening of the first FasTracks corridor for revenue service will occur in 2013.
DISCUSSION
Board approval is requested in order to update the RTD Fiscal Policy Statement for 2013 to include the
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) and to use this updated Fiscal Policy Statement in the
development of the 2014 Strategic Budget Plan and 2014 Requested Budget.
Recommended changes to the Fiscal Policy Statement are shown in the accompanying marked-up
document with changes indicated in red.
The proposed changes to the Fund Balance Policies section are requested in order to align fiscal policies
with the establishment of the FISA beginning in 2013 as approved by the Board of Directors in
December 2012. This Fund Balance Policy modification will add a separate fund, referred to as FISA, to
track funds that become available from the sources identified in the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). The
FISA was established to identify and appropriate funding for FasTracks projects that are currently
unfunded. Expenditures from the FISA fund must be approved by the Board of Directors.
The proposed changes to the Debt Policies section are requested to reflect the most recent bond rating
agency credit ratings that were completed with the December 2012 bond issuance.

Packet Pg. 10

2.B.1

The proposed change to the Budget Policies which removes the reference to excluding depreciation from
the budget, reflects the revised methodology to roll forward budgeted fund balances for consistent
comparison to actual results.
All other policies remain unchanged from the previous Board approved 2013 policies.

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Changing the policy as requested will not have a financial impact on the 2013 Budget. Items identified
in the RAM that will provide funding for the FISA will primarily begin in 2014. As opportunities arise in
2013 to contribute funds to the FISA, the proposed 2013 Amended Budget will be adjusted accordingly.

ALTERNATIVES
1. Approve the recommended changes to RTD’s Fiscal Policy Statement. Staff supports this
alternative because the changes address the Fund Policy needs of the FISA and RAM as well as
provides current information regarding credit ratings and budgeting methods.
2. Board further modifies the recommended changes. Staff has reviewed the RTD Fiscal Policy
Statement and welcomes any suggestions for modifications requested by the Board.
3. Do not adopt the recommended changes to RTD’s Fiscal Policy Statement. This is not
recommended because the District’s Fiscal Policy Statement would not contain all current
language and would not best facilitate the needs of the District’s financial operations and tracking
of the FISA.
ATTACHMENTS:


FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 11

2.B.1.a

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2013-20143 PROPOSED FISCAL POLICY STATEMENT

REVENUE POLICIES
1. The Board of Directors will review potential fare increases annually at the time of the
development of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). As part of this process, staff will
review potential fare increases to establish a fare structure with due consideration for:
 consistency and equity throughout RTD;
 ease of use and simplicity;
 maintaining or increasing ridership and fare revenues;
 acceptability and marketability of fare structure to customers and the general public;
and
 verification and enforceability of fare payment compliance.
2. Fare policies should take into account the special needs of transit dependent, elderly,
youth, student, handicapped, and commuter patrons.
3. RTD will avoid dependence on temporary revenues to fund ongoing services. One-time
revenues will be used for one-time expenditures.
4. RTD will continuously explore additional sources of revenue to help balance the budget.
5. When appropriate the Board will actively pursue legislation that would help ensure the
continued accomplishment of RTD’s goals and mission statement. The Board will
support efforts to ensure that legislative intent is realized in allocation of state financial
resources to public transit. The Board will actively oppose legislation that would limit or
diminish revenue.
6. Staff will identify on an annual basis excess property and equipment, and will make an
ongoing attempt to sell such excess property and equipment to enhance cash flow.

INVESTMENT POLICIES
1. RTD will review its investment policy annually with the Board to ensure consistency with
the following objectives (in order of priority):
 safety of invested funds;
 maintenance of sufficient liquidity to meet cash flow needs; and
1

Packet Pg. 12

2.B.1.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

attainment of the maximum yield possible consistent with the first two objectives

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)



2. RTD will review its investment performance on a quarterly basis with the Board.

EXPENDITURE POLICIES
1. RTD will endeavor to achieve service levels that will make the transit system easier to
use, improve travel times, and be more effective.
2. RTD will continue to look for and implement the most cost-effective and reliable
methods of delivering transportation services.
3. RTD will maintain all assets at a level that protects capital investment and minimizes
future maintenance and replacement costs.
4. RTD maintains a risk management program which will provide protection against loss
and mitigate exposure to liability.
5. A safety program will be maintained to minimize RTD's exposure to liability and thereby
reduce the number of claims against RTD.
6. RTD will develop service changes that are needed to respond to budget shortfalls using
the system-wide and route-specific productivity measures that have been approved by
the Board.

CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT POLICIES
1. RTD will prepare and update annually a six-year Strategic Budget Plan (SBP) including
projected capital construction and improvements, service levels and operating costs,
and revenues to fund the capital and operating programs. Capital projects to be
included in the SBP will be evaluated using the following criteria:
 total project cost (design and construction) and schedule for completion;
 source of funding;
 operating and maintenance costs for the remainder of the SBP period;
 benefits and contributions to RTD and the community, including but not limited to the
effect on future operating and maintenance costs, economy, service, and ridership;
 consideration of alternatives (joint development, etc.); and
 consequences of not funding
2. Priority will be given to replacement of existing assets before consideration of new
assets except as allowed for in the FasTracks financial plan (see 7.).
2

Packet Pg. 13

2.B.1.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

3. RTD will use the first year capital program from the adopted SBP as the basis for the
capital program to be included in the annual budget.
4. After completion of design of a capital project, cost estimates will be revised. If the cost
estimates exceed Delegation of Authority limits, the project will be brought to the Board
for reconsideration.
5. Facilities will be designed using current technology and allow for future technological
changes in order to be efficient and cost-effective and to protect the public welfare.
6. RTD shall allow for multi-year capital projects to be carried forward in accordance with
the carry-forward resolution adopted by the Board.
7. RTD will prepare an annual update of the FasTracks financial plan incorporating the
actual costs incurred and the most recent available projections of capital improvement
costs, service levels, and operating costs and revenues to fund the FasTracks capital
and operating programs.

FUND BALANCE POLICIES
1. RTD will strive to maintain a fund balance in the Base System and in the FasTracks
operating budget, to provide for unanticipated expenditures of a nonrecurring nature or
to meet unexpected increases in costs. This unrestricted fund balance will be
comprised of a Board appropriated fund, a capital replacement fund and an
undesignated working capital fund as described below. For the Base System, the total
of these three funds should be maintained at an amount approximately equal to three
months of Base System operating expenses excluding depreciation. For FasTracks,
the total of these three funds should be maintained at an amount approximately equal to
twothree months of FasTracks operating expenses excluding depreciation. RTD will
consider and pursue resources that will be directed to fund balance replenishment. For
example, RTD may define the revenue sources that would typically be looked to for
replenishment of fund balance to include non-recurring revenues and budget surpluses.
Year-end surpluses are an especially appropriate source for replenishing fund balance.
RTD will replenish fund balances as soon as economic conditions allow.

2. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a Board appropriated fund
balance on an annual basis. Use of the fund balance will be minimized and occur only
in specific circumstances such as severe economic downturns. With Board approval,
these funds may be used to avoid cash flow interruptions, reduce the need for shortterm borrowing, and assist in maintaining an investment-grade bond rating. The source
of replenishment of this fund will be identified and will take place in a prompt manner.
3

Packet Pg. 14

2.B.1.a

3. In accordance with the adopted budget, RTD will designate a capital replacement fund
on an annual basis. With Board approval, these funds will be used for scheduled major
vehicle replacements and other capital purchases. The source of replenishment of this
fund will be identified and will take place in a prompt manner.
4. RTD will designate excess and undesignated working capital that may accrue at each
year-end to be placed in an unrestricted fund to be used to respond to unanticipated
events.

5. RTD will maintain an emergency (TABOR) reserve equal to three percent of nonFederal revenues, as specified by Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution.
6. RTD will maintain all revenues in excess of expenditures for Denver Union Station in a
reserve for future development of Denver Union Station as a rapid transit hub, as
specified in the intergovernmental agreement as amended on April 20, 2004.
7. The Board shall establish threetwo reserves for future construction under the FasTracks
plan:
 The FasTracks Contingency Reserve will be appropriated at a level of $30 million
each year. These funds will be available to fund adjustments to the FasTracks
construction schedule, relating to logistics or cost savings opportunities that might
arise after the annual budget is adopted, and will not be used to fund the (nonFasTracks) base system capital or operating activity.
 The FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA) will be used to provide funding for
future FasTracks projects that are currently unfunded. Expenditures from the FISA
will be subject to Board approval with the staff recommended project goals identified
in the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). Funding of the FISA will be provided from the
sources identified in the Board approved RAM and other sources approved by the
Board.
 All other FasTracks funds which have not been appropriated, or otherwise
designated as reserved, in the current budget year will be maintained in a reserve
for future FasTracks capital and operating expenditures and will not be used to fund
the (non-FasTracks) Bbase Ssystem expenditures.

Formatted: List Paragraph

Formatted: Font: (Default) Arial

DEBT POLICIES
1. Capital projects funded through the issuance of bonds or Certificates of Participation
(COPs) shall be financed for a period not to exceed the expected useful life of the asset.
2. Effective communication with bond rating agencies will be maintained, and a policy of
full disclosure on every financial report and bond prospectus will be followed.
4

Packet Pg. 15

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

2.B.1.a

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

3. Before bonded long-term debt is issued, the impact of debt service on total annual
expenditures will be analyzed.
4. Bond financing or COPs will not be issued to support current operating expenditures.
It is the intent of RTD to maintain a high quality investment-grade credit rating. The
benefit of maintaining RTD's bond ratings at the highest reasonably attainable level in
light of current economic conditions and availability of capital funding is to receive lower
interest rates and lower bond or certificate insurance premiums than would be possible
with lower credit ratings. RTD’s current ratings are listed below:
Classification
Standard and
Poor’s
Moody’s
Investors
Service
Fitch Ratings

Senior
Bonds
(0.6%)

FasTracks
Bonds
(0.4%)

Certificates
of
Participation

AAA

AA+

A-

Aa3

Aa23

Aa3A1

AA

AA-

A++

5. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond coverage ratio for the
Bbase Ssystem (annual non-FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual sales and
use tax debt service for senior non-FasTracks debt) of four times for debt backed by the
0.6% sales and use tax. RTD will maintain a minimum gross sales tax revenue bond
coverage ratio for FasTracks (annual FasTracks sales and use tax revenue to annual
FasTracks sales and use tax debt service) of two times for debt backed by the 0.4%
FasTracks sales and use tax.
6. RTD will maintain a minimum net revenue coverage ratio (all annual revenues
remaining after operating and maintenance expenses, net of passthrough grants, to
annual debt service requirements net of excess appropriations required for variable rate
debt) of 1.2 times total debt.

BUDGET POLICIES
1. RTD shall comply with all requirements of the Colorado Local Government Budget Law.
2. The budget will be prepared on a program/project basis.

5

Packet Pg. 16

2.B.1.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

3. As part of the budget development process, the Board will review the current goals,
objectives, and performance indicators for use in preparing the budget for the following
year. The Board will adopt the final performance indicators after the adoption of the
annual budget.
4. The Board will review the adopted fiscal policies annually and consider any changes
that may be necessary.
5. There shall be a budgetary monitoring system that charges expenditures against
approved budget appropriations.
6. The budget shall be summarized for adoption purposes. The actual level of adoption
shall be determined by the Board.
7. The budget shall be prepared using Generally Accepted Accounting Principles with the
following exceptions:
 inclusion of capital outlays and bond principal payments as expenditures; and
 exclusion of depreciation as well as gains and losses on disposition of property
and equipment
8. A monthly financial status report shall be submitted to the Board.
9. The budget document shall be submitted to the Government Finance Officers
Association annually for consideration for the Distinguished Budget Presentation Award,
which evaluates the document as a communications device, financial plan, operations
guide, and policy document.
10. Quarterly performance reports will be presented to the Board of Directors to assess
RTD's performance on the adopted performance indicators.
11. A balanced budget in which beginning reserves plus total anticipated revenues is
greater than or equal to expenditures will be prepared.
12. Budgetary procedures that fund current expenditures at the expense of future needs,
such as postponing preventive maintenance expenditures or replacement of equipment,
will be avoided.
13. RTD will provide conservative revenue estimates that take into consideration recent
experience and reflect reasonable future growth.
14. RTD will monitor revenue sources regularly and amend the budget, as necessary, to
reflect the most current information available. RTD will also change the level of
expenditures, as needed, to maintain a balanced budget.

6

Packet Pg. 17

2.B.1.a

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

15. RTD will project revenues for at least six years and will update the projections annually
as part of the Strategic Budget Plan (SBP). Each existing and potential revenue source
will be reexamined annually.
16. As part of the SBP, RTD also will prepare a six-year operating expenditure plan that
includes projections of annual service growth plus allowances for operating costs of new
capital assets.
17. A budget will be prepared that contains essential programs and projects needed to
support the goals and objectives of RTD, responds to citizen demand, and reflects
administrative evaluation of current needs.

Accounting Policies
1. The accounting system will maintain records on a basis consistent with Ggenerally
Aaccepted Aaccounting Pprinciples for local governments.
2. The accounts of RTD will be reported using the accrual basis of accounting. Revenues
will be recognized when earned and expenses will be recognized when incurred.
3. RTD will establish and maintain a high standard of accounting practices to conform with
uniform financial reporting in Colorado.
4. An independent firm of certified public accountants will perform an annual financial and
grant compliance audit and will issue an opinion that will be incorporated into the
Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
5. RTD will submit the Comprehensive Annual Financial Report to the Government
Finance Officers Association for consideration for the Certificate of Excellence in
Financial Reporting.
6. The accounting system will record investment activity.
7. Internal control policies will be developed and maintained to include procedures that
separate control of assets from accounting for those assets.
8. RTD will identify and account for all revenues and expenditures related to the
FasTracks capital and operating program separately from the Bbase System
operations.

7

Packet Pg. 18

2.B.1.a

Attachment: FINAL 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement (1497 : Proposed 2013 and 2014 Fiscal Policy Statement)

Fiscal Policy Statement - effective February 19, 2013

GRANT POLICIES
1. All potential grants shall be carefully examined for matching requirements (both dollar
and level-of-effort matches).
2. Intergovernmental assistance shall be used to finance only those capital improvements
that are consistent with the capital improvement plan and RTD priorities and in which
operating and maintenance costs have been included in operating budget forecasts.
3. RTD will program its federal grant funds to minimize the time between appropriation and
drawdown of federal funds.
4. RTD will use all eligible Section 5307 formula federal grant funds for capital
maintenance projects to minimize the time between appropriation and drawdown of
federal funds.

8

Packet Pg. 19

2.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the
issuance of RTD Taxable Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional
Transportation District Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A.
BACKGROUND:
On January 22, 2013, staff presented the refinancing of three RTD debt issues at lower than current
interest rates to reduce payments, improve cash flow, and provide additional capacity under TABOR as a
Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM) item and proposed to use the financing capacity generated by the
refundings as a step toward accelerating construction of the North Metro Rail Line from Denver Union
Station to 72nd Avenue.
This action item discusses the first of the three bond refunding opportunities that were included in the
RAM item proposed on January 22, 2013.
DISCUSSION:
RTD issued its $116 million Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2004A (the “2004 Bonds”) in 2004 for
the purpose of financing a portion of the southeast light rail corridor. At present, $5.750 million par
amount of the 2004 Bonds remain outstanding.
RTD issued its $100 million Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2005A (the “2005 Bonds”) in
2005 for the purpose of refunding the 2000A and 2002B bonds then outstanding. At present, $98.865
million par amount of the 2005 Bonds remain outstanding.
With long-term interest rates near historic lows, RTD has the potential to advance refund the remaining
outstanding 2004 and 2005 Bonds on a callable basis to realize, subject to market movement, a savings
of approximately $24.2 million (3.06% of principal of refunded bonds). The Bond Resolution requires a
minimum savings of 2% which allows some flexibility in regards to changes in interest rates between
now and the date the bonds are sold.
The 2004 Bonds are callable November 1, 2013 at par and the 2005 Bonds are callable November 1,
2015 at par.Pursuant to U.S. Treasury regulations, an issue of tax-exempt bonds may (a) be advance
refunded (refunding bonds sold more than 90 days in advance of the redemption date of the outstanding
bonds)) once, and (b) current refunded (refunding bonds sold within 90 days of redemption date of
outstanding bonds) without limit. The 2005 bonds were advance refunding bonds so the 2013
refunding bonds would not qualify for tax exemption and would be issued with a taxable status.

Packet Pg. 20

2.B.2

While the potential refunding savings are significant, it is important to note that, such savings are net of
a cost resulting from (a) the inability to invest proceeds of the refunding bonds at a return equal to the
interest rate on the new bonds, and (b) the length of time between the sale of the refunding bonds and
optional redemption date of the 2004 and 2005 Bonds (“Negative Arbitrage”). Absent an increase in
interest rates, the savings to RTD improves with the passage of time due to a reduction in time proceeds
of the refunding bonds must be invested prior to redeeming the 2004 and 2005 Bonds. Despite the cost
associated with the Negative Arbitrage, the potential savings from a refunding of the 2004 and 2005
Bonds exceeds the typical threshold for a refunding by RTD. Consequently, staff has assembled a
financing team and commenced documentation to be in a position to take advantage of the opportunity
for RTD to reduce its interest expense.
The Chief Financial Officer has taken preliminary actions to arrange for the issuance and sale of the
refunding bonds, including assembling financial information related to the District and drafting a
preliminary official statement, bond indenture, continuing disclosure agreement, bond purchase
agreement and the Resolution for issuance of the Bonds. The Board is being requested, through the
Resolution to authorize the issuance, to establish the terms and to approve agreements required in
connection with the issuance of the Bonds.
Drafts of documents referenced in the Bond Resolution including the Bond Indenture, the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the Preliminary Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement are
available for review in the Board Office.
RTD is receiving the advice of First Southwest Company, as independent financial advisors and Sherman
& Howard L.L.C. as Bond Counsel in regard to the Bonds. The Bonds will be underwritten by a team
including Goldman Sachs, Loop Capital, Piper Jaffray and Wells Fargo.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
Costs associated with the refunding bonds are considered “costs of issuance” and will be funded out of
Bond proceeds. These costs include underwriter, rating agency, financial advisory, attorney and printing
fees.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of 2013,
authorizing the issuance of the District’s Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series
2013A. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of
2013, authorizing the issuance of the District’s Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds,
Series 2013A. This is not the recommended action as it would not take advantage of the interest
expense savings currently available to the District.
ATTACHMENTS:


17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013

(DOC)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments

Packet Pg. 21

2.B.2

Approved by:

Packet Pg. 22

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
(Colorado)
________________________________
Seventeenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution
_________________________________
(Resolution No. __, Series of 2013)
________________________________

This Seventeenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution is the
District’s Resolution No. __, Series of 2013, and was adopted by the District on
February 19, 2013 and among other matters, authorizes the District’s Taxable
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds to be issued within one year of the date
hereof.

Packet Pg. 23

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

TABLE OF CONTENTS

ARTICLE I. DEFINITIONS AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY ....................................... 10
101. Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution. ....................................................................... 10
102. Definitions. ................................................................................................................ 10
103. Construction. ............................................................................................................. 12
104. Authority for this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and the Refunding Bonds.... 12
105. Ratification and Approval of Prior Action. ................................................................. 12
106. Resolution to Constitute Contract............................................................................... 12
ARTICLE II. AUTHORIZATION AND ISSUANCE OF REFUNDING BONDS .............. 12
201. Delegation Pursuant to Supplemental Act; Parameters and Limitations. ..................... 12
202. Additional Refunding Bond Details. .......................................................................... 14
203. Requirements of a Surety Bond or Reserve Fund Insurance Policy. ............................ 17
ARTICLE III. PARTICULAR COVENANTS OF THE DISTRICT; CREATION OF
CERTAIN ACCOUNTS; AND AMENDMENTS APPLICABLE TO REFUNDING
BONDS .................................................................................................................................... 17
301. Creation and Use of Escrow Account. ........................................................................ 17
302. Maintenance of Escrow Account................................................................................ 18
303. Redemption of Refunded Bonds. ............................................................................... 18
304. Continuing Disclosure Covenant. ............................................................................... 18
305. Amendment of Section 1201 ...................................................................................... 18
ARTICLE IV. MISCELLANEOUS ....................................................................................... 18
401. Applicability of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as Amended. ..................... 18
402. Finding of Best Interests; Approval of 2013A Bonds and 2013A Refunding Project .. 18
403. Acceptance and Execution of Escrow Agreement. ..................................................... 19
404. Acceptance and Execution of Continuing Disclosure Agreement. .............................. 19
405. Acceptance and Execution of Bond Purchase Agreement. .......................................... 19
406. Preliminary Official Statement and Final Official Statement. ..................................... 19
407. Authorization to Execute Collateral Documents. ........................................................ 20
408. Force Majeure. ........................................................................................................... 20
409. Instructions to Trustee ............................................................................................... 20
410. Severability of Invalid Provisions. ............................................................................. 21
ARTICLE V. BOND FORM AND EFFECTIVE DATE....................................................... 21
501. Form of Bond and Registered Coupon ....................................................................... 21
502. Effective Date. ........................................................................................................... 37

2

Packet Pg. 24

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

Page

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (COLORADO)
SEVENTEENTH SUPPLEMENTAL SALES TAX REVENUE BOND RESOLUTION
(RESOLUTION NO. __, SERIES OF 2013)
ADOPTED FEBRUARY 19, 2013
AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF TAXABLE SALES
TAX REVENUE REFUNDING BONDS OF THE REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT (COLORADO); PROVIDING
FOR OTHER MATTERS RELATED TO SUCH REFUNDING
BONDS
AND
THE
SECURITY
THEREFOR;
SUPPLEMENTING AND AMENDING THE SALES TAX
REVENUE BOND RESOLUTION; AND APPROVING THE
EXECUTION AND DELIVERY OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS
IN
CONNECTION
WITH
THE
TRANSACTIONS
CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, being
compiled as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised Statutes
(said Chapter 231, as amended and supplemented, is herein called the “Act”) and the District’s
Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to time, including the present
incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-128 of the Act provides that the District may borrow
money in anticipation of the revenues and the sales tax proceeds of the District, but not the
proceeds of any general ad valorem property taxes, and issue special obligation bonds to
evidence the amount so borrowed; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-147 of the Act provides that the District may refund
any bonds issued pursuant to the Act without an election; and
WHEREAS, Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution provides that the
District may issue refunding bonds without an election if the refunding bonds are issued at a
lower interest rate; and
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by law to impose a sales tax at a rate of sixtenths of one percent (the “0.6% Sales Tax”) throughout the District and such tax is now being
imposed and collected; and
WHEREAS, on April 22, 2004, the Board adopted a transit expansion plan known
as FasTracks (“FasTracks”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 32-9-119.4 of the Act, the District obtained voter
approval to increase the rate of sales tax levied by the District by four-tenths of one percent (the

Packet Pg. 25

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

WHEREAS, the District, pursuant to the Act, Resolution No. 9, Series 1977 of the
District adopted by the Board on October 27, 1977 (the “1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution”), as supplemented by Resolution No. 13, Series 1985 of the District adopted by the
Board on June 25, 1985 (the “First Supplemental Resolution”), and the approval granted by the
special bond election held for and within the District on September 7, 1973, has heretofore
authorized and issued its $45,145,000 Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 1977, which are no
longer outstanding, for the purpose of developing a multimodal mass transportation system for
the District as provided for in the Public Transportation Plan for the District adopted by the
Board in accordance with the Act on July 31, 1973 after a public hearing, as amended and
restated by the Board on June 19, 1975; and
WHEREAS, the Act was amended in 1982 by the General Assembly of the State
of Colorado to permit the issuance of any special obligation bonds or other obligations payable
in whole or in part from the sales tax proceeds of the District or net revenues of the District, or
both, without an election; and
WHEREAS, the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution provides for the
issuance of Additional Bonds (as defined in the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution) for
the purposes stated therein, and the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 2, Series 1988 adopted
by the Board on April 26, 1988 (the “Second Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $18,325,000 Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 1988 (the “1988
Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of acquiring the 1988 Project (as
defined in the Second Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 6, Series 1990 adopted by
the Board on July 10, 1990 (the “Third Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore authorized and
issued its $42,885,000 Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 1990 (the “1990 Bonds”), which are no
longer outstanding, for the purpose of acquiring the 1990 Project (as defined in the Third
Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 5, Series of 1992 adopted
by the Board on June 23, 1992 (the “Fourth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore authorized
and issued its $48,200,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding and Improvement Bonds, Series 1992
(the “1992 Bonds”) which are no longer outstanding, for the purposes of acquiring the 1992
Project (as defined in the Fourth Supplemental Resolution) and implementing the 1992
Refunding Project (as defined in the Fourth Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 9, Series of 1993 adopted
by the Board on May 25, 1993 (the “Fifth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore authorized
and issued its $54,455,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1993 (the “1993
Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of implementing the 1993 Refunding
Project (as defined in the Fifth Supplemental Resolution); and

4
Packet Pg. 26

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

“0.4% Sales Tax Increase”), from six-tenths of one percent to one percent, commencing
January 1, 2005, with the proceeds of such increased taxes to be used and spent for the
construction and operation of FasTracks; and

WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 14, Series of 1997 adopted
by the Board on July 22, 1997 (the “Sixth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore authorized
and issued its $32,445,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 1997 (the “1997
Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of implementing the 1997 Refunding
Project (as defined in the Sixth Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 20, Series of 2000 adopted
by the Board on November 14, 2000 (the “Seventh Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $68,810,000 Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2000A (the “2000A
Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of financing a portion of the cost of
the Southeast Corridor Light Rail Project, as defined therein (the “Southeast Corridor Light Rail
Project”); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 13, Series of 2001 adopted
by the Board on July 24, 2001 (the “Eighth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore authorized
and issued its Subordinate Lien Sales Tax Revenue Commercial Paper Notes, Series 2001A (the
“2001A Notes”) in an amount not to exceed $118,500,000, which are no longer outstanding, for
the purpose of financing a portion of the cost of the Southeast Corridor Light Rail Project; and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 24, Series of 2001 adopted
by the Board on December 18, 2001 (the “Ninth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $9,430,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2002A (the
“2002A Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of implementing the 2002A
Refunding Project (as defined in the Ninth Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 26, Series of 2002 adopted
by the Board on April 16, 2002 (the “Tenth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore authorized
and issued its $153,230,000 Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2002B (the “2002B Bonds”),
which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of financing a portion of the cost of the
Southeast Corridor Light Rail Project; and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 6, Series of 2003 adopted
by the Board on June 17, 2003 (the “Eleventh Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $22,085,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2003A (the
“2003A Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of implementing the 2003A
Refunding Project (as defined in the Eleventh Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 04, Series of 2004 adopted
by the Board on April 22, 2004 (the “Twelfth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $116,460,000 Sales Tax Revenue Bonds, Series 2004A (the “2004A
Bonds”), which are currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of $5,750,000, for
the purpose of financing a further portion of the cost of the Southeast Corridor Light Rail
Project; and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 001, Series of 2005 adopted
by the Board on February 22, 2005 (the “Thirteenth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $100,190,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2005A (the
5
Packet Pg. 27

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 003, Series of 2007 adopted
by the Board on February 20, 2007 (the “Fourteenth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its $68,825,000 Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2007A (the
“2007A Bonds”), which are currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of
$69,825,000, for the purpose of implementing the 2007A Refunding Project (as defined in the
Fourteenth Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 04, Series of 2008 adopted
by the Board on February 19, 2008 (the “Fifteenth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its “Regional Transportation District, Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 2008A” (the “2008A Bonds”), which are no longer outstanding, for the purpose of
implementing the 2008A Refunding Project (as defined in the Fifteenth Supplemental
Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to its Resolution No. 28, Series of 2009 adopted
by the Board on November 17, 2009 (the “Sixteenth Supplemental Resolution”) has heretofore
authorized and issued its “Regional Transportation District, Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 2010A (the “2010A Bonds”), which are currently outstanding in the aggregate
principal amount of $40,950,000, for the purpose of implementing the 2010A Refunding Project
(as defined in the Sixteenth Supplemental Resolution); and
WHEREAS, the Board pursuant to this Seventeenth Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution (the “Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution”) desires to authorize its
“Regional Transportation District, Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A”
(the “Refunding Bonds”) for the purpose of paying a portion of the costs of refunding all or a
portion of the outstanding 2004A Bonds and the 2005A Bonds, and paying the costs of issuance
of the Refunding Bonds (the “2013A Refunding Project”); and
WHEREAS, the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as supplemented and
amended by the First Supplemental Resolution, the Second Supplemental Resolution, the Third
Supplemental Resolution, the Fourth Supplemental Resolution, the Fifth Supplemental
Resolution, the Sixth Supplemental Resolution, the Seventh Supplemental Resolution, the Eighth
Supplemental Resolution, the Ninth Supplemental Resolution, the Tenth Supplemental
Resolution, the Eleventh Supplemental Resolution, the Twelfth Supplemental Resolution, the
Thirteenth Supplemental Resolution, the Fourteenth Supplemental Resolution, the Fifteenth
Supplemental Resolution, the Sixteenth Supplemental Resolution and this Seventeenth
Supplemental Resolution shall be collectively referred to as the “Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution;” and
WHEREAS, the District pursuant to the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution has
previously pledged all of the proceeds from the imposition of the 0.6% Sales Tax (but not the
proceeds from the imposition of the 0.4% Sales Tax Increase) to the payment of the following
obligations: the 1988 Bonds; the 1990 Bonds; the 1992 Bonds; the 1993 Bonds; the 1997 Bonds;
6
Packet Pg. 28

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

“2005A Bonds”), which are currently outstanding in the aggregate principal amount of
$98,865,000, for the purpose of implementing the 2005A Refunding Project (as defined in the
Thirteenth Supplemental Resolution); and

2.B.2.a

WHEREAS, prior to giving effect to the 2013A Refunding Project, only the
2004A Bonds, 2005A Bonds, 2007A Bonds and 2010A Bonds (collectively, the “Prior Parity
Bonds”) remain outstanding; and
WHEREAS, except for the pledge to the outstanding Prior Parity Bonds, the
District has not pledged or in any way hypothecated revenues derived or to be derived from the
0.6% Sales Tax to the payment of any bonds or any other securities or for any other purpose
(excluding proceedings authorizing the issuance of any bonds or other securities which are no
longer outstanding, are defeased or are subordinate to the pledge to the Prior Parity Bonds); and
WHEREAS, the District has heretofore issued or entered into the following
outstanding obligations (collectively, the “Subordinate Obligations”) that are payable in part
from a lien on the 0.6% Sales Tax that is subordinate to the lien thereon of the Senior Bonds
(hereinafter defined):
(a) its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2006A, issued
pursuant to the Indenture of Trust, dated as of October 1, 2006, as amended (the “2006
FasTracks Indenture”), which the District expects to refund in whole with its Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2013A;
(b) its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A;
(c) its Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2010A;
(d) its Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) (Direct Pay Build
America Bonds), Series 2010B;
(e) its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2012A (collectively,
(a) through (e) shall be referred to as the “FasTracks Bonds”);
(f) its RTD TIFIA Bond (the “RTD TIFIA Bond”) which evidences a loan to the
District in the maximum amount of $280,000,000 pursuant to the TIFIA Loan Agreement, dated
December 1, 2011 with the United States Department of Transportation, an agency of the United
States of America, acting by and through the Federal Highway Administrator;
(g) the Concession and Lease Agreement (the “Concession Agreement”) with
Denver Transit Partners LLC, pursuant to which the District has agreed to make monthly service
payments to Denver Transit Partners upon the commencement of revenue service of the Eagle P3
Project, and the District has pledged the RTD Pledged Revenues (as defined in the Concession
Agreement) to make a portion of such service payments (referred to therein as the “TABOR
Portion”) in the amount of $589,913,540 (on a basis subordinate to the FasTracks Bonds and the
RTD TIFIA Bond); and

7
Packet Pg. 29

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

the 2000A Bonds; the 2002A Bonds; the 2002B Bonds; the 2003A Bonds; the 2004A Bonds; the
2005A Bonds; the 2007A Bonds; the 2010A Bonds; any Additional Bonds; and, on a subordinate
lien basis, the 2001A Notes; and

(h) its Subordinate Sales Tax Revenue Bond, Series 2010, in the aggregate
principal amount of $167,954,114 in accordance with the DUSPA/RTD Funding Agreement
dated as of February 1, 2010 (on a basis subordinate to the FasTracks Bonds, the RTD TIFIA
Bond and the TABOR Portion); and
WHEREAS, the Fifteenth Supplemental Indenture provides that no Refunding
Bonds (as defined in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution) may be issued under the Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, except as permitted by and in accordance with the 2006
FasTracks Indenture, as it may be amended from time to time, and as permitted by and in
accordance with any resolutions, indentures or other documents authorizing the issuance of
bonds payable on a parity with the FasTrack Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the resolutions, indentures or other documents authorizing the
Subordinate Obligations provide that the District shall not issue securities payable from and
having a lien on the 0.6% Sales Tax that is superior or senior to the lien thereon of such
Subordinate Obligations, except for securities issued to refund, in whole or in part, outstanding
Senior Bonds, provided that after the issuance of such refunding bonds, the debt service payable
in each Bond Year on all Senior Bonds outstanding after the issuance of such refunding bonds
shall not exceed the debt service payable in each Bond Year on all Senior Bonds outstanding
prior to the issuance of such refunding bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby declares that the Refunding
Bonds will be issued to refund outstanding Senior Bonds and that after the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds, the debt service payable in each Bond Year on all Senior Bonds outstanding
after the issuance of such Refunding Bonds shall not exceed the debt service payable in each
Bond Year on all Senior Bonds outstanding prior to the issuance of such Refunding Bonds, and
accordingly, the Refunding Bonds shall be issued with a lien on the 0.6% Sales Tax that is
superior or senior to the lien thereon of the Subordinate Bonds and, after giving effect to the
2013A Refunding Project, that is on a parity with the lien thereon of the outstanding 2007A
Bonds and outstanding 2010A Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby declares that all applicable
requirements set forth in the 2006 FasTracks Indenture, all resolutions, indentures or other
documents authorizing the issuance of bonds payable on a parity with the FasTracks Bonds and
all other applicable requirements have been satisfied (or will be satisfied on or prior to the
delivery of the Refunding Bonds) in order to issue the Refunding Bonds with a lien on the 0.6%
Sales Tax that is senior and superior to the Subordinate Obligations and that is on a parity with
the lien thereon of the outstanding Prior Parity Bonds, and accordingly, the Refunding Bonds
shall be issued with a lien on the 0.6% Sales Tax that is on a parity with the lien thereon of the
outstanding Prior Parity Bonds; and
WHEREAS, there have been filed with the Secretary of the Board (the
“Secretary”) forms of the following documents: (i) the Continuing Disclosure Agreement (the
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement”) between the District and Digital Assurance Certification,
L.L.C., as Dissemination Agent; (ii) the Escrow Agreement (“Escrow Agreement”) between the
District and the Trustee, as escrow agent; (iii) the Bond Purchase Agreement (the “Bond
Purchase Agreement”) between the District and the underwriters for the 2013A Bonds (the
8
Packet Pg. 30

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

“Underwriters”) as determined by the General Manager of the District (the “General Manager”)
or Chief Financial Officer of the District (the “Chief Financial Officer”), and (iv) a Preliminary
Official Statement to be used in connection with the sale of the 2013A Bonds to prospective
purchasers thereof; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the authorization of sales tax revenue bonds of
the District exist, have happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and
manner as required by law, it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Seventeenth
Supplemental Resolution at this time.

9
Packet Pg. 31

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO AS FOLLOWS:
ARTICLE I.
DEFINITIONS AND STATUTORY AUTHORITY
101. Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution. This instrument is supplemental to
and is adopted in accordance with the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as heretofore
supplemented and amended.
102.

Definitions.

1.
All terms which are defined in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, as heretofore amended, shall have the same meanings, respectively, in this
Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution unless otherwise defined herein or unless the context by
clear implication otherwise requires.
2.
Certain terms are defined parenthetically in this Seventeenth
Supplemental Resolution. The terms in this section are defined for all purposes of this
Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and of any instrument amendatory hereof or supplemental
hereto, and of any other instrument or any other document pertaining hereto, except where the
context by clear implication otherwise requires, and shall have the meanings herein specified:
“Beneficial Owner” means the beneficial owner of the Refunding Bonds and the
Registered Coupons, if any, registered in the name of the Securities Depository or its nominee.
“Bond Purchase Agreement” means the Bond Purchase Agreement between the
District and the Underwriters related to the sale of the Refunding Bonds and Registered
Coupons, if any.
“Bond Year” means the twelve (12) months commencing on the second day of
November of any calendar year and ending on the first day of November of the next succeeding
calendar year.
“Continuing Disclosure Agreement” means the Continuing Disclosure Agreement
between the District and Digital Assurance Certification, L.L.C. as Dissemination Agent, which
enables the Underwriters to comply with Rule 15c2-12 promulgated by the Securities and
Exchange Commission.
“Escrow Account” means the account established pursuant to the Escrow
Agreement.
“Escrow Agreement” means the Escrow Agreement dated as of the date of
delivery of the Refunding Bonds between the District and the Trustee, as Escrow Agent.

10
Packet Pg. 32

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

“Preliminary Official Statement” means the Preliminary Official Statement
relating to the Refunding Bonds.
“Refunded Bond Requirements” means the principal of, premium, if any, and
interest on the Refunded Bonds as the same become due prior to and at the maturity or prior
redemption thereof.
“Refunded Bonds” means all or a portion of the outstanding 2004A Bonds and
2005A Bonds to be refunded with the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds, as designated in the
Sale Certificate.
“Refunding Bonds” means the District’s Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds, Series 2013A issued under and pursuant to this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution,
the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution and the Sale Certificate.
“Registered Coupon or Registered Coupons” means, if so provided in the Sale
Certificate, a coupon designated “Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon” which is in
fully registered form evidencing supplemental interest on any Refunding Bond or Refunding
Bonds to which it is related and which, at the time of initial delivery of the Refunding Bonds to
the Underwriters shall accompany such Refunding Bond or Refunding Bonds so delivered. If
the Sale Certificate does not provide for the issuance of Registered Coupons, then all references
to Registered Coupons with respect to the Refunding Bonds shall have no effect.
“Sale Certificate” means the certificate executed by either the General Manager or
the Chief Financial Officer dated on or before the date of delivery of the Refunding Bonds and
the Registered Coupons, if any, setting forth certain information concerning the Refunding
Bonds and the Registered Coupons, if any, the determination of which is delegated by Section
201 hereof.
“Senior Bonds” means all outstanding Prior Parity Bonds, any Additional Parity
Bonds issued pursuant to the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Refunding Bonds and
Registered Coupons, if any, issued pursuant to the provisions hereof.
“Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution” means this instrument as originally
adopted by the Board on February 19, 2013.
“Term Bonds” means Refunding Bonds that are payable on or before their
specified maturity dates from sinking fund payments established for that purpose and calculated
to retire such Refunding Bonds on or before their specified maturity dates.
“Trustee” means The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A., a banking
association organized and existing under the laws of the United States of America (successor in
interest to BNY Western Trust Company).

11
Packet Pg. 33

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

“Participants” means participating underwriters, securities brokers or dealers,
banks, trust companies, closing corporations, or other persons or entities for which the Securities
Depository holds Refunding Bonds.

2.B.2.a

“Underwriters” means, collectively, the purchaser or purchasers of the Refunding
Bonds and the Registered Coupons, if any, designated in the Sale Certificate.
103. Construction. This Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution, except where
the context by clear implication herein otherwise requires, shall be subject to and construed in
the same manner as provided by the last three paragraphs of Section 101, Sections 1208 (relating
to severability), Section 1210 (relating to successors) and Section 1214 (relating to repealer) of
the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution.
104. Authority for this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and the
Refunding Bonds. This Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution is adopted pursuant to the
provisions of the Act, the Supplemental Act and the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as
heretofore amended and supplemented.
105. Ratification and Approval of Prior Action. All actions heretofore taken
(not inconsistent with the provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution or this
Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution) by the Board, the officers of the District and otherwise by
the District directed toward (i) the 2013A Refunding Project, and (ii) the sale, issuance and
delivery of the 2013A Bonds for that purpose, including without limitation the use by the
Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement prepared in connection with the 2013A
Bonds, are ratified, approved, and confirmed. The designation of the Preliminary Official
Statement by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer as “final” for purposes of Rule
15c2-12 (the “Rule”) of the Securities and Exchange Commission, except for omissions
permitted by the Rule, is hereby authorized, approved and confirmed.
106. Resolution to Constitute Contract. In consideration of the purchase and
acceptance of any and all of the Refunding Bonds and Registered Coupons authorized to be
issued hereunder by those who shall hold the same from time to time, the Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution shall be deemed to be and shall constitute a contract among the District, the
Trustee and the Holders from time to time of the District’s Senior Bonds; and the pledge and
assignment made in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution and the covenants and agreements
therein set forth to be performed on behalf of the District shall be for the equal benefit, protection
and security of the Holders of any and all of the District’s Senior Bonds, all of which, regardless
of the time or times of their authentication and delivery or maturity, shall be of equal rank
without preference, priority or distinction of any of the District’s Senior Bonds over any other
thereof except as expressly provided in or permitted by the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution.
ARTICLE II.
AUTHORIZATION AND ISSUANCE OF REFUNDING BONDS
201.

Delegation Pursuant to Supplemental Act; Parameters and Limitations.

Section 11-57-204 of the Supplemental Act provides that a public entity,
including the District, may elect in an act of issuance to apply all or any of the provisions of the
12
Packet Pg. 34

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

“2013A Refunding Project” means the application of the net proceeds of the
Refunding Bonds for the purpose of refunding, paying and discharging the Refunded Bond
Requirements of the designated Senior Bonds.

Supplemental Act. The Board hereby elects to apply all of the provisions of the Supplemental
Act to the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons. The Refunding Bonds and the
Registered Coupons are issued under the authority of the Act and the Supplemental Act and shall
so recite as provided in Section 501 hereof. Pursuant to Sections 32-9-135 and 11-57-210,
Colorado Revised Statutes, such recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity and the
regularity of the issuance of the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons, and the
Refunding Bonds and Registered Coupons shall be incontestable for any cause whatsoever after
their delivery for value.
The Board hereby delegates to the General Manager and the Chief Financial
Officer the independent authority (effective for one year following the date hereof) to sign a
contract for the purchase of the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons and to make any
and all determinations listed in Section 11-57-205(1) of the Supplemental Act with respect to the
Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons without any requirement that the Board approve
such determinations provided that: (a) the final maturity of the Refunding Bonds shall be no later
than the final maturity date of the Refunded Bonds; (b) the aggregate principal amount of the
Refunding Bonds shall not exceed the aggregate principal amount of the Refunded Bonds; (c) the
purchase price of the Refunding Bonds shall not be less than 100%; (d) the present value savings
of the Refunding Bonds issued hereunder shall not be less than 2.00% of the principal amount of
the Refunded Bonds; (e) the Refunding Bonds shall only be issued to refund outstanding Senior
Bonds, and paying the costs of issuance related thereto, including without limitation the cost of
funding any reserve fund required thereby or paying any premiums due in connection with the
substitution of a surety bond or reserve fund insurance policy into the Reserve Fund; and (f) after
the issuance of the Refunding Bonds, the debt service payable in each Bond Year on all Senior
Bonds outstanding after the issuance of the Refunding Bonds shall not exceed the debt service
payable in each Bond Year on all Senior Bonds outstanding prior to the issuance of the
Refunding Bonds.
Each of the General Manager and the Chief Financial Officer are hereby
independently authorized to determine if obtaining a surety bond or reserve fund insurance
policy for deposit or substitution into the Reserve Fund securing the Bonds and the Prior Parity
Bonds is in the best interests of the District, and if so, to select a surety provider to issue such
surety bond or reserve fund insurance policy for all or any portion of the Reserve Fund
Requirement related to the Bonds and the outstanding Prior Parity Bonds, and execute any
related documents or agreements required by such commitment. Each of the General Manager
and the Chief Financial Officer are hereby independently authorized to determine if it is in the
best interests of the District to terminate the Purchase and Resale Agreement by and among the
District, the Trustee, U.S. Bank National Association, as custodian, and Wachovia Bank,
National Association, as provider, that is currently deposited to the Reserve Fund for the Senior
Bonds.
Each of the General Manager and the Chief Financial Officer is hereby
independently authorized and directed to execute and deliver the Sale Certificate and to make
and approve the final determinations contained therein, subject to the parameters and restrictions
of this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution.

13
Packet Pg. 35

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

Additional Refunding Bond Details.

1.
A Series of Bonds entitled to the benefit, protection and security of
the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution is hereby authorized in the maximum principal amount
set forth in Section 201 hereof, and maturing in the years and in the amounts set forth in the Sale
Certificate, and shall be designated as, and shall be distinguished from the Bonds of all other
Series by the title, “Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A.” If set forth in
the Sale Certificate, the Registered Coupons are hereby authorized.
2.
The purpose for which the Refunding Bonds are being issued is to
provide funds for the payment of a portion of the costs of the 2013A Refunding Project and to
pay the costs of issuance of the Refunding Bonds, including without limitation the cost of
funding any reserve fund required thereby or paying any premiums due in connection with the
substitution of a surety bond or reserve fund insurance policy into the Reserve Fund.
3.
The Refunding Bonds shall be dated as of the date of their delivery
or as otherwise required by Section 301 of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution. The
Refunding Bonds shall mature, bear “A” and “B” interest (if set forth in the Sale Certificate,
including interest evidenced by Registered Coupons), from their dated date to maturity or prior
redemption, and be sold, all as provided in the Sale Certificate, subject to the parameters and
limitations in Section 201. Interest on the Refunding Bonds shall be calculated on the basis of a
360-day year of twelve 30-day months, payable semiannually on each May 1 and November 1,
commencing on the date provided in the Sale Certificate.
4.
The Refunding Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiples of $5,000, provided that no Refunding Bond
may be in a denomination which exceeds the principal coming due on any maturity date, and no
individual Refunding Bond will be issued for more than one maturity bearing interest at the same
interest rate. Unless the District shall otherwise direct, the Refunding Bonds shall be lettered and
numbered separately from 1 upward preceded by the letter R prefixed to the number.
5.
The principal, Redemption Price of, and final interest payment on
the Refunding Bonds, or the interest represented by Registered Coupons, shall be payable to the
registered owner thereof as shown on the registration records kept by the Bond Registrar, upon
maturity thereof or prior redemption, or upon the due date of the Registered Coupons, and upon
presentation and surrender at the designated offices of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
Company, N.A., as Paying Agent for the Refunding Bonds, as designated by the Paying Agent.
Payment of interest on any Refunding Bond, other than the payment on the Registered Coupons
or the final interest payment thereon, shall be made by wire, or by check or draft mailed by the
Paying Agent, on or before each interest payment date (or, if such interest payment date is not a
business day, on or before the next succeeding business day), to the registered owner thereof at
the address shown on the registration records kept by the Bond Registrar on the Record Date; but
any such interest not so timely paid or duly provided for shall cease to be payable to the person
who is the registered owner thereof at the close of business on the Record Date and shall be
payable to the person who is the registered owner of such Refunding Bond at the close of
business on a Special Record Date (the “Special Record Date”) for the payment of such
defaulted interest. Such Special Record Date shall be fixed by the Trustee whenever funds
14
Packet Pg. 36

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

202.

become available for payment of defaulted interest, and notice of the Special Record Date shall
be given to the registered owners of the Refunding Bonds not less than 10 days prior thereto by
mail to each such registered owner as shown on the Bond Registrar’s registration records on a
date selected by the Trustee, stating the date of the Special Record Date and the date fixed for the
payment of defaulted interest. The principal and Redemption Price of, and interest on, all
Refunding Bonds shall also be payable at any other place which may be provided for such
payment by the appointment of any other Paying Agent or Paying Agents as permitted by the
Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution.
6.
The Refunding Bonds shall be subject to optional redemption prior
to their respective maturity dates and mandatory sinking fund redemption if so provided in the
Sale Certificate.
7.
The Refunding Bonds shall be issued in fully registered form as to
principal and interest and shall be exchangeable and transferable only for fully registered
Refunding Bonds of the same maturity of any authorized denominations and, except as set forth
in this section, upon the terms and conditions otherwise provided in Article III and Article IV of
the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as amended.
8.
At the time of initial delivery of the Refunding Bonds to the
Underwriters, if so provided in a Sale Certificate, the Refunding Bonds may be accompanied by
Registered Coupons evidencing additional interest on all or any portion of the Refunding Bonds.
The Registered Coupons shall be in fully registered form (i.e., registered as to payment of the
supplemental interest) provided that no Registered Coupon shall be issued for more than one due
date. The Registered Coupons shall be dated as of the date of delivery of the Refunding Bonds.
The Registered Coupons shall be numbered in such a manner as the District shall determine.
Each Registered Coupon shall entitle the registered owner thereof to receive payment of a
portion of the interest payable with respect to the Refunding Bonds as described herein. The
Registered Coupons may be owned, transferred and presented for payment separately from the
Refunding Bonds. References in this Resolution to the Refunding Bonds shall be deemed to
include the Registered Coupons where the context so requires. Except as specifically provided
herein or in the Registered Coupons, no provision of this Resolution relating to the Refunding
Bonds shall be deemed to affect the rights of the owners of Registered Coupons to receive
payments as provided herein.
9.
The net proceeds of the Refunding Bonds shall be applied as set
forth in the Sale Certificate.
10.
Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Refunding Bonds
and the Registered Coupons shall initially be registered in the name of the Securities Depository
or a nominee therefor, and this subsection 10 shall apply so long as the Refunding Bonds are
registered in the name of the Securities Depository or a nominee therefor. Purchases by
Beneficial Owners of the Refunding Bonds shall be made in book-entry form in the principal
amount of $5,000 or any integral multiple thereof. The Beneficial Owners shall not receive
certificates evidencing their interests in the Refunding Bonds. No Refunding Bond shall be
issued in a denomination larger than the aggregate principal amount maturing on the maturity
date of such Refunding Bond, and no Refunding Bond shall be made payable on more than one
15
Packet Pg. 37

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

maturity date and bearing interest at the same interest rate. So long as any Refunding Bond or
Registered Coupon is registered in the name of the Securities Depository or a nominee therefor,
the Securities Depository shall disburse any payments received, through Participants or
otherwise, to the Beneficial Owners. None of the District, the Trustee, the Bond Registrar or the
Paying Agent shall have any responsibility or obligation for the payment to any Participant, any
Beneficial Owner or any other person (except the registered owner in whose name any
Refunding Bonds or Registered Coupons are registered) of the principal of, interest on or any
premium due in connection with the redemption of the Refunding Bonds. The Refunding Bonds
shall be initially issued so that a single Refunding Bond shall evidence the obligation of the
District to pay all principal due on each of the maturity dates for which the Refunding Bonds
bear the same interest rate, and the Registered Coupons initially shall be evidenced by one
Registered Coupon for each payment date for which a Registered Coupon becomes due, as set
forth in the Sale Certificate. Each such Refunding Bond or Registered Coupon shall be
registered in the name of the Securities Depository or a nominee therefor. Except as hereinafter
provided, all of the Refunding Bonds and Registered Coupons shall continue to be registered in
the name of the Securities Depository or a nominee therefor. To the extent typewritten
Refunding Bonds, rather than printed Refunding Bonds, are to be issued, such modifications to
the form of the Refunding Bond as may be necessary or desirable in such case are hereby
authorized and approved. There shall be no substantive change to the terms and conditions set
forth in the form of Refunding Bond, except as otherwise authorized by the Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution.
The District, the Trustee, the Bond Registrar and the Paying Agent shall have no
responsibility or obligation with respect to the accuracy of the records of the Securities
Depository or a nominee therefor or any Participant with respect to any ownership interest in the
Refunding Bonds or the Registered Coupons or the delivery to any Participant, Beneficial Owner
or any other person (except the registered owner in whose name any Refunding Bonds are
registered) of any notice with respect to the Refunding Bonds, including any notice of
redemption.
The District may remove the Securities Depository and the Securities Depository
may resign by giving sixty (60) days’ written notice to the other of such removal or resignation.
Additionally, the Securities Depository shall be removed sixty (60) days after receipt by the
District of written notice from the Securities Depository to the effect that the Securities
Depository has received written notice from Participants having interests, as shown in the
records of the Securities Depository, in an aggregate principal amount of not less than 50% of
the aggregate principal amount of the then outstanding Refunding Bonds to the effect that the
Securities Depository is unable or unwilling to discharge its responsibilities or a continuation of
the requirement that all of the outstanding Refunding Bonds be registered in the name of the
Securities Depository or a nominee therefor is not in the best interests of the Beneficial Owners.
Upon the removal or resignation of the Securities Depository, the Securities Depository shall
take such action as may be necessary to assure the orderly transfer of the computerized bookentry system with respect to the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons to a successor
securities depository or if no successor securities depository is appointed as herein provided, the
transfer of the Refunding Bonds and Registered Coupons in certificate form to the Beneficial
Owners or their designees. Upon the giving of notice by the District of the removal of the
Securities Depository, the giving of notice by the Securities Depository of its resignation or the
16
Packet Pg. 38

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

receipt by the District of notice with respect to the written notice of Participants referred to
herein, the District may, within sixty (60) days after the giving of such notice, appoint a
successor securities depository upon such terms and conditions as the District shall impose. Any
such successor securities depository shall at all times be a registered clearing agency under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or other applicable statute or regulation, and
in good standing thereunder. If the District fails to appoint a successor securities depository
within such time period, the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons shall no longer be
restricted to being registered in the name of the Securities Depository or a nominee therefor, but
may be registered in whatever name or names registered owners transferring or exchanging
Refunding Bonds or Registered Coupons shall designate.
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution
to the contrary, so long as any Refunding Bond is registered in the name of Cede & Co., as
nominee for the Securities Depository, all payments with respect to principal of, interest on and
any premium due in connection with the redemption of such Refunding Bond and all notices
with respect to such Refunding Bond shall be made and given, respectively, in the manner
provided in the Letter of Representations.
11.
The creation, perfection, enforcement, and priority of the pledge of
revenues to secure or pay the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons as provided herein
shall be governed by Section 11-57-208 of the Supplemental Act and the Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution. The revenues pledged for the payment of the Refunding Bonds and the
Registered Coupons, as received by or otherwise credited to the District, shall immediately be
subject to the lien of such pledge without any physical delivery, filing, or further act. The lien of
such pledge on the revenues pledged for payment of the Refunding Bonds and the Registered
Coupons and the obligation to perform the contractual provisions made herein and in the Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution shall have priority over any or all other obligations and liabilities
of the District, except for the Senior Bonds, which shall have a lien on such revenues on a parity
with the Refunding Bonds and Registered Coupons, and except as otherwise provided herein.
The lien of such pledge shall be valid, binding, and enforceable as against all persons having
claims of any kind in tort, contract, or otherwise against the District irrespective of whether such
persons have notice of such liens.
203. Requirements of a Surety Bond or Reserve Fund Insurance Policy. If it is
determined pursuant to Section 201 hereof that a surety bond or reserve fund insurance policy will
be deposited in the Reserve Fund for all or any portion of the Reserve Fund Requirement relating to
the Bonds and the Prior Parity Bonds, the General Manager or Chief Financial Officer may
independently determine the terms of any agreement with the provider of such surety bond or
reserve fund insurance policy as necessary to satisfy such provider’s commitment requirements
to issue its surety bond or policy.
ARTICLE III.
PARTICULAR COVENANTS OF THE DISTRICT; CREATION OF CERTAIN
ACCOUNTS; AND AMENDMENTS APPLICABLE TO REFUNDING BONDS
301. Creation and Use of Escrow Account. There is created pursuant to the
Escrow Agreement a special and separate account with respect to the Refunding Bonds, to be
17
Packet Pg. 39

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

302. Maintenance of Escrow Account. The Escrow Account shall be
maintained in an amount at the time of the initial deposits therein and at all times subsequent at
least sufficient, together with the known minimum yield to be derived from the initial investment
and any temporary reinvestment of the deposits therein or any part thereof in Investment
Securities, to pay the Refunded Bond Requirements. Moneys shall be withdrawn by the Trustee,
as Escrow Agent, from the Escrow Account in sufficient amounts and at such times to permit the
payment without default of the Refunded Bond Requirements.
303. Redemption of Refunded Bonds. In accordance with the provisions of
Section 11-57-205(1)(h) of the Supplemental Act, the Board hereby authorizes each of the
General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer to independently determine which Senior Bonds
of the District will be refunded with the proceeds of the Refunding Bonds. Such determination
shall be set forth in the Sale Certificate, and the District shall exercise its option to redeem the
Refunded Bonds in accordance with the provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution
and the Escrow Agreement.
304. Continuing Disclosure Covenant. The District covenants for the benefit of
the owners of the Refunding Bonds to comply with the terms of the Continuing Disclosure
Agreement, provided that a failure of the District to comply with the Continuing Disclosure
Agreement shall not constitute an Event of Default under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution.
305. Amendment of Section 1201. Section 1201 of the Bond Resolution shall
be amended by the addition of the following sentence at the end of paragraph 1 of Section 1201:
“The District shall remain liable for any deficiencies upon a defeasance of the Series 2013A
Bonds.”
ARTICLE IV.
MISCELLANEOUS
401. Applicability of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as Amended.
Except as otherwise provided herein, the Refunding Bonds and the Registered Coupons shall be
issued subject to and otherwise in accordance with the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, as amended and supplemented by the First Supplemental Resolution, the Second
Supplemental Resolution, the Third Supplemental Resolution, the Fourth Supplemental
Resolution, the Fifth Supplemental Resolution, the Sixth Supplemental Resolution, the Seventh
Supplemental Resolution, the Eighth Supplemental Resolution, the Ninth Supplemental
Resolution, the Tenth Supplemental Resolution, the Eleventh Supplemental Resolution, the
Twelfth Supplemental Resolution, the Thirteenth Supplemental Resolution, the Fourteenth
Supplemental Resolution, the Fifteenth Supplemental Resolution, the Sixteenth Supplemental
Resolution and this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution.
402. Finding of Best Interests; Approval of 2013A Bonds and 2013A
Refunding Project. The Board hereby finds and determines, pursuant to the Constitution, the
18
Packet Pg. 40

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

held by the Escrow Agent and to be known as the “Regional Transportation District Taxable
Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A, Escrow Account” (the “Escrow Account”).

laws of the State of Colorado and the Act, that the issuance of the 2013A Bonds and effectuating
the 2013A Refunding Project in accordance with the parameters set forth in this Seventeenth
Supplemental Resolution and pursuant to the terms and provisions set forth in the Sale
Certificate, is necessary, convenient and in furtherance of the District’s purposes and is in the
best interests of the inhabitants of the District and the Board hereby authorizes and approves the
same.
403. Acceptance and Execution of Escrow Agreement. The Escrow Agreement
is hereby approved and authorized by the District in substantially the form of such document
presented to the Board at this meeting, but such document may be completed, corrected or
revised as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes of this
Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and the Sale Certificate and as the General Manager or the
Chief Financial Officer shall approve, the execution thereof being deemed conclusive approval
of any such changes by the District. The officials of the District as designated in the Escrow
Agreement are authorized to execute the Escrow Agreement on the behalf and in the name of the
District and so to enter into the Escrow Agreement as provided therein.
404. Acceptance and Execution of Continuing Disclosure Agreement. The
Continuing Disclosure Agreement is hereby approved and authorized by the Board in
substantially the form of such document presented to the Board at this meeting, but such
document may be completed, corrected or revised as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in
order to carry out the purposes of this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and the Sale
Certificate and as the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer shall approve, the
execution thereof being deemed conclusive approval of any such changes by the District. The
officials of the District as designated in the Continuing Disclosure Agreement are authorized to
execute the Continuing Disclosure Agreement on the behalf and in the name of the District and
so to enter into the Continuing Disclosure Agreement as provided therein.
405. Acceptance and Execution of Bond Purchase Agreement. The Bond
Purchase Agreement is hereby approved and authorized by the Board in substantially the form of
such document presented to the Board at this meeting, but such document may be completed,
corrected or revised as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes
of this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and the Sale Certificate and as the General
Manager or the Chief Financial Officer shall approve, the execution thereof being deemed
conclusive approval of any such changes by the District. The General Manager and Chief
Financial Officer is hereby independently authorized to execute the Bond Purchase Agreement
on the behalf and in the name of the District, subject to the provisions and limitations set forth in
Section 201 hereof.
406. Preliminary Official Statement and Final Official Statement.
The
printing, distribution and use of the Preliminary Official Statement in substantially the form of
such document presented to the Board at this meeting is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed,
with only such changes therein as are in accordance with the facts, or required by the
circumstances and are not inconsistent herewith. The Official Statement, in substantially the
form of the Preliminary Official Statement, is in all respects approved, authorized and confirmed,
but with such amendments, additions and deletions as are in accordance with the facts and not
inconsistent herewith, and the Chair is hereby authorized and directed to affix her signature to
19
Packet Pg. 41

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

the Official Statement for and on behalf of the District. The distribution by the Underwriters of
the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement for the 2013A Bonds to interested
persons in connection with the sale of the 2013A Bonds is hereby ratified, approved and
confirmed. The execution of a final Official Statement by the Chair shall be conclusively
deemed to evidence the approval of the form and contents thereof by the District.
407. Authorization to Execute Collateral Documents. The Secretary or
Assistant Secretary authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed
to attest all signatures and acts of any official of the District in connection with the matters
authorized by this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution and to place the seal of the District on
any document authorized and approved by this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution. The
Chair, the Secretary, the General Manager, the Chief Financial Officer and other officials of the
District are hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver for and on behalf of the
District any and all additional certificates, documents and other papers, and to perform all other
acts that they may deem necessary or appropriate in order to implement and carry out the
transactions and other matters authorized by this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution. The
approval hereby given to the various documents referred to above includes an approval of such
additional details therein as may be necessary and appropriate for their completion, deletions
therefrom and additions thereto as may be approved by the General Manager or the Chief
Financial Officer prior to the execution of the documents. The execution of any instrument by
the appropriate officers of the District herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the
approval by the District of such instrument in accordance with the terms hereof.
The General Manager or Chief Financial Officer are each hereby delegated the
independent authority to arrange for the sale of the Refunding Bonds to the Underwriters, to
make the determinations regarding the terms of the Refunding Bonds delegated in Section 201
hereof, and to execute the Sale Certificate and a contract for the purchase of the Refunding
Bonds.
408. Force Majeure. The Trustee shall not be liable to the parties hereto or
deemed in breach or default under this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution if and to the extent
its performance hereunder is prevented by reason of force majeure. The term “force majeure”
means an occurrence that is beyond the control of the Trustee and could not have been avoided
by exercising due care. Force majeure shall include acts of God, terrorism, war, riots, strikes,
fire, floods, earthquakes, epidemics or other similar occurrences.
409. Instructions to Trustee. The Trustee agrees to accept and act upon
instructions or directions pursuant to this Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution sent by unsecured
e-mail, facsimile transmission or other similar unsecured electronic methods, provided, however,
that, the Trustee shall have received an incumbency certificate listing persons designated to give
such instructions or directions and containing specimen signatures of such designated persons,
which such incumbency certificate shall be amended and replaced whenever a person is to be
added or deleted from the listing. The District agrees to assume all risks arising out of the use of
such electronic methods to submit instructions and directions to the Trustee, including without
limitation the risk of the Trustee acting on unauthorized instructions, and the risk of interception
and misuse by third parties.

20
Packet Pg. 42

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

410. Severability of Invalid Provisions. If any one or more of the covenants or
agreements provided in this Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution on the part of the District or
any Fiduciary to be performed should be contrary to law, then such covenant or covenants or
agreement or agreements shall be deemed severable from the remaining covenants and
agreements, and shall in no way affect the validity of the other provisions of this Seventeenth
Supplemental Resolution.
ARTICLE V.
BOND FORM AND EFFECTIVE DATE
501. Form of Bond and Registered Coupon The Refunding Bonds and the
Registered Coupons shall be in substantially the following forms with such variations, omissions
and insertions as are required, including, but not limited to, such variations, omissions and
insertions as are required by the Sale Certificate:

21
Packet Pg. 43

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

Unless this bond is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company,
a New York corporation (“DTC”), to the District or its agent for registration of transfer,
exchange, or payment, and any bond issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such
other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to
Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY
TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR
TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has
an interest herein.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
(COLORADO)
TAXABLE SALES TAX REVENUE REFUNDING BOND
SERIES 2013A
Number
R-____
Interest Rate

$_______________
Maturity Date

Dated as of

CUSIP

November 1, 20__

[Date of Delivery]

759136___ __

Registered Owner: Cede & Co.
Principal Amount:

DOLLARS

Regional Transportation District (herein called the “District”), a public body
politic and corporate and a political subdivision of the State of Colorado organized and existing
under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Colorado, for value received hereby promises to
pay to the Registered Owner specified above, or registered assigns, on the Maturity Date
specified above (unless called for earlier redemption), but solely from the funds pledged therefor,
upon presentation and surrender of this bond at the designated offices of The Bank of New York
Mellon Trust Company, N.A. (such bank and any successors thereto being referred to herein as
the “Trustee” and “Paying Agent”), as designated by the Paying Agent, at the option of the
Registered Owner hereof, the Principal Amount specified above in any coin or currency of the
United States of America which at the time of payment is legal tender for the payment of public
and private debts, and to pay to the Registered Owner hereof interest on such principal sum by
wire, or by check or draft mailed by the Paying Agent on or before each interest payment date
(or, if such interest payment date is not a business day, on or before the next succeeding business
day), to the Registered Owner hereof at the address shown on the registration records kept by the
Trustee or its successor as Trustee as provided herein, provided that the final interest payment
shall be made by the Paying Agent or its successor upon presentation and surrender of this bond
at the designated offices of the Paying Agent, in like coin or currency from the date hereof, at the
22
Packet Pg. 44

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

[FORM OF BOND]

Interest Rate per annum specified above, payable on the first days of May and November in each
year, until the District’s obligation with respect to the payment of such principal sum shall be
discharged. Interest on this bond shall be payable to the Registered Owner hereof at the address
shown on the registration records kept by the Trustee or its successor as Trustee on the twentieth
day next preceding such interest payment date (the “Record Date”). Any such interest not so
timely paid or duly provided for shall cease to be payable to the person who is the Registered
Owner hereof at the close of business on the Record Date and shall be payable to the person who
is the Registered Owner hereof at the close of business on a Special Record Date, as described in
the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution (as hereinafter defined) authorizing the issuance of this
bond, for the payment of any defaulted interest. Such Special Record Date shall be fixed by the
Trustee whenever monies become available for payment of the defaulted interest, and notice of
the Special Record Date shall be given to the registered owners of the bonds of which this bond
is one, not less than ten days prior thereto. This bond shall be dated as provided in the Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution.
This bond is one of a duly authorized issue of bonds of the District designated as
its “Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds, Series 2013A” in the aggregate principal
amount of $_____________ issued pursuant to the Regional Transportation District Act, being
compiled as Article 9 of Title 32, Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended (herein called the
“Act”), under and pursuant to a resolution of the District, adopted October 27, 1977 entitled the
Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution (the “1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution”), as
supplemented and amended by (i) a resolution of the District adopted on June 25, 1985 entitled
the First Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (ii) a resolution of the District
adopted on April 26, 1988 entitled the Second Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, (iii) a resolution of the District adopted on July 10, 1990 entitled the Third
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (iv) a resolution of the District adopted on
June 23, 1992 entitled the Fourth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (v) a
resolution of the District adopted on May 25, 1993 entitled the Fifth Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution (vi) a resolution of the District adopted on July 22, 1997 entitled the
Sixth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (vii) a resolution of the District
adopted on November 14, 2000 entitled the Seventh Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, (viii) a resolution of the District adopted on July 24, 2001 entitled the Eighth
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (ix) a resolution of the District adopted on
December 18, 2001 entitled the Ninth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (x) a
resolution of the District adopted on April 16, 2002 entitled the Tenth Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, (xi) a resolution of the District adopted on June 17, 2003 entitled the
Eleventh Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (xii) a resolution of the District
adopted on April 22, 2004 entitled the Twelfth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, (xiii) a resolution of the District adopted on February 22, 2005 entitled the Thirteenth
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (xiv) a resolution of the District adopted on
February 20, 2007 entitled the Fourteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution,
(xv) a resolution of the District adopted on February 19, 2008 entitled the Fifteenth
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (xvi) a resolution of the District adopted on
November 17, 2009 entitled the Sixteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution,
and (xvii) a resolution of the District adopted on February 19, 2013 entitled the Seventeenth
Supplemental Resolution (collectively, the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as
supplemented by the First Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Second
23
Packet Pg. 45

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Third Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution, the Fourth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Fifth
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Sixth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution, the Seventh Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Eighth
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Ninth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution, the Tenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Eleventh
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Twelfth Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, the Thirteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution,
the Fourteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Fifteenth Supplemental
Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Sixteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Resolution and the
Seventeenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution being herein called the “Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution”). In accordance with Section 505 of the Second Supplemental
Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, by the acceptance of this bond, the Registered Owner
hereof irrevocably consents to the amendments to the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution made
by the Second Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution.
As provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the bonds are direct and
special obligations of the District payable solely from and secured as to payment of the principal
and redemption price thereof, and interest thereon, in accordance with their terms and the
provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution solely by (i) the Pledged Income (which,
as defined in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, includes the proceeds of a sales tax levied
within the District), and (ii) all accounts (except any Rebate Account and any Escrow Account)
established by the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution including the investments, if any, thereof,
subject only to the provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution permitting the
application thereof for the purposes and on the terms and conditions set forth in the Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution. Copies of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution are on file at the
office of the District and at the principal office the Trustee or its successor as Trustee, and
reference to the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution and any and all supplements thereto and
modifications and amendments thereof and to the Act is made for a description of the pledge and
assignment and covenants securing the bonds, the nature, extent and manner of enforcement of
such pledge and assignment, the rights and remedies of the registered owners of the bonds with
respect thereto, the limitations on such rights and remedies and the terms and conditions upon
which the bonds are issued and may be issued thereunder.
As provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, bonds of the District may
be issued from time to time pursuant to supplemental resolutions in one or more series, in
various principal amounts, may mature at different times, may bear interest at different rates and
may otherwise vary as in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution provided. The aggregate
principal amount of bonds which may be issued under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution is
not limited except as provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, and all bonds issued
and to be issued under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution are and will be equally secured
by the pledge and assignment and covenants made therein, except as otherwise expressly
provided or permitted in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution.
To the extent and in the manner permitted by the terms of the Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution, the provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, or any resolution
amendatory thereof or supplemental thereto, may be modified or amended by the District, with
24
Packet Pg. 46

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

the written consent of the holders of at least two-thirds in principal amount of the bonds then
outstanding under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, and, in case less than all of the series
of bonds would be affected thereby, with such consent of at least two-thirds in principal amount
of the bonds of each series so affected then outstanding under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, and, in case such modification or amendment would change the terms of any sinking
fund installment, with such consent of at least two-thirds in principal amount of the bonds of the
particular series and maturity entitled to such sinking fund installment then outstanding;
provided, however, that, if such modification or amendment will, by its terms, not take effect so
long as any bonds of any specified like series and maturity remain outstanding under the Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the consent of the holders of such bonds shall not be required
and such bonds shall not be deemed to be outstanding for the purpose of the calculation of
outstanding bonds. No such modification or amendment shall permit a change in the terms of
redemption or maturity of the principal of any outstanding bond or of any installment of interest
thereon or a reduction in the principal amount or redemption price thereof or in the rate of
interest thereon without the consent of the holder of such bond, or shall reduce the percentages or
otherwise affect the classes of bonds the consent of the holders of which is required to effect any
such modification or amendment, or shall change or modify any of the rights or obligations of
the Trustee or of any Paying Agent without its written assent thereto. The Registered Owner of
this bond irrevocably waives the right to exchange this bond for a coupon bond or bonds.
The bonds are issuable in the form of fully registered bonds without coupons in
denominations of $5,000 or any integral multiples of $5,000. This bond is transferable as
provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, only upon the books of the District kept for
that purpose at the above-mentioned office of the Trustee, by the Registered Owner hereof in
person, or by his duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of this bond together with a written
instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by the Registered Owner or his
duly authorized attorney, and thereupon a new registered bond or bonds, and in the same
aggregate principal amount bearing the same interest rate, shall be issued to the transferee in
exchange therefor as provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, and upon payment of
the charges therein prescribed. The Registered Owner of any bond or bonds may surrender the
same (together with a written instrument of transfer satisfactory to the Trustee duly executed by
the Registered Owner or his or her duly authorized attorney), at the above-mentioned office of
the Trustee, in exchange for an equal aggregate principal amount of registered bonds bearing the
same interest rate, of any of the authorized denominations, in the manner, subject to the
conditions and upon the payment of the charges provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution. The District, the Trustee and any Paying Agent may deem and treat the person in
whose name this bond is registered as the absolute owner hereof for the purpose of receiving
payment of, or on account of, the principal or redemption price hereof and interest due hereon
and for all other purposes.
The bonds of the issue of which this bond is one are payable upon redemption at
the above-mentioned office of the Paying Agent. The Trustee shall mail, by registered or first
class, postage prepaid mail, a copy of any notice of redemption, postage prepaid, not less than
25 days before the redemption date, to the Registered Owners of any bonds or portions of bonds
which are to be redeemed, at their last addresses, appearing upon the registry books, but failure
to give such notice shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other
bonds. If notice of redemption shall have been mailed as aforesaid, the bonds or portions thereof
25
Packet Pg. 47

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

specified in said notice shall become due and payable on the redemption date therein fixed, and
if, on the redemption date, moneys for the redemption of all the bonds and portions thereof to be
redeemed, together with interest to the redemption date, shall be available for such payment on
said date, then from and after the redemption date interest on such bonds or portions thereof so
called for redemption shall cease to accrue and be payable.
The principal, premium, if any, and interest on this bond and the issue of which
this bond is one are payable solely from the Pledged Income and other amounts pledged therefor
under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution and neither this bond nor the issue of which it is
part shall in any way create or constitute an indebtedness, liability or obligation of the State of
Colorado or any political subdivision thereof except the District and no property of the District,
except the Pledged Income and other funds of the District provided therefor in the Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, shall be liable to be forfeited or taken in payment of this bond or the
issue of which this bond is one.
It is hereby certified and recited that all conditions, acts and things required by
law and the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution to exist, to have happened and to have been
performed precedent to and in the issuance of this bond, exist, have happened and have been
performed and that the issue of bonds of which this is one, together with all other indebtedness of
the District, complies in all respects with the applicable laws of the State of Colorado, including,
particularly, the Act and the Supplemental Act (hereafter defined). This bond and the issue of
which this bond is one is issued under authority of the Act and, as provided in Section 32-9-135
of the Act, this recital shall conclusively impart full compliance with all the provisions of the
Act, and this bond and the issue of which this bond is one shall be incontestable for any cause
whatsoever after their delivery for value. This bond and the issue of which this bond is one is
also issued pursuant to Title 11, Article 57, Part 2, C.R.S. (the “Supplemental Act”), and
pursuant to Section 11-57-210 of the Supplemental Act, this recital shall be conclusive evidence
of the validity and the regularity of the issuance of this bond and the issue of which this bond is
one after their delivery for value.
The Act provides that neither the members of the Board of Directors of the
District nor any person executing the securities of the District shall be liable personally on such
securities by reason of the issuance thereof.
This bond shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution or be valid or become obligatory for any purpose until this bond shall have been
authenticated by the execution by the Trustee of the Trustee’s Certificate of Authentication
hereon.

26
Packet Pg. 48

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT has
caused this bond to be signed and executed in the name and on behalf of the District, to be signed
with the manual or facsimile signature of the Chair or Chairman Pro Tem of the Board of
Directors of the District and to be attested with the manual or facsimile signature of the Secretary
or an Assistant Secretary of the Board of Directors of the District and has caused its corporate
seal (or a facsimile thereof) to be hereunto affixed, imprinted, engraved or otherwise reproduced,
all as of the date of delivery hereof.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By
Chair
Board of Directors
[SEAL]
Attest:

Secretary
Board of Directors
[END OF BOND FORM]

27
Packet Pg. 49

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

TRUSTEE’S CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION
This bond is one of the bonds delivered pursuant to the within-mentioned Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution.
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST
COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee

Date:

By
Authorized Signatory

[END OF FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION]

28
Packet Pg. 50

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

[FORM OF CERTIFICATE OF AUTHENTICATION]

2.B.2.a

The following installments of principal (or portion thereof) of this bond have been
prepaid in accordance with the terms of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution authorizing the
issuance of this bond.

Date of
Prepayment

Principal
Prepaid

Signature of
Authorized Representative of
the Depository Trust Company

[END OF FORM OF PREPAYMENT PANEL]

29
Packet Pg. 51

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

[FORM OF PREPAYMENT PANEL]

2.B.2.a

For value received, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
____________________ the within bond and hereby irrevocably constitutes and appoints
_______________ attorney, to transfer the same on the records of the Bond Registrar, with full
power of substitution in the premises.
______________________________________________
Dated: __________________
Signature Guaranteed by a member
of the Medallion Signature Program:

______________________________
Address of transferee:
______________________________
______________________________
______________________________
Social Security or other tax
identification number of transferee:
______________________________
NOTE: The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the face
of the within bond in every particular, without alteration or enlargement or any change
whatsoever.
EXCHANGE OR TRANSFER FEES MAY BE CHARGED

[END OF FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]

30
Packet Pg. 52

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

[FORM OF ASSIGNMENT]

2.B.2.a

Unless this coupon is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust
Company, a New York corporation (“DTC”), to the District or its agent for registration of
transfer, exchange, or payment, and any coupon issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co.
or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment
is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of
DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE, OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR
OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch as the Registered Owner
hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
(COLORADO)
TAXABLE SALES TAX REVENUE REFUNDING BOND
SERIES 2013A
SUPPLEMENTAL “B” INTEREST REGISTERED COUPON
REGISTERED COUPON NO.: __________________
RELATED PRINCIPAL AMOUNT OF BONDS:____________________
“B” INTEREST RATE: _____________________
INTEREST PAYABLE: _____________________
INTEREST PAYMENT DATE: _______________
INTEREST START DATE: ________________
REGISTERED OWNER: CEDE & CO.
CUSIP NO.: ______________________
On the Interest Payment Date specified above, Regional Transportation District (herein
called the “District”), a public body politic and corporate and a political subdivision of the State
of Colorado organized and existing under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Colorado,
hereby promises to pay to the Registered Owner specified above, or registered assigns, in lawful
money of the United States of America, but solely from the funds pledged therefor, the Interest
Payable shown above, being partial interest on the Related Principal Amount of Bonds referred
to above at the “B” Interest Rate per annum identified above for the period from the Interest Start
Date specified above to the Interest Payment Date specified above. Such payment will be made
to the Registered Owner hereof upon presentation and surrender of this Supplemental “B”
Interest Registered Coupon at the designated offices of The Bank of New York Mellon Trust
31

Packet Pg. 53

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

(FORM OF REGISTERED COUPON)

Company, N.A. (such bank and any successors thereto being referred to herein as the “Trustee”
and “Paying Agent”), as designated by the Paying Agent, all in accordance with the Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution (as hereinafter defined) authorizing the issuance of the Bonds and
Registered Coupons, and the provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution are hereby
incorporated herein by reference.
This Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon is issued by the District under the
authority of and in full conformity with the Regional Transportation District Act, being compiled
as Article 9 of Title 32, Colorado Revised Statutes, as amended (herein called the “Act”), under
and pursuant to a resolution of the District, adopted October 27, 1977 entitled the Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution (the “1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution”), as supplemented
and amended by (i) a resolution of the District adopted on June 25, 1985 entitled the First
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (ii) a resolution of the District adopted on
April 26, 1988 entitled the Second Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (iii) a
resolution of the District adopted on July 10, 1990 entitled the Third Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, (iv) a resolution of the District adopted on June 23, 1992 entitled the
Fourth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (v) a resolution of the District
adopted on May 25, 1993 entitled the Fifth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution
(vi) a resolution of the District adopted on July 22, 1997 entitled the Sixth Supplemental Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (vii) a resolution of the District adopted on November 14, 2000
entitled the Seventh Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (viii) a resolution of the
District adopted on July 24, 2001 entitled the Eighth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, (ix) a resolution of the District adopted on December 18, 2001 entitled the Ninth
Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (x) a resolution of the District adopted on
April 16, 2002 entitled the Tenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (xi) a
resolution of the District adopted on June 17, 2003 entitled the Eleventh Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, (xii) a resolution of the District adopted on April 22, 2004 entitled the
Twelfth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (xiii) a resolution of the District
adopted on February 22, 2005 entitled the Thirteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, (xiv) a resolution of the District adopted on February 20, 2007 entitled the
Fourteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, (xv) a resolution of the District
adopted on February 19, 2008 entitled the Fifteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, (xvi) a resolution of the District adopted on November 17, 2009 entitled the
Sixteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution; and (xvii) a resolution of the
District adopted on February 19, 2013 entitled the Seventeenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue
Bond Resolution (collectively, the 1977 Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, as supplemented
by the First Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Second Supplemental Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Third Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the
Fourth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Fifth Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, the Sixth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the
Seventh Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Eighth Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, the Ninth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the
Tenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Eleventh Supplemental Sales Tax
Revenue Bond Resolution, the Twelfth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the
Thirteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Fourteenth Supplemental
Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Fifteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, the Sixteenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution and the
32
Packet Pg. 54

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

This Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon is also issued pursuant to Title 11,
Article 57, Part 2, C.R.S. (the “Supplemental Act”). Pursuant to Section 11-57-210 of the
Supplemental Act, this recital shall be conclusive evidence of the validity and the regularity of
the issuance of this Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon after its delivery for value.
As provided in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, the Registered Coupons are
direct and special obligations of the District payable solely from and secured as to payment in
accordance with their terms and the provisions of the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution solely
by (i) the Pledged Income (which, as defined in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution,
includes the proceeds of a sales tax levied within the District), and (ii) all accounts (except any
Rebate Account and any Escrow Account) established by the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution including the investments, if any, thereof, subject only to the provisions of the Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution permitting the application thereof for the purposes and on the
terms and conditions set forth in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution. Copies of the Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution are on file at the office of the District and at the principal office
the Trustee or its successor as Trustee, and reference to the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution
and any and all supplements thereto and modifications and amendments thereof and to the Act is
made for a description of the pledge and assignment and covenants securing the Bonds and the
Registered Coupons, the nature, extent and manner of enforcement of such pledge and
assignment, the rights and remedies of the registered owners of the Bonds and Registered
Coupons with respect thereto, the limitations on such rights and remedies and the terms and
conditions upon which the Bonds and Registered Coupons are issued and may be issued
thereunder.
This Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon is payable solely from the Pledged
Income and other amounts pledged therefor under the Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution and
neither the Bonds nor this Registered Coupon nor the issue of which it is part shall in any way
create or constitute an indebtedness, liability or obligation of the State of Colorado or any
political subdivision thereof except the District and no property of the District, except the
Pledged Income and other funds of the District provided therefor in the Sales Tax Revenue Bond
Resolution, shall be liable to be forfeited or taken in payment of this Registered Coupon.
This Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon may be transferred, exchanged, and
reissued at the designated office of the Trustee.
This Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon shall not be valid or obligatory for
any purpose until the Trustee shall have manually signed the certificate of authentication hereon.

33
Packet Pg. 55

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

Seventeenth Supplemental Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution being herein called the “Sales
Tax Revenue Bond Resolution”).

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT has
caused this Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon to be signed and executed in the name
and on behalf of the District, to be signed with the manual or facsimile signature of the Chair or
Chairman Pro Tem of the Board of Directors of the District and to be attested with the manual or
facsimile signature of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Board of Directors of the
District and has caused its corporate seal (or a facsimile thereof) to be hereunto affixed,
imprinted, engraved or otherwise reproduced, all as of the date of delivery hereof.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

By
Chair
Board of Directors
[SEAL]
Attest:

Secretary
Board of Directors

(End of Form of Registered Coupon)

34
Packet Pg. 56

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

Date of authentication and registration:
This is one of the Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupons described in the withinmentioned Sales Tax Revenue Bond Resolution, and this Supplemental “B” Interest Registered
Coupon has been duly registered on the registration books kept by the undersigned, as Registrar,
for such Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupons.

THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON TRUST
COMPANY, N.A., as Trustee

By
Authorized Signatory

(End of Form of Registrar’s Certificate of Authentication)

35
Packet Pg. 57

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

(Form of Registrar’s Certificate of Authentication
for Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon)

2.B.2.a

For value received, the undersigned hereby sells, assigns and transfers unto
____________________ the within Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon and does
hereby irrevocably constitute and appoint ____________________ attorney, to transfer the
within Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon on the books kept for registration of the
within Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon, with full power of substitution in the
premises.
_______________________________________
Dated:___________________

Signature Guaranteed:
________________________
Signature must be guaranteed by a member
of a Medallion Signature Program.
Address of transferee:
_________________________
_________________________
_________________________
Social Security or other tax
identification number of transferee:
_________________________
NOTE: The signature to this Assignment must correspond with the name as written on the face
of the within Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon in every particular, without
alteration or enlargement or any change whatsoever.
EXCHANGE OR TRANSFER FEES MAY BE CHARGED

(End of Form of Assignment for Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon)

36
Packet Pg. 58

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

(Form of Assignment for Supplemental “B” Interest Registered Coupon)

2.B.2.a

PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this February 19, 2013.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Chair of the Board of Directors
(SEAL)
Attest:

Secretary

Packet Pg. 59

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

502. Effective Date. This Seventeenth Supplemental Resolution shall be in full
force and effect upon its passage and adoption.

I, the Secretary of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Regional
Transportation District, in the City and County of Broomfield, City and County of Denver and
the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of
Colorado (the “District”), do hereby certify:
1.
The foregoing pages are a true and correct copy of a resolution (the
“Resolution”) passed and adopted by the Board at a meeting thereof held on February 19, 2013.
2.
The Resolution was duly moved and seconded and the Resolution was
adopted at the meeting of February 19, 2013, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as
follows:
Name
Lorraine Anderson, Chair
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Paul Daniel Solano

Yes

No

Abstain

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
3.
The members of the Board were present at such meeting constituting a
quorum and voted on the passage of the Resolution as set forth above.
4.
The Resolution was approved and authenticated by the signature of the
Chair of the Board, sealed with the District seal, attested by the Secretary and recorded in the
minutes of the Board.
5.
There are no bylaws, rules or regulations of the Board which might
prohibit the adoption of the Resolution.
6.
Notice of the meeting of February 19, 2013 in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A was posted at 1600 Blake Street within the District, at least twenty-four hours prior to
the meeting in accordance with law.

- 38 Packet Pg. 60

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

2.B.2.a

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

WITNESS my hand and the seal of the District this ___ day of February, 2013.

Secretary
(SEAL)

- 39 Packet Pg. 61

Attachment: 17th Supplemental Resolution (2006A)- 2013 (1498 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2004 and 2005)

2.B.2.a

EXHIBIT A

(Attach copy of notice given prior to the February 19, 2013 meeting)

PUBFIN/1605822.4

Packet Pg. 62

2.B.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Resolution No.__, Series of 2013 related to the
issuance of RTD Sales Tax Revenue Refunding
Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series 2013A

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the attached Resolution Number __ (the “Resolution”), authorizing the issuance of Regional
Transportation District Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Projects), Series
2013A.
BACKGROUND:
On January 22, 2013, staff presented the refinancing of three RTD debt issues at lower than current
interest rates to reduce payments, improve cash flow, and provide additional capacity under TABOR as a
Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM) item and proposed to use the financing capacity generated by the
refundings as a step toward accelerating construction of the North Metro Rail Line from Denver Union
Station to 72nd Avenue.
This action item discusses the second of the three bond refunding opportunities that were included in
the RAM item proposed on January 22, 2013.
DISSCUSSION:
RTD issued its $600 million Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) Series 2006A (the “2006
Bonds”) in October 2006 for the purpose of financing a portion of the costs of the FasTracks projects. In
2007, interest rates were such that the District refunded $363.725 million of the 2006 Bonds to
capture $11.373 million in present value savings (3.122% of principal of refunded bonds). At present,
$235.735 million par amount of the 2006 Bonds remain outstanding.
With long-term interest rates near historic lows, RTD has the potential to advance refund the remaining
outstanding 2006 Bonds on a non-callable basis to realize, subject to market movement, a savings of
approximately $63.8 million (9.03% of principal of refunded bonds). The Bond Resolution requires a
minimum of 3% savings which allows some flexibility in regards to changes in interest rates between
now and the date the bonds are sold. The 2006 Bonds are callable November 1, 2016 at par. Pursuant
to U.S. Treasury regulations, an issue of tax-exempt bonds may (a) be advance refunded (refunding
bonds sold more than 90 days in advance of the redemption date of the outstanding bonds)) once, and
(b) current refunded (refunding bonds sold within 90 days of redemption date of outstanding bonds)
without limit.
While the potential refunding savings are significant, it is important to note that, such savings are net of
a cost resulting from (a) the inability to invest proceeds of the refunding bonds at a return equal to the
interest rate on the new bonds, and (b) the length of time between the sale of the refunding bonds and
optional redemption date of the 2006 Bonds (“Negative Arbitrage”). Absent a change in interest rates,

Packet Pg. 63

2.B.3

the savings to RTD improves with the passage of time, due to a reduction in time proceeds of the
refunding bonds must be invested prior to redeeming the 2006 Bonds. Despite the cost associated with
the Negative Arbitrage, the potential savings from a refunding of the 2006 Bonds exceeds the typical
threshold for a refunding by RTD. Consequently, staff has assembled a financing team and commenced
documentation to be in a position to take advantage of the opportunity for RTD to reduce its interest
expense.
The Chief Financial Officer has taken preliminary actions to arrange for the issuance and sale of the
bonds, including assembling financial information related to the District and drafting a preliminary official
statement, bond indenture, continuing disclosure agreement, bond purchase agreement and the
Resolution for issuance of the Bonds. The Board is being requested, through the Resolution to authorize
the issuance, to establish the terms and to approve agreements required in connection with the issuance
of the Bonds.
Drafts of documents referenced in the Bond Resolution including the Bond Indenture, the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the Preliminary Official Statement and the Bond Purchase Agreement are
available for review in the Board Office.
RTD is receiving the advice of First Southwest Company, as independent financial advisors and Sherman
& Howard L.L.C. as Bond Counsel in regard to the Bonds. The Bonds will be underwritten by a team
including Morgan Stanley, Bank of America Merrill Lynch, George K. Baum and Loop Capital.
FINANCIAL IMPACT:
Costs associated with the refunding bonds are considered “costs of issuance” and will be funded out of
Bond proceeds. These costs include underwriter, rating agency, financial advisory, attorney and printing
fees.
ALTERNATIVES:
1. Authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of 2013,
authorizing the issuance of the District’s Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2013A. This is the recommended action.
2. Do not authorize the execution of documents, including the attached Resolution No.__, Series of
2013, authorizing the issuance of the District’s Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2013A. This is not the recommended action as it would not take
advantage of the interest expense savings currently available to the District.
ATTACHMENTS:


RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (DOC)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 64

2.B.3

Packet Pg. 65

2.B.3.a

AUTHORIZING THE ISSUANCE OF SALES TAX REVENUE
REFUNDING BONDS (FASTRACKS PROJECT), SERIES
2013A, OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
(COLORADO); PROVIDING FOR OTHER MATTERS
RELATED TO SUCH BONDS AND THE SECURITY
THEREFOR; AND APPROVING THE EXECUTION AND
DELIVERY OF CERTAIN DOCUMENTS IN CONNECTION
WITH THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY.
WHEREAS, the Regional Transportation District in the City and County of
Broomfield, the City and County of Denver and the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder,
Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of Colorado (the “District”) was created by the General
Assembly of the State of Colorado in 1969 by Chapter 231, Laws of Colorado 1969, which is
currently codified as Sections 32-9-101 through 32-9-164, inclusive, of the Colorado Revised
Statutes (the “Act”) and the District’s Board of Directors (the “Board”) and officers from time to
time, including the present incumbents, have been duly chosen and qualified; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-128 of the Act provides that the District may borrow
money in anticipation of the revenues and the sales tax proceeds of the District, but not the
proceeds of any general ad valorem property taxes, and issue special obligation bonds to
evidence the amount so borrowed; and
WHEREAS, Section 32-9-147 of the Act provides that the District may refund
any bonds issued pursuant to the Act without an election; and
WHEREAS, Article X, Section 20 of the Colorado Constitution provides that the
District may issue refunding bonds without an election if the refunding bonds are issued at a
lower interest rate; and
WHEREAS, the District is authorized by law to impose a sales tax at a rate of sixtenths of one percent throughout the District and such tax is now being imposed and collected;
and
WHEREAS, on April 22, 2004, the Board adopted a transit expansion plan known
as FasTracks (“FasTracks”); and
WHEREAS, as required by Section 32-9-107.7 of the Act, the construction of
FasTracks has been approved by the appropriate metropolitan planning organizations and by the
affirmative vote of at least two-thirds majority of the Board membership; and
WHEREAS, pursuant to Section 32-9-119.4 of the Act, the District has obtained
voter approval at an election duly called and held within the District on November 4, 2004 (the
“2004 Election”) to increase the rate of sales tax levied by the District by four-tenths of one
percent, from six-tenths of one percent to one percent, commencing January 1, 2005 (which tax
is now being imposed and collected), and to issue debt in the amount of $3.477 billion, with a
maximum total repayment cost of $7.129 billion, and a maximum annual repayment cost of

Packet Pg. 66

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

RESOLUTION NO. ___, SERIES OF 2013

$309.738 million, with the proceeds of such debt and increased taxes to be used and spent for the
construction and operation of FasTracks; and
WHEREAS, Resolution No. 007, Series of 2004, which called the 2004 Election,
established a 7% maximum net effective interest rate on the aggregate indebtedness issued
pursuant to the 2004 Election; and
WHEREAS, the ballot text submitted to the voters at the 2004 Election for
approval of such tax increase and the issuance of such debt (the “2004 Election Question”) was
as follows:
SHALL REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT TAXES BE
INCREASED $158.34 MILLION ANNUALLY AND BY WHATEVER
ADDITIONAL AMOUNTS ARE RAISED ANNUALLY THEREAFTER BY
INCREASING THE RATE OF SALES TAX LEVIED BY THE DISTRICT BY
FOUR-TENTHS OF ONE PERCENT, FROM THE CURRENT SIX-TENTHS
OF ONE PERCENT TO ONE PERCENT COMMENCING JANUARY 1, 2005
AND,
IN
CONNECTION
THEREWITH,
SHALL
REGIONAL
TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT DEBT BE INCREASED $3.477 BILLION,
WITH A REPAYMENT COST OF $7.129 BILLION WITH ALL PROCEEDS
OF DEBT AND TAXES TO BE USED AND SPENT FOR THE
CONSTRUCTION AND OPERATION OF A FIXED GUIDE WAY MASS
TRANSIT SYSTEM, THE CONSTRUCTION OF ADDITIONAL PARK-NRIDE LOTS, THE EXPANSION AND IMPROVEMENT OF EXISTING
PARK-N-RIDE LOTS, AND INCREASED BUS SERVICE, INCLUDING THE
USE OF SMALLER BUSES AND VANS AND ALTERNATIVE FUEL
VEHICLES AS APPROPRIATE, AS SPECIFIED IN THE TRANSIT
EXPANSION PLAN ADOPTED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF THE
DISTRICT ON OR BEFORE APRIL 22, 2004 AND SHALL DEBT BE
EVIDENCED BY BONDS, NOTES, OR OTHER MULTIPLE-FISCAL YEAR
OBLIGATIONS INCLUDING REFUNDING BONDS THAT MAY BE ISSUED
AS A LOWER OR HIGHER RATE OF INTEREST AND INCLUDING DEBT
THAT MAY HAVE A REDEMPTION PRIOR TO MATURITY WITH OR
WITHOUT PAYMENT OF A PREMIUM, PAYABLE FROM ALL
REVENUES GENERATED BY SAID TAX INCREASE, FEDERAL FUNDS,
INVESTMENT INCOME, PUBLIC AND PRIVATE CONTRIBUTIONS, AND
OTHER REVENUES AS THE BOARD MAY DETERMINE, AND WITH
SUCH REVENUES RAISED BY THE SALES TAX RATE INCREASE AND
THE PROCEEDS OF DEBT OBLIGATIONS AND ANY INVESTMENT
INCOME ON SUCH REVENUES AND PROCEEDS BEING EXEMPT FROM
THE REVENUE AND SPENDING RESTRICTIONS CONTAINED IN
SECTION 20 OF ARTICLE X OF THE COLORADO CONSTITUTION UNTIL
SUCH TIME AS ALL DEBT IS REPAID WHEN THE RATE OF TAX WILL
BE DECREASED TO THAT AMOUNT NECESSARY FOR THE
CONTINUED OPERATION OF THE SYSTEM BUT NOT LESS THAN SIXTENTHS OF ONE PERCENT?

-2Packet Pg. 67

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to finance a portion of the costs of the capital improvements, facilities and equipment described
in FasTracks, the District previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2006A in the aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 (the “2006A Bonds”) pursuant
to the provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of October 1, 2006, as amended (the “2006A
Indenture”), between the District and The Bank of New York Trust Company, N.A. (now known
as The Bank of New York Mellon Trust Company, N.A.) (the “Trustee”); and
WHEREAS, to refund a portion of the 2006A Bonds, the District previously
issued its Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2007A in the
aggregate principal amount of 363,725,000 (the “2007A Bonds”) pursuant to the provisions of an
Indenture of Trust, dated as of May 1, 2007, as amended, between the District and the Trustee
(the “2007A Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to finance a portion of the costs of the capital improvements, facilities and equipment described
in FasTracks, the District previously issued its Tax-Exempt Sales Tax Revenue Bonds
(FasTracks Project), Series 2010A in the aggregate principal amount of $79,140,000 (the
“2010A Bonds”) and its Taxable Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project) (Direct Pay
Build America Bonds), Series 2010B, in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000,000 (the
“2010B Bonds” and together with the 2010A Bonds, the “2010 Bonds”) pursuant to the
provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of November 23, 2010, between the District and the
Trustee (the “2010 Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to assist in the financing of a portion of the costs related to a portion of FasTracks referred to as
the “Eagle P3 Project,” the District has entered into the TIFIA Loan Agreement, dated
December 1, 2011 (the “TIFIA Loan Agreement”) with the United States Department of
Transportation, an agency of the United States of America, acting by and through the Federal
Highway Administrator (the “TIFIA Lender”) pursuant to which the TIFIA Lender will loan a
maximum amount of $280,000,000 to the District, which loan is evidenced by the RTD TIFIA
Bond (the “RTD TIFIA Bond”); and
WHEREAS, pursuant to the authority conferred at the 2004 Election and in order
to finance a portion of the costs of the capital improvements, facilities and equipment described
in FasTracks, the District previously issued its Sales Tax Revenue Bonds (FasTracks Project),
Series 2012A in the aggregate principal amount of $474,935,000 (the “2012A Bonds”) pursuant
to the provisions of an Indenture of Trust, dated as of December 20, 2012, between the District
and the Trustee (the “2012 Indenture”); and
WHEREAS, the Board has been informed by District staff and its financial
advisor that market conditions exist which make it advantageous to issue its Sales Tax Revenue
Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2013A (the “2013A Bonds”) to refund all or a
portion of the outstanding 2006A Bonds (the “Refunded Bonds”) as determined by the General
Manager (the “General Manager”) or Chief Financial Officer (the “Chief Financial Officer”) of
the District in order to achieve interest rate savings and other economies (the “Refunding
Project”); and
-3Packet Pg. 68

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

WHEREAS, subject to certain conditions set forth in the 2007A Indenture, the
2010 Indenture, the TIFIA Loan Agreement and the 2012 Indenture, the District is authorized to
issue Additional Parity Bonds (as defined in the 2007A Indenture, the 2010 Indenture, the TIFIA
Loan Agreement and the 2012 Indenture) which have a lien on all or a portion of the Pledged
Revenues (as defined therein) that is on a parity with the lien thereon of the 2007A Bonds, the
2010 Bonds, the RTD TIFIA Bond and the 2012 Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined and hereby declares that with respect to
the 2013A Bonds herein authorized, the conditions set forth in the 2007A Indenture, the 2010
Indenture, the TIFIA Loan Agreement and the 2012 Indenture for the issuance of Additional
Parity Bonds have been satisfied (or will be satisfied prior to the delivery of the 2013A Bonds)
and accordingly, the 2013A Bonds will be issued with a lien on a portion of the Pledged
Revenues that is on a parity with the lien thereon of the outstanding 2007A Bonds, 2010 Bonds,
RTD TIFIA Bond and 2012 Bonds; and
WHEREAS, the Board has determined that the 2013A Bonds shall be issued
pursuant to an Indenture of Trust, dated as of the date of execution and delivery of the 2013A
Bonds (the “Indenture”) between the District and the Trustee; and
WHEREAS, there have been filed with the Secretary of the Board (the
“Secretary”) forms of the following documents: (i) the Indenture, (ii) the Continuing Disclosure
Agreement (the “Continuing Disclosure Agreement”) between the District and Digital Assurance
Certification, L.L.C., as Dissemination Agent; (iii) the Escrow Agreement (“Escrow
Agreement”) between the District and the Trustee, as escrow agent; (iv) the Bond Purchase
Agreement (the “Bond Purchase Agreement”) between the District and the underwriters for the
2013A Bonds (the “Underwriters”) as determined by the General Manager or Chief Financial
Officer, and (v) a Preliminary Official Statement to be used in connection with the sale of the
2013A Bonds to prospective purchasers thereof; and
WHEREAS, Section 11-57-204 of the Supplemental Public Securities Act,
constituting Title 11, Article 57, Part 2, Colorado Revised Statutes (the “Supplemental Act”),
provides that a public entity, including the District, may elect in an act of issuance to apply all or
any of the provisions of the Supplemental Act; and
WHEREAS, all acts, conditions and things required by law to exist, happen and
be performed precedent to and in connection with the authorization of the 2013A Bonds exist,
have happened and have been performed in regular and due time, form and manner as required
by law, it is appropriate for the Board to adopt this Resolution at this time.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
OF THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT, IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF
BROOMFIELD, THE CITY AND COUNTY OF DENVER AND THE COUNTIES OF
ADAMS, ARAPAHOE, BOULDER, DOUGLAS, JEFFERSON AND WELD, IN THE STATE
OF COLORADO, AS FOLLOWS:

-4Packet Pg. 69

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

Section 1.
Ratification and Approval of Prior Actions. All actions heretofore
taken (not inconsistent with the provisions of this Resolution) by the Board, the officers of the
District and otherwise by the District directed toward (i) the Refunding Project, and (ii) the sale,
issuance and delivery of the 2013A Bonds for that purpose, including the use by the
Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement prepared in connection with the 2013A
Bonds, are ratified, approved, and confirmed. The designation of the Preliminary Official
Statement by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer as “final” for purposes of Rule
15c2-12 (the “Rule”) of the Securities and Exchange Commission, except for omissions
permitted by the Rule, is hereby authorized, approved and confirmed.
Section 2.
Finding of Best Interests. The Board hereby finds and determines,
pursuant to the Constitution, the laws of the State of Colorado and the Act, that effectuating the
Refunding Project in accordance with the parameters set forth in this Resolution and pursuant to
the terms and provisions set forth in the Sale Certificate (hereinafter defined) and the Indenture,
is necessary, convenient and in furtherance of the District’s purposes and is in the best interests
of the inhabitants of the District and the Board hereby authorizes and approves the same.
Section 3.
Authorization of 2013A Bonds. To provide funds to defray the
cost of the Refunding Project and to pay the costs of issuance incurred in connection therewith,
there is hereby authorized and created an issue of revenue bonds of the District designated as its
“Sales Tax Revenue Refunding Bonds (FasTracks Project), Series 2013A.” The 2013A Bonds
shall be dated, shall bear interest, shall be subject to redemption prior to maturity and shall
mature as provided in the Indenture, and as set forth in the Sale Certificate.
Section 4.
Supplemental Act; Parameters. The Board hereby elects to apply
all of the Supplemental Act to the 2013A Bonds and in connection therewith delegates to each of
the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the independent authority to make any
determination delegable pursuant to Section 11-57-205(1)(a-i), Colorado Revised Statutes, to
accept and sign the Bond Purchase Agreement, to make determinations in relation to the 2013A
Bonds, and to execute a sale certificate (the “Sale Certificate”) setting forth such determinations,
without any requirement that the Board approve such determinations, subject to the following
parameters and restrictions: (a) the Series 2013A Bonds shall mature no later than the final
maturity of the Refunded Bonds; (b) the aggregate principal amount of the 2013A Bonds shall
not exceed the aggregate principal amount of the Refunded Bonds; (c) the net effective interest
rate of the 2013A Bonds shall be less than the net effective interest rate of the Refunded Bonds;
(d) the purchase price of the 2013A Bonds shall not be less than 100%; and (e) the present value
savings of the Refunding Project shall not be less than 3.00%. The General Manager or Chief
Financial Officer may also determine whether the 2013A Bonds will be issued with
supplemental “B” interest registered coupons and whether the 2013A Bonds will be issued as
capital appreciation bonds which do not bear current interest.
Pursuant to Section 11-57-205 of the Supplemental Act, the Board hereby
delegates to each of the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer the authority to
determine the Underwriters for the 2013A Bonds and to sign a contract for the purchase of the
2013A Bonds or to accept a binding bid for the Bonds and to execute any agreement or
agreements in connection therewith, including the execution of the Bond Purchase Agreement.

-5Packet Pg. 70

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

The delegation set forth in this Section 4 shall be effective for one year following
the date hereof.
Section 5.
Approval of Documents.
The Indenture, the Continuing
Disclosure Agreement, the Bond Purchase Agreement and the Escrow Agreement in
substantially the forms thereof presented to the Board and filed with the District, are in all
respects approved, authorized and confirmed, but such documents may be completed, corrected
or revised as deemed necessary by the parties thereto in order to carry out the purposes of this
Resolution and as the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer shall approve, the
execution thereof being deemed conclusive approval of any such changes by the District. The
Chair of the Board (the “Chair”) is hereby authorized and directed to execute and deliver the
Indenture, the Continuing Disclosure Agreement and the Escrow Agreement for and on behalf of
the District. The Bond Purchase Agreement and the Sale Certificate shall be executed by either
the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer as authorized pursuant to Section 4 hereof.
Section 6.
Approval of Official Statement. The Official Statement, in
substantially the form of the Preliminary Official Statement, is in all respects approved,
authorized and confirmed, but with such amendments, additions and deletions as are in
accordance with the facts and not inconsistent herewith, and the Chair is hereby authorized and
directed to affix her signature to the Official Statement for and on behalf of the District. The
distribution by the Underwriters of the Preliminary Official Statement and the Official Statement
for the 2013A Bonds to interested persons in connection with the sale of the 2013A Bonds is
hereby ratified, approved and confirmed. The execution of a final Official Statement by the
Chair shall be conclusively deemed to evidence the approval of the form and contents thereof by
the District.
Section 7.
Approval of Form of 2013A Bonds. The form, terms and
provisions of the 2013A Bonds, in the form contained in the Indenture and upon the terms to be
set forth in the Sale Certificate, are hereby approved, with such changes therein as are approved
by the General Manager or the Chief Financial Officer; and the manual or facsimile signature of
the Chair is hereby authorized and directed to be placed on the 2013A Bonds, the seal of the
District, or a facsimile thereof, is hereby authorized and directed to be affixed to the 2013A
Bonds, and the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed to attest the 2013A Bonds, in
accordance with the Indenture.
Section 8.
Authorization to Execute Collateral Documents. The Secretary or
Assistant Secretary authorized to act on behalf of the Secretary is hereby authorized and directed
to attest all signatures and acts of any official of the District in connection with the matters
authorized by this Resolution and to place the seal of the District on any document authorized
and approved by this Resolution. The Chair, the Secretary, the General Manager, the Chief
Financial Officer and other officials of the District are hereby authorized and directed to execute
and deliver for and on behalf of the District any and all additional certificates, documents and
other papers, and to perform all other acts that they may deem necessary or appropriate in order
to implement and carry out the transactions and other matters authorized by this Resolution. The
approval hereby given to the various documents referred to above includes an approval of such
additional details therein as may be necessary and appropriate for their completion, deletions
therefrom and additions thereto as may be approved by the General Manager or the Chief
-6Packet Pg. 71

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

Financial Officer prior to the execution of the documents. The execution of any instrument by
the appropriate officers of the District herein authorized shall be conclusive evidence of the
approval by the District of such instrument in accordance with the terms hereof.
Section 9.
No Recourse against Officers and Agents. Pursuant to Section 1157-209 of the Supplemental Act, if a member of the Board, or any officer or agent of the District
acts in good faith, no civil recourse shall be available against such member, officer, or agent for
payment of the principal, interest or prior redemption premiums on the 2013A Bonds. Such
recourse shall not be available either directly or indirectly through the Board or the District, or
otherwise, whether by virtue of any constitution, statute, rule of law, enforcement of penalty, or
otherwise. By the acceptance of the 2013A Bonds and as a part of the consideration of their sale
or purchase, any person purchasing or selling such 2013A Bonds specifically waives any such
recourse.
Section 10.
Resolution Irrepealable. After the 2013A Bonds are issued, this
Resolution shall be and remain irrepealable, and may not be amended except in accordance with
the Indenture, until the 2013A Bonds and the interest thereon shall have been fully paid,
canceled and discharged in accordance with the Indenture.
Section 11.
Repealer. All bylaws, orders and resolutions of the District, or
parts thereof, inconsistent with this Resolution or with any of the documents hereby approved,
are hereby repealed only to the extent of such inconsistency. This repealer shall not be construed
as reviving any bylaw, order or resolution of the District, or part thereof.
Section 12.
Severability. If any section, paragraph, clause or provision of this
Resolution or the documents hereby authorized and approved shall for any reason be held to be
invalid or unenforceable, the invalidity or unenforceability of such section, paragraph, clause or
provision shall not affect any of the remaining provisions of this Resolution or such documents.
Section 13.
Effective Date. This Resolution shall be in full force and effect
upon its passage and adoption.
PASSED, ADOPTED AND APPROVED this February 19, 2013.
REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT

Chair of the Board of Directors
(SEAL)
Attest:

Secretary

-7Packet Pg. 72

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

I, the Secretary of the Board of Directors (the “Board”) of the Regional
Transportation District, in the City and County of Broomfield, City and County of Denver and
the Counties of Adams, Arapahoe, Boulder, Douglas, Jefferson and Weld in the State of
Colorado (the “District”), do hereby certify:
1.
The foregoing pages are a true and correct copy of a resolution (the
“Resolution”) passed and adopted by the Board at a meeting thereof held on February 19, 2013.
2.
The Resolution was duly moved and seconded and the Resolution was
adopted at the meeting of February 19, 2013, by an affirmative vote of a majority of the Board as
follows:
Name
Lorraine Anderson, Chair
Kent Bagley
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Claudia Folska
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater
Judy Lubow
Natalie Menten
Angie Rivera-Malpiede
Paul Daniel Solano

Yes

No

Abstain

Absent

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker
3.
The members of the Board were present at such meeting constituting a
quorum and voted on the passage of the Resolution as set forth above.
4.
The Resolution was approved and authenticated by the signature of the
Chair of the Board, sealed with the District seal, attested by the Secretary and recorded in the
minutes of the Board.
5.
There are no bylaws, rules or regulations of the Board which might
prohibit the adoption of the Resolution.
6.
Notice of the meeting of February 19, 2013 in the form attached hereto as
Exhibit A was posted at 1600 Blake Street within the District, at least twenty-four hours prior to
the meeting in accordance with law.

-8Packet Pg. 73

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

(SEAL)
Secretary

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

WITNESS my hand and the seal of the District this ___ day of February, 2013.

-9-

Packet Pg. 74

(Attach copy of notice given prior to the February 19, 2013 meeting)

Attachment: RTD Resolution - 2013A FasTrack Refunding Bonds (1499 : Series 2013 Refunding Bonds of Series 2006A FasTracks)

2.B.3.a

EXHIBIT A

PUBFIN/1498590.4

Packet Pg. 75

2.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Bus, Ticket Vending Machine, and Other 2013
Financing Update - No Backup

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 76

2.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Fourth Quarter 2012 Investment Report

INFORMATION
Please find the District’s investment report for the fourth quarter of 2012 attached.
The U.S. economy contracted modestly (0.1 percent) during the fourth quarter of 2012. The
unemployment rate declined modestly over the period but still remains elevated and general inflationary
pressures remain tame.
In order to promote economic recovery, the Federal Reserve chose to continue with its accommodative
monetary policy and leave the federal funds target rate range (0.0% - 0.25%) unchanged during the
fourth quarter noting that this level will continue to “be appropriate at least as long as unemployment
remains above 6.5% and inflation expectations continue to be well anchored”.
The District’s Investment Policy (the “Policy”) is conservative in nature and seeks to satisfy the three
primary objectives of: safety, liquidity and yield, in that order of importance.
The Policy specifies that:
“Quarterly reports shall outline the District’s total investment return and compare the portfolio’s
performance to a publicly available index of securities having similar quality and duration characteristics
to the portfolio or sub-portfolio being measured. For the liquidity tier of the portfolio (cash and cash
equivalents), the specified index shall be the 3-month U.S. Treasury Bill Index as published by Bank of
America Merrill Lynch for the period being measured. For the enhanced cash portion of the portfolio
(securities maturing between 90 days and 5 years and with a target duration of 1 year), the designated
performance benchmark will be the Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index.”
The total return on the liquidity and enhanced cash tiers of the District’s unrestricted portfolio and
investment benchmarks were as follows:
Liquidity Tier:

3rd Quarter

Y-T-D

RTD cash and cash equivalents:
B of A/Merrill Lynch 3-month U.S. T-Bill Index

0.041%
0.040%

0.137%
0.100%

0.070%
0.064%

0.307%
0.240%

Enhanced Cash Tier:
RTD enhanced cash:
B of A/Merrill Lynch 1-year U.S. Treasury Note Index:

Packet Pg. 77

2.C.2

The yield of the District’s unrestricted portfolio through the fourth quarter of 2012 was 1.2% which
would produce annualized earnings of $4.284 million. The current return for the month of December
was 0.85%.
ATTACHMENTS:


ROI 2011 2012



QT DEC 2012 (PDF)



ROI DEC 2012

(XLSX)
(XLSX)

Prepared by:
Brenden Morgan, Manager, Debt & Investments
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 78

2.C.2.a

PAGE 1

Attachment: ROI 2011 2012 (1501 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Investment Report)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
2012 RETURN ON INVESTMENT REPORT
UNRESTRICTED ONLY (BASE & FASTRACKS)
YEAR-TO-DATE 2011 YIELD, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2012

TOTAL
UNRESTRICTED INVESTMENTS
WEIGHTED AVG BOOK VALUE AND/OR FAIR VALUE:

2011

2012

JANUARY
FEBRUARY
MARCH
APRIL
MAY
JUNE
JULY
AUGUST
SEPTEMBER
OCTOBER
NOVEMBER
DECEMBER

484,742,919
512,756,319
513,874,573
534,521,309
537,462,115
506,566,555
496,865,970
486,671,688
489,259,918
504,126,111
532,590,451
502,328,362

469,199,244
326,288,585
333,630,746
330,981,948
312,652,908
360,345,881
379,299,549
357,156,858
343,700,234
336,616,056
338,154,581
385,488,162

ANNUALIZED WABV AND/OR WAFV

508,365,884

356,429,501

YTD INVESTMENT EARNINGS BASE & FT

8,681,393

*

4,284,220

ANNUAL INVESTMENT EARNINGS

8,681,393

*

4,284,220

2011 YTD YIELD, 2012 YTD YIELD

1.7

*

1.2

Packet Pg. 79

2.C.2.b

QUARTERLY
WEIGHTED AVERAGE
FAIR VALUE
BOOK VALUE

QUARTERLY
EARNINGS
PER G/L

DECEMBER 31, 2012
QUARTER YIELD ON
WEIGHTED AVERAGE

ADJUSTMENT TO
FAIR VALUE

DECEMBER 31, 2012
UNREALIZED TOTAL
RETURN ON
WEIGHTED AVERAGE

RTD Unrestricted Portfolio:
Cash Base Equivalents

153,540,775

63,356

0.041%

RTD BASE
FASTRACKS

20,154,450
179,890,298

95,633
684,192

0.475%
0.380%

(77,383)
(560,749)

0.090%
0.068%

TOTAL BASE AND FASTRACKS

200,044,748

779,826

0.390%

(638,131)

0.070%

December 31, 2012

September 30, 2012

June 30, 2012

0.165%

March 31, 2012

RTD Cash Base Equivalents
ML 3-Month U.S. Treasury Bill index

0.041%
0.040%

0.048%
0.034%

0.048%
0.026%

0.048%
0.011%

Total RTD Base and Fastracks
ML 1-YEAR U.S. Treasury Note Index

0.070%
0.064%

0.137%
0.137%

0.100%
0.039%

0.213%
-0.001%

Packet Pg. 80

Attachment: QT DEC 2012 (1501 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Investment Report)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
QUARTERLY INVESTMENT REPORT
FOR THE QUARTER ENDING DECEMBER 31, 2012

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
UNRESTRICTED INVESTMENT YIELD FOR THE MONTH REPORT: DECEMBER 31, 2012
WEIGHTED AVERAGE
BOOK VALUE
FAIR VALUE
FOR DECEMBER 31, 2012

DECEMBER
EARNINGS

DECEMBER
G/L ON SALES
G/L ON CALLS

ANNUALIZED
EARNINGS

DECEMBER
YIELD

RTD INTERNAL PORTFOLIO

CASH EQUIVALENTS

206,135,472

27,561

325,394

0.16 %

RTD BASE

20,130,016

31,878

0

376,364

1.87 %

FASTRACKS

159,222,674

227,116

(10,025)

2,563,069

1.61 %

TOTAL UNRESTRICTED
(CASH EQUIVALENTS\RTD BASE
& FASTRACKS)

385,488,162

286,554

(10,025)

3,264,827

0.85 %

Packet Pg. 81

Attachment: ROI DEC 2012 (1501 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Investment Report)

2.C.2.c

2.C.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

General Manager Contract Review Summary –
No Backup

Prepared by:
Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 82

2.C.4

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report

Attached are the summary statements of the audits that were completed in the fourth quarter of 2012.
They include:







Smart Card Implementation
Personnel File Review
Employee Expenses
Token and Pass Controls
Attractive Items
Contractor Access Control

We have also included a copy of the current status report showing all open audit items. All previously
reported audits with no open items have been deleted.
If the Committee members have any questions regarding any of the above reports, we would be pleased
to answer them.
ATTACHMENTS:


FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised

(DOCX)

Prepared by:
Bill Holmes, Manager
Kevin Parker, Auditor
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 83

2.C.4.a

BACKGROUND SUMMARY

RTD has elected to implement the Smart Media Technology (SMT) system on its buses and
train platforms using a ‘phased in’ approach. Phase One was recently introduced in January
2013, and concentrates on gathering usage data from ECO, Neighborhood, and College pass
programs.
The system has been built by ACS Transport Solutions, a subsidiary of Xerox. Various testing
and pilot programs were performed by RTD personnel before the system was approved for use.
AUDIT SCOPE

Utilizing a System Development Life Cycle audit approach, our examination has included a
review of the development procedures used to build the system, and testing to ensure the
system would function as desired.

CONCLUSION

Significant challenges were incurred in the installation of Smart Card readers on both RTD
buses and light rail platforms. Project Management worked diligently to ensure readers were
installed and functioning in time for the Phase One roll-out.
Meetings to identify operating risks and offsetting controls have been held in an effort to
minimize the possibility of unforeseen negative situations occurring in the live environment.
These efforts and meetings will continue with an emphasis on ‘what could go wrong’ when the
stored-value capability is rolled out in the 3rd quarter of 2013.
CURRENT STATUS

Internal Audit will continue to be involved with this project and will ensure that mutually agreed
upon corrective action is taken, as needed.

Packet Pg. 84

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
SMART MEDIA TECHNOLOGY PROJECT
2nd INTERIM AUDIT REPORT # 12-12-01

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
HUMAN RESOURCES
PERSONNEL FILE DOCUMENTATION
12-11-01

BACKGROUND SUMMARY

RTD has over 2000 salaried and represented employees. The personnel department maintains
employment information on all these individuals. The District is subject to numerous laws and
regulations regarding fair employment practices. These include all areas of employment such
as hiring, management, discipline and termination. Maintenance of current and accurate
information on all employees is very important and failure, in some cases, could result in
disciplinary action being taken against the RTD.
AUDIT SCOPE

This audit evaluated the documentation of personnel files to ensure that they were complete,
current and accurate. This audit concentrated on general controls over personnel file
documentation. A sample of employee files was reviewed for general documentation controls.

CONCLUSIONS

In general, overall file maintenance was adequate. The majority of files reviewed had all
necessary and required documentations. Files were neat and well organized. Internal Audit
recommended some modifications in procedures that should be instituted to ensure files were
updated and any missing documents were obtained in a timely manner.
CURRENT STATUS

Issues have been addressed by the Human Resources department and we will follow up as a
part of our normal procedures.

Packet Pg. 85

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

2.C.4.a

2.C.4.a

BACKGROUND SUMMARY

RTD policy provides for the reimbursement of reasonable expenses incurred by its employees.
These include all standard business related expenses. These expenses are subject to
significant regulatory controls by the Federal Transit Administration as well as the Internal
Revenue Service. Our records indicated these expenses had not been reviewed internally
since the State of Colorado had performed an audit in 2009.
AUDIT SCOPE

This audit was selected by Internal Audit. We selected a representative sample of all expenses
incurred in 2012 through December 15th. We reviewed the controls around employee expense
reports and noted if they were in compliance with the applicable Management Directive(s) and,
if applicable, FTA regulations.

CONCLUSIONS

While there were occasional documentation issues, we generally found the employees to be
compliant with the RTD’s policies on expense reimbursement. The Board of Directors has
developed its own policies and we found the members to also be in compliance with those
polices. We recommended one addition which will further strengthen controls and management
is current revising the policy statements.
CURRENT STATUS

We will review the policy revision when it is completed. We consider this audit closed.

Packet Pg. 86

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
EMPLOYEE TRAVEL AND BUSINESS EXPENSES
AUDIT REPORT 12-12-02

2.C.4.a

BACKGROUND SUMMARY

RTD offers two distinctly different programs which provide discounted bus and light rail tickets or
passes, and are packaged for delivery to the purchaser:


Over 200 approved Non-Profit organizations purchase discounted ticket supplies for their
clients.



Approximately 90 companies purchase discounted bus and light rail FlexPasses for their
employees on a monthly basis through 360 Media, a third party administrator.

Moving forward, the current plan is to utilize the new Smart Card technology for both Non-Profit
organizations, and companies who order monthly FlexPasses. This enhancement is expected to
be available in late 2013, although the exact processes have not yet been finalized.
AUDIT SCOPE

We reviewed the controls over Pass and Ticket ordering, fulfillment, and customer payment for
both Non-Profits and corporations that RTD contracts with. For corporate passes, we
concentrated on controls surrounding processes for orders that are received via the 360 Media
Company, as they handle all but a small number of current purchases.
CONCLUSION

Based on the results of our testing, the fulfillment processes for Non-Profit tickets, and corporate
FlexPasses, appear accurate. However, the monthly corporate FlexPass process also appears
to be somewhat labor intensive. We understand that the implementation of the Smart Card
system in late 2013 should make the FlexPass fulfillment process more efficient, without
reducing the adequacy of controls.
CURRENT STATUS

We will monitor progress as the Smart Card technology is utilized to reduce the current level of
manual effort and provides a more efficient method of order fulfillment.

Packet Pg. 87

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
2012 TOKEN AND PASS ISSUANCE CONTROLS
AUDIT REPORT # 12-12-03

2.C.4.a

BACKGROUND SUMMARY
The RTD Management Directive for “Accountability for RTD Equipment” requires that “The
responsible department will do a physical inventory of attractive equipment (exception IT
computer equipment) to ensure the completeness and accuracy of the Districts’ records at least
once a year or any time key personnel are reassigned or leave RTD. The IT division will be
responsible for a yearly physical inventory of computer equipment and related items.” RTD
Attractive Equipment is defined as “…. tangible, nonexpendable, non-capitalized equipment that
is considered relatively portable and easily converted to personal use or benefit that had an
original purchase price over $500 …”
AUDIT SCOPE
Our review compared the physical existence of “attractive items” within the Communications
Department to listings maintained in our work paper files, and updated on an annual basis. We
did not examine ‘IT Computer Equipment’ as these lists are tested annually by the IT Division.

CONCLUSION
We noted several listed ‘attractive assets’ which appear quite old and may be obsolete
equipment. Per management, some of these items are no longer used in the day-to-day
operations of RTD. We have suggested that such listed items be identified and disposed of, as
feasible.

CURRENT STATUS

Mutually agreed upon corrective action is underway and will be subject to our normal Audit
follow-up review.

Packet Pg. 88

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
2012 ATTRACTIVE ITEMS INVENTORY
AUDIT REPORT # 12-12-04

2.C.4.a

BACKGROUND

This audit was selected by Internal Audit. RTD has numerous projects being performed by
external individuals as a result of contracting specific services. These include IT experts,
individuals in the Small Business areas, as well as contractors associated with the numerous
construction projects associated with FasTracks. These individuals are reporting to various RTD
personnel throughout the District. As RTD continues the FasTracks construction, the number of
contracted or consulting individuals will increase.

AUDIT SCOPE

We reviewed the procedures and records for maintaining lists of contractor personnel who were
currently authorized to have access to RTD locations. We reviewed the procedures for
electronically identifying and controlling the actual access to RTD facilities. We also
endeavored to obtain or develop a current listing of all appropriate individuals.

CONCLUSIONS

Our inquiries identified several areas within the District which were primarily associated with
utilizing or identifying contract or consulting employees.
These included Information
Technology, Human Resources, Safety and Security, and the FasTracks construction
operations. While many areas maintain lists of the individuals associated with specific projects,
all actual physical access is controlled by the Transit Security Area. We did recommend the
access system be reviewed to identify additional system features to further strengthen access
controls.

CURRENT STATUS

System enhancements are being reviewed. We will follow up in the first quarter of 2013.

Packet Pg. 89

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

REPORT OF THE INTERNAL AUDITOR
CONSULTANT AND CONTRACTOR CONTROLS
AUDIT REPORT 12-12-05

2.C.4.a

Note: The number of the audit denotes when the audit report was written. The first number is
the year; the second number is the month; and the last number is the number of the audit for
that month. Thus, #12-04-03 was written in April 2012 and was the third audit report written that
month.
Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Family and Medical Leave Act
11-04-01
3
2
1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Parts Inventory and Controls
11-06-02
2
1
1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Spreadsheet Usage and Control
12-03-02
1
1
0
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

LT Environmental Contract
12-04-02
2
0
2
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Lockbox Controls
12-04-03
2
1
1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:

Cash Controls – Access-a-Ride/Call-n-Ride
12-08-01
2

Packet Pg. 90

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

December 31, 2012

Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

0
2
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Salary Payroll Change Procedures
12-05-01
1
1
0
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Customer Service/Sales
12-07-01
3
1
2
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Tokens and Pass Issuance Controls
12-10-01
1
0
1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Personnel File Review
12-11-01
2
1
1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

SMART Card Implementation – 2nd Interim Report
12-12-01
1
1
0
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:

Employee Expenses
12-12-02
1
0

Packet Pg. 91

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

2.C.4.a

Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Attractive Items - Communications
12-12-04
1
0
1
0

Audit:
Audit Number:
Number of Original Exceptions:
Number of Exceptions Corrected:
Number of Exceptions Still Open:
Number of Exceptions Past Due:

Contractor Access Control
12-12-05
1
0
1
0

Attachment: FINAL Status Report for FAAC 12-12 (4th Quarter) Revised (1503 : Fourth Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report)

2.C.4.a

Packet Pg. 92

2.C.5

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Terry Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

GM

Date:

February 7, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

December
Report

2012

Monthly

Financial

Status

ATTACHMENTS:


123112 RTD MFS FAC (PDF)

Prepared by:
Doug MacLeod, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 93

2.C.5.a

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To: Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: January 15, 2013

From: Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer
Date: January 8, 2013

Board Meeting Date:
ACTION
DISCUSSION

Subject: December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report

INFO
X

DASHBOARD (in Thousands)

Ridership

Year-to-Date vs. Prior Year-to-Date

Fare Revenue

Sales & Use
Tax

-4.1%

-2.3%

10.2%

(312)

($215)

$4,091

Fare Revenue

Ridership
Ridership

Sales
&&
Use
Tax
Sales
Use
Tax

0.7%

4.0%

8.3%

737

$4,334

$34,607

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

Current Month vs. Prior Year
Month

RIDERSHIP (in Thousands)
Actual vs. Prior Year
Month
Bus
Light Rail
Revenue Service Boardings
Mall Shuttle
Other
Month System-Wide Boardings1

2012 Actual

Variance

% Variance

4,743
1,469
6,212
1,056
89

4,792
1,606
6,398
1,182
89

(49)
(137)
(186)
(126)
0

-1.0%
-8.5%
-2.9%
-10.6%
0.0%

7,357

7,669

(312)

-4.1%

63,640
20,639
84,279
13,680
1,163

61,636
20,694
82,330
14,943
1,112

2,004
(55)
1,949
(1,263)
51

3.3%
-0.3%
2.4%
-8.5%
4.6%

99,122

98,385

737

0.7%

2012 Actual
7,357
99,122

2012 Budget
7,899
101,337

Variance
(542)
(2,215)

% Variance
-6.9%
-2.2%

Year-to-Date
Bus
Light Rail
Revenue Service Boardings
Mall Shuttle
Other
Year-to-Date System-Wide Boardings2
Actual vs. Budget
Month
Year-to-Date

2011 Actual

9.7

9.2

(Millions)

8.7

2012 Budget
2012 Actual

8.2
2011 Actual
7.7

7.2

2012 Actual

2012 Budget

2011 Actual

1

December 2012 had fewer weekdays than December 2011 accounting for 247 of the decrease.

2

2012 had one extra day due to leap year accounting for 99 of the increase.

Packet Pg. 94

2.C.5.a

FARE REVENUE (in Thousands)
Actual vs. Prior Year
Month
Year-to-Date

2012 Actual
$
9,044
112,927

2011 Actual
$
9,259
108,593

Variance
$
(215)
4,334

% Variance
-2.3%
4.0%

Actual vs. Budget
Month
Year-to-Date

2012 Actual
$
9,044
112,927

2012 Budget
$
9,805
116,092

Variance
$
(761)
(3,165)

% Variance
-7.8%
-2.7%

$11.0

$10.5
2012 Budget

$10.0
(Millions)

2012 Actual

$9.5
2011 Actual

$9.0

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

$8.5

$8.0

2012 Actual

2012 Budget

2011 Actual

SALES & USE TAXES (in Thousands)
Actual vs. Prior Year
Month
Year-to-Date

2012 Actual
$
44,242
449,787

2011 Actual
$
40,151
415,180

Variance
$
4,091
34,607

% Variance
10.2%
8.3%

Actual vs. Budget
Month
Year-to-Date

2012 Actual
$
44,242
449,787

2012 Budget
$
41,867
436,521

Variance
$
2,375
13,266

% Variance
5.7%
3.0%

$44.0
$42.0

(Millions)

$40.0

2012 Actual

2012 Budget

$38.0
$36.0
$34.0

2011 Actual

$32.0
$30.0
$28.0

2012 Actual

2012 Budget

2011 Actual

Cost Recovery Ratios
RTD's cost recovery ratio through December 2012, as defined by the Colorado General Assembly exceeded the 30% legal requirement
Expenditures
Total year-to-date operating expenditures were within the planned amounts included in the 2012 Amended Budget.

Reviewed and verified by: ___________________________________________________________
Terry L. Howerter, Chief Financial Officer

Packet Pg. 95

2.C.5.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF POSITION
As of December 31, 2012 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
2012
Base System

2012
FasTracks Project

2012
FasTracks Ops

2012
Combined

December 31, 2011
Combined

Change

ASSETS
Cash & Cash Equivalents
Cash Reserved for Eagle P3 Payment
Receivables:
Sales Taxes
Grants
Other (less allowance for doubtful accts)

$

96,801
-

$

150,349
191,047

$

150
-

$

247,300
191,047

$

258,162
220,347

$

(10,862)
(29,300) (1)

48,142
1,091
473

32,095
122,077
5,534

-

80,237
123,168
6,007

74,360
151,463
16,850

5,877
(28,295)
(10,843)

Total Net Receivables

49,706

159,706

-

209,412

242,673

(33,261)

Inventory
Prepaid Expenses
Restricted Debt Service/Project Funds
Other Assets

30,597
2,927
32,089
5,530

70,330
721,413
2,775

-

30,597
73,257
753,502
8,305

28,049
94,250
356,688
8,305

2,548
(20,993)
396,814 (2)
-

TOTAL CURRENT ASSETS

217,650

1,295,620

150

1,513,420

1,208,474

304,946

Capital Assets:
Land
Land Improvements
Buildings
Revenue Earning Equipment
Shop, Maintenance & Other Equipment
Construction in Progress

175,879
1,270,156
248,159
541,593
101,718
130,039

14,671
83,579
9,350
255,945
1,821
2,360,951

-

190,550
1,353,735
257,509
797,538
103,539
2,490,990

187,985
1,345,825
250,255
748,772
97,390
1,852,168

2,565
7,910
7,254
48,766
6,149
638,822

Total Capital Assets
Accumulated Depreciation

2,467,544
(1,082,695)

2,726,317
(39,598)

-

5,193,861
(1,122,293)

4,482,395
(1,010,261)

711,466
(112,032)

Net Capital Assets

1,384,849

2,686,719

-

4,071,568

3,472,134

599,434

TABOR Reserves
Restricted Debt Service/Debt Service Reserves
Deposits
Other

11,395
28,088
1,500
3,239

6,171
49,925
84,189

-

17,566
78,013
1,500
87,428

16,845
79,729
1,500
88,655

721
(1,716)
(1,227)

TOTAL NONCURRENT ASSETS

1,429,071

2,827,004

-

4,256,075

3,658,863

597,212

NONCURRENT ASSETS:

TOTAL ASSETS

$

1,646,721

$

4,122,624

$

150

$

5,769,495

$

4,867,337

$

902,158

(1) Represents earned value through the current date by DTP to be paid in January 2013
(2) Increase is primarily due to the issuance of the 2012 FasTracks bonds

Packet Pg. 96

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

CURRENT ASSETS:

2.C.5.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
STATEMENT OF POSITION
As of December 31, 2012 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
2012
Base System

2012
FasTracks Project

2012
FasTracks Ops

2012
Combined

December 31, 2011
Combined

Change

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
Accounts & Contracts Payable
Current Portion of Long Term Debt
Accrued Compensation
Accrued Interest Payable
Other

$

TOTAL CURRENT LIABILITIES
NONCURRENT LIABILITIES:
Long Term Debt
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Net Pension Obligation
TOTAL NONCURRENT LIABILITIES
TOTAL LIABILITIES

43,198
38,820
15,849
2,748
25,496

$

270,156
7,755
14,294
8

$

150
-

$

313,504
46,575
15,849
17,042
25,504

$

313,368
54,786
18,279
16,636
30,911

$

136 (3)
(8,211)
(2,430)
406
(5,407)

126,111

292,213

150

418,474

433,980

(15,506)

414,149
47,370

1,962,817
129,030
-

-

2,376,966
129,030
47,370

1,880,819
37,370

496,147
129,030
10,000

461,519

2,091,847

-

2,553,366

1,918,189

635,177

(4)
(5)

$

587,630

$

2,384,060

$

150

$

2,971,840

$

2,352,169

$

619,671

$

931,880
11,702
60,177
10,269
13,200
6,000
25,863

$

716,146
5,716
771,337
86,964
30,000
125,541
2,859
-

$

-

$

1,648,026
17,418
831,514
97,233
30,000
125,541
2,859
13,200
6,000
25,863

$

1,536,529
16,388
436,417
98,460
30,000
359,657
19,867
17,850

$

111,497
1,030
395,097 (6)
(1,227)
(234,116)
(17,008) (7)
13,200 (7)
6,000 (7)
8,013

$

1,059,091

$

1,738,563

$

-

$

2,797,654

$

2,515,168

$

282,486

$

1,646,721
-

$

4,122,624
-

$

150
-

$

5,769,495
-

$

4,867,337
-

$

902,158

NET POSITION
Invested in Capital Assets, Net of Related Debt
TABOR Fund
Debt Reserves/Project Funds
Other Restricted Assets
FasTracks Contingency Fund
FasTracks Construction Fund
Operating Reserve
Board Appropriated Fund
Capital Replacement Fund
Unrestricted Fund Balance
TOTAL NET POSITION
TOTAL LIABILITIES & NET POSITION
(3) Decrease is primarily related to the annual payment due on the Eagle P3 project
(4) Increase is due to issuance of 2012 FasTracks bonds
(5) Includes $35m accrual for East Line aviation improvments and $94m in accrued financing costs for the Eagle P3 Project
(6) Increase is due to funds restricted for FasTracks projects from issuance of 2012 FasTracks bonds
(7) Operating Reserve for Base System was moved to Board Appropriated and Capital Replacement funds in 2012 with the revised Fund Balance Policy

Packet Pg. 97

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

LIABILITIES

2.C.5.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - COMBINED
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
December 31, 2012 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
Combined
Actual 2012
-----------------

Month
Combined
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
Combined
Actual 2012
-----------------

YTD
Combined
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other
Total Operating Revenue

9,044
(140)

9,805
452

(761)
(592)

-7.8%
-131.0%
0.0%

112,927
4,338

116,092
5,425

(3,165)
(1,087)

-2.7%
-20.0%

8,904

10,257

(1,353)

-13.2%

117,265

121,517

(4,252)

-3.5%

20,351
3,319
611
39,577
3,213
650
3,378
1,293
(136)
219
26,171
8,800

22,064
6,068
5,554
54,504
9,849
848
4,314
2,249
431
106
2,410
9,141

1,713
2,749
4,943
14,927
6,636
198
936
956
567
(113)
(23,761)
341

7.8%
45.3%
89.0%
27.4%
67.4%
23.3%
21.7%
42.5%
131.6%
-106.6%
-985.9%
0.0%
3.7%
0.0%

257,692
37,031
2,480
76,015
36,956
8,394
27,433
9,429
3,887
740
29,301
112,582

258,379
41,079
7,670
148,774
50,534
8,838
31,257
11,663
5,109
934
15,841
109,588

687
4,048
5,190
72,759
13,578
444
3,824
2,234
1,222
194
(13,460)
(2,994)

0.3% (1)
9.9% (2)
67.7% (3)
48.9% (4)
26.9% (5)
5.0%
12.2% (6)
19.2% (7)
23.9% (8)
20.8% (9)
-85.0%
0.0%
-2.7%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

107,446

117,538

10,092

8.6%

601,940

689,666

87,726

12.7%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(98,542)

(107,281)

8,739

-8.1%

(484,675)

(568,149)

83,474

14.7%

44,242
4,885
(419)
848
(11,336)

41,867
8,167
274
932
(4,484)

2,375
(3,282)
(693)
(84)
(6,852)

5.7%
-40.2%
-252.9%
-9.0%
0.0%
152.8%
0.0%

449,787
69,314
2,613
10,934
(674)
(64,641)

436,521
79,760
3,292
21,185
(53,803)

13,266
(10,446)
(679)
(10,251)
(674)
(10,838)

3.0%
-13.1%
-20.6%
-48.4% (10)
0.0%
-20.1%
0.0% (11)

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

38,220

46,756

(8,536)

-18.3%

467,333

486,955

(19,622)

-4.0%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

(60,322)

(60,525)

203

-0.3%

(17,342)

(81,194)

63,852

-78.6%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

24,176

48,060

(23,884)

-49.7%

299,832

367,992

(68,160)

-18.5% (12)

(23,681)

190.0%

(4,308)

-1.5%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

(36,146)

$

(12,465)

$

$

282,490

$

286,798

$

(1) The variance is primarily due to wages and vehicle replacement parts
(2) The variance is due to lower West Line activition costs for wages
(3) The variance is primarily due to the DRCOG Front Range Travel Survey and other project costs not yet being incurred
(4) The variance is primarily due to transit improvements not yet being incurred as well as funds budgeted for the Southeast extension and US36 projects not yet incurred
(5) The variance is primarily due to the timing of projects associated with facilities engineering
(6) The variance consists of lower data processing services, computer hardware purchases, recruitment, training, medical exams and the timing of fare media purchases
(7) The variance is due to lower costs for route promotions, SmartCard, general ridership campaign and graphics
(8) The variance is primarily due to the timing of WIN program expenses
(9) The variance is due to accrual reversal for the Fiscal Sustainability Task Force as well as lower travel
(10) The variance is due to a $11m capital contribution to USA for DUS renovations that will occur in December
(11) The variance is due to capitalized interest being different than budget. The interest expense and interest capitalized variances offset each other on a cash basis.
(12) Primarily a timing issue related to project expenditures being incurred in different periods than assumed in the budget

Packet Pg. 98

2.C.5.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - BASE SYSTEM
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
December 31, 2012 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
Base System
Actual 2012
-----------------

Month
Base System
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
Base System
Actual 2012
-----------------

YTD
Base System
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other

8,904

10,257

(1,353)

-7.8%
-131.0%
0.0%
-13.2%

117,265

121,517

(4,252)

-2.7%
-20.0%
-3.5%

20,351
2,802
568
723
3,178
650
3,327
1,211
(136)
219
26,171
(1,194)
7,500

22,064
3,132
5,505
2,705
9,245
848
4,250
1,056
431
106
2,410
(1,194)
7,675

1,713
330
4,937
1,982
6,067
198
923
(155)
567
(113)
(23,761)
175

7.8%
10.5%
89.7%
73.3%
65.6%
23.3%
21.7%
-14.7%
131.6%
-106.6%
-985.9%
0.0%
2.3%
0.0%

257,692
33,549
1,892
5,205
36,212
8,394
26,834
8,955
3,887
740
29,301
(14,325)
94,711

258,379
34,709
7,119
8,426
48,964
8,838
30,489
9,782
5,109
934
15,841
(14,325)
92,048

687
1,160
5,227
3,221
12,752
444
3,655
827
1,222
194
(13,460)
(2,663)

0.3%
3.3%
73.4%
38.2%
26.0%
5.0%
12.0%
8.5%
23.9%
20.8%
-85.0%
0.0%
-2.9%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

65,370

58,233

(7,137)

-12.3%

493,047

506,313

13,266

2.6%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(56,466)

(47,976)

(8,490)

17.7%

(375,782)

(384,796)

9,014

2.3%

26,546
4,797
(41)
113
(1,713)

25,120
8,167
39
196
(1,801)

1,426
(3,370)
(80)
(83)
88

5.7%
-41.3%
-205.1%
-42.3%
0.0%
-4.9%
0.0%

269,873
63,847
830
2,112
(547)
(19,972)

261,913
79,760
468
12,347
(21,608)

7,960
(15,913)
362
(10,235)
(547)
1,636

3.0%
-20.0%
77.4%
-82.9%
0.0%
7.6%
0.0%

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

29,702

31,721

(2,019)

-6.4%

316,143

332,880

(16,737)

-5.0%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

(26,764)

(16,255)

(10,509)

64.7%

(59,639)

(51,916)

(7,723)

-14.9%

616

4,899

(4,283)

-87.4%

16,168

32,660

(16,492)

-50.5%

(14,792)

130.3%

(24,215)

125.8%

Total Operating Revenue
OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation

9,044
(140)

9,805
452

(761)
(592)

112,927
4,338

116,092
5,425

(3,165)
(1,087)

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

Capital Grants and Local Contributions
INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

(26,148)

$

(11,356)

$

$

(43,471)

$

(19,256)

$

Packet Pg. 99

2.C.5.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - FASTRACKS PROJECT
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
December 31, 2012 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
FasTracks Project
Actual 2012
-----------------

Month
FasTracks Project
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
FasTracks Project
Actual 2012
-----------------

YTD
FasTracks Project
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other

$

Total Operating Revenue

-

$

-

$

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

$

-

$

-

$

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

43
38,854
51
67
1,194
1,300

2
49
51,787
58
1,023
1,194
1,466

2
6
12,933
7
956
166

0.0%
100.0%
12.2%
25.0%
0.0%
0.0%
12.1%
93.5%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
11.3%
0.0%

3
588
70,810
599
443
14,325
17,871

28
551
140,336
694
1,411
14,325
17,540

25
(37)
69,526
95
968
(331)

0.0%
89.3%
-6.7%
49.5%
0.0%
0.0%
13.7%
68.6%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
-1.9%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

41,509

55,579

14,070

25.3%

104,639

174,885

70,246

40.2%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(41,509)

(55,579)

14,070

-25.3%

(104,639)

(174,885)

70,246

-40.2%

17,696
88
(378)
735
(9,623)

16,747
235
736
(2,683)

949
88
(613)
(1)
(6,940)

5.7%
0.0%
-260.9%
-0.1%
0.0%
258.7%
0.0%

179,914
5,467
1,783
8,822
(127)
(44,669)

174,608
2,824
8,838
(32,195)

5,306
5,467
(1,041)
(16)
(127)
(12,474)

3.0%
0.0%
-36.9%
-0.2%
0.0%
38.7%
0.0%

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

8,518

15,035

(6,517)

-43.3%

151,190

154,075

(2,885)

-1.9%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

(32,991)

(40,544)

7,553

-18.6%

46,551

(20,810)

67,361

-323.7%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

22,993

39,435

(16,442)

-41.7%

279,410

326,864

(47,454)

-14.5%

(8,889)

801.5%

19,907

6.5%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
FasTracks Service Increase
Depreciation

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

(9,998)

$

(1,109)

$

$

325,961

$

306,054

$

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

Packet Pg. 100

2.C.5.a

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT - FASTRACKS OPERATIONS
STATEMENT OF REVENUE, EXPENSES AND CHANGE IN NET POSITION
December 31, 2012 (In Thousands)
(UNAUDITED)
Month
FasTracks Ops
Actual 2012
-----------------

Month
FasTracks Ops
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

YTD
FasTracks Ops
Actual 2012
-----------------

YTD
FasTracks Ops
Budget 2012
-----------------

Fav/
(Unfav)
-----------------

$

$

$

% Fav/
(Unfav)
-------------

Passenger Fares
Advertising, Rent and Other
Total Operating Revenue

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

517
35
15
-

2,934
12
604
6
170
-

2,417
12
569
6
155
-

0.0%
82.4%
0.0%
100.0%
94.2%
0.0%
100.0%
91.2%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

3,479
744
31
-

6,342
12
1,570
74
470
-

2,863
12
826
74
439
-

0.0%
45.1%
0.0%
100.0%
52.6%
0.0%
100.0%
93.4%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

Total Operating Expenses

567

3,726

3,159

84.8%

4,254

8,468

4,214

49.8%

OPERATING INCOME/(LOSS)

(567)

(3,726)

3,159

-84.8%

(4,254)

(8,468)

4,214

-49.8%

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%
0.0%

Net Nonoperating Revenue (Expense)

-

-

-

0.0%

-

-

-

0.0%

INCOME BEFORE CAPITAL GRANTS

(567)

(3,726)

3,159

-84.8%

(4,254)

(8,468)

4,214

-49.8%

Capital Grants and Local Contributions

567

3,726

(3,159)

-84.8%

4,254

8,468

(4,214)

-49.8%

-

0.0%

-

0.0%

OPERATING EXPENSES
Bus Operations
Rail Operations
Planning
Capital Programs
Safety, Security and Facilities
General Counsel
Finance and Administration
Communications
Executive Office
Board Office
Other Non-Departmental Expenditures
Depreciation

NONOPERATING REVENUE (EXPENSES)
Sales & Use Tax
Operating Grants
Investment Income
Other Income
Gain/(Loss) Capital Assets
Interest Expense

INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN NET POSITION

$

-

$

-

$

$

-

$

-

$

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

OPERATING REVENUE:

Packet Pg. 101

2.C.5.a

January
2011

February
2011

March
2011

April
2011

May
2011

June
2011

July
2011

August
2011

September
2011

October
2011

November
2011

December
2011

Total Year
To Date

Sales Tax Collections
Use Tax Collections
Vendor Allowance
Less Cost of Collections Fee
Plus Interest Earned

$ 26,296,987
3,023,571
897,415
(38,834)
24,747

$ 26,634,063
2,789,259
907,848
(38,834)
20,491

$ 31,005,976
3,456,347
1,058,115
(38,834)
21,365

$ 29,895,947
3,016,443
1,020,234
(38,834)
19,995

$ 30,589,773
2,747,467
1,043,912
(38,834)
19,865

$ 32,292,889
3,699,747
1,102,032
(39,560)
20,600

$ 30,817,692
3,026,591
342,765
(39,560)
26,811

$ 32,650,076
3,258,476
399,387
(39,560)
22,395

$ 31,744,637
3,052,968
388,839
(39,560)
20,294

$ 30,102,312
3,357,443
372,151
(39,560)
23,675

$ 30,934,261
2,919,550
376,534
(39,560)
18,805

$ 35,007,935
4,719,616
441,864
(39,560)
21,331

$ 367,972,548
39,067,479
8,351,096
(471,090)
260,374

Net Sales & Use Tax Received

$ 30,203,887

$ 30,312,827

$ 35,502,969

$ 33,913,785

$ 34,362,183

$ 37,075,709

$ 34,174,300

$ 36,290,774

$ 35,167,178

$ 33,816,021

$ 34,209,590

$ 40,151,186

$ 415,180,408

Favorable/(Unfavorable) to Prior Year

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$ 17,631,195

Actual

2,479,941

3,190,166

2,345,840

2,127,847

(106,006)

1,662,752

2,797,195

2,339,770

865,004

1,277,824

1,094,781

(2,443,917)

Percent of Increase/(Decrease)

8.9%

11.8%

7.1%

6.7%

-0.3%

4.7%

8.9%

6.9%

2.5%

3.9%

3.3%

-5.7%

Percent of Increase Year to Date

8.9%

10.3%

9.1%

8.5%

6.5%

6.2%

6.6%

6.6%

6.1%

5.9%

5.7%

4.4%

The 3.3% Vendor Allowance elimination was reduced from 3.3% through June 2011 to 1.1% beginning in July 2011 and ending in June 2014
The following refunds affected the 2011 vs. 2010 comparison. Excluding both refunds results in a 2011 increase of 4.2% over 2010 rather than 4.5%:
July 2010 includes a prior year refund, to a single vendor, in the amount of $2,635,631
December 2011 includes a refund for the period 2000-2005 of $1,723,115 for taxes paid on computer software

January
2012

February
2012

March
2012

April
2012

May
2012

June
2012

July
2012

August
2012

September
2012

October
2012

November
2012

December
2012

Total Year
To Date

Sales Tax Collections
Use Tax Collections
Vendor Allowance
Less Cost of Collections Fee
Plus Interest Earned

$ 29,967,067
3,166,944
364,430
(39,560)
21,999

$ 29,337,195
3,200,609
357,872
(39,560)
19,635

$ 33,109,532
3,612,354
403,889
(39,560)
22,164

$ 32,850,700
3,577,804
400,665
(39,560)
19,700

$ 33,941,600
3,414,995
415,493
(39,560)
17,671

$ 35,440,481
4,277,167
441,753
(41,009)
15,824

$ 33,626,601
2,914,549
406,423
(41,009)
19,695

$ 34,457,627
3,460,487
421,738
(41,009)
16,666

$ 35,055,538
3,359,396
427,264
(41,009)
17,902

$ 33,775,579
3,166,066
410,878
(41,009)
18,713

$ 32,468,514
3,154,698
396,214
(41,009)
16,454

$ 39,201,688
4,576,358
486,915
(41,009)
18,457

$ 403,232,122
41,881,427
4,933,534
(484,863)
224,881

Net Sales & Use Tax Received

$ 33,480,880

$ 32,875,751

$ 37,108,379

$ 36,809,309

$ 37,750,199

$ 40,134,216

$ 36,926,260

$ 38,315,509

$ 38,819,091

$ 37,330,227

$ 35,994,871

$ 44,242,409

$ 449,787,100

Favorable/(Unfavorable) to Prior Year

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$ 34,606,693

Actual

3,276,993

2,562,924

1,605,410

2,895,524

3,388,016

3,058,507

2,751,961

2,024,736

3,651,913

3,514,206

1,785,281

4,091,223

Percent of Increase/(Decrease)

10.8%

8.5%

4.5%

8.5%

9.9%

8.2%

8.1%

5.6%

10.4%

10.4%

5.2%

10.2%

Percent of Increase Year to Date

10.8%

9.7%

7.8%

8.0%

8.4%

8.3%

8.3%

7.9%

8.2%

8.4%

8.1%

8.3%

January
2012

February
2012

March
2012

April
2012

May
2012

June
2012

July
2012

August
2012

September
2012

October
2012

November
2012

December
2012

Total Year
To Date

Sales Tax Collections
Use Tax Collections
Vendor Allowance
Less Cost of Collections Fee
Plus Interest Earned

$ 29,967,067
3,166,944
364,430
(39,560)
21,999

$ 29,337,195
3,200,609
357,872
(39,560)
19,635

$ 33,109,532
3,612,354
403,889
(39,560)
22,164

$ 32,850,700
3,577,804
400,665
(39,560)
19,700

$ 33,941,600
3,414,995
415,493
(39,560)
17,671

$ 35,440,481
4,277,167
441,753
(41,009)
15,824

$ 33,626,601
2,914,549
406,423
(41,009)
19,695

$ 34,457,627
3,460,487
421,738
(41,009)
16,666

$ 35,055,538
3,359,396
427,264
(41,009)
17,902

$ 33,775,579
3,166,066
410,878
(41,009)
18,713

$ 32,468,514
3,154,698
396,214
(41,009)
16,454

$ 39,201,688
4,576,358
486,915
(41,009)
18,457

$ 403,232,122
41,881,427
4,933,534
(484,863)
224,881

Net Sales & Use Tax Received

$ 33,480,880

$ 32,875,751

$ 37,108,379

$ 36,809,309

$ 37,750,199

$ 40,134,216

$ 36,926,260

$ 38,315,509

$ 38,819,091

$ 37,330,227

$ 35,994,871

$ 44,242,409

$ 449,787,100

Favorable/(Unfavorable) to Prior Year

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$

$ 34,606,693

Actual Plus CU-Leeds Forecast

3,276,993

2,562,924

1,605,410

2,895,524

3,388,016

3,058,507

2,751,961

2,024,736

3,651,913

3,514,206

1,785,281

4,091,223

Percent of Increase/(Decrease)

10.8%

8.5%

4.5%

8.5%

9.9%

8.2%

8.1%

5.6%

10.4%

10.4%

5.2%

10.2%

Percent of Increase Year to Date

10.8%

9.7%

7.8%

8.0%

8.4%

8.3%

8.3%

7.9%

8.2%

8.4%

8.1%

8.3%

Attachment: 123112 RTD MFS FAC (1504 : December 2012 Monthly Financial Status Report)

REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT
SYSTEM 1% SALES & USE TAX INCLUDING VENDOR ALLOWANCE
FISCAL YEARS 2011 AND 2012

Packet Pg. 102

3.B.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 7, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

April 2013 Service Changes

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors approve
the April 2013 Service Change package as revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an
annualized cost increase of approximately $53,200 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his
designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted
by these changes.
DISCUSSION
With the completion of construction of the West Light Rail Line and Board adoption of the West Corridor
Service Plan, significant changes in bus and light service are slated to begin April 28, 2013. Attachment
C of this report is a copy of the Board Report containing the West Corridor Service Plan as adopted by
the Board of Directors on October 23, 2012.
Additional routine service changes not associated with or included in the West Corridor Service Plan are
necessary to maintain system on-time performance and provide the appropriate level of service
according to customer demand. For this year we will continue to focus on adjusting services in response
to the January 2012 service revisions and changes in ridership and operational performance.
The proposed April 2013 Service Changes contained herein reflect the continued budgetary challenges
faced by RTD. The guiding principles for service changes continue to be:
•
Service performance evaluation based on the RTD Service Standards
•
The effects on the overall integrity of the transit network and on transit dependent markets
•
The availability of alternative services to affected riders
•
Cost-effective distribution throughout the District and Family of Services
•
Title VI of the Civil Rights Act: benefits and services are provided without regard to race, color or
national origin
•
Response to changes in the communities where services are provided
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS
Given the limited nature of the proposed service changes, the E-Alert system was employed to alert
customers of schedule changes to affected services. A summary of customer comments from the
Service Change website is contained in Attachment B of this report.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Staff receives input during the public comment process and continues to conduct additional analysis
after the initial service recommendations are proposed to the Board of Directors. Depending on the
outcome of the public comment process and continued analysis, staff may or may not propose
modifications to these initial recommendations. The following represent changes proposed to the service
changes initially proposed to the Board of Directors for implementation as part of January 2013 service
changes:

Packet Pg. 103

3.B.1

Route 45 – Montbello/Green Valley Ranch: minor schedule adjustments
Route 72X – Ward Road Express: minor schedule adjustments
Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz: minor schedule adjustments
Route 133 – Hampden/Tower: minor schedule adjustments
SUMMARY OF PROPOSED SERVICE CHANGES
Routine Service Adjustments
205/225 – split the interline to establish correct recovery amount
SKIP – adjust PM peak and evening schedule
Discontinue seasonal school trips or deviations on the following routes:
Route 1W – West 1st Avenue
Route 6 – East 6th Avenue
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue
Route 16 – West Colfax
Route 24 – University Blvd
Route 30 – Federal Boulevard
Route 30 Limited – South Federal Limited
Route 31 – Federal Crosstown
Route 43 – MLK Boulevard/Green Valley Ranch
Route 51 – Sheridan Crosstown
Route 52 – West 52nd/South Bannock
Route 65 – Monaco Parkway
Route 66 – Arapahoe Road
Route 73 – Quebec Street
Route 76 – Wadsworth Crosstown
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown
Route 153 – Chambers Road
Route 206 – Pearl/Eisenhower
SKIP, JUMP, BOUND, DASH – to Summer service levels
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The annualized cost impact of the April 2013 Service Change proposal is estimated to $53,200.
ATTACHMENTS:


Attachment A (PDF)



Attachment B (PDF)



Attachment C (PDF)

Prepared by:
Jessie Carter, Manager, Service Planning and Scheduling
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 104

3.B.1

Packet Pg. 105

3.B.1.a

Attachment A
BUS SERVICE
Route 45 – Montbello/Green Valley Ranch Minor schedule adjustments to address on-time
performance issues around Tower and Salida. No cost impact anticipated.
Route 72X – Ward Road Express Minor schedule adjustments, aimed at morning peak
period on-time performance. No cost impact anticipated.
Schedule adjustments in the Stapleton area. No cost

Route 133 – Hampden/Tower Schedule adjustments to the early a.m. trips arriving Nine
Mile Station . No cost impact anticipated
Route 205 – 225 is proposed to discontinue the current interline between these two
routes on Saturdays, to increase the recovery time and overall service reliability on the
route services. This will result in an increase cost of an additional Saturday vehicle and
annualized cost of $26,000.
Route SKIP - Broadway Minor adjustments to the PM peak and evening schedule to
improve on-time performance. Anticipated cost impact is estimated at an annualized
$27,200.

Attachment: Attachment A (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route 89 – Stapleton/Anschutz
impact anticipated

Packet Pg. 106

3.B.1.b

Route

Support

Opposed

121
W‐Line

1

16L
204

1

52
51
6X

Inquiry

Last Name

Additional Comments

1

Hofmeister

Requesting better connection to
Lt Rail
Upset ‐ longer commute time
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Request better connections
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Opposed to closing of station

Phillips

1

Disbrow
Eber

1
1

Arael
Bahr

1

Keith

51

1

Carlson

30L

1

Caulderon

29th/Welton

1

17

1

225
100X
225
21

1
1
1
1

28

1

29th/Welton
38

1
1

6X

1

87X

1

52
89
89
89

1
1
1
1

89
89
Route

Jones

1
1
Support

Opposed

Inquiry

Hartzell

Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Spangler
Opposed to cut backs in service
Harris
W‐Line causing longer commute
Mann
Opposed to cut backs in service
Buntrock
Opposed to cut backs when W‐
Line opens
O'Hara
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
McKereghan Opposed to closing of station
Leino
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Gunter
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Copeland
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
McEwen
Concerned with cuts in service
when W‐Line opens
Jones
Opposed to routing down 29th
Sloan
Opposed to routing down 29th
Antisdel
Would like better routing to
Children's Hospital
Larson
Opposed to routing down 29th
Schweppe
Opposed to routing down 29th
Last Name

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Attachment B
February 05, 2013

Summary of Public Comments

Additional Comments

Packet Pg. 107

3.B.1.b

Attachment B
February 05, 2013

Total

1
1

Peiffer
Georgeson
Lynn
Choate
Crane
Sims
Oleary
McKereghan
Mack
Campbell
Stamps

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

6
21
Total Emails

Opposed to routing down 29th
Opposed to routing down 29th
Loves new route
Loves new route
Would like stop at Children's
Opposed to closing of station
Opposed to closing of station
Opposed to closing of station
Opposed to closing of station
Pleased ‐ schedule doing better
Pleased ‐ schedule doing better

10
37

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

89
89
89
89
89
29th/Welton
29th/Welton
29th/Welton
29th/Welton
29th/Welton
29th/Welton

Packet Pg. 108

3.B.1.b

Attachment C
January 5, 2013

To:

Phillip Washington, General Manager

Date: October 11, 2012

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations

GM

Date:

October 11, 2012

Board Meeting Date: October 23,
2012

Subject:

West Corridor Service Plan – April 2013

ACTION X

DISCUSSION

INFO

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the West Corridor Service Plan package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the Board policy on service changes, service plans for the implementation of
the West Light Rail Line and connecting transit network are included herein. The primary
objectives of this plan are to:
 provide the appropriate level of service to the West Line Light Rail stations
 provide reliable and convenient transit service from within the residential,
commercial and governmental areas surrounding the West Line
 establish convenient connections between Call-n-Ride, bus and rail service to
accommodate passenger travel patterns throughout the day.
 Establish new W-Line light rail service within the corridor.
DISCUSSION
The West Line light rail service is slated to begin April 28, 2013. While diverse
suggestions for service changes routinely are offered and considered, a formal public input
process for the West Corridor began with the Environmental Impact Study in 2002-2003.
This included discussions with the public that determined which stations would be
equipped with bus gates, how many would be provided, etc. It also introduced the
concept of replacing “line haul” bus service with light rail service and using buses for local
access.

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT

The Preliminary West Corridor Service Plan was updated and taken to local governments
and stakeholders in mid/late 2011 and was also available for anyone to review on RTD’s
Website. E-mail contacts were also made with local governments, including supplying
them with links to the preliminary draft plan. Revisions were made with the information
gleaned from these sources and the Draft Plan was brought to the RTD Board in February

Packet Pg. 109

3.B.1.b

Attachment A details the West Line service plan and Attachment B contains the public
meeting summaries.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Eight public meetings were held between April 16th-28th in order to obtain comments on
the proposed service plan for the West Corridor, including the West Rail Line (W-Line) and
bus and call-n-Ride services. 201 public participants offered their views or attended to ask
questions. Information from the hearings and additional field work was then taken into
account where resources permit and the plan was modified.
Based on input received during the public comment process and additional analysis
conducted, the non-highlighted changes were recommended to the Board of Directors in
July 2012. The Board requested additional changes to the plan and a summary these are
highlighted in yellow below. The details of these changes are presented in Attachment A:
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue: is proposed to operate as the existing Route 9 between
Sakura Square and the Lakewood-Wadsworth Station
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: routing west of Wadsworth would be retained
Route 21 – Evans Crosstown: routing change in the Federal Center
Route 26 – West 26th Avenue : new fixed route service connecting Applewood Village to
Wadsworth Station
Route 28 – 28th Avenue: rerouted to serve Lakewood/Wadsworth Station
Route 30Ltd – South Federal Limited: routing change west of Wadsworth
Route 32 – West 32nd Avenue/City Park: is proposed to continue on its current route and
schedule
Route 36Ltd – Fort Logan Limited: schedule changes to coordinate with Route 30Ltd
Route 49 – North Lowell: proposed new route was deleted from the proposal
Route 50 – Lakes Crosstown: replaces the Route 49 proposal providing a connection to
the West Line at Sheridan Station
Route 51 – Sheridan Crosstown: coordinated with the Route 50
Route76 – Wadsworth Crosstown: proposed service increase between Hampden
/Wadsworth and Old Town Arvada park-n-Rides.
Route 76Ltd – Wadsworth Limited: proposed new route was deleted from proposal
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown: new alignment and additional school tripper service 100W
Route 116Ltd – South Simms Limited: changes to proposed routing

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

2012 for review and permission to proceed to public meetings for the West Corridor
service. The public meetings were held in April 2012 and further revisions were made to
the draft plan. Staff also met in this period with City of Wheat Ridge staff members to
determine adjustments in that city’s service, met with City and County of Denver staff
members and related agencies in the Denver Livability Partnership, corresponded in detail
with an interested Edgewater council member, met with Jefferson County Local
Coordinating Committee and JeffTAAG (Jefferson County Transportation Action and
Advocacy Group). Throughout this period, suggestions and questions from the general
public continued to be received. Briefings with the RTD Board also continued during this
period (May 2012 and June 2012) and adjustments to the Draft plan continued to be
made during this period.

Packet Pg. 110

3.B.1.b

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The annual change in cost of for the base system budget due to the West Line Service
Plan was intended to be revenue neutral. The changes listed herein represent a 1.27%
increase in annual service hours over current West Corridor service or an estimated
$371,000 annual. The Golden Call-n-Ride will be funded under a CMAQ grant from 2013
to 2016, thereby reducing the operational cost impact by $ 263,000 during the grant
funded period, the resultant net cost impact to the base system will be $108,000
annually. The annual cost for the West Line Light Rail service will be sourced from the
FasTracks budget.

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route AF – Downtown Denver / Denver International Airport: early morning trips added
between Federal Center via Downtown Denver when W-Line not in service
Applewood call-n-Ride: proposal canceled, replaced by continuation of Routes 20 and 32
and new route 26
Golden call-n-Ride: scheduled times for Jefferson County social services facilities added
Wide Acres call-n-Ride: proposal deleted
C Line: additional service to start from Evans Station rather than 10th & Osage Station
W Line: peak hour frequency every 7.5 minutes to Federal Center Station and every 15
minutes to Golden

Packet Pg. 111

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
Page 4

Route
Number

oue
R
t
Nu mb re
1
3
9
11
14
16
1 6 tL d
17
20
21
28
29

Rou
t e D e sc rip t io n
We ts 1 s A
t vn
eue
Aa
l me a
d Av n
eue
We ts 1 0 h
t Av n
eue
Mi s si s p
i p
i Av n
eue
We ts F o
l r d
i a
We ts C o fl a
x
We ts C o fl a
xLm
i i te d
e
J f c
o
2 t0 h A e
v nu
e
Ea
v ns C
r o s to wn

8
9

Ba e
s

PM

6
6

6
10

7
12

3
8

6
7

2
8

7
6

6
9
5
9

n
I ‐S re v ic e
Hu
or s
88
99
50
121
34
129

7
6

9
6

77
72

13
12

6
8

12
13

108
123

12
2

6
2

3
5

In ‐ S
er v
ic e
H o u sr
42
71

V e h ic le s
3
5

2
7

20
82

2
4

17
0
12

1
7

5
4
7

42

5

In ‐S e rv ic e
Hu
or s
31
66
17
36
7
98
38
46
38

In ‐S re v ic e
Hu
or s
2 6 ,4 2 2
3 2 ,7 6 5
1 4 ,7 7 6
3 7 ,2 0 7
9 ,9 8 3
4 3 ,8 8 3
2 4 ,0 0 4
1 8 ,3 6 0
3 2 ,7 5 6
3 7 ,5 7 3

35
10

2 7 ,4 7 8
6 ,1 1 5

7

47

156
61

10
1

0
19
12

8
1

96
11

5 1 ,0 1 6
1 6 ,8 1 7

14
25

1

14

1

14

3 t8 h A e
v nu
e
4 t4 h A e
v ne
u
Sh
e ir d a
n C r o s to wn
Wa d w
s or h
t C ro s st o wn
Kp
i il n
g C r so s to wn
Ak
l ri /e F C
SExp
r se s
FC
SExp
r se s
FC
S /I ‐2 5 & B r a
o d wa y E
x p re s s
So
u th

Wa sd wo rt h E
x p re s s

So
u th
So
u th

i p
K
l n
i gEx
pr e
ss
i mms E
S
x p re s s

9
16
8
8
7
1
3
2
2
1
3

0
5

6
9

11
14

100
152

9
8

9
10

112
125

4
0
0
0
0
0
0

7
3
1
2
2
3
4

57
7

6
5
6
7

38
10

4
3
3
2

94
13

13
11

0
0

So
u th
So
u th

3
2

49
77

9
2

1
4

0
5

100
2X
5X
6X

100X
116X

92
20

2
7

7
0

12
8

38
44
51
76

87X

9
2

Ve h
i lc
es

9
4

Fe
dea
r l C
r o s to wn
We ts 3 2 d
n A
veu
neC
/ ti y P ra k
Fo
r t L
oga
n
r t L
oga
nL m
i i te d
Fo

30
3 0 tL d

2 t8 h A e
v nu
e
Rv
i re b e
nd

AM

ede
F
r al
ede
F
r aL
l m
i i te d

31
32
36
3 6 tL d

75
65
65
80

3

28

6

60

2 6 ,4 1 4
3 ,3 1 5

5
4

65
59

6
5

0
0

6
7

23
23

6
7

0
4

4
7

28
73

5 ,1 2 3
6 ,3 7 5

47
38

3 4 ,6 5 3
3 8 ,2 6 7

61

7 ,1 4 0
2 5 ,2 7 3

1 5 ,9 9 1
1 ,7 8 5

West 1st Avenue
Alameda Avenue
West 10th Avenue
Mississippi Avenue
West Florida
West Colfax
West Colfax Limited
Jeffco
20th Avenue
Evans Crosstown
28th Avenue
Riverbend
South Federal
South Federal Limited
Federal Crosstown
West 32nd Avenue/City Park
Fort Logan
Fort Logan Limited
38th Avenue
44th Avenue
Sheridan Crosstown
Wadsworth Crosstown
Kipling Crosstown
Alkire/FCS Express
FCS Express
FCS/I‐25 & Broadway Express
South Wadsworth Express
South Kipling Express
South Simms Express
Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
Evergreen/Aspen Park/Denver
Golden/Boulder
FCS/Downtown/DIA
Total

Vehicles
AM
8
9
7
12
6
7
7
6
13
12
12
2
9
4
12
8
0
5
9
16
8
8
7
1
3
2
2
1
3
6
5
6
7
223

Base
6
6
3
8
2
8
7
6
6
8
6
2
7
0
11
4
0
0
6
9
9
8
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
130

PM
6
10
6
9
5
9
9
6
12
13
9
2
9
2
13
11
0
5
11
14
9
10
7
3
1
2
2
3
4
6
7
4
7
226

In‐Service
Hours
88
99
50
121
34
129
77
72
108
123
92
20
94
13
156
61
14
25
100
152
112
125
57
7
5
6
4
8
12
23
23
28
73
2,110

Sunday

Annual

Vehicles

In‐Service
Hours

In‐Service
Hours

42
71
20
82
17
102
42

3
5
2
4
1
7
5

31
66
17
36
7
98
38

4
7
3
2
7

49
77
38
10
47

4
3
3
2

46
38
35
10

10
1
1

109
12
14

8
1
1

96
11
14

6
5
6
7
3

75
65
65
80
28

5
4
5
4

65
59
47
38

6
99

60
1,105

6
73

61
814

26,422
32,765
14,776
37,207
9,983
43,883
24,004
18,360
32,756
37,573
27,478
6,115
26,414
3,315
51,016
16,817
5,123
6,375
33,170
45,562
34,653
38,267
15,991
1,785
1,275
1,479
1,020
1,951
3,060
5,886
5,891
7,140
25,273
642,784

Vehicles

In‐Service
Hours

3
5
2
7
2
7
5

1 ,2 7 5
1 ,4 7 9

4

Pn
i e Ju n c
t o
i n /C o n fie r D
/ ev
ner
/ ev
ner
Ev
eg
r r e n /A s e
p n P ra k D
Go d
l e
n/ B
oud
l er
FC
S /D o wn to wn /D I A

3 3 ,1 7 0
4 5 ,5 6 2

5
4

6

5
6

1 ,0 2 0

8
12

C V /C S /C X
E V /E S /E X
GS
AF

Route Description

1 ,9 5 1
3 ,0 6 0
5 ,8 8 6
5 ,8 9 1

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

3.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 112

1
3
9
11
14
16
16Ltd
17
20
21
28
29
30
30Ltd
31
32
36
36Ltd
38
44
51
76
100
2X
5X
6X
87X
100X
116X
CV/CS/CX
EV/ES/EX
GS
AF

Existing Services Resource Requirements ‐ Aug 2012
Weekday
Saturday

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
Page 5

Route
Number
1
3
9
11
14
16
16Ltd
17
20
21
28
29
30
30Ltd
31
32
36
36Ltd
38
44
50
51
76

Proposed Services Resource Requirements ‐ Annual
Weekday
Saturday
Route Description

Vehicles

Total One‐
Way Trips

In‐Service
Hours

Sunday

In‐Service
Hours

Vehicles
Vehicles
AM Base PM
8
6
6
71
88
3
36
42
3
9
6
10
94
99
5
68
71
5
4
4
4
62
59
2
23
20
2
12
8
9
71
121
7
54
82
4
3
3
3
54
28
2
47
17
1
10
10
11
168
150
10
164
122
10
Discontinued replaced by W‐Line and additional Service on Route 16
1
1
1
56
14
13
6
12
94
108
4
64
49
4
11
7
12
90
111
7
62
77
3
12
6
9
74
87
3
31
38
3
2
2
2
53
20
2
31
10
2
7
5
7
123
74
5
67
40
3
0
3
12
11
11
11
13
138
155
10
111
109
8
8
4
11
66
61
1
26
12
1
0
0
0
29
14
1
31
14
1
5
0
5
25
25
9
6
11
84
100
6
71
75
5
16
9
13
85
152
4
40
62
4
4
4
4
56
60
8
9
9
70
117
6
67
79
5
8
8
10
84
125
7
74
94
4
4
0
4
28
28
7
6
7
60
79
4
22
28
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 116L,, Rte KC, & Green Mountain call‐n‐Ride Flex Route
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line & Rte KC
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 76, & Rte 30L
2
0
2
10
9
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 100L, & Rte KC
2
0
3
12
11
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 116L, & Rte KC
4
3
4
54
57
4
44
44
4
6
0
6
20
24 <<< CS calls at Federal Center Station
5
0
7
19
23 <<< ES calls at Federal Center Station
6
0
4
22
27 <<< GS calls at Federal Center Station
2
0
2
6
6 <<< KC calls at Federal Center Station
2
1
2
42
21
1
26
13
1
2
1
2
21
2
1
2
24
1
15
4
1
4
34

West 1st Avenue
Alameda Crosstown
West 10th Avenue
Mississippi Avenue
West Florida
West Colfax
West Colfax Limited
Red Rocks CC
20th Avenue
Evans Crosstown
28th Avenue
Riverbend
South Federal
South Federal Limited
Federal Crosstown
West 32nd Avenue/City Park
Fort Logan
Fort Logan Limited
38th Avenue
44th Avenue
Lakes Crosstown
Sheridan Crosstown
Wadworth Crosstown
Wa ds worth: Ha mpden‐Ol de Town (new)

100
2X
5X
6X
87X
100Ltd
100X
116Ltd
116X
AF
CV/CS/CX
EV/ES/EX
GS
KC
26
BWCR
GDCR
GMCR

Total One‐
Way Trips

Kipling Crosstown
Alkire/Federal Center Express
Federal Center Express
FederalCenter/I‐25 & Bdwy Express
South Wadsworth Express
South Kipling Limited (new)
South Kipling Express
South Simms Limited (new)
South Simms Express
DBC/MSS/DUS/40th/DIA
Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
Evergreen/Aspen Park/Denver
Golden/Boulder
Ken Caryl/FCS/Denver (new)
West 26th Ave (new)
Belmar call‐n‐Ride (new)
Golden call‐n‐Ride (new)
Green Mountain call‐n‐Ride (new)

212

128

214

1,932

2,143

95

1,159

1,113

In‐Service
Hours

28
64
20
27
20
164

31
66
17
36
7
118

63
30
31
31

46
38
35
10

118
26
31

96
11
14

70
37

65
59

49
42

47
52

70

Attachment: Attachment B (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Total One‐Way
In‐Service Hours
Trips
21,601
31,218
18,166
22,479
17,374
60,880

18,610
5,100
4,845
5,610
1,530
13,570
0
0
0

26,422
32,765
17,071
37,207
8,453
51,438
0
3,570
32,756
34,513
26,191
6,200
20,950
2,805
50,761
16,817
5,110
6,375
33,170
45,406
15,300
36,669
39,779
7,140
21,491
0
0
0
0
2,295
0
2,805
0
19,375
6,120
5,891
6,885
1,530
6,785
5,355
6,993
8,670

606,346

651,062

14,280
30,952
27,914
22,280
16,925
34,849
3,060
47,806
19,690
10,805
6,375
29,172
25,901
14,280
24,176
27,704
7,140
16,444

2,550
3,060
44

44

26

13

921

805

3.B.1.b

Packet Pg. 113

Total

Annual

Total One‐
Way Trips

3.B.1.c

Attachment C

To:

Phillip Washington, General Manager

Date: October 11, 2012

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager
of Bus Operations

GM

Date:

October 11, 2012

Board Meeting Date: October 23,
2012

Subject:

West Corridor Service Plan – April 2013

ACTION X

DISCUSSION

INFO

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the West Corridor Service Plan package as revised and summarized in
Attachment A and, further, to authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
contract amendments as necessary for private operators whose service is impacted by
these changes.
BACKGROUND
Pursuant to the Board policy on service changes, service plans for the implementation of
the West Light Rail Line and connecting transit network are included herein. The primary
objectives of this plan are to:
 provide the appropriate level of service to the West Line Light Rail stations
 provide reliable and convenient transit service from within the residential,
commercial and governmental areas surrounding the West Line
 establish convenient connections between Call-n-Ride, bus and rail service to
accommodate passenger travel patterns throughout the day.
 Establish new W-Line light rail service within the corridor.
DISCUSSION
The West Line light rail service is slated to begin April 28, 2013. While diverse
suggestions for service changes routinely are offered and considered, a formal public input
process for the West Corridor began with the Environmental Impact Study in 2002-2003.
This included discussions with the public that determined which stations would be
equipped with bus gates, how many would be provided, etc. It also introduced the
concept of replacing “line haul” bus service with light rail service and using buses for local
access.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT

The Preliminary West Corridor Service Plan was updated and taken to local governments
and stakeholders in mid/late 2011 and was also available for anyone to review on RTD’s
Website. E-mail contacts were also made with local governments, including supplying
them with links to the preliminary draft plan. Revisions were made with the information
gleaned from these sources and the Draft Plan was brought to the RTD Board in February

Packet Pg. 114

3.B.1.c

Attachment A details the West Line service plan and Attachment B contains the public
meeting summaries.
CHANGES TO INITIAL RECOMMENDATIONS
Eight public meetings were held between April 16th-28th in order to obtain comments on
the proposed service plan for the West Corridor, including the West Rail Line (W-Line) and
bus and call-n-Ride services. 201 public participants offered their views or attended to ask
questions. Information from the hearings and additional field work was then taken into
account where resources permit and the plan was modified.
Based on input received during the public comment process and additional analysis
conducted, the non-highlighted changes were recommended to the Board of Directors in
July 2012. The Board requested additional changes to the plan and a summary these are
highlighted in yellow below. The details of these changes are presented in Attachment A:
Route 9 – West 10th Avenue: is proposed to operate as the existing Route 9 between
Sakura Square and the Lakewood-Wadsworth Station
Route 20 – 20th Avenue: routing west of Wadsworth would be retained
Route 21 – Evans Crosstown: routing change in the Federal Center
Route 26 – West 26th Avenue : new fixed route service connecting Applewood Village to
Wadsworth Station
Route 28 – 28th Avenue: rerouted to serve Lakewood/Wadsworth Station
Route 30Ltd – South Federal Limited: routing change west of Wadsworth
Route 32 – West 32nd Avenue/City Park: is proposed to continue on its current route and
schedule
Route 36Ltd – Fort Logan Limited: schedule changes to coordinate with Route 30Ltd
Route 49 – North Lowell: proposed new route was deleted from the proposal
Route 50 – Lakes Crosstown: replaces the Route 49 proposal providing a connection to
the West Line at Sheridan Station
Route 51 – Sheridan Crosstown: coordinated with the Route 50
Route76 – Wadsworth Crosstown: proposed service increase between Hampden
/Wadsworth and Old Town Arvada park-n-Rides.
Route 76Ltd – Wadsworth Limited: proposed new route was deleted from proposal
Route 100 – Kipling Crosstown: new alignment and additional school tripper service 100W
Route 116Ltd – South Simms Limited: changes to proposed routing

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

2012 for review and permission to proceed to public meetings for the West Corridor
service. The public meetings were held in April 2012 and further revisions were made to
the draft plan. Staff also met in this period with City of Wheat Ridge staff members to
determine adjustments in that city’s service, met with City and County of Denver staff
members and related agencies in the Denver Livability Partnership, corresponded in detail
with an interested Edgewater council member, met with Jefferson County Local
Coordinating Committee and JeffTAAG (Jefferson County Transportation Action and
Advocacy Group). Throughout this period, suggestions and questions from the general
public continued to be received. Briefings with the RTD Board also continued during this
period (May 2012 and June 2012) and adjustments to the Draft plan continued to be
made during this period.

Packet Pg. 115

3.B.1.c

FINANCIAL IMPACT
The annual change in cost of for the base system budget due to the West Line Service
Plan was intended to be revenue neutral. The changes listed herein represent a 1.27%
increase in annual service hours over current West Corridor service or an estimated
$371,000 annual. The Golden Call-n-Ride will be funded under a CMAQ grant from 2013
to 2016, thereby reducing the operational cost impact by $ 263,000 during the grant
funded period, the resultant net cost impact to the base system will be $108,000
annually. The annual cost for the West Line Light Rail service will be sourced from the
FasTracks budget.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route AF – Downtown Denver / Denver International Airport: early morning trips added
between Federal Center via Downtown Denver when W-Line not in service
Applewood call-n-Ride: proposal canceled, replaced by continuation of Routes 20 and 32
and new route 26
Golden call-n-Ride: scheduled times for Jefferson County social services facilities added
Wide Acres call-n-Ride: proposal deleted
C Line: additional service to start from Evans Station rather than 10th & Osage Station
W Line: peak hour frequency every 7.5 minutes to Federal Center Station and every 15
minutes to Golden

Packet Pg. 116

Attachment A
October 11, 2012

Route
Number

oue
R
t
Nu mb re
1
3
9
11
14
16
1 6 tL d
17
20
21
28
29

Rou
t e D e sc rip t io n
We ts 1 s A
t vn
eue
Aa
l me a
d Av n
eue
We ts 1 0 h
t Av n
eue
Mi s si s p
i p
i Av n
eue
We ts F o
l r d
i a
We ts C o fl a
x
We ts C o fl a
xLm
i i te d
e
J f c
o
2 t0 h A e
v nu
e
Ea
v ns C
r o s to wn

8
9

Ba e
s

PM

6
6

6
10

7
12

3
8

6
7

2
8

7
6

6
9
5
9

n
I ‐S re v ic e
Hu
or s
88
99
50
121
34
129

7
6

9
6

77
72

13
12

6
8

12
13

108
123

12
2

6
2

3
5

In ‐ S
er v
ic e
H o u sr
42
71

V e h ic le s
3
5

2
7

20
82

2
4

17
0
12

1
7

5
4
7

42

5

In ‐S e rv ic e
Hu
or s
31
66
17
36
7
98
38
46
38

In ‐S re v ic e
Hu
or s
2 6 ,4 2 2
3 2 ,7 6 5
1 4 ,7 7 6
3 7 ,2 0 7
9 ,9 8 3
4 3 ,8 8 3
2 4 ,0 0 4
1 8 ,3 6 0
3 2 ,7 5 6
3 7 ,5 7 3

35
10

2 7 ,4 7 8
6 ,1 1 5

7

47

156
61

10
1

0
19
12

8
1

96
11

5 1 ,0 1 6
1 6 ,8 1 7

14
25

1

14

1

14

3 t8 h A e
v nu
e
4 t4 h A e
v ne
u
Sh
e ir d a
n C r o s to wn
Wa d w
s or h
t C ro s st o wn
Kp
i il n
g C r so s to wn
Ak
l ri /e F C
SExp
r se s
FC
SExp
r se s
FC
S /I ‐2 5 & B r a
o d wa y E
x p re s s
So
u th

Wa sd wo rt h E
x p re s s

So
u th
So
u th

i p
K
l n
i gEx
pr e
ss
i mms E
S
x p re s s

9
16
8
8
7
1
3
2
2
1
3

0
5

6
9

11
14

100
152

9
8

9
10

112
125

4
0
0
0
0
0
0

7
3
1
2
2
3
4

57
7

6
5
6
7

38
10

4
3
3
2

94
13

13
11

0
0

So
u th
So
u th

3
2

49
77

9
2

1
4

0
5

100
2X
5X
6X

100X
116X

92
20

2
7

7
0

12
8

38
44
51
76

87X

9
2

Ve h
i lc
es

9
4

Fe
dea
r l C
r o s to wn
We ts 3 2 d
n A
veu
neC
/ ti y P ra k
Fo
r t L
oga
n
r t L
oga
nL m
i i te d
Fo

30
3 0 tL d

2 t8 h A e
v nu
e
Rv
i re b e
nd

AM

ede
F
r al
ede
F
r aL
l m
i i te d

31
32
36
3 6 tL d

75
65
65
80

3

28

6

60

2 6 ,4 1 4
3 ,3 1 5

5
4

65
59

6
5

0
0

6
7

23
23

6
7

0
4

4
7

28
73

5 ,1 2 3
6 ,3 7 5

47
38

3 4 ,6 5 3
3 8 ,2 6 7

61

7 ,1 4 0
2 5 ,2 7 3

1 5 ,9 9 1
1 ,7 8 5

West 1st Avenue
Alameda Avenue
West 10th Avenue
Mississippi Avenue
West Florida
West Colfax
West Colfax Limited
Jeffco
20th Avenue
Evans Crosstown
28th Avenue
Riverbend
South Federal
South Federal Limited
Federal Crosstown
West 32nd Avenue/City Park
Fort Logan
Fort Logan Limited
38th Avenue
44th Avenue
Sheridan Crosstown
Wadsworth Crosstown
Kipling Crosstown
Alkire/FCS Express
FCS Express
FCS/I‐25 & Broadway Express
South Wadsworth Express
South Kipling Express
South Simms Express
Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
Evergreen/Aspen Park/Denver
Golden/Boulder
FCS/Downtown/DIA
Total

Vehicles
AM
8
9
7
12
6
7
7
6
13
12
12
2
9
4
12
8
0
5
9
16
8
8
7
1
3
2
2
1
3
6
5
6
7
223

Base
6
6
3
8
2
8
7
6
6
8
6
2
7
0
11
4
0
0
6
9
9
8
4
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
0
4
130

PM
6
10
6
9
5
9
9
6
12
13
9
2
9
2
13
11
0
5
11
14
9
10
7
3
1
2
2
3
4
6
7
4
7
226

In‐Service
Hours
88
99
50
121
34
129
77
72
108
123
92
20
94
13
156
61
14
25
100
152
112
125
57
7
5
6
4
8
12
23
23
28
73
2,110

Sunday

Annual

Vehicles

In‐Service
Hours

In‐Service
Hours

42
71
20
82
17
102
42

3
5
2
4
1
7
5

31
66
17
36
7
98
38

4
7
3
2
7

49
77
38
10
47

4
3
3
2

46
38
35
10

10
1
1

109
12
14

8
1
1

96
11
14

6
5
6
7
3

75
65
65
80
28

5
4
5
4

65
59
47
38

6
99

60
1,105

6
73

61
814

26,422
32,765
14,776
37,207
9,983
43,883
24,004
18,360
32,756
37,573
27,478
6,115
26,414
3,315
51,016
16,817
5,123
6,375
33,170
45,562
34,653
38,267
15,991
1,785
1,275
1,479
1,020
1,951
3,060
5,886
5,891
7,140
25,273
642,784

Vehicles

In‐Service
Hours

3
5
2
7
2
7
5

1 ,2 7 5
1 ,4 7 9

4

Pn
i e Ju n c
t o
i n /C o n fie r D
/ ev
ner
/ ev
ner
Ev
eg
r r e n /A s e
p n P ra k D
Go d
l e
n/ B
oud
l er
FC
S /D o wn to wn /D I A

3 3 ,1 7 0
4 5 ,5 6 2

5
4

6

5
6

1 ,0 2 0

8
12

C V /C S /C X
E V /E S /E X
GS
AF

Route Description

1 ,9 5 1
3 ,0 6 0
5 ,8 8 6
5 ,8 9 1

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

3.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 117

1
3
9
11
14
16
16Ltd
17
20
21
28
29
30
30Ltd
31
32
36
36Ltd
38
44
51
76
100
2X
5X
6X
87X
100X
116X
CV/CS/CX
EV/ES/EX
GS
AF

Existing Services Resource Requirements ‐ Aug 2012
Weekday
Saturday

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
Route
Number
1
3
9
11
14
16
16Ltd
17
20
21
28
29
30
30Ltd
31
32
36
36Ltd
38
44
50
51
76

Proposed Services Resource Requirements ‐ Annual
Weekday
Saturday
Route Description

Vehicles

Total One‐
Way Trips

In‐Service
Hours

Sunday

In‐Service
Hours

Vehicles
Vehicles
AM Base PM
8
6
6
71
88
3
36
42
3
9
6
10
94
99
5
68
71
5
4
4
4
62
59
2
23
20
2
12
8
9
71
121
7
54
82
4
3
3
3
54
28
2
47
17
1
10
10
11
168
150
10
164
122
10
Discontinued replaced by W‐Line and additional Service on Route 16
1
1
1
56
14
13
6
12
94
108
4
64
49
4
11
7
12
90
111
7
62
77
3
12
6
9
74
87
3
31
38
3
2
2
2
53
20
2
31
10
2
7
5
7
123
74
5
67
40
3
0
3
12
11
11
11
13
138
155
10
111
109
8
8
4
11
66
61
1
26
12
1
0
0
0
29
14
1
31
14
1
5
0
5
25
25
9
6
11
84
100
6
71
75
5
16
9
13
85
152
4
40
62
4
4
4
4
56
60
8
9
9
70
117
6
67
79
5
8
8
10
84
125
7
74
94
4
4
0
4
28
28
7
6
7
60
79
4
22
28
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 116L,, Rte KC, & Green Mountain call‐n‐Ride Flex Route
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line & Rte KC
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 76, & Rte 30L
2
0
2
10
9
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 100L, & Rte KC
2
0
3
12
11
Discontinued; replaced by W‐Line, Rte 116L, & Rte KC
4
3
4
54
57
4
44
44
4
6
0
6
20
24 <<< CS calls at Federal Center Station
5
0
7
19
23 <<< ES calls at Federal Center Station
6
0
4
22
27 <<< GS calls at Federal Center Station
2
0
2
6
6 <<< KC calls at Federal Center Station
2
1
2
42
21
1
26
13
1
2
1
2
21
2
1
2
24
1
15
4
1
4
34

West 1st Avenue
Alameda Crosstown
West 10th Avenue
Mississippi Avenue
West Florida
West Colfax
West Colfax Limited
Red Rocks CC
20th Avenue
Evans Crosstown
28th Avenue
Riverbend
South Federal
South Federal Limited
Federal Crosstown
West 32nd Avenue/City Park
Fort Logan
Fort Logan Limited
38th Avenue
44th Avenue
Lakes Crosstown
Sheridan Crosstown
Wadworth Crosstown
Wa ds worth: Ha mpden‐Ol de Town (new)

100
2X
5X
6X
87X
100Ltd
100X
116Ltd
116X
AF
CV/CS/CX
EV/ES/EX
GS
KC
26
BWCR
GDCR
GMCR

Total One‐
Way Trips

Kipling Crosstown
Alkire/Federal Center Express
Federal Center Express
FederalCenter/I‐25 & Bdwy Express
South Wadsworth Express
South Kipling Limited (new)
South Kipling Express
South Simms Limited (new)
South Simms Express
DBC/MSS/DUS/40th/DIA
Pine Junction/Conifer/Denver
Evergreen/Aspen Park/Denver
Golden/Boulder
Ken Caryl/FCS/Denver (new)
West 26th Ave (new)
Belmar call‐n‐Ride (new)
Golden call‐n‐Ride (new)
Green Mountain call‐n‐Ride (new)
Total

212

128

214

1,932

2,143

95

1,159

1,113

Annual

Total One‐
Way Trips

In‐Service
Hours

28
64
20
27
20
164

31
66
17
36
7
118

63
30
31
31

46
38
35
10

118
26
31

96
11
14

70
37

65
59

49
42

47
52

70

21,601
31,218
18,166
22,479
17,374
60,880

18,610
5,100
4,845
5,610
1,530
13,570
0
0
0

26,422
32,765
17,071
37,207
8,453
51,438
0
3,570
32,756
34,513
26,191
6,200
20,950
2,805
50,761
16,817
5,110
6,375
33,170
45,406
15,300
36,669
39,779
7,140
21,491
0
0
0
0
2,295
0
2,805
0
19,375
6,120
5,891
6,885
1,530
6,785
5,355
6,993
8,670

606,346

651,062

14,280
30,952
27,914
22,280
16,925
34,849
3,060
47,806
19,690
10,805
6,375
29,172
25,901
14,280
24,176
27,704
7,140
16,444

2,550
3,060
44

44

26

13

921

805

3.B.1.c

Packet Pg. 118

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Total One‐Way
In‐Service Hours
Trips

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012

West Rail Line Service Levels

15 min
15 min
30 min

15 min
15 min
30 min

W‐Line Opening Day Resource Requirements
From

To

Jeffco

DUS

Day Type
Weekday
Saturday
Sunday
Total

Annual Revenue
Car Miles Train Hours Car Hours
1,978,000
45,512 127,434
205,000
6,258
12,516
229,000
6,980
13,961
2,412,000
58,750 153,911

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

(Denver Union Station to Federal Center)
Weekday
Weekend
Peak
7½ min Peak
Base
15 min Base
Late Evening/Early AM 30 min Late Evening/Early AM
(Federal Center to JeffCo)
Weekday
Weekend
Peak
15 min Peak
Base
15 min Base
Late Evening/Early AM 30 min Late Evening/Early AM

Packet Pg. 119

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
BUS SERVICE
Route 1 – West First Avenue is proposed to connect with the West Line at Knox Station.
It would no longer pass through the Colfax & Federal Transfer Center. No other alignment
changes are proposed.

Route 3 – Alameda Crosstown is proposed to connect with the West Line at Federal
Center Station. The Green Mountain branch would be deleted, with those trips rerouted to
the Federal Center Station. The Green Mountain call-n-Ride is proposed to provide
alternative service.
Route 5X – Federal Center Express is proposed to be discontinued and replaced by
additional Regional trips (Route CS and new Route KC) between Civic Center Station and
Federal Center Station.
Route 6X – Federal Center/I-25 & Broadway Express is proposed to be discontinued and
replaced by all-day connections at Auraria West Station between the West Line and the
C/E-Lines.
Route 9 – West Tenth Avenue is proposed to operate over the existing Route 9 streets
between Sakura Square and the Lakewood-Wadsworth Station.
Service west of
Wadsworth is proposed to be offered by the West Line stations and the Belmar call-n-Ride.
Existing service levels would be retained, with midday service improved to operate every
30 minutes; service would be interlined with Route 28 at Lakewood-Wadsworth Station.
Route 11 – Mississippi Avenue has no changes proposed, but would obtain better transfer
connections on Sheridan and Wadsworth Boulevards. Minor schedule adjustments may be
needed.
Route 14 – West Florida is proposed to be discontinued west of Wadsworth Boulevard, to
be replaced by segments of Route 21, the Belmar call-n-Ride and the Green Mountain calln-Ride. On weekdays, trips would be extended to Lakewood Commons via Wadsworth
Boulevard, Ohio Avenue, Vance Street and Virginia Avenue, serving Belmar.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route 2X – Alkire/Federal Center Express is proposed to be discontinued and replaced by
additional Regional trips (Route CS and new Route KC) between Civic Center Station and
Federal Center Station and by Route 116Ltd and call-n-Ride service west of Union
Boulevard.

Route 16 – West Colfax is proposed to be strengthened as the main Local line in the West
Corridor by extending alternate trips from Oak Station to Golden and rerouting all trips to
run via the Decatur-Federal Station and Denver Human Services. Trips on Simms Street to
the Federal Center Station are proposed to be replaced by the Route GS and parallel Route
100 and the West Line.
Route 16Ltd – West Colfax Limited is proposed to be discontinued and replaced by the
West Line and Route 16.

Packet Pg. 120

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
Route 17 – Red Rocks Community College is proposed to operate between Federal Center
Station and the college every 30 minutes between 6:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m. Alternate
trips are to be extended to 4th/Gladiola. Other parts of the current Route 17 are proposed
to be covered by the Belmar call-n-Ride, Golden call-n-Ride and the West Line.

Route 21 – Evans Crosstown is proposed to be realigned west of Kipling Parkway to
operate on a shorter route into the Federal Center Station. From Union Boulevard, buses
would continue to Wright Street, then Green Mountain Boulevard, Alameda Parkway and
onto the existing alignment via Van Gordon Street and West 2nd Place. Route 21 would
continue to serve Green Mountain High School and the Lakewood Veterans Administration
out-patient clinic. Portions west of Kipling would be covered by the Green Mountain calln-Ride. Service at night, on weekends and holidays would continue to terminate at
Pierson Street as at present.
Proposed Route 26 – West 26th Avenue Flex-Route would operate between Applewood
Shopping Center and Lakewood-Wadsworth Station during weekday hours from 5 a.m. till
8 p.m. and on weekends/holidays from 7 a.m. till 8 p.m., operating via Youngfield Street,
West 27th/26th Avenues and Wadsworth Boulevard. Weekday peak service would operate
every 30 minutes and extend to Belmar/Lakewood Commons, while hourly service would
be provided at all other times.
Route 28 – 28th Avenue is proposed to be realigned to turn south on Wadsworth
Boulevard to terminate at Lakewood/Wadsworth Station. Alternate peak period trips
would turn back via West 29th Avenue and Teller Street, holding weekday service on the
Wadsworth extension to every 30 minutes and weekend/holiday service to every 60
minutes. Portions west of Wadsworth Boulevard would be served by the new Route 26.
Night trips would continue to turn back at Sheridan Boulevard.
Route 29 – Riverbend will have minor schedule adjustments.
Route 30 – South Federal is proposed to terminate at the Colfax & Federal Transfer facility
from the south, reaching it via Decatur/Federal Station. Service levels would be the same
as at present.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route 20 – 20th Avenue continue to NREL/Denver West on alternate weekday trips as at
present. Service at night and on weekends would continue to terminate from the east at
Federal Boulevard.

Route 30Ltd – South Federal Limited will have minor schedule adjustments. It is proposed
to continue its Downtown Denver routing, except that it would be shifted from Stout
Street to Welton Street inbound. West of Wadsworth, it would operate via Dartmouth
Avenue and Estes Street, serving stops presently covered by Route 87X.
Route 31 – Federal Crosstown is proposed to bypass the Colfax & Federal Transfer and
connect with the West Line at Decatur/Federal Station. Service levels would be the same
as at present.

Packet Pg. 121

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
Route 32 – West 32nd Avenue/City Park is proposed to continue on its current route and
schedule
Route 36 – Fort Logan will have minor schedule adjustments.
Route 36Ltd – Fort Logan Limited will have schedule adjustments to coordinate it with
related service on Route 30Ltd. It is proposed to continue its Downtown Denver routing.
Route 38 – 38th Avenue may have minor schedule adjustments.

Proposed Route 50 – Lakes Crosstown would connect with the West Line at Sheridan
Station. Service would operate between Bear Valley and Old Town Arvada, via Sheridan
Boulevard, West 44th Avenue, Lakeside, Harlan Street, West 48th Avenue, Marshall Street,
West 52nd Avenue, Vance Street, Wadsworth Boulevard, and into Olde Town Arvada Parkn-Ride for transfer connections. It would operate weekdays every 30 minutes between 6
a.m. and 7 p.m., coordinated with Route 51 schedules to equal a 15-minute frequency on
the common portions through Denver, Lakewood, Edgewater, Mountain View and
Lakeside.
Route 51 – Sheridan Crosstown would connect with the West Line at Sheridan Station.
Service between Lakeside and Bear Valley is proposed to be coordinated with Route 50.
Hourly late evening service on weeknights and Saturday nights is proposed to be extended
to cover train connections from the first trains at Sheridan Station after 12:30 a.m.
76 – Wadsworth Crosstown would connect with the West Line at Lakewood/Wadsworth
Station. In addition to the increased service on Wadsworth Boulevard resulting from
revisions to Routes 14 and 28 peak service between Wadsworth/Hampden Park-n-Ride
and Old Town Arvada is proposed to be increased to provide 15-minute headways. It is
proposed to extend the hourly evening service seven nights a week to cover train
connections from the first trains at Lakewood/Wadsworth Station after 12:30 a.m.
Route 87X – South Wadsworth Express is proposed to be discontinued and replaced by
improved Route 76 service, as well as segments to be covered by Routes 20, 28 and
30Ltd.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route 44 – 44th Avenue may have minor schedule adjustments.

100 – Kipling Crosstown is proposed to connect with the West Line at Federal Center
Station and at Oak Station. It would travel the existing alignment north of Colfax Avenue
and south of Mississippi Avenue. The central portion of the route is proposed to be
realigned to continue from Mississippi Avenue via Garrison Street to Alameda Avenue,
Routt Street, looping through the Federal Center Station, West 4th Avenue, Union
Boulevard, West 8th Avenue, looping through Oak Station, and back to the current route
on Kipling. Other changes proposed are to run the same route on Saturdays via the Ridge
Road campus as on weekdays, providing 30-minute frequencies through the day on
weekdays, and providing hourly service on weeknight evenings during typical shopping
hours with the last trip in each direction departing Federal Center Station after 10 p.m.

Packet Pg. 122

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012

Proposed Route 100Ltd – South Kipling Limited is proposed to replace Route 100X. It
would make the same stops between Ken Caryl Park-n-Ride and Alameda Avenue, then
run via Routt Street into Federal Center Station. In addition to trips similar to the existing
service, “reverse peak” trips southbound in the morning and northbound in the afternoon
would be added. The revised route would connect with Regional buses and the West Line
for Jefferson County points and Downtown Denver at Federal Center Station.
Route 100X – South Kipling Express is proposed to be discontinued and replaced by Route
100Ltd.
Proposed Route 116Ltd – South Simms Limited is proposed to replace Route 116X north
of Ken Caryl Park-n-Ride. It would start at the Park-n-Ride, making local stops via Ken
Caryl Avenue, Simms Street, Quincy Avenue, C-470, then make limited stops over the
current Route 2X alignment via Morrison Road, Indiana Street, Yale Avenue, Bear Creek
Boulevard, Alameda Parkway, and Union Boulevard into Federal Center Station. Trips
similar to the existing service would connect with Regional buses and the West Line for
Jefferson County points and Downtown Denver at Federal Center Station.
Route 116X – South Simms Express is proposed to be discontinued and replaced by Route
116Ltd and Route KC.
Route AF – Downtown Denver / Denver International Airport is a proposed restructuring of
the current Route AF. The route would begin at the Denver Bus Center at 19th/Curtis
Streets, continuing via Market Street Station, Union Station (temporarily at Chestnut
Place/17th Street), 20th Street, I-25, I-70 to the existing route through the 40th Avenue &
Airport Boulevard Park-n-Ride. In 2014, it would be relocated into the underground Union
Station bus concourse and the stop at Market Street Station would be closed. Customers
from the Federal Center Station and other West Line points would make connections at
Union Station. Customers from the 30th & Downing Station would ride Route 43 to
connect with Route AS at Stapleton, which ridership figures indicate is the preferred,
lower fare route today. A weekday trip from the Federal Center Station via Downtown
Denver will be provided during early morning hours when trains are not running.
Comparable train service will be offered on weekends and holidays.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

A school tripper, identified as Route 100W, would serve Lakewood High School and
commuters southbound from Westminster Center park-n-Ride in the morning to Federal
Center Station via Kipling Street, West 6th Avenue Service Road, Parfet, West 8th Avenue
and then on the regular route. A return trip would be provided over the reverse route after
school. The school would also be served by the Belmar call-n-Ride.

Route CV/CS/CX – Pine Junction / Conifer / Denver are proposed to continue as currently
aligned, with minor schedule adjustments for access to the new Pine Junction Park-n-Ride
and for Route CS connections with the West Line at Federal Center Station. It is proposed

Packet Pg. 123

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
to re-introduce a later evening peak trip to Pine Junction, departing Civic Center Station at
6:12 p.m. and from Federal Center Station at 6:37 p.m.
Route EV/ES/EX – Evergreen / Aspen Park / Denver are proposed to continue as currently
aligned, with minor schedule adjustments for Route ES connections with the West Line at
Federal Center Station.

Proposed Route KC – Ken Caryl / Federal Center Station / Denver is a proposed new
Regional service replacing Route 116X in the portion of that route east of the Ken Caryl
Park-n-Ride. Buses would run from the current loop west of C-470, then call at the Ken
Caryl Park-n-Ride, then travel via C-470, I-70 and US6 to make connections with the West
Line at Federal Center Station. They would continue via US6 on the current Route 116X
alignment and express stops into Civic Center Station. Regional fares would apply for
travel through the Federal Center Station. Passengers originating or terminating on Route
KC at Federal Center Station would pay the Express (LRT 3-zone) fare. Draft schedules
call for beginning with three trips arriving Civic Center Station at approximately 6:30, 7:10
and 7:50 a.m. and departing from there at 4:10, 4:50 and 5:30 p.m.
CALL-N-RIDE SERVICE
Services would operate on weekdays between 5:30 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., with additional
hours or days in special situations indicated below.
Belmar call-n-Ride is proposed to be based at Lakewood/Wadsworth Station, serving the
area between West 13th Avenue, Kipling Parkway, Morrison Road and Wadsworth
Boulevard, including the Belmar Shopping Center. Services would operate on weekdays
between 5:30 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., with additional hours or days in special situations
indicated below.
Golden call-n-Ride is proposed to be based at Jeffco Government Center/Golden Station,
serving most areas within Golden west of a line drawn along Johnson Road, West 10th
Avenue, and Ulysses Street. Services would operate on weekdays between 5:30 a.m. and
8:00 p.m., with additional hours or days in special situations indicated below. Through
additional Federal and local funding obtained by the City of Golden, it is proposed to
operate this call-n-Ride six days a week, with extended hours on Saturday nights.
Scheduled times would be posted for Jefferson County Social Services facilities.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route GS – Golden / Boulder is proposed to continue as currently aligned, with minor
schedule adjustments for connections with the West Line at Federal Center Station.

Green Mountain call-n-Ride is proposed to be based at Federal Center Station, serving
areas roughly defined by Union Boulevard, Cedar Drive, Green Mountain Park, Alameda
Parkway, Indiana Street, Morrison Road, and Kipling Parkway. It would enter the Denver
Federal Center for passengers ending or beginning their trips in that facility. Services
would operate on weekdays between 5:30 a.m. and 8:00 p.m., with additional hours or
days in special situations indicated below.
LIGHT RAIL

Packet Pg. 124

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012
C-Line is planned to have additional early morning service northbound from Evans Station
to Union Station seven days a week.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

W-Line is planned to serve the West and Central Platte Valley lines of the RTD’s expanding
Light Rail network. The span of service from the first to the last train of each day will be
similar to current service on the Southwest and Southeast lines. Basic service will be
provided every 15 minutes, seven days a week. Additional peak period trains will be
provided to offer a 7½-minute frequency between Union Station and Federal Center
Station. The standard late evening and early morning 30-minute frequency will be
scheduled, along with a post 2:00 a.m. train on Saturday, Sunday and holiday mornings.

Packet Pg. 125

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

3.B.1.c

Attachment A
October 11, 2012

Packet Pg. 126

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

3.B.1.c

Attachment C
October 11, 2012

Packet Pg. 127

3.B.1.c

Attachment C
October 11, 2012
SUMMARY OF PUBLIC HEARINGS

Individuals expressed support for retaining a one-seat ride on Local Route 9 from the area
of the Garrison Station to the Market Street Station vicinity, criticized the alignment of the
Light Rail line at Union Station, suppoRouted the alignment of the Light Rail line at Union
Station and asked neutral questions about changes proposed for Route AF. Six RTD staff
members attended the meeting and answered numerous questions afterward.
Clements Community Center - Lakewood
Wednesday, April 18, 2012
The 52 members of the public who attended the Lakewood meeting represented diverse
interests. Common concerns were the proposed loss of direct bus service into Downtown
on Routes 20, 28, 32 in the area to be covered by the Applewood call-n-Ride and
expected inadequacies in the call-n-Ride services for that area and replacing Route 17 for
the Jefferson County Human Services complex. Division Director Lynnae Flora of the
Jefferson County Department of Human Services stated that the call-n-Ride will be
inadequate to access their campus. Two customers also spoke in favor of retaining Route
100X as a one-seat ride to Civic Center Station.
Individuals covered a number of issues: Discontinuance of Route 9 between Wadsworth
and Federal was opposed due to the poor sidewalks leading to light rail stations, with a
circulator route for those neighborhoods proposed as an alternative; objections to the slow
speed of the 16th Street Mall Ride; concern about possible travel times on the proposed
Route AF. Non-service issues raised included a suggestion that an intense safety program
be adopted along the line. One speaker objected to call-n-Ride vans operating in the
vicinity of Garrison Station as a betrayal of RTD’s commitment not to operate bus service
on Garrison Street. RTD Director Matt Cohen heard the testimony, along with six RTD
staff members.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Jeffco Government Center
Monday, April 16, 2012
The goal of retaining a one-seat ride on Routes 100X and 116X drew the most interest
from the 26 members of the public attending the Golden meeting. Participants felt that
the proposed alternatives were too slow and worried that adding a Regional Route KC
from the Ken Caryl area would divide ridership up, rather than attracting customers. Two
speakers, including Tim Young (Jefferson County Human Services Manager for Child
Services), expressed concern about the proposed Golden call-n-Ride’s ability to handle the
family traffic on the mile stretch between their buildings and the light rail terminal.
(Service is presently provided by Route 17.)

Written testimony prepared for this meeting and submitted in lieu of making statements
included support for the idea of extending Route 76Ltd from West Colfax to Olde Town
Arvada; a proposal to replace Route 17 in the Jeffco Government Center with a fixed
route, rather than a call-n-Ride; adding a deviation to Route 49 to serve Regis University’s
campus.
Bear Creek Elementary School; Bear Valley

Packet Pg. 128

3.B.1.c

Attachment C
October 11, 2012

Individual concerns were voiced, including the needs of Wheat Ridge High School students
on Route 32 in the segment proposed to be replaced by a call-n-Ride; concern was also
expressed by a satisfied user of the Dry Creek call-n-Ride who did not feel that call-n-Ride
service areas as large as proposed in the West Corridor plan were workable. Five staff
participated in the meeting.
Hadley Branch – Denver Public Library
Saturday, April 21, 2012
Diverse comments were offered by the eight members of the public who attended the
meeting. One person was critical of the Union Station alignment, versus going into the
central Downtown loop. Another had questions about where the new line would go in
Downtown. Others opposed removing Route 14 west of Wadsworth, but asked that it be
scheduled for favorable connections with Route 76; supported restoring Route 100 service
on Sundays; opposed discontinuing Route 17 service on West 44th Avenue at the Colorado
Railroad Museum; expressed concern about replacing Route 17 at the Human Services
building with the Golden call-n-Ride; supported 7-day a week operation of the Golden calln-Ride. Three RTD staff members and one City and County of Denver planner heard the
testimony and answered questions.
Blair-Caldwell Library – Five Points
Saturday, April 21, 2012
The most commonly expressed concern among the 14 members of the public at this
meeting regarded the call-n-Ride service proposed to replace Route 17 for Jeffco Human
Services buildings and in Applewood replacing segments of Routes 20, 28, and 32. In
brief, the concern regarding the former is that the special needs of Human Services clients
could not be met and for the latter that capacity would be insufficient. A written proposal
was presented describing a merger of segments of Routes 20 and 28 to continue serving
NREL. Two speakers also objected to the lack of rail service between Five Points and the
West Line/Union Station and favored a shuttle route of some type.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Thursday, April 19, 2012
Retaining through service to Civic Center Station on Routes 100X and 116X was the top
concern among the 32 members of the public who attended the Bear Valley meeting.
Similar concerns were raised on behalf of Route 2X service in the Green Mountain area.
The route alternatives in the service proposal were opposed, but suggestions were made
by customers for other alternatives. The majority favored – if the Express routes were not
retained as they are – adding a stop on the proposed Regional Route KC at the unofficial
park-n-Ride at C-470/Quincy. The proposed discontinuance of Route 21 in the area to be
served by the Green Mountain call-n-Ride was also a concern of many, especially in regard
to service for Green Mountain High School.

Individual statements were made in support of retaining Route 9 east to Sheridan
Boulevard instead of introducing the new Route 49; in support of the Route 16 service
change proposal if the first weekday morning trip remains in the current time frame; in
favor of signaling changes on Welton Street to cure schedule adherence problems; in favor
of moving the proposed B-C fare zone boundary west one station in order to lower fares at
Oak Station; opposed removing Route 3 from Green Mountain; opposed the proposed

Packet Pg. 129

3.B.1.c

Attachment C
October 11, 2012

RTD Blake Street Offices
Wednesday, April 25, 2012
The most urgently expressed interest in the noon meeting in Downtown Denver was in
support of retaining a one-seat ride on Routes 100X and 116X between western
Lakewood and Ken Caryl points and Civic Center Station. Six of the 26 members of the
public attending named this as their concern. Alternatives were offered by some,
including adding a stop at Federal Center Station or adding an unofficial Park-n-Ride at the
C-470/Quincy interchange to the proposed Route KC. Individuals raised issues regarding
the loss of Route 2X service to Morrison that can be used for hiking into concerts at Red
Rocks Amphitheater, Route 21 travel needs of Green Mountain High School students, a
potential shortage of space on Route 16 if customers do not switch to Light Rail,
replacement of Route 17 service with call-n-Ride, the double transfer required to get
between the new W-Line and the Southeast F/H-Lines0, and a lack of capacity for
wheelchair customers running into other customers on the ramp at Littleton/Downtown
Station. Ten RTD staff members attended the meeting.
Conifer Library, Conifer
Wednesday, April 25, 2012
Support for the proposed West Corridor service plan as related to Routes CV/CS/CX
serving the Conifer area was the theme of much of the Conifer meeting. One speaker
spoke in support of retaining Route 6X. Other issues were raised by individuals, including
requests for improvements in specific connections, interest in information about the plans
for Pine Junction Park-n-Ride, and requests to go back to using glass in shelters. Twenty
members of the public, plus RTD Board Director Bruce Daly, were in attendance. Four
RTD staff members participated in the meeting.
Evergreen Library, Evergreen
Saturday, April 28, 2012
The major interest of the 23 attendees was in supporting the proposed retention of
through Regional Routes EV/ES/EX service into Civic Center Station. Two attendees
spoke in support of retaining Route AF service at the Federal Center Station. Individual
comments included: anxiety about security for passengers with luggage at Union Station;
a request to add a round trip to Denver from Evergreen on Saturdays and Sundays; a
request to run the Evergreen call-n-Ride till 9:00 p.m.; a request to extend skyRide to
Evergreen; noted a need for information on how to get to the Performing Arts complex
from the West Line.

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

change in Route AF; asked for more service for Fort Logan, especially to and from the DLine via Route 51. Among the public attending was former RTD Director Daryl Kinton.
Three RTD staff members heard the testimony and answered questions.

Packet Pg. 130

3.B.1.c

Attachment C
October 11, 2012
Additional Communications
49 additional communications (e-mail’s, faxes, phone calls and letters) were received.
Support

Opposed
1
1

17
17
20
76
100L
100X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X
116X

1
1
1

87X
AF
Call‐n‐
Ride
Call‐n‐
Ride
Call‐n‐
Ride
Call‐n‐
Ride

1
1
1

Inquiry

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1
1

1
1
1

Additional Comments
Opposed to cutting back route and replacing with Light Rail
Opposed to cutting the 17 and the replacement services that will be
provided
Opposed to cuts in service
Depends on route 17 for transportation
Opposed to route ending at Wadsworth
Thinks 76 and 51 should be split into N/S routes at Light Rail
Needs 100L or 100 SB from Federal Center
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Concerns over changes to route ‐ services ‐ new stops
Requesting 116X stop at Quincy or Bowles
Requesting 116X stop at Quincy or Bowles
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Concerned replacement service will be much slower
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Requesting 116X stop at Quincy or Bowles
Opposed to changes in route ‐ length of travel
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute
Opposed to changes in route ‐ length of travel
Opposed to ending route/concerned about longer commute ‐
Always requesting stop at Quincy
Opposed to changes in route ‐ length of travel
Very upset about AF changing ‐ 43 to AS not a good alternative
Concerned with Call‐n‐Ride service/will it service community

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Route
17
17

Will there be bus service from the end of W‐Line to surrounding
sub‐divisions?
Concerned over quality of service Call‐n‐Ride will provide
Concerned that Edgewater and West Highlands will Not receive Call‐
N‐Ride service

Packet Pg. 131

3.B.1.c

Attachment C
October 11, 2012
1

Wants Green Mountain Call‐n‐Ride to support Federal Center
1
1
1
1

JCJC
JCJC

1
1

JCJC
KC
Route
KC
Route
KC
Route
KC
Route
Oak
Street
Station

1

Veterans
Affairs
Building

Concerned with Call‐n‐Ride service/will it service community
concerned over new possible fare zones
Opposed to cutting services to the Justice Center
Opposed to cutting services to the Justice Center
Opposed to cuts in service ‐ clientele who need access to Human
Services
Opposed to cutting services to the Justice Center

1

Opposed to cutting services to the Justice Center
Supporting KC route

1

Requesting 116X stop at Quincy or Bowles

1
1

Support Express service from KC Park and Ride to Civic Center
Station
Requesting 116X stop at Quincy or Bowles

1

Wants route through neighborhood ending at Oak Street Station

Concerned about cuts to service ‐ VA building
1

Veterans
Affairs
Building

1

Concerned about Call‐n‐Ride service ‐ 555 Corporate Circle ‐
Veterans Building

Veterans
Affairs
Building

1

Concerned about Call‐n‐Ride service ‐ 555 Corporate Circle ‐
Veterans Building

Veterans
Affairs
Building

1

Concerned about Call‐n‐Ride service ‐ 555 Corporate Circle ‐
Veterans Building

Veterans
Affairs
Building

1

Concerned about Call‐n‐Ride service ‐ 555 Corporate Circle ‐
Veterans Building

Attachment: Attachment C (1494 : April 2013 Service Changes Final)

Call‐n‐
Ride
Call‐n‐
Ride
Fares
JCJC
JCJC

Concerned over service from Ward Road to FCS
Total

7
31
Total Emails

11
49

Packet Pg. 132

3.B.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 6, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Amendment to MV Public Transportation ADA
Contract ADA 17-DH-007 for award of the
Belmar, Green Mountain and Golden Call-nRides.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
It is recommended by the Operations & Customer Services Committee that the Board of Directors
authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute a contract amendment with MV Public
Transportation for the provision of the “Belmar”, “Green Mountain” and “Golden” Call-n-Ride
contracted demand response transit services under the existing MV Public Transportation ADA
contract. This contract amendment is for a nine (9) month period from April 2013 through December
2013. The cost for the Belmar Call-n-Ride service will not exceed $183,420, Green Mountain Call-nRide will not exceed $293,172 and Golden Call-n-Ride will not exceed $234,214. The total not to
exceed amount will be $710,806. These amounts include estimates for fuel costs that are treated
as “pass through” expenses.
BACKGROUND
As a supplement to RTD fixed-route service, RTD also operates “Call-n-Ride” service in various
locations throughout the District. Rather than operating on a fixed route and schedule, demand
responsive, or “Call-n-Ride” service can be described as shared-ride public transit service provided in
a defined service area that requires that the passenger telephone the service provider to arrange for
pick-up. In addition to having a Call-n-Ride vehicle in a service area, Call-n-Rides can also operate as
Flex Routes. A Flex Route is an established route that has assigned stops and times just like a
regular route.
With the opening of the West Line on April 28, 2013, Call-n-Ride service has been planned to serve
areas along the corridor and to provide feeder service to West Rail Line stations. The Belmar Call-n-Ride
will operate Monday-Friday, 5:30am – 8:00pm. The base Call-n-Ride service area will be bounded on the
north by 13th Avenue, Wadsworth Blvd. on the east, Kipling Street on the west and Morrison Road on
the south. The Belmar Call-n-Ride will also operate a Flex Route on Garrison Street during peak hours
and will serve the Garrison Station. The Green Mountain Call-n-Ride will operate Monday-Friday,
5:30am – 8:00pm. The base Call-n-Ride service area will be 6th Avenue on the north, Kipling Blvd. on
the east, Union Blvd to Alameda Pkwy on the west and Morrision Road on the south. Two Flex Routes
have been established: one will cover parts of the discontinued Route 2X and will operate into the
Federal Center. A second Flex Route will cover discontinued parts of the Route 14 between Kipling and
the Federal Center Station. The Golden Call-n-Ride will operate Monday-Friday, 5:30am-8:00pm and
Saturday 8:00am-11:00pm. The base service area will cover most of the City of Golden. A Flex Route
will operate in Golden serving the Jefferson County Government Center/Golden Station, Human
Services, Colorado School of Mines, 10th & Washington and Golden High School. Other RTD services in
the areas consist of fixed route, Access-a-Ride and the new light rail.
DISCUSSION
MV Transportation currently operates Access-a-Ride services and eleven (11) other Call-n-Rides that
serve the southern and western areas of the RTD District under their existing ADA contract. MV

Packet Pg. 133

3.B.2

Transportation is an experienced provider in Call-n-Ride service, and in opening new services it is
imperative that our customers receive the best service possible. With the opening of the light rail,
customers will be learning a new system and these Call-n-Rides will provide an integral part of their
commute. Having an experienced Call-n-Ride provider on opening day is crucial. MV has the
additional resources to handle issues that come up with opening new services. MV Transportation
operates all the Call-n-Rides on the southeast and southwest light rail lines. Maintaining the same
contractor to operate all the Call-n-Rides in the south and west areas, allows for better transfers and
coordination among the Call-n-Rides.
Assigning the West Line Call-n-Rides to MV Transportation is in RTD’s best interest as 1) they are an
experienced Call-n-Ride provider, 2) the continued provision of these services allows for the efficient
utilization of vehicles, including spares, and allows for dependable service delivery, and 3) the provision
of these Call-n-Ride services through the existing ADA contract will enable the RTD to keep the cost at
$41.96 per revenue service hour.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funds for the provision of the West Line Call-n-Rides services are included in the adopted 2013 RTD
budget. Funds will be requested in future budgets for the provision of service in future years. The
City of Golden did receive a CMAQ grant for the Golden Call-n-Ride service. The grant funds will be
used to offset the costs of the Golden Call-n-Ride service.
ALTERNATIVES
1)
Award the contract to MV Transportation under their ADA contract. This is recommended
as it is in the best interest of our customer and the best use of vehicle resources.
2)
Award the contract to another ADA service provider through an existing ADA contract at
existing rates. This is not recommended as the customer would ultimately suffer because
there is no other contractor with the Call-n-Ride experience that MV Transportation offers.

Prepared by:
Brian Matthews, Manager
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 134

3.C.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 6, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 5, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Smart Card Project Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
The Smart Card Program continues to address issues identified as a result of the January 1, 2013
implementation of the smart card program for Business Eco Pass customers, Neighborhood Eco Pass
Customers and College Pass customers. Overall, we believe that the Smart card program has attained
several significant milestones despite a number of technical challenges and late delivery of software,
card stock, and bus installations. Over 135,000 cards with personalized photos have been printed and
distributed to hundreds of companies, all colleges, and dozens of neighborhoods. The effort to gather
photos, print, and distribute the cards was no small feat, especially given the short timeframe it was all
done in. RTD staff and Xerox’s sub-contractor Celina, Inc. should be commended for the extra hours
worked and the effort putforth to ensure these cards were produced and delivered. All smart cards have
been produced for which RTD has received photos. There are still some companies and neighborhoods
that have not submitted some photos and as soon as they submit them, cards will be produced and
distributed as quickly as possible (typically within 5 business days).
All bus installations are completed. There are still various issues with about 5% of the fleet and these
issues have been documented and RTD staff and Xerox are in the process of working on those vehicles
to implement solutions. Customers may receive an inadvertent red “Invalid” indication upon tapping.
The cause of this has yet to be fully identified, but it can happen if the customer taps incorrectly. Some
customers are unsure how exactly to hold their card to the reader. Other issues may exist with a select
group of cards. Data currently shows that a fraction of a percent of the taps is having a problem. We
have now exceeded 50,000 transactions (taps) recorded on a typical weekday and less than 200
refusals per day are being recorded. We are monitoring the entire system and responding to issues as
quickly as possible. The implementation of this phase of the Smart Card program has taken more time
and staff resources than originally anticipated, but the major effort for the implementation of the Eco
Pass program and College Pass program is beginning to wind down to more manageable levels of effort.
The integration of the INIT CAD/AVL (Computer Aided Dispatch/Automated Vehicle Location) system
with the Xerox SmartCard system is a unique risk to the programs going forward. To ensure that these
systems continue to maintain interoperability for the long-term, RTD is going to be crafting a 3-way
operating agreement including support and maintenance on the interface whereby RTD will be the prime
integrator.
All Light Rail validators have been installed and are operational. Additional (over and above the original
plan) validators are in the process of being installed at the following locations:
 16th/Stout (2) -- Complete
 18th/Stout (2) -- Complete
 16th/California (1) -- To be Complete by 2/15/13
 18th/California (1) – To be Complete by 2/15/13
The RTD Network Team and Light Rail SCADA network Team are working together to connect the
validators to the existing network for the Ticket Vending Machines (TVM) to accept credit cards by 2nd

Packet Pg. 135

3.C.1

Quarter 2013. Validators for West Corridor and expansion of existing stations, as needed, have been
ordered and are expected to be delivered in March, 2013. A Request For Proposals (RFP) will be going
out to bring on a work order contractor to be on-call to install additional validators or relocate any
validators as needed.
The software for Fare Inspectors is in the final process of being installed. Fare inspectors are operating
in an “educate & inform” mode through the end of February and will transition to enforcement of the
smart card tapping in the near future.
RTD staff conducted a planning meeting with Safeway and will be meeting with King Soopers in the
near future to plan the installation and roll-out of electronic Smart Card Retail Point of Sale Terminals
(RPOS) at their stores to sell RTD passes and load stored value in the Fall of 2013. Planning for Phase 2
of the program is in full-swing.
The Board has previously approved several fare changes and administrative policies regarding the
implementation of Smart Card. The Smart Card Program Team will continue to add policy and
procedures to this list and distribute to The Board as needed (New Fare Policy Item):


Product Returns, Exchanges, & Upgrades: Since all products sold are non-refundable once
purchased, customers will also not be able to exchange or upgrade passes. If a customer
purchases a local pass for a month and in the middle of the month needs to upgrade to express,
they can purchase stored value for the remainder of the month to upgrade the fare from the local
to the express fare. Provided the customer loads at least $20 on their stored value purse, they
will receive the 10% bonus. This policy will reduce confusion and wait times at the station
windows, ensure accurate accounting of pass revenue, and compliment the no-refund policy
previously adopted.

1. BUS INSTALLATIONS
Key

Elements

1a

Installation Closeout

Status



Complete, addressing some residual issues

Yellow
2. PLATFORM INSTALLATIONS
Key

Elements

2a

Central, Southwest and
Southeast Lines

2b

Additional Validators at
16th/California
&
18th/California

Status

 Complete, monitoring to respond to any issues
Green
 Working with Downtown Denver Partnership to get access to
power feeds. Anticipate installation by Mid-February.
Green

3. FARE INSPECTOR HANDHELDS
Key

Elements

Status

Packet Pg. 136

3.C.1

Key

Elements

3a

Software Installation &
Training

Status

 Software is in final stages of being rolled out and training is
complete.
Yellow

4. CAD/AVL INTERFACE
Key

4a

Elements

Interface with INIT

Status
interface is in production and is being monitored for any
 The
possible issues.
Need to negotiate a 3-way operating
Yellow agreement to ensure interface is supported by both vendors
going forward.

5. WEB PORTAL
Key

Elements

5a

Design and Testing

5b

Training

5c

Photos/Files Due from
EcoPass Employers

Status

 Complete, punchlist exists. Code Freeze until Phase 1 in
production for 60 days.
Yellow
 Training for all EcoPass, CollegePass, and Neighborhood Pass
Coordinators is complete and ongoing sessions scheduled.
Green
and neighborhoods are uploading photos and
 Employers
ordering cards for new-hires and new neighbors. Cards are
Green produced and distributed within 5 business days.

6. CARD DISTRIBUTION
Key

Elements

Status

 All smart cards that were ordered by January 25 were
distributed by January 31 . Cards being ordered now are
Green being produced and distributed within 5 business days.
th

6a

Card Issuance

st

7. REPORTS
Key

Elements

7a

Reports

Status


Report development is underway.
Green

8. MARKETING

Packet Pg. 137

3.C.1

Key

Elements

8a

Strategy

Status

 Phase 1 marketing efforts have been completed, currently
planning a much larger marketing effort for Phase 2.
Green

9. COMMUNICATIONS
Key

9a

Elements

Status



Strategy

Green

Phase 1 communications efforts have been completed. We
are responding to customer questions, comments,
compliments, and complaints.
Phase 2 communications
planning underway.

10. RETAIL POINT OF SALE (RPOS)
Key

Elements

Status

10a

Retail Locations

met with Safeway and have an upcoming meeting with
 Have
King Soopers. Ilium working to schedule meeting with 7Eleven to discuss the Denver market, which has over 75
Green franchise stores.

10b

RPOS Units


Retail terminals are expected to be delivered in May, 2013.
Green

10c

Installation


Drafting Scope of Work for installation contract.
Green

NEAR-TERM ACTIVITIES / EVENTS (2013)
Activity / Event

Time Frame

Phase 2 Project Plan & Schedule

February, 2013

RPOS Software Design Approved

February, 2013

RPOS Installation Contract RFP

February, 2013

Card Supply RFP

February, 2013

Rail Validator Installation Contract RFP

February, 2013

RPOS Planning with King Soopers & Safeway

February, 2013

Packet Pg. 138

3.C.1

Activity / Event

Time Frame

West Corridor Platform Validator Installations

April, 2013

Phase 2 Factory Acceptance Testing

May, 2013

RPOS Units Delivered to RTD Denver

May 31, 2013

RPOS Testing

June-July, 2013

RPOS Installations

June-August, 2013

MyRide Electronic Sales Begin (Stored Value & Monthly Passes)

Fall, 2013

Elimination of Paper Monthly Passes & 10-Ride Ticketbooks

December 31, 2013

Major reduction of Paper transfers

2014
Phase 1
(Eco, College, Neighborhood):
Complete

Substantial System Completion (All Deliverables)

Phase 2
(Passes/Stored Value):
Fall, 2013
Phase 3
(Reduced Fare Program &
FlexPass)
December 31, 2013

Prepared by:
Gary Googins, Project Manager, IT
Sheri Rustin, Senior Administrative Assistant
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 139

3.C.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
To:

Phillip A. Washington, General Manager

Date: February 6, 2013

From:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager

GM

Date:

February 6, 2013

Board Meeting Date: February 12, 2013

Subject:

Radio and Computer Aided Dispatch and
Automatic Vehicle Location (CAD/AVL) Project
Status Update

Information

INTRODUCTION
The Radio and CAD/AVL Replacement Project is replacing a 1993-era radio and dispatch system. The
radio system had to be replaced because of Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules that
narrowed the bandwidth of radio channels. The old CAD/AVL system was tightly integrated with the
radio system.
RTD joined a state-wide public safety radio network, saving money and improving coverage over an RTD
owned and operated system. INIT, Innovations in Transportation was selected as the CAD/AVL vendor.
In 2012, the CAD/AVL and Radio Replacement Project completed the radio-only deployment for Light
Rail, Transit Police, Paratransit and non-revenue vehicles. The CAD/AVL central system was factory
tested and installed. System integration testing was completed and mini-fleet testing started. About
42% of the fixed-route bus fleet has been installed.
Completion of testing is delayed pending a few missing features that are scheduled for delivery by next
month. Bus installations were originally scheduled for completion in December 2012. However, the bus
installations take significantly longer than the vendor had projected. Onboard installation rates have
improved over the past month. Projections are that bus installations will be completed in July. Below is a
capsulated summary that is followed by a list of current and upcoming activities.

MAJOR PROJECT ELEMENTS STATUS
Key

Element

1

CAD/AVL Contract
Testing and Problem
Resolution

2

CAD/AVL
Installations

3

CAD/AVL Contract
Automatic Stop
Announcements (ASA)


Yellow

Status
INIT is resolving issues and we are conducting testing as
issues are resolved.
Only 78 items remain unresolved out of over 400 items
generated.
Over 420 buses are installed.

 Improvements in installation rates appear to be consistent.

Yellow


Green

Projections indicate a July completion date.
All stops have been reviewed for proposed changes. Some
stops need renaming. Audio Quality Control is being
performed.
ASA will be provided to the public when all buses are
installed.

Packet Pg. 140

3.C.2

Key

Element

4

CAD/AVL Contract
Database Interfaces

5

Real-Time Passenger
Information (RTPI)


Green

Status
Asset management interfaces are developed and tested.
A downstream data management interface with Ride Check
Plus is being developed.
RTPI foundation requirements development is anticipated to
be complete in 2013.


 Implementation for buses is anticipated for 2014 and

Green

implementation for trains is expected in 2015.

UPCOMMING ACTIVITIES / EVENTS
Activity / Event
CAD/AVL Mini-fleet testing
Fixed-Route Bus Installations
CAD/AVL System Acceptance Testing
RTPI foundation and public delivery for buses
RTPI for Light Rail

Time Frame
7/2012 - 3/2013
7/2012 - 7/2013
nd
2 and 3rd Quarter 2013
2013 - 2014
2014 - 2015

COMPLETED ACTIVITIES
The following project activities either complete or substantially complete and are no longer risks to the
project’s success.
 Paratransit Data Upgrade Project
 Radio Network Build Project
 Radio-only mobile and portable radio installation and deployment
 Operations Control Center (OCC) Remodel
 CAD/AVL and SMT interface development and testing
Prepared by:
Eric Farrington, Program Manager, IT
Approved by:

Packet Pg. 141

