Summary of the Operations/Customer Service meeting held on Tuesday, January 08, 2008
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members

From:

Caitlin Magee, Board Office Assistant

Date:

January 10, 2008

Subject:

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee Meeting held on
Tuesday, January 08, 2008 at 7:15 p.m. in Rooms R, T & D
****

Committee
Members Present:

Bill McMullen, Co-chair; Daryl Kinton, Co-chair; Barbara Brohl, Noel
Busck, Juanita Chacon, Bill Christopher, Lee Kemp, Neill Quinlan,
Dave Ruchman, John Tayer

Staff Present:

Cal Marsella, Ron Dodsworth, John Tarbert, Daria Serna, Cal
Shankster, Lloyd Mack, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee, Bruce Abel, Bill
Porter, Scott Reed

Others:

Holman Carter (ATU 1001), Rick McNeil

Call to Order:

****
Co-Chair called the meeting to order at 7:16 p.m.

I.

Recommended Action
May 2008 Service Changes – Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager Customer and
Contracted Services introduced this action. This is an action to move the proposed
service changes forward to public meetings for comment. There are nine public
hearings scheduled.
Director Chacon asked about training for operators when there is a new run Board. Cal
Marsella and Bill Porter, Manager, Service Planning/Scheduling, reviewed the procedures
that are in place for the operators.
Director Daly spoke about needing to simplify things and get a little more training with
the operators.
Bill Porter said that lots of operators will go out in their own cars on their own time and
drive the route. Every route in the system has a trailblazer signpost telling the operator

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
January 8, 2008
Page 2 of 4
which way to turn.
Mr. Marsella asked Holman Carter, president of ATU 1001 to speak to this issue. Mr.
Carter said that the District has always provided training. As the system has expanded
there are a lot more routes and a lot more confusion.
Director Quinlan said the Committee meeting was not the appropriate forum to discuss
this issue.
Cal Marsella thanked Mr. Carter for coming to the meeting and congratulated him on his
recent re-election as union president. Mr. Marsella discussed setting up a meeting with
the union to work more on this issue.
Director Christopher asked about the Arvada call-n-Ride elimination. CMAQ grant is
expiring and minimum productivity levels have never been met. The District has
worked with the City of Arvada and tried numerous advertising campaigns to boost
ridership. Mr. Marsella said that Director Pulliam would like longer time to try and keep
the Arvada call-n-Ride running.
Mr. Abel said that if the Arvada call-n-Ride were extended, it would cost the District
quite a bit of money as it has been paid for primarily with funds from CMAQ.
Director McMullen asked about the changes to Route CC and if this service change will
fix the access-a-Ride issue with the coffee shop. Bill Porter said there will be a 4-5
hour window in the morning and the afternoon for access-a-Ride service along that
route.
Director Tayer made a suggestion to list communities that are supportive of the service
changes as a general summary in the Board report. Mr. Abel said this is done as part of
the approval of service changes in the summary of public hearing comments. The
District also sends out an email blast that goes out to each city transit liaison.
Director Kemp thanked staff for the additional Route L service.
Director Daly asked about the Route P running on E-470 and was concerned about the
toll fees. The District does not pay the toll and the buses are equipped with
transponders. This will save 7-8 minutes on the P route and has been requested by a
number of passengers and the Arapahoe County Commissioners.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors approve moving the proposed May 4, 2008 Service Changes on to public
review and comment.
Motion:

Director Quinlan made a

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
January 8, 2008
Page 3 of 4
motion for approval before
the full Board at the January
22, 2008 Board Meeting.
Second:

Vote On
Motion:

Director Kemp seconded the
motion.

The motion passed
unanimously.

II.

Customer Service Audit – Director Kinton asked that this decision be postponed so
that he could distribute some ideas that he has and he felt this could be handled via
email communication.

III.

Information Item COBUS – Ron Dodsworth, Assistant General Manager, Operations
spoke to this item. Mr. Dodsworth has been tasked with finding an
augmentation/replacement for the mall shuttle. COBUS is such a vehicle. This vehicle
emits less greenhouse gases than the current mall shuttles and is a much less
mechanically complicated vehicle.
A demo bus will be here on the 22nd of January for review by the Board. There will be
test rides on the mall at 1:00, 2:00, and 3:00 p.m. The bus will be on display at Blake
Street beginning at 4:00 p.m.
Director Ruchman asked about the delivery time for these buses. Mr. Dodsworth
replied about five months. They are about the same size as mall shuttles. Not as
complicated, will be more reliable, more fuel efficient, passenger side drive, low floor.
These buses will help with the Mall shuttle expansion on 18th and 19th Streets. The
District will have a mixed fleet of current mall shuttle buses and the new COBUS
vehicles. The new buses are almost indistinguishable from mall shuttles. Cost wise it
is very favorable for the District. Mall shuttles were $525,000 - $550,000. COBUS is
under $500,000 per bus. Mr. Dodsworth wants the Board to look at the bus and give
feedback. The District also wants to make sure downtown partners are happy with
the bus. This is an established bus that is being used here in Colorado. Copper
Mountain uses them to shuttle skiers from parking lots to the ski area. Several have
been ordered for DIA. COBUS is primarily used as a shuttle bus at airports.
There are a couple of issues with the bus; they are slightly wider than the current mall
shuttle and the engine has yet to be certified for us in the United States. Mr.
Dodsworth felt these issues could easily be worked out.

IV.

Other Matters – Director Chacon asked about Committee structure and if all

Summary of the Operations/Customer Services Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
January 8, 2008
Page 4 of 4
Committees would now be Committees of the whole. Director Kemp is going to
speak to Marla Lien, General Counsel, about this issue.
Mr. Marsella shared that a bomb threat received just after 6:00 p.m. from Channel 4.
All trains were swept and it turned out to be a false alarm.
Mr. Abel gave a follow up to last Operations Committee regarding First Transit
staffing issues in Longmont. They are still 22 operators down and they have ten
candidates in training at the present time.
McMullen asked about the status of mechanic staffing. Mr. Dodsworth responded
that seven students graduated from the internal program this week. The District is
still short but the mechanic helper program is really helping.
Director Chacon asked how the CFO position will be advertised. Mr. Marsella
responded that advertisements will be placed in National Trade Journals. The position
will be advertised locally and nationally. The District is seeking a candidate with a
strong financial background and innovative financing experience.
V.

Next Meeting Date – The next meeting date of the Operations/Customer Services
Committee will be February 6, 2008.

VI.

Adjournment – Hearing no objection, Co-chair McMullen adjourned the meeting at
7:53 p.m.

