1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303/299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Bruce Daly, District N
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Larry Hoy, District J
Bill James, District A

William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Tom Tobiassen, District F
Jeff Walker, District D
Barry Gore, District K

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 18, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER

II.

RTD HONOR GUARD PRESENTATION OF COLORS

III.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
Name
David E. Anderson
Thomas Guevara
Teresa HopkinsHawkins
Martin Weinberg
David A. Beavers
Donald Sisk

Position

Years of Service

Bus Operator
Bus Operator

23
21

Bus Operator
Bus Operator
Mechanic
Train Operator

33
28
32
21

Special Recognition-Departing Board members
(RTD Historical Video 2004-2012)
Lee Kemp, Chair, District I
Matt Cohen, 2nd Vice-Chair, District M
William McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, Chair of Salaried Pension Trust Fund Trustee Board, District G
Barry Gore, District K
V.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION

VI.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director Cohen
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Tobiassen
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Directors Anderson, and Hoy
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 27, 2012

IX.

CHAIR’S REPORT

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT

XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT

A. Approval of the Purchase of Six Electric Multiple Units (EMU) Vehicles of the North Metro Rail
Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the purchase of six Electric
Multiple Units (EMU) vehicles for the North Metro Rail Line through the Denver Transit
Partners (DTP) Rolling Stock Option in accordance with the EAGLE Concession
Agreement (CA) Section 31.1, for an amount not to exceed $24 million. Funding to
purchase two of the vehicles is included in the 2013 Adopted Budget for the North
Metro Corridor project.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $16 million from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve to the North Metro Corridor project budget to fund the purchase
of the additional four EMU vehicles.

B. Disposition Plan for Excess Land in Ft. Lupton, Weld County
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of Directors
approve the proposed Disposition Plan for excess land for the 80,173 square feet (1.84
acres) net of county road right of way located at 13215 Weld County Road 8, Fort Lupton,

Colorado and further authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to negotiate and
execute a contract for the sale of the property.
C. Approval of Contract Extension - Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to award a month to month contract extension to Idea Integration for an
extension for the amount not to exceed of $76,000 to provide Graphical Information
Systems (GIS) consulting services. The contract is being brought to the Board because it
is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution No.27, Series of 1985.
D.

Hop Cost Share Agreement
It is Recommended by the by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Boulder to
provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus service in the
commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at Boulder and
adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and is
for an amount not to exceed $1,459,589.00.

E. DRCOG Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments (DRCOG) to
provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $730,000.00.
F. North Front Range Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents necessary
to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning Organization
(NFRMPO) to provide RTD support and expansion of the NFR VANGO vanpool program in the
Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and shall be in an
amount not to exceed $425,000.00.
G.

Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of Englewood to provide
RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus service in the City of
Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and is for an amount not to exceed
$297,000.00.

H. Cost Share Agreements MAP 21 -5311
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents

necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility of Boulder and the Seniors’
Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of FTA Section 5311
(non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and Jefferson County. These
Agreements are for calendar year 2013 and for amounts not to exceed $335,298.00 for
Boulder County, $300,000.00 for Adams County and $102,248.00 for Jefferson
County.
I. Contracted Fixed Route Services 2012 Year End Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize a budget transfer from the purchased transportation service and fuel
line items of the “Group 21” budget to the “Group 23” budget to cover the variation in
costs incurred as a result of adjustments to service levels associated with runboard
service changes in 2012. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer is $350,000
($200,000 for service, $150,000 for fuel).
J. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) System for Paratransit and Fixed-Route Information
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract for the
development and implementation of an Interactive Voice Response (IVR) system for
paratransit (Access-a-Ride) and fixed-route information with Enghouse Transportation LLC
for a contract amount not to exceed $829,393.
K. Award Contract to Supply Sixty-Five (65) HVAC Units (Including Spares) to Replace the
Existing Units on the SD100 Light Rail Fleet.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a sole-source contract to Siemens
Industry, Inc. Rail Systems, based in Sacramento, California to supply sixty-five complete
HVAC units. These units will be used to replace the units currently installed on the SD100
Light Rail Fleet.

XII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

L. Moving Forward: Filling the FasTracks Internal Savings Account
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of Directors
direct staff to move forward with implementation of the eight, highest value, recommended
opportunities identified as part of the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). Any funding realized
through these activities will be tracked separately and added to a new budget account, the
FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA). The status of the FISA will be reported to the
RTD Board of Directors on a monthly basis, and the FISA will be incorporated into the
FasTracks Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Budget. Expenditures from the FISA will be
subject to Board approval, with the staff recommended project goals identified below in the
Background section of this report confirmed as the current RTD Board project goals for the
FISA.
Specifically, it is recommended that staff move forward with the following activities:
1.

Beginning in 2014, increase FasTracks funding to support base system operations at
the rate of inflation as defined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI):

2.

3.

4.

5.
6.
7.

8.


Estimated to contribute $24 million to the FISA by 2017;
Reduce FasTracks Minimum Unrestricted Fund Balance once construction milestones
have been reached, the majority of the Eagle Project grant funding has been received and
RTD has better information on the growth of sales and use tax:

Estimated to contribute up to $72 million to the FISA by 2017;
Reduce FasTracks Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Fund Balance from three to
two months:

Estimated to contribute $10 million to the FISA by 2017;
Defer Southwest Corridor Extension Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) relocation –
complete once funding is identified for the entire project:

Estimated to contribute $9 million to the FISA by 2017;
Work to achieve project underruns on FasTracks projects currently under contract:

Estimated to contribute $15 million to the FISA by 2017;
Sell or lease RTD properties, where possible:

Estimated to contribute $20 million to the FISA by 2017;
Request stakeholders to increase financial participation above the current level of
2.5%:

Estimated contribution – To Be Determined;
Work with legislature to allow RTD to audit sales and use tax receipts and provide
RTD with parity with the State on sales tax exemptions (i.e., ensure exemptions are the
same for both RTD and the State in all cases). Establish this as RTD’s number one
legislative priority. Begin working immediately with government relations staff, lobbyists,
legal counsel and other stakeholders to initiate and support the introduction of a bill(s) on
these topics during the 2013 legislative session:

Estimated to contribute up to $127 million to the FISA by 2017.

Approval of the opportunities listed above will have a positive impact to the FasTracks capital
program through the establishment of the FISA with a goal of achieving $300 million by
2017. It is anticipated that these eight highest priority opportunities alone could fund the
FISA up to or exceeding $277 million by 2017. The Board directs staff to continue working
to identify other funding opportunities through the RAM analysis process in 2013 for
potential Board consideration at a later date.
M. Resolution Regarding Easement Agreements and Indemnification of Claims with Suncor
Energy (U.S.A.) Inc.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the attached resolution. The resolution authorizes the General Manager
or his designee to negotiate and execute two easement agreements with Suncor; one
agreement that grants an easement to RTD for the North Metro Rail Line (“NMRL”)
project through Suncor property in Adams County (the “Bridge Easement”) and another
agreement that grants an easement to Suncor to construct a pipeline in the RTD owned
Boulder Industrial Lead (“BIL”) right of way (the “Pipeline Easement”). The Bridge
Easement requires RTD to waive sovereign immunity to the extent it may be applicable,
and to indemnify Suncor for claims arising out of RTD’s use of the Bridge Easement in
an amount up to $200 million and to purchase general liability insurance in that amount
from the date of commencement of construction of the bridge and to maintain it
through termination of the Bridge Easement. RTD would receive $10,000,000 from
Suncor in exchange for the Pipeline Easement, and would pay Suncor $836,420 for the
Bridge Easement. This would result in net revenue of $9,163,580 to RTD, which

would be applied to the cost of expansion of the Commuter Rail Maintenance Facility
(CRMF) to accommodate the North Metro vehicles.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board
of Directors authorize the transfer of $836,420 from the FasTracks Contingency
Reserve for the acquisition of the Bridge Easement. These funds would be replenished
out of the $10,000,000 to be received from Suncor in exchange for the Pipeline
Easement.
XIII.

OLD BUSINESS

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS

XV.

EXECUTIVE SESSION
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4) (f) Personnel Matters, General Manager Performance Evaluation

XVI.

RESUME FROM EXECUTIVE SESSION TO BOARD MEETING

XVII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
RESOLUTION ___________ SERIES OF 2012, General Manager Performance Evaluation

XVIII.

ADJOURN

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

