1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Regional Transportation District
Board of Directors
Chair – Lee Kemp, District I
First Vice Chair – John Tayer, District O
Second Vice Chair – Matt Cohen, District M
Secretary – Angie Malpiede, District C
Treasurer – Kent Bagley, District H
Jeff Walker, Director, District D
Larry Hoy, District J
Barry Gore, District K
Bruce Daly, District N
Bill James, District A

Barbara Deadwyler, District B
William “Bill” McMullen, District E
Jack O’Boyle, District G
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Tom Tobiassen, District F

BOARD OF DIRECTORS MEETING
December 18, 2012 at 5:30 PM
I.

CALL TO ORDER
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:35 p.m. He asked for a moment of silence
in honor of the victims of the Connecticut school shooting.

II.

RTD HONOR GUARD PRESENTATION OF COLORS
The RTD Honor Guard presented the colors and led the meeting with the pledge of
allegiance.

III.

ROLL CALL-DETERMINATION OF QUORUM
Fourteen (14) Board Members were present at roll call. Director Tobiassen was absent.

IV.

RETIREE AWARDS
There were no retirees present. However, Chair Kemp recognized the following retirees
for their contribution to RTD:
Name
David E. Anderson
Thomas Guevara
Teresa HopkinsHawkins
Martin Weinberg
David A. Beavers
Donald Sisk

Position

Years of Service

Bus Operator
Bus Operator

23
21

Bus Operator
Bus Operator
Mechanic
Train Operator

33
28
32
21

Special Recognition-Departing Board Members
First Vice Chair Director Tayer introduced the historical video from 2004-2012 that
captured both the history and also commemorated some of the main
accomplishments during the period that Chair Kemp and Director McMullen joined the
Board.

Director Tayer acknowledged each of the retiring Board members and shared some
enduring memories of what they stood for on the Board as well as some of the
human side of these Directors:










V.

Director Barry Gore—appointed by the Adams County Commissioners in
August, 2012 but in a short time was able to experience and provide input as
an advocate for the North Corridor on the future of FasTracks. Barry is also an
avid photographer.
Director Jack O’Boyle—lauded as one who looks at the finances, Director
O’Boyle was also the former Mayor of LoneTree who was instrumental in the
approval of FasTracks in 2004.
Director Matt Cohen—noted for his oratory abilities, Director Cohen
demonstrated a passion and love for RTD, including his leadership during the
construction and completion of the West Corridor Line. Director Cohen is
blessed with a great family that includes talented children and a loving wife
who serves as the pillar. Director Cohen is humbled to have had the pleasure
of serving with such a great staff and Board.
Director William McMullen—advocated for the rights of the union and
represented their interest while focusing on what was in the best interest of
the agency. He will be remembered as the person who often made poignant
points while discussing an issue at length.
Chair Lee Kemp-has a true understanding of the political side of being a Board
member and who galvanized the Board members around critical decisions to
move RTD forward. Chair Kemp was a mentor and friend who also showed a
passionate side as a victim’s advocate for the City of Broomfield. Chair Kemp
is prideful of his wife and children who are in the process of have successfully
completed their college programs. Chair Kemp occupies the “Gideon Book of
Records” as having been successfully elected as five-time Board Chair of an
elected Board. Chair Kemp expressed his thanks to the staff and the Board,
noting in particular his appreciation to Directors Malpiede, Cohen, Bagley and
Tayer. He also stated that General Manager Washington is one of the best in
the industry and he is honored to have served with him. This was one of the
greatest decisions by the Board to name Phil Washington as General Manager.

PUBLIC PARTICIPATION


Lori Frasier representing the US 36 Commuting Solutions read a letter from this
group. A copy of that letter is included in the Board Packet on the portal.



Gene Putnam expressed appreciation to the Board members leaving the Board and
indicated that he has re-evaluated the proposed RAM and has a better understanding.
He provided a recommendation on taking one of the EMU vehicles that was
approved for purchase and using it throughout the north to inspire and educate the
constituents and the community. This will help the community to envision what
things will look like by touching, feeling and seeing what the future looks like for
them.



Lisha Burnett from Suncor spoke about the collaboration with RTD on the pipeline
issues and that this has fostered an ongoing relationship that will benefit both Suncor
and RTD.



Former Director Chris Martinez expressed thanks to the departing members for their

public service and commitment. He expressed there is life after RTD and a critical
role that all of them can play is as ambassador in the communities serving as positive
advocates for RTD. He thanked both Chair Kemp for his kind remarks and Director
McMullen for listening to and taking the constituents point of view so they can have
a voice on the Board.


VI.

Doug Greg stated he was an older gentleman who was not always in good health.
He had gone out of his way to be here tonight to express the need to do something
in the northern area sooner than later. He has heard talks of pulling out of the
District and he encouraged the Board to be creative and innovative in addressing the
needs in the North. He stated that although some of the things he is hearing make
him fighting mad, he appreciates the work and effort of the Board.

COMMITTEE REPORTS-(See Minutes)
Planning & Development Committee - Chaired by Director Bagley
Government Relations Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
FasTracks Monitoring Committee – Chaired by Director O/Boyle
DBE Committee – Chaired by Director Malpiede
Operations/Customer Services Committee – Chaired by Director Daly
Financial/Administration Committee – Chaired by Director James
GM Oversight and Performance Management – Chaired by Director Bagley
Fiscal Sustainability Task Force Committee – Chaired by Director Tayer
CDOT – Director Cohen
E-470 – Director O’Boyle
ACED – Director Hoy/Williams
Northwest Parkway-Director Anderson & Chair Kemp
Pension Committee – Director O’Boyle/Tobiassen
Director Bagley and Director Daly identified corrections for the Government Relations
minutes. These minutes have been corrected. Director James indicated he would
provide grammatical corrections to the Finance Administration and Audit minutes.

VII.

GENERAL MANAGER OVERSIGHT & PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT UPDATE
Director Bagley stated that the Board will have an Executive Session to discuss the
General Manager’s 2012 Performance evaluation later this evening.

VIII.

APPROVAL OF REGULAR BOARD MEETING MINUTES OF NOVEMBER 27, 2012
MOTION:

Director Malpiede moved for the
adoption of the November 27, 2012
Regular Board Meeting Minutes as
written and circulated.
Director Gore seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with
14 votes in favor and 0 against.
Director Tobiassen was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

IX.

CHAIR’S REPORT
There was no Chair’s report.

X.

GENERAL MANAGER’S REPORT
There was no General Manager’s report.

XI.

UNANIMOUS CONSENT
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to approve items A through K on the unanimous consent.

MOTION:

Director Cohen made the motion to
approve item A through K on the
unanimous consent agenda.
Director Anderson seconded the

motion.
VOTE ON
MOTION:

An electronic vote was taken with
14 in favor and 0 against. Director
Tobiassen was absent.

Chair Kemp declared the motion
PASSED Unanimously.

A. Approval of the Purchase of Six Electric Multiple Units (EMU) Vehicles of the North
Metro Rail Line
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to approve the purchase of six Electric
Multiple Units (EMU) vehicles for the North Metro Rail Line throug h the Denver
Transit Partners (DTP) Rolling Stock Option in accordance with the EAGLE
Concession Agreement (CA) Section 31.1, for an amount not to exceed $24
million. Funding to purchase two of the vehicles is included in the 2013 Adopted
Budget for the North Metro Corridor project.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to transfer $16 million from the
FasTracks Contingency Reserve to the North Metro Corridor project budget to fund
the purchase of the additional four EMU vehicles.

B. Disposition Plan for Excess Land in Ft. Lupton, Weld County
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors approve the proposed Disposition Plan for excess land for the 80,173 square
feet (1.84 acres) net of county road right of way located at 13215 Weld County Road 8,
Fort Lupton, Colorado and further authorize the General Manager and/or his designee to
negotiate and execute a contract for the sale of the property.
C. Approval of Contract Extension - Geographic Information Systems (GIS) Contract
It is recommended by the Financial Administration and Audit Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to award a month to month contract extension to Idea
Integration for an extension for the amount not to exceed of $76,000 to provide
Graphical Information Systems (GIS) consulting services. The contract is being
brought to the Board because it is a Personal Services contract per RTD Resolution
No.27, Series of 1985.
D.

Hop Cost Share Agreement
It is Recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of
Boulder to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the HOP circulator bus
service in the commercial areas of the City of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder and adjacent business and residential areas. This agreement is for calendar
year 2013 and is for an amount not to exceed $1,459,589.00.

E. DRCOG Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the Denver Regional Council of Governments
(DRCOG) to provide RTD support and expansion of the DRCOG RideArrangers vanpool
program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and
shall be in an amount not to exceed $730,000.00.
F. North Front Range Vanpool Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all documents
necessary to enter into an Agreement with the North Front Range Metropolitan Planning
Organization (NFRMPO) to provide RTD support and expansion of the NFR VANGO
vanpool program in the Denver metropolitan area. This agreement is for calendar year
2013 and shall be in an amount not to exceed $425,000.00.
G.

Art Shuttle Cost Share Agreement
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a Cost Sharing Agreement with the City of

Englewood to provide RTD financial support for the operation of the art circulator bus
service in the City of Englewood. This agreement is for calendar year 2013 and is for
an amount not to exceed $297,000.00.
H. Cost Share Agreements MAP 21 -5311
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that the
Board of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into funding agreements with Via Mobility of Boulder
and the Seniors’ Resource Center to provide RTD financial support for the provision of
FTA Section 5311 (non-urbanized) services for Boulder County, Adams County and
Jefferson County. These Agreements are for calendar year 2013 and for amounts
not to exceed $335,298.00 for Boulder County, $300,000.00 for Adams County
and $102,248.00 for Jefferson County.
I. Contracted Fixed Route Services 2012 Year End Budget Transfer
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize a budget transfer from the purchased transportation service
and fuel line items of the “Group 21” budget to the “Group 23” budget to cover the
variation in costs incurred as a result of adjustments to service levels associated with
runboard service changes in 2012. The total dollar amount of the budget transfer is
$350,000 ($200,000 for service, $150,000 for fuel).
J. Interactive Voice Response (IVR) System for Paratransit and Fixed-Route Information
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Service Committee that the Board
of Directors authorize the General Manager, or his designee, to enter into a contract
for the development and implementation of an Interactive Voice Response (IVR)
system for paratransit (Access-a-Ride) and fixed-route information with Enghouse
Transportation LLC for a contract amount not to exceed $829,393.
the

K. Award Contract to Supply Sixty-Five (65) HVAC Units (Including Spares) to Replace
Existing Units on the SD100 Light Rail Fleet.
It is recommended by the Operations/Customer Services Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award a sole-source contract to Siemens
Industry, Inc. Rail Systems, based in Sacramento, California to supply sixty-five complete
HVAC units. These units will be used to replace the units currently installed on the
SD100 Light Rail Fleet

XIII.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

L. Moving Forward: Filling the FasTracks Internal Savings Account
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors direct staff to move forward with implementation of the eight, highest value,
recommended opportunities identified as part of the Risk Allocation Matrix (RAM). Any
funding realized through these activities will be tracked separately and added to a new
budget account, the FasTracks Internal Savings Account (FISA). The status of the FISA
will be reported to the RTD Board of Directors on a monthly basis, and the FISA will be
incorporated into the FasTracks Strategic Budget Plan and Annual Budget. Expenditures
from the FISA will be subject to Board approval, with the staff recommended project
goals identified below in the Background section of this report confirmed as the current
RTD Board project goals for the FISA.

Specifically, it is recommended that staff move forward with the following activities:
1. Beginning in 2014, increase FasTracks funding to support base system operations at the
rate of inflation as defined by the Consumer Price Index (CPI):
 Estimated to contribute $24 million to the FISA by 2017;
2. Reduce FasTracks Minimum Unrestricted Fund Balance once construction milestones
have been reached, the majority of the Eagle Project grant funding has been received and
RTD has better information on the growth of sales and use tax:
 Estimated to contribute up to $72 million to the FISA by 2017;
3. Reduce FasTracks Operations and Maintenance (O&M) Fund Balance from three to two
months:
 Estimated to contribute $10 million to the FISA by 2017;
4. Defer Southwest Corridor Extension Union Pacific Railroad (UPRR) relocation – complete
once funding is identified for the entire project:
 Estimated to contribute $9 million to the FISA by 2017;
5. Work to achieve project underruns on FasTracks projects currently under contract:
 Estimated to contribute $15 million to the FISA by 2017;
6. Sell or lease RTD properties, where possible:
 Estimated to contribute $20 million to the FISA by 2017;
7. Request stakeholders to increase financial participation above the current level of 2.5%:
 Estimated contribution – To Be Determined;
8. Work with legislature to allow RTD to audit sales and use tax receipts and provide RTD
with parity with the State on sales tax exemptions (i.e., ensure exemptions are the same
for both RTD and the State in all cases). Establish this as RTD’s number one legislative
priority. Begin working immediately with government relations staff, lobbyists, legal
counsel and other stakeholders to initiate and support the introduction of a bill(s) on
these topics during the 2013 legislative session:
 Estimated to contribute up to $127 million to the FISA by 2017.
Approval of the opportunities listed above will have a positive impact to the FasTracks
capital program through the establishment of the FISA with a goal of achieving $300
million by 2017. It is anticipated that these eight highest priority opportunities alone
could fund the FISA up to or exceeding $277 million by 2017. The Board directs staff to
continue working to identify other funding opportunities through the RAM analysis
process in 2013 for potential Board consideration at a later date.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

Director McMullen made the motion
to item K, Moving Forward: Filling
the FasTracks Internal Savings
Account.
Director Hoy seconded the motion.

Director McMullen stated how pleased he was to move the motion
that will get FasTracks done sooner than later. This is a sound
plan and he hopes for unanimous consent.
Director O’Boyle stated he will support this action for the good of
the whole organization.
Director Bagley stated he will support this motion. He has had
discussions with the staff and is pleased with the staff response in
relation to item 4 of this proposal, defer Southwest Corridor
Extension Union Pacific Railroad relocation. He looks forward to

the communications to the Southwest Corridor on the plans.
Director Cohen states he enthusiastically support this proposal.
When he first came to the Board his first action was an approval
of approximately $8M item. How pleased he is to be leaving
having approved a $300M action item which is moving FasTracks
in the right direction. He thanked Phil and the staff for their
confidence in the Board to make the right decision.
Director Gore also stated he supported this plan. When he came
on the Board five months ago, things for the north looked dismal.
He is amazed that in this short time, staff has come up with a
proposal for generating $277M which can move the north
forward. He applauded the General Manager and staff for their
fortitude and diligence in listening to the voice of the people.
Director Deadwyler stated that while this appears to be a good
proposal, she remains concerned over the lack of a sunset or
policy for rubber tires. Therefore she will vote no for this action
item.
Director Hoy stated he is very enthusiastic about this. He feels
this is a good step for the north and has now put people on
speaking terms and willingness to re-engage.
Director Daly stated he was enthusiastic about this proposal. This
is a risk that is realistic.
Director Tayer expressed that he will support this proposal with
the understanding that this program will not prioritize corridors
who contribute over the 2.5% above the corridors that do not;
and that cuts or changes to rubber tire services will not preclude
BRT service.
Chair Kemp stated this has been a long time coming. We must
follow the money. Getting the North line is essential to moving
forward.
VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:
An electronic vote was
taken with 13 votes in favor
(Anderson, Bagley, Cohen,
Daly, Hoy, James, Kemp,
Malpiede, McMullen,
O’Boyle, Tayer, Walker,
Gore) and 1 against
(Deadwyler). Director
Tobiassen was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the
motion PASSED.
M. Resolution Regarding Easement Agreements and Indemnification of Claims with Suncor
Energy (U.S.A.) Inc.
It is recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors adopt the attached resolution. The resolution authorizes the General
Manager or his designee to negotiate and execute two easement agreements with
Suncor; one agreement that grants an easement to RTD for the North Metro Rail

Line (“NMRL”) project through Suncor property in Adams County (the “Bridge
Easement”) and another agreement that grants an easement to Suncor to construct
a pipeline in the RTD owned Boulder Industrial Lead (“BIL”) right of way (the
“Pipeline Easement”). The Bridge Easement requires RTD to waive sovereign
immunity to the extent it may be applicable, and to indemnify Suncor for claims
arising out of RTD’s use of the Bridge Easement in an amount up to $200 million
and to purchase general liability insurance in that amount from the date of
commencement of construction of the bridge and to maintain it through termination
of the Bridge Easement. RTD would receive $10,000,000 from Suncor in
exchange for the Pipeline Easement, and would pay Suncor $836,420 for the
Bridge Easement. This would result in net revenue of $9,163,580 to RTD, which
would be applied to the cost of expansion of the Commuter Rail Maintenance
Facility (CRMF) to accommodate the North Metro vehicles.
It is further recommended by the FasTracks Monitoring Committee that the RTD
Board of Directors authorize the transfer of $836,420 from the FasTracks
Contingency Reserve for the acquisition of the Bridge Easement. These funds
would be replenished out of the $10,000,000 to be received from Suncor in
exchange for the Pipeline Easement.
MOTION:

DISCUSSION:

VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the
motion to approve the
resolution
regarding
easement agreements and
indemnification of claims with
Suncor Energy.
Director Daly seconded the
motion.
Director Hoy indicated this
was a good example of
collaboration.
An electronic vote was
taken with 14 votes in
favor, and 0 against.
Director Tobiassen was
absent.
Chair Kemp declared the
motion PASSED Unanimously.

XIII.

OLD BUSINESS
There was no old business.

XIV.

NEW BUSINESS
Director Malpiede shared that on December 5th she participated in a conference call with

Vice-President Biden and later in the Obama conference call. They were very aware of
RTD’s leadership and recognized RTD.

XV.

Chair Kemp acknowledged the good work of the Board office and thanked the staff for
their hard work and dedication.
EXECUTIVE SESSION
Chair Kemp asked for a motion to enter into executive session to discuss C.R.S. 24-6402(4) (f) personnel matters, General Manager Washington’s Performance Evaluation.
Chair Kemp indicated they would resume back to the open Board meeting where they
will vote on the resolution.
Director Malpiede made the
motion
to
enter
into
executive session.

MOTION:

Director Gore seconded the
motion.
VOTE ON
THE
MOTION:

XVI.

An electronic vote was
taken with 14 votes in
favor, and 0 against.
Director Tobiassen was
absent.
The meeting adjourned to
Executive session around
7:10 p.m.
The meeting resumed to the
Board Meeting at 8:50 p.m.

RECOMMENDED ACTION
The Chair read into record the resolution _________ series of 2012, General Manager
Performance Evaluation. He asked for a motion to approve this resolution.
MOTION:

Director Anderson made the
motion to approve the
Resolution for the General
Manager
Performance
Evaluation.
Director Malpiede seconded
the motion.

VOTE ON THE MOTION:

The motion passed 13 in
favor and 0 against. Director
Deadwyler left the meeting
sick and Director Tobiassen
was absent.
Chair Kemp declared the
motion
PASSED
Unanimously.

XVII.

ADJOURN

The meeting adjourned at 9:00 p.m.

Prepared and Transcribed by:
___________________________________________________________
Paula Perdue, Executive Director to the Board of Directors

ROSTER OF PARTICIPANTS
BOARD OF DIRECTORS BOARD MEETING

Tuesday, December 18th, 2012
BOARD OF DIRECTORS PRESENT
Lee Kemp, Chair
John Tayer, First Vice Chair
Angie Malpiede, Secretary
Matt Cohen, Second Vice Chair
Kent Bagley, Treasurer
Lorraine Anderson
Bruce Daly
Barbara Deadwyler
Barry Gore
Larry Hoy
Bill James
Bill McMullen
Jack O’Boyle
Jeff Walker

District I
District O
District C
District M
District H
District L
District N
District B
District K
District J
District A
District C
District G
District D

BOARD OF DIRECTORS ABSENT
Tom Tobiassen

District F

RTD STAFF PRESENT
Bruce Abel
Fulton Bell
Rick Clarke
John Elias
Sherry Ellebracht
Mike Gil
Terry Howerter
Brian Iacono

Austin Jenkins
Erin Klaas
Marla Lien
Fernando Macias
Dustin Martinez
Barbara McManus
Doug MacLeod
Paula Perdue
Scott Reed

Daria Serna
Dean Shaklee
John Shonsey
Henry Stopplecamp
Walt Stringer
Greg Thompson
Pauletta Tonilas
Mike Turner
Bill Van Meter

Phil Washington
Maurice Wills
Susan Wood

OTHERS PRESENT
Josh Benninghoff, L. Skip Brown, Lisha Burnett, Matt Christensen, Jane Donovan, Claudia Folska,
Lori Frasier, Joni Goheen, Doug Greg, Boyd Gordon, Stan Gronek, Stacie Kemp, Julie Kemp, Daryl
Kinton, Gary Lasater, Judy Lubow, Chris Martinez, Gene Putman, Jacob Riger, Jeanne Shreve,
Julie Skeen, Paul Solano, Bryan Stelmack, Karen Stuart, Chris Taylor, Gary Van Dorn, Monte
Whaley, Bob Wilken, Susan Wilken, Barbara Yamrick

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD meeting
you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

