Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 1 of 3

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Tai-Shrae Parish, Board Assistant (Temporary)

Date:

May 4, 2011

Subject:

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday,
May 3, 2011 at 5:30 p.m.
****

Board Members
Present:
Board Members
Absent:

Committee Chair Bagley; Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Brohl,
Deadwyler, Cohen, Daly, Hoy, James, O’Boyle, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Directors Malpiede, McMullen, and Riley.

Staff Present:

Rick Clarke, Susan Cohen, Kevin Diviness, Jane Donovan, Sherry
Ellebracht, David Genova, Mike Gil, Terry Howerter, Brian Iacono, Austin
Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Doug MacLeod, Anthony
Menendez, Tai-Shrae Parish, Paula Perdue, Scott Reed, Daria Serna,
John Shonsey, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Brenda Tierney,
Pauletta Tonilas, Mike Turner, Bill Van Meter, Ashland Vaughn, and Phil
Washington.

Others Present:

Paul Burck – Orion Register President, Mac Callison – City of Aurora,
Jeff Leib – Denver Post, Scott Weeks – DRCOG.
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Bagley called the meeting to order at 6:42 p.m.
Director Bagley noted that Bill Mosher usually presents an update
regarding Denver Union Station, but we will have the next update June
7th.

Recommended Action
Bill Van Meter noted that this updated policy is not only to reconfirm the basic naming
policy, but to also allow staff the flexibility to work with local governments when
establishing station names. In addition, station names would need to be agreed upon 2
years in advance.
Scott Reed added that this is consistent with what was mentioned in the Fiscal
Sustainability Taskforce. Staff is also proposing the “selling” of naming rights under a
multiyear contractual agreement.
General Manager Washington further added that innovative financing was one of the

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 2 of 3

goals of the Board Retreat, and “selling” of naming rights fits into that category.
 RTD Station Naming & Facility Naming Policy
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that the Board of
Directors adopt this Station and facility naming policy, which updates a policy adopted
by the Board in December 2003.
Motion:

Director Tayer made a motion to forward
this item to the full board at the May 17,
2011 full Board meeting.
Director Cohen seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Director Deadwyler interjected that
Jefferson County could pay for a name
change if they are not in agreement with
the one given.
Director Tobiassen inquired that if
jurisdictions know a station is going in
years in advance, why wouldn’t they
decide on a name then. Bill Van Meter
added that was the motivational thought
behind this change, and we want those
local jurisdictions to think about that earlier
so that we are exposed to less name
changing costs. Unfortunately, the planning
process is not real enough for most entities,
and this will hopefully change that.
Director O’Boyle asked what the working
definition of relatively short station names.
Bill Van Meter noted that there are no
Board Resolutions limiting station name
lengths.
Director Bagley inquired if anyone besides
the
Board
had
reviewed
this
recommendation. Bill Van Meter noted that
no special efforts were made to
communicate this item outside of RTD.

Vote on
Motion:

The Motion passed Unanimously.

II. Other Matters
Director Tobiassen congratulated Director Brohl for being mentioned in the Colorado Biz
Magazine and the article about her accomplishments and Athena Award Nomination.
Director Brohl noted that she formerly retired from CenturyLink (formerly Qwest) after
33 years.

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, May 3, 2011
Page 3 of 3

Director Deadwyler noted that she received an email from APTA indicated that the
average American could save over $10,331 by utilizing public transportation. Director
Cohen added that figure was accurate for a two car household downsizing to one car.
The subsequent car payments, insurance, maintenance, and other costs associated
with vehicle ownership would be saved.
Director Bagley added that he and Director O’Boyle received a warm reception at the
Greenwood Village City Council Meeting/Study Session regarding FasTracks and the
Belleview Call-n-Ride.
Chair Kemp noted that Director McMullen is back in the Hospital again. The Board
sincerely hopes that he gets back to a condition where he can feel better about himself
and what he does.
III. Next Meeting Date
The next meeting of the Planning and Development Committee is scheduled for June 7,
2011.
IV. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 7:00 p.m.

