Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 26, 2008
at 5:30p.m. Page 1 of 4
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

February 22, 2008

Subject:

Minutes of the Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday February 26,
2007 at 5:30 p.m. in Rooms T & D

Board
Members Present:

Chair Kemp, Directors Brohl, Chacon, Daly, Elfenbein, Pulliam,
Ruchman, Tayer and Yamrick

Member Absent:

Directors Busck, Christopher, Kinton, Martinez, McMullen,
Quinlan

Staff Present:

Senior Staff: Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Dave Genova, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Liz Rao, Lloyd Mack, and Phil
Washington
Sherry Ellebracht, Caitlin Magee, Daria Serna, John Tarbert,
Greg Yates

Others Present:
***
Call to Order:

Kim Snyder, Galen Foster, Dave Minshall, Duncan Phelps, Julio
Rivera, Holman Carter, Tex Elam
Chair Kemp called the meeting to order at 5:30 p.m.

There was only one item on the agenda for the ATU 1001 Pension Discussion
which Marla Lien, Legal Counsel, presented. Marla Lien passed out a newly
revised resolution to the Board. A copy of that resolution is available in the
Study Session minutes notebook located in the Board office.
I. ATU 1001 Pension Discussion
Marla Lien provided some background information on this Trust including a
lawsuit (Walker case) which could assign liability to the RTD Salaried trustees
on this pension for willful and wanton conduct on decisions that were being
made in the performance of their duty as Trustees. Because these RTD
employees were not indemnified, the three current Trustees on the ATU 1001
Pension Trust tendered their resignation.
The purpose of this resolution is to confirm the status of the RTD employees

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 26, 2008
at 5:30p.m. Page 2 of 4
appointed by RTD to serve on the ATU 1001 Pension Trust and Health and
Welfare trust so that the employees will be provided coverage under the
Colorado Governmental Immunity Act (24-9-114) and to provide additional
protection to such employees against personal liability for costs of defense.
Furthermore, the objective is to provide arms length involvement for the Board
of Directors in the management or fiduciary responsibilities so that the Board
is not put in harm’s way.
Marla indicated that if the Board did not act, the ATU would have no quorum
in which to operate.
Several questions were asked from the Board of Directors:
Ruchman: Director Ruchman wanted to know how the resolution just passed
out differed from the other. Director Ruchman inquired if the categories
proposed in the resolution could be expanded to include other departments
where potential trustees with proper skills could be considered. The current
resolution identified Bus Operations, Labor Relations and Finance.
Daly: Director Daly provided the background of the suit to be represented
employees who later took up supervisory jobs.
Cal Marsella: Cal Marsella provided his recommendation that the Board
remains hands off in its appointment to the Trust by focusing on positions and
with this appointment, the Board will provide the indemnification needed for
the RTD Trustees to the ATU 1001 Board.
Tayer: Director Tayer inquired why the union did not have their own
insurance. Marla Lien responded they do have their own insurance but cannot
indemnify the RTD Salaried employees under their insurance for willful wanton
conduct.
Kemp: Director Kemp sought a clarification on the categories that Marla Lien
had provided in her recommendation and if it made sense to expand these
categories based on feedback from other Directors. How would the selection
take place?
Marla Lien explained that Cal Marsella would bring forth the names from the
respective categories to be approved by the Board.
Daly: Director Daly felt the categories should be open to include Rail which is
a significant portion for the represented employees.
Brohl: Director Brohl queried what exactly were the fiduciary responsibilities
or the management responsibilities of the Directors for this ATU Pension and
Health and Welfare Trust? Marla responded that the ATU Trust Agreement
would need to be changed to provide these responsibilities but it is not
advisable to do so. Her goal is to keep the Board out of harms way.
Yamrick: Director Yamrick feels this process takes into consideration of the
negotiations and if the terms of office can be changed by the Board. For the
Health & Welfare, there are 3 ATU trustees and 3 RTD trustees. What
happens when this Board is not in agreement?
Marla Lien explained that if they do not agree, they go to arbitration.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 26, 2008
at 5:30p.m. Page 3 of 4
Chair Kemp provided the opportunity for Holman Carter, ATU President and
ATU Trustee, and Julio Rivera to speak before the Board of this issue.
Holman Carter indicated that he felt the resolution addressed the issue of
indemnification for RTD. He also raised the question if RTD had indemnified a
trustee on the ATU Board previously. Marla Lien responded we have not.
Holman Carter then noted that the three trustees that were previously on the
Board had done a great job and they would be happy if they returned. He
noted he was less concerned about the position/category as he was someone
with institutional knowledge and the necessary skillsets to be value-add for
the ATU 1001 Pension Trust.
Daly: Director Daly inquired as to how Holman would like to see it. Holman
responded that 3 and 3 is workable for them. The process works.
Brohl: Director Brohl asked Holman if she understood him to say he was more
concerned about the skillsets and he preferred the 3 trustees who have
experience with the trust. If that is so, why don’t we identify these people to
be reinstated?
Cal Marsella responded that categories were identified particularly to create
the hands off needed for the Board and the recommendation that he would
like to bring before the Board will take into consideration the skillset and
history of the employee. Cal Marsella will make the appointments and the
Board approves.
Julio summed up the union position as thus. Their concern is if the Board can
provide the indemnification needed for the trustees. They would prefer the reappointment of the previous 3 trustees who had resigned. Nevertheless, they
are not involved in the process chosen by the Board to proceed.
Director Yamrick made the argument that the ATU and salary pension plans
are different. The salaried plan is funded by RTD whereas Union dues are paid
by the represented employees which can be sued as part of the negotiation
process. Cal Marsella indicated that Director Yamrick was right. During
negotiations, RTD has some monies which are distributed according to the
union decision.
Ruchman: Director Ruchman asked if we can indemnify all the members of
the ATU trust that would include the union representatives as well as the
salaried employees. Marla Lien and Cal indicated they would need to research
and explore.
Marla Lien indicated she would expand the categories to include additionally
legal, light rail operations and benefits.
II. Other Matters
Chair Kemp introduced Greg Yates as one of the new middle managers
appointed to the Salaried Employee Pension Plan Trust.

Summary of the Board Study Session Meeting held on Tuesday, February 26, 2008
at 5:30p.m. Page 4 of 4
Chair Kemp shared that sb 46 (Salary increase for Directors) moved out of
committee to go to the second reading on the floor. Several Directors
attended the hearing including Chacon, Pulliam and Kemp who testified. Cal
Marsella provided strong support for the Board as well.
Director Ruchman asked questions from the general manager report about the
application made by the US 36 corridor for Federal grants. Liz Rao indicated
this was for next year’s program since they had been declined in 2008.
III. Adjourn
The meeting adjourned at 6:40 p.m.

