January 29, 2019 Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: The record will reflect that we are convened as of 5:31 p.m. Mountain
Standard time, here in the RTD Board conference room in the basement level. I would
respectfully request everyone please turn off your cell phones, your pagers, your other electronic
devices, or at least silence them during the course of the meeting. And I would also note, for the
sake of the record and for the benefit of the public, that this meeting is being video and audio
recorded. So please be aware of that.
Our first item of business this evening, as we begin all of our Board meetings, is to have the
Pledge of Allegiance recited. And this evening we are extremely pleased to have a very special
guest with us, who will lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. This young woman has the distinct
pleasure tonight of being not only the daughter of our secretary, Director Jeff Walker, but she is
also on the eve of her ninth birthday.
[APPLAUSE]
So Mariella Walker, if you would come forward, please. And if you would all please stand,
Mariella will lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
ALL: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the Republic for
which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Mariella. Ms. McManus, if you would at this time, please call the
role of the Board.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: [INAUDIBLE].
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am also here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, at RTD, safety is our core
value. So we begin all of our meetings with a safety briefing. It's an important part of what this
agency does.

If we have a medical emergency, our General Counsel will be responsible for calling 911. If
there are any medically trained individuals in the room, we respectfully request that they come
forward to provide assistance. If it is needed, there is an automatic emergency defibrillator
device, an AED, just immediately outside this room on the wall on the right side.
If we must, for some reason, evacuate the building, please calmly exit out through the door in the
back, go upstairs and out the front door. Officers will be there to direct you to a safe place of
refuge. And if anyone needs special assistance in the event of an evacuation, that assistance will
be provided by the RTD staff, as necessary.
On a related safety note-- and this has come up several times in the past two weeks that I've had
occasion to talk about this, and people have asked questions about it-- please understand that
RTD does everything it can to make things safe for you. But you're partners in this with us. And
so as you have heard so often before, if you see something, say something.
The easiest way that you can say something is through the RTD Transit Watch app. That's an app
that's available on your Apple phone and on your Android phone. And that app, when installed,
will put you in immediate contact with our command center in the event of any circumstance that
causes you alarm or discomfort.
We want you to understand that, as Rodgers and Hammerstein wrote many years ago, you'll
never walk alone. When you have Transit Watch app, you'll never ride alone. So keep that in
mind. That is there to protect you.
We turn now to our retiree awards. We are fortunate to be joined this evening by a number of
retirees, all of whom worked in the Bus Operations department. So our Assistant General
Manager of Bus Operations, Fred Worthen, will recognize these dedicated employees, one at a
time. Assistant General Manager Worthen, the floor is yours, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair, Honorable Board Members. I always have a real hard
problem doing these type of events. It's a bittersweet thing for me. We have over 125 years of
experience in the room tonight that's going to be retiring, people that have worked on some
major, major projects for us, and it really helped us through a lot of growth in our services.
So I'm going to introduce first Mr. David Goens. Mr. Goens has been with us for 23 years. He is
currently working out of East Metro. I couldn't help but smile when I looked at hobbies. I see
you're a slot car racer. Please come forward.
So Mr. Goens, congratulations on 23 years' worth of service. Have our lovely plaque and a pen
for you. And this gentleman over here would like to take your picture.
[APPLAUSE]
And I'd like to welcome Mr. Goens' wife also to the celebration tonight. We also have another
driver who has been with us for 23 years, Mr. Edno Gonzalez. Mr. Gonzalez.

[APPLAUSE]
Mr. Gonzalez is currently working out of East Metro. Now, I've been told by your peers that you
can't be trusted, because you're a fisherman. They say fishermen never tell the truth. So fishing is
your hobby?
EDNO GONZALEZ: I love to fish.
FRED WORTHEN: You love it?
EDNO GONZALEZ: [INAUDIBLE].
FRED WORTHEN: Really? Well, congratulations on 23 years. Thank you for your service.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Is Mr. Grant here tonight? Leonard, please come and join me. I didn't see you over there. So
Leonard has actually been a Lead Street Supervisor for us out of Boulder for the last six years.
LEONARD GRANT: Well, actually, we were 18 years in Boulder.
FRED WORTHEN: 18 years in Boulder. So Leonard has actually been really critical to helping
with a lot of things like working on improving the AB service, working on organizing
BolderBoulder. He's been with us for quite some time now.
And he has plans to work on several home projects and some international travel. But you will be
missed in Boulder. I heard very, very many good things about you. But thank you for your
service.
[APPLAUSE]
[SIDE CONVERSATION]
Next we have Mr. Dale Plummer. Dale, would you please join us.
[APPLAUSE]
Dale has been a general repair mechanic for 34 years at Platt. Dale has actually gone through
some very, very interesting times with us. He has gone through multiple generations of the old
mall fleet. And he has also worked on developing processes that really helped us as we transition
from our old hybrid buses over to the existing new BYD fleet. So thank you very much for your
service, Mr. Plummer.
[APPLAUSE]

[SIDE CONVERSATION]
And last, but far from least, Mr. Kevin Smith. Kevin, would you join us. So Kevin is-[APPLAUSE]
Kevin is not only a quality control inspector, but I hear you're quite the avid car man. '39
Roadster?
KEVIN SMITH: '39 Ford street rod.
FRED WORTHEN: '39 Ford street rod. So your retirements are planning to travel the whole
country and the whole world?
KEVIN SMITH: Fire it up, and away we go.
FRED WORTHEN: Fire it up, and away we go. Well, congratulations on-- you have 18?
KEVIN SMITH: 18.
FRED WORTHEN: 18 years of service with us.
KEVIN SMITH: Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
Thank you, sir.
FRED WORTHEN: That would be all for this evening. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Worthen. It is quite impressive when you realize
135 years or so of service that you just saw in front of us. That's a great statement to our agency.
May I ask, are there any other of our retirees who have had an opportunity to join us this
evening? If so, we'd like to acknowledge you now in person. If there are not, we will thank
collectively, please, the following retirees.
We have Richard E Davis, who has been a bus operator for 28 years. We have Pete Nagy, who's
a general repair mechanic for 21 years; Alejandro Perez, a bus operator for 22 years; and Leroy
Sarno, a parts clerk for 26 years. Let's collectively thank these individuals and congratulate them.
[APPLAUSE]
We now turn to the public participation portion of our program. This is that period which is open
to anyone who wishes to speak to the Board, as is our custom. We do allow any of our elected

officials present to speak first so that they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their
governmental business.
If you have signed up to speak, I will call you in the order in which you signed up. If you haven't
signed up and would like to speak, I will ask for additional speakers at the end of the list. So
don't worry about that. We will take those additional speakers at that time.
Each speaker is allowed three minutes. Let me repeat that-- three minutes to speak. We
respectfully request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or
opposition to a speaker's comments, as such outbursts might have the effect, reasonably, of
chilling the free expression of thoughts by speakers. Please also bear in mind that by appearing at
this microphone, you do consent to being recorded, both audio and video, in your comments to
the Board. So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted
in writing.
When called, please come to the lectern, state your name and your address. If you have any
documentation or reference materials you'd like to provide to the Board, please just give them to
the Board staff prior to speaking.
So with that in mind, I'll call from the list. I don't see any governmental officials present with us
this evening. And the first name that I have is Donna Garnett. So Donna, if you'd please come
forward, give us your name and your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
DONNA GARNETT: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and thank you-DOUG TISDALE: If you press the button so we can get that microphone on, maybe-DONNA GARNETT: Great. Thank you. My name is Donna Garnett, and my address is 20367
East 49th Avenue Denver, 8023-- 49. Sorry. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and Directors for giving
us this opportunity to talk to you on behalf of Denver's Montbello community.
I'm here to ask you tonight to give consideration to an unsolicited bid proposal that we have
submitted to your staff almost three months ago. The property that we are specifically
referencing is 12,300 Albrook Drive, Denver, 80239, formerly known as the Montbello Park-nRide. This proposal and discussion tonight comes as a result of a four-year process, where over
2,500 residents in our community participated in a discussion, first and foremost, about
Montbello's assets and liabilities. And this conversation was sparked initially by the closing in
2014 of our only full-service grocery store.
And shortly thereafter, we began hearing rumors that RTD was going to close down the
Montbello Park-n-Ride upon the opening of the A line in 2016. So many of our neighbors and
residents are transit dependent, and they all already struggle with not enough affordable,
accessible transit services in our community. We received funding in 2016 from the Kresge
Foundation, the Colorado Health Foundation, and the Denver Foundation to carry on about a
year-long listening campaign and discussion with the community.

And we heard really loud and clear from people what they were concerned about. And at the top
of that was the lack of connectivity. In other words, people felt like they couldn't get to where
they needed to go. Also in that list was the need for full-service grocery, the need for affordable
housing, for access to good jobs, and the desperate need to build a safer, more economically
stable community.
So at the end of that, and over the next several-- about the last year, we began a list of solutions,
and not the least of which is that we'd like to reactivate that property at 12,300 Albrook, with a
full service grocery store, cultural hub, and affordable housing. My colleagues who were coming
after me will speak to that a little more. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Garnett. We appreciate your appearance this
evening.
ROLF ASPHAUG: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes.
ROLF ASPHAUG: I apologize. This is Rolf Asphaug, General Counsel. I had talked with the
Montbello representatives before and just wanted to caution them that under the district policies,
it's important that they not share information contained in their proposal, to avoid the potential
for disqualification. So I would just caution that nothing contained in the proposal will be shared.
And I've reviewed our unsolicited proposal policy to confirm that that should, in fact, be done.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, because the last thing we would
want to do is inadvertently to have some impact on something that otherwise might or might not
be worthwhile. We don't prejudge any of that. So with that caution in mind, let me call the
second speaker, which is Angelle Fouther. And I apologize if I have misspoken your name. But
Ms. Fouther, if you'd please come forward and give us your name.
ANGELLE FOUTHER: I am impressed you got the first name right. The last name is Fouther.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. All right. We're going to restart the clock here, though, because
I'm seeing we didn't do that yet. So for Ms. Fouther, if we'll restart the clock, and again, please.
ANGELLE FOUTHER: My name's Angelle Fouther. I live, work, and worship in Montbello in
District B. I'm a Montbello Board member and a Co-Chair of the FreshLo Initiative, which
you're looking at a summary of. I want to tell you a little bit about the Montbello community.
We're just over 34,000 residents with over 8,500 households. 60 percent of the community is
Latino, and 23% of adults are non-English speaking. The remaining makeup of the community is
largely African American and white, with smaller representation of Asian, African, and Pacific
Islander.
City data suggest that one in four adults do not have access to a car in our neighborhood and are,
therefore, transit dependent. This presents multiple challenges, especially to our aging, disabled,
and student residents because of limited connectivity to grocery stores, school, health care, et

cetera. We hear stories from elderly at Montbello Manor, who have to take turns going to the
grocery store, because their transportation mode can only accommodate two wheelchairs at a
time.
At the summer Farmer's Market, bus riders living across the street in the housing development
tell us of the extreme amount of time it takes them to get to the nearest full-service grocery store,
which is almost 10 miles from the bus stop on Albrook. They report spending as much as an hour
and having to take two buses to get to the store. Consequently, many residents, including
students getting back and forth to school, end up shopping for food at the 7-Eleven.
Through circumstance beyond our control, closing of the only full-service grocery store, closure
of the Montbello Park-n-Ride, and so on, we've been left both a food desert and a transit desert.
The process Donna just described included a market analysis conducted by a third-party
evaluator that demonstrated that with the amount of revenue going to grocery stores outside the
community, otherwise called leakage, with that, we can easily support one or more mediumsized grocery stores in addition to the grocery providers currently in existence.
With all this information and with community input, we have developed this FreshLo Initiative
and worked with a panel of national experts and under the direction of Urban Land Institute to
determine the feasibility of building out the FreshLo hub. Mayra Gonzalez will speak to the
outcome of that analysis and recommendations that emerge when she's called up.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Fouther. We appreciate your appearance here this
evening. Then I will call on Mayra Gonzalez now. And please, again, if you'd give us name and
address, and you'll have three minutes.
MAYRA GONZALEZ: Perfect. My name is Mayra Gonzalez. I live in District B at 12935 East
48th Avenue. I am a resident and FreshLo Walkable Loop Project Manager.
As Angelle just mentioned, in 2018, the Kresge Foundation, the Denver Foundation, and the
Colorado Health Foundation funded the expert panel process under the Urban Land Institute that
provided the feasibility of the FreshLo Initiative plan. Through this process, 118 stakeholders in
the Montbello community participated in this project, which included in-depth interviews with
residents, a thorough market analysis, and coordination with Denver's Neighborhood Planning
Initiative, the first in the round of neighborhood plans that the city is conducting.
The key focus for the ULI panel within the Montbello neighborhood was around the former RTD
Park-n-Ride, which is a remnant property. They concluded that developing a cultural hub at the
RTD site along Albrook Drive would bring exciting opportunities and economic activation to the
redevelopment of the entire surrounding area.
I have asked to be distributed the summary of the ULI analysis and validation of the
community's vision for a grocery-anchored FreshLo cultural hub. It's the purple packet that you
have in front of you. It is a proposed mixed use development that will include a grocery store,
office and retail spaces, a cultural center with a community theater, and up to 120 units of
affordable housing, which is a vision that the community has had.

We have also been active participants of Denver's soon-to-be-released Far Northeast
Neighborhood Plan, which highlights the FreshLo Initiative as a transformative opportunity for
Montbello. The neighborhood plan concludes that the FreshLo cultural hub with proposed
location at 12,300 Albrook Drive will serve as a cornerstone piece of the fabric that makes up the
Montbello neighborhood. For example, it's an ideal location for the creation of jobs, affordable
housing, and access to fresh and healthy food, due to its proximity to I-70 and the RTD
commuter rail.
Our housing plan augments the existing housing stock, permitting long-term residents to remain
in community, strengthening our resiliency against gentrification. And our development and
investment in the area can fix the food desert and increase economic opportunity. An opportunity
also exists with this project to vastly improve connectivity across the I-70 barrier. And lastly, the
opportunity exists to create better public transportation linkages for the historically isolated
community, thereby strengthening RTD's transit network. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Gonzalez. We appreciate your appearance here
this evening. We turn then to Mr. Willie Shepherd. If you'd please come forward, name and
address, and you'll have up to three minutes.
WILLIE SHEPHERD: Good evening. My name is Willie Shepherd, 270 Olive Street. I'm here
representing Burgess Community Development. Initially, originally, I was going to give a
presentation with respect to the proposal that we would like to have discussed.
But in an abundance of caution, speaking with your General Counsel, I think it's probably best
that I not do that. I'm here to answer any questions that you may have, but I certainly don't want
to interfere with the processes that you have outlined with respect to unsolicited proposals. So I'll
just defer to Counsel and answer any questions after my remarks. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We appreciate that, Mr. Shepherd. And just so that
people don't get the wrong idea, too, I want them to understand, first of all, General Counsel
gave very sound and solid advice relative to how the presentation might go. We do not have any
information concerning any such proposal. So the Board does not want to prejudice any
consideration associated with that.
And then secondly, in terms of the invitation that we might ask questions, during the public
participation period, the Board does not ask questions, because again, that might interfere with
the normal process that is engaged in in circumstances such as this. So do not take it as an affront
or as a lack of curiosity if no one asks any questions. It's just a policy in terms of how we
proceed.
All that having been said, if you'd like an additional minute to speak, because I've consumed
some of your time now, please feel free to do that. Otherwise, I'll go on to K. Haynes. It's up to
you, sir.
WILLIE SHEPHERD: Absolutely. Thank you, Mr. Chair. I'll defer to Ms. Haynes.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We then turn to K. Haynes, speaker number 5 this
evening. If you please come forward and give us your name and address, and you have three
minutes.
KHADIJA HAYNES: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Congratulations to all the newly
elected Board members. I'm so happy to see some of you returning and to see some of you
staying. It's lovely to be here this evening. My name is Khadija Haynes. My address is 12,000
East 47th Avenue, Montbello, Colorado, 80239.
I'm bringing up the rear, so I'm going to get to what we came here for, and that is the ask,
respecting-- and we do appreciate the advice of counsel and have not discussed details. But what
we would like for you to do is to encourage action. We submitted a proposal in November.
We've been working on this process and have met with staff and other individuals from RTD for
better than 2 and 1/2 years.
We are special. We've been anointed in many ways by the blessings of our community. We've
brought many people from our community here. Montbello residents, please raise your hand.
Thank you very much.
They're here to show their support for getting an answer, a response. That is the ask. We would
like to have a response on the unsolicited bid that we submitted for the abandoned remnant
property in our community. We have a viable plan. You have a booklet that outlines that.
The City of Denver's Planning Department. The City's Office of Economic Development, City
Councilwoman Gilmore, City Councilman Herndon, our two at-large councilpersons, support
this project. They support this community effort of residents coming together to build our own
future. In your hands is the ability to help a community with our self-help plan. In our hands are
our own dreams and our willingness to work hard to make them come true.
But the clock is ticking. All of the wonderful funders that you have heard about have been
waiting. We, too, have been waiting. We would like to have news in February before the clock
runs out. It is an honor for all of us to come down here and spend some time with you this
evening. We are available if there are questions from your staff. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Ms. Haynes. We appreciate your appearance here this
evening, as well. Those are all of the people who signed up to speak. But as I announced at the
beginning, if you have not signed up to speak and would like to, please feel free to come forward
to the lectern at this time, give your name, your address, and you will have up to three minutes.
DOUG GRAGG: My name is Doug Gragg. I live in 1135 Broadway, very close to here. I've got
a couple items. One, I see some new faces I'll have to get to know out there, and which is good.
It's always a challenge to get new people.
The others are very minor, but they are things that are important. One is your fare box situation.
I, on the average, run once a week on a bus that the fare box has some kind of maladjustment.

Well, that doesn't look very good when you raise your prices to be the highest in the nation. I
think it was the Post that told us that you're even higher than New York City and San Francisco.
So if you're going to be the highest priced, let's make noise. If you're going to be the highest
priced transit agent in the nation, you'd better get those little minor things fixed.
The other thing that-- I'm going to mention this, because I think it's probably still under
warranty-- all these nice little clocks you got out there saying that a train or a bus will be here at
a certain amount of time, well, they're not accurate. So go back on your warranty and get them
accurate, because I'm sure you spent a lot of money on those. And we don't want to have time out
before the things are not guaranteed. OK. Thank you very much, folks. Look forward to seeing
you all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. We always appreciate your participation. Anyone else
who has not signed up and who would like to speak at this time? This is your opportunity. Going
once, going twice, sold. Thank you very much. We do appreciate these comments, and we do
take them under consideration and will process them through appropriate channels.
The next item on our agenda relates to the committee reports. If you will note, we have
committee reports that include minutes of various of the committees. They are identified in your
packet.
It's as good a time as any to note that the Planning, Capital Programs, and FasTrack Committee
is now this year chaired by Director Judy Lubow. What is to be renamed as the Communications
and Government Relations Committee is to be chaired by Director Lynn Guissinger. The Civil
Rights Committee is to be chaired by Director Shontel Lewis.
The Operations and Customer Services Committee is to be chaired by Director Kate Williams.
The Financial Administration and Audit Committee will continue to be chaired by Director Ken
Mihalik. And the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management Committee will be
chaired by Director Broom.
We do have-- and I note someone is waiting to speak. We do have committee minutes from
several of these committees that were included in the Board packet. And we will ask shortly for a
motion to approve those. But let me first recognize Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. On packet page 13 under the Financial Administration and
Audit Committee minutes, it at one moment, line-- it correctly shows that Director Lubow had
seconded the motion for the North Metro rail line audit. And then below that, shows seconder,
myself. That should be corrected to Director Lubow.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the correction. The correction is so noted, unless
there is objection. Then the correction is so made. Any other comments or questions relative to
the minutes at this time? If not, may I please have a motion to approve the minutes submitted in
the Board packet.
BOARD MEMBER: I so move.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Is there a second to that motion?
BOARD MEMBER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all
those in favor indicate by saying aye.
BOARD MEMBERS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. The committee minutes are
approved, as amended in the particular, as noted by Director Menten.
Concerning the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management update, each meeting
of the Board, because of the importance, the singular importance of this committee and the
relationship that the Board has with its General Manager, we always invite the Chair to advise us
if there are any items or matters that the chair would like to bring to our particular attention at
this time. Director Bob Broom is the new chair of that committee for 2019. So this is his first
opportunity to say whether he has something special he'd like to point out, or whether there is
nothing special to report. Director Broom, Mr. Chairman, you are recognized.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. I have a little of both, I guess. First of all, we'll probably have
our first meeting in April, as we've had in the past years. And there will be some information that
will go out to the committee members for your review prior to that first meeting, and I would ask
you to take a look at.
In this past year, there was some impetus to take a look at the process that was used. And so my
advice would be that if you do have some changes that you'd like to be made to that process, as
will be outlined in the materials you received, that you please bring that up at the first meeting,
so that we can address those first, rather than waiting towards the end of the process to talk about
changing the process that we go through each year for the evaluation of the General Manager.
And I'm looking forward to working with my new committee. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Broom. We appreciate that. Our next item on
the agenda is the approval of the Board meeting minutes of December 16, 2018. First, are there
any comments, questions relative to those minutes? Seeing none, may I have a motion, please, to
approve the minutes from the regular Board meeting of December 16, 2018.
BOARD MEMBER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion. Is there a second to that motion?
BOARD MEMBER: Second.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a second to the motion. Is there any discussion on that motion?
Hearing none, all those in favor indicate by saying aye.

BOARD MEMBERS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
Next, we turn to the Chair's report. There are a number of highlights to bring to the attention of
the Board, which we really appreciate the opportunity, and to share with the public. The month
of January has been a particularly busy one for this Board. Our newest Directors were sworn in
on January the 8th, and we have gotten off to a very fast start. I personally am looking forward
very much to the opportunity to work with each and all of you.
I will identify, for the sake of this record, that our new Executive Committee consists of our Vice
Chair, Director Peggy Catlin; our Second Vice Chair, Director Angie Rivera-Malpiede; our
Treasurer, Director Shelley Cook; and our Secretary, Director Jeff Walker.
Relative to activities that have been going on, Directors Broom, Buzek, Catlin, Guissinger,
Lewis, Lubow, Rivera-Malpiede, Whitmore, and I attended several legislative events that were
held around the District to kick off the opening of the 72nd General Assembly, a busy one,
indeed, that we're looking forward to.
On Thursday, January 17th, the Aurora A-List event was held at the Gaylord Rockies resort and
Convention Center in Aurora. And Directors Broom, Folska, Rivera-Malpiede, and I attended
that event. And I will note, for the sake of this record, also that the Gaylord Hotel runs a shuttle
every 20 minutes from the hotel to the 61st and Pena station on the University of Colorado A
line, because that's how they want people to get around to the airport and to the city and county
of Denver and the region beyond. So we're very pleased that they have that shuttle service
running.
Directors Cook, Folska, Lewis, Williams, and I all attended the 34th annual Martin Luther King
Junior Business Awards held on Friday, January the 18th. On Tuesday, January 22nd, directors
Catlin, Cook, Folska, Lewis, Rivera-Malpiede, and I participated in the WTS Colorado 2019
Annual Awards Luncheon, where RTD's own Michael Washington was presented with an award
recognizing his work as Project Manager for RTD's Pass Program working group process. And it
was so great to have him receive that award, and particularly in the presence of Director Folska,
who was previously a national WTS winner of the Diversity Award from WTS.
Director Lewis, I'll recognize you, if it relates to this item.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. I was not able to attend the WTS, so just a correction.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. I appreciate the correction, and I apologize for the misstatement.
And then next, it's official-- the grand opening of the southeast rail extension of the E, F, and R
lines has been set for Friday, May 17, Friday May 17. The occasion will be marked by station
parties at the three new stations served by the extension. That's the Skyridge station, the Lone
Tree City Center station, and the Ridgegate Parkway station.

Along with these three stations, an additional 1,300 new parking spots will be made available to
RTD patrons along the line. Several directors and I attended the milestone event at CU South
Denver in Lone Tree last Friday. And I'm sure the General Manager will have more to say about
all of that in his report.
Another exciting bit of news occurred today. The 61st and Pena Autonomous Vehicle
Demonstration Project, also known by us as AV61, officially launched today at the Panasonic
campus. And there were total of nine directors there. Director Mihalik, Director Williams,
Director Buzek, Director Rivera-Malpiede, Director Catlin, Director Cook, Director Folska,
Director Whitmore, and I were all in attendance at this great event at the Panasonic campus. And
we had a ribbon cutting.
And for those of you who might be unfamiliar with this particular project, it's a partnership
between multiple stakeholders to introduce an autonomous, 100% electric, 12-person shuttle that
connects passengers from the 61st and Pena Park-n-Ride to nearby offices. It is a first of its kind
project in the United States, and RTD is absolutely thrilled to participate.
Relative to upcoming events, we have a status report that will be given to the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission this Friday afternoon. And Vice Chair Catlin and Treasurer Cook and
Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and I, and perhaps even Director Walker, Secretary
Walker, if he is available, will be in attendance at that PUC briefing to demonstrate our
commitment to the process that we are undergoing with PUC, as we report to them on the status
of the Federal Railroad Administration Plan that we submitted, relative to the University of
Colorado A line and the G line.
In addition to that, Directors Guissinger, Rivera-Malpiede, and Williams will attend Bicycle
Colorado's Moving People Forward event on Thursday, February 7th. And Rivera-Malpiede will,
in fact, be one of the presenters at that event. And WTS Colorado will hold its annual Awards
Gala at the Cable Center, and directors Catlin, Folska, Lewis, and I will be in attendance for that
great event for WTS Colorado.
That concludes the Chair's report. It's my privilege now to recognize our CEO and General
Manager, to ask Mr. Genova if you would like now, please, to present us with your report, sir.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you Mr. Chair, I will. And as you said, a lot has happened in January.
As I was putting together the report, I thought even with holidays in there, there's quite a bit of
activity. You have the annotated report in the packet, and that's also available publicly. So I'll hit
a few highlighted items that I'd like to just bring to the attention of the Board.
So late December we had our quarterly meeting with the Federal Transit Administration and our
own team of staff. And that meeting is typically to go through our grant-funded projects and give
the FTA a status update and then respond to any other questions. And of course, the two main
projects that we talk about in that particular meeting are the Eagle project and the Full Funding
Grant Agreement we have there and the status of that project, the University of Colorado A line,
B line, and G line. And then also, the southeast rail extension was funded partially by a federal
grant, so we talked about that project, as well.

On December 20th, we had a meeting at Federal Railroad Administration headquarters in
Washington DC. And this was the first meeting we had with the FRA headquarters team since
we had received that correspondence from the FRA in November. So the purpose of the meeting
that I suggested we be there in person to present our action plan, that we did submit a number of
days ahead of that about the middle part of the month, and then just hear from the FRA on their
particular questions or concerns or comments that they had on the plan. That meeting was also
attended by phone by Chair Tisdale, demonstrating support on behalf of the organization and the
Board.
We had a very good meeting at that particular time. We basically did a page-by-page turn of the
document that we had submitted, took note of all the various comments and clarifications that the
FRA was requesting. We agreed towards the end of that meeting that they wanted to see a little
bit more information on the specific tasks and the objectives behind those. So we agreed on the
format of a 90-day look-ahead plan that we did submit a couple of weeks later. And then I'll
update you a little bit more as we get to the next meeting on that.
And then subsequent to that meeting, we did receive an email that the FRA was impressed by the
commitment from the RTD Board, the RTD team, and the DTP team, and essentially that the
plan represented a viable path forward. So it was a good meeting with good progress.
Earlier this month, there was an article published in HNTB THINK magazine, in which we
profiled the Mile High Transformation. There is a link to that article in the GM report, if you're
interested. It was a good opportunity, I think, to highlight a lot of the things that have been
happening around the District lately in terms of technology and fair programs and other kinds of
activities.
On January 7th, myself and a few team members went to visit Denver, the Convention and
Visitors Bureau. They ask a lot of questions, in terms of how to buy bulk passes for conferences
and other kinds of visitors and things. And what we wanted to do at this particular meeting was
really inform them on the mobile ticketing application and how that can be used for bulk
purchases through an Administration Portal that right now is coordinated through RTD, if they
supply us the information.
We're able to-- for those conventions and those groups that want to buy ticketing ahead of time,
we can do that through the mobile ticketing. Those folks that are part of those groups can
download the app, and then we can push out the media to them, and they only get charged for the
media that they activate. So it's, I think, a really good way to work with larger groups.
A future feature we're going to put on that is that we'll be able to have others administer it
through a portal, in addition to us, and then we can bill them. So for example, if Visit Denver
wanted to do this on a fairly regular basis, they could administer that on their own, and we would
just invoice them on a monthly basis. So a great tool and a great addition to our already popular
mobile ticketing application.
I wanted to just talk briefly about the US 36 Transportation Solutions 10th Legislative Breakfast
that was held in January and well attended by the Board, and then also well attended by

stakeholders. I was part of a panel and able to talk about a lot of the things happening within the
District, particularly in respect to what's happening in our northern part of the district.
On January 10th, myself and a couple of team members, we met with the Wabtech CEO and
Vice President and another representative from Wabtech. And I'll remind you that Wabtech is the
organization that is the designer of our Positive Train Control signal system and grade crossing
systems on the Eagle project and also on the N line. So it was good to have that meeting in
person with the leadership of Wabtech and talk about the Eagle project, and then also advancing
North Metro and some of the dispatching questions we have around integrating all of those
systems.
I attended the Metro Mayors Caucus annual retreat on Saturday, January 12th. It was a good
session. There was a significant amount of discussion on transportation, as you could imagine.
So it was good to be there and hear directly from the mayors on their perspective.
Then we had a subsequent meeting at FRA headquarters in Washington on January 16th. And
this is where we went in and presented the follow-up information from the previous meeting in
December, including the 90-day look-ahead plan. We received comments from the FRA on that
plan. And we reached agreement on additional information that we would provide on a monthly
basis in the form of a type of a progress report. And then we scheduled our next meeting for
February 21st.
First Vice Chair Catlin attended that meeting in person. She was in Washington on other
business and was able to join us, which was very good for her to be able to be present and
represent the Board and in the commitment there.
So going forward with the FRA, as far as that action plan, we agreed that we wouldn't be making
edits or changes to that action plan, but every month, we would present them with a refreshed
90-day look-ahead. And so some of this information I've described to the Board in the weekly
memos, but I just wanted to make sure that I iterated it here.
And I think I'll just-- I've got a few other items, but while we're on the FRA topic, I'll update you
on exactly where we are today. I had a conversation with Mr. Lauby of the Federal Railroad
Administration. He's the Associate Administrator for Safety and the Chief Safety Officer, and
he's usually the person that signs most of the waivers and letters and agreements and things like
that. And he typically leads the meetings that we have in Washington DC.
So the FRA is working on three documents or three approvals. And they're all in various form-what he communicated to me today is they're in various form of drafting or drafts right now that
are working through the FRA process. They have a pretty extensive internal review that they go
through, including legal.
But those three items, or the three approvals that we're looking to see very shortly, are the
Waiver for Constant Warning Time on the University of Colorado A line, at least for the Denver
crossings; the addition of the G line to the University of Colorado A line and B line Operating
Waiver that gives us the approval and the relief for the minus-5 and plus-15 second buffer time.

So that's the second item. And then the third item is the approval for revenue service
demonstration, which is a positive train control-related approval that we need to advance the G
line towards revenue service.
I asked him about the timing of when we might expect to see those. He didn't think we would see
them this week. He did say they are fully staffed for now, that their staff has returned to the
offices. So that is good, and so they have people that actually work on these administrative types
of things.
But I'm hopeful we should see those shortly. So I think that's good progress, and I felt good
about the conversation today. And I will share this information as part of our update when we
have the status conference with the Public Utilities Commission on Friday.
A couple other items-- I've been doing a lot of one-on-ones with the Board members. Those of
you that I've been meeting with know we did a little bit of a unique thing with-- Director Cook
had asked me if I would join her in Arvada. And we went and visited with a couple of
businesses. And so that was, I think, a very effective and interesting afternoon. And so if other
Board members are interested in doing those kinds of things, just please let me know, and we can
do that.
The Chair talked about the extension of the E, F, and R lines. And I'll just tell the Board that
we'll have an opening weekend that'll be very similar to what we've done for any other extension
or project openings, with a reception on that Thursday night, May 16th, the ribbon cutting and
grand opening celebration on May 17th. There will be free rides along the extension for that
community. And then on Saturday there will be free rides on the entire light rail and commuter
rail system, as is our tradition and custom as we open a project.
And we'll have station parties at the Southeast, on the Southeast rail, those three new stations.
This coincides with our run board. And so we always try to do our openings on rail to coincide
with the run board, so that all of the bus schedules are all linked up with rail. We realize that this
is walking into the APTA bus conference that some of us will be attending. But hopefully, we'll
be able to attend some of the early-on activities that weekend.
Just last week on January 24, I was able to spend some time with the Burlington Northern Santa
Fe railroad representative, the Vice President of Commuter Operations for Burlington Northern.
He was actually here with the commuter rail program from Chicago, called Metro, because they
wanted to learn more about our wireless grade crossing systems, because everyone is interested
in doing this and moving that ahead because of the efficiencies and other things that we have in
our system that other types of systems don't have, including some of the safety features where
our system prevents any kind of an early arrival, where other PTC systems don't do this.
So it was a good meeting. The interesting thing is that in the conversation I had with the
Burlington Northern, talking about maybe some other kinds of FRA-compliant vehicles that may
be of interest to us, Burlington Northern is going to come back and present to RTD staff in
March. And then we're hopeful to have a more broader meeting in April about some of the things
that they present to us regarding vehicles and maybe some different kinds of O&M activities. So

we're continuing to hopefully advance the peak service plan and model with them. And so I
wanted to update the Board on that.
The Chair mentioned the 61 AV ribbon cutting event today was well attended. And we were very
happy to do that and, again, be a leader in the industry and in the region.
I believe I had next to my notes the update on the A, B, and G, but I think I gave that to you,
regarding the status of those three documents. We are preparing for the status conference with
the Public Utilities Commission for Friday. And my intent there is to just give a complete
overview on where we have been since the letter from the FRA.
As you may know, the interaction with the Commission is quite different than the interactions
with the FRA. At the FRA we're actually working with the staff and the decision makers there all
at once. The Commission's a little bit different, as we work with the staff, and then the
Commissioners is a very formal administrative process.
So I think it's a great opportunity, actually, for us to go in and inform and educate, especially as
we'll be looking towards bringing them information on the G line crossings and hopefully getting
those approvals soon, just the same process that we went through for the University of Colorado
A line.
I think the Board is very well aware of the accident we had yesterday on the R line, an incredibly
unfortunate accident. And it was really, really a tragic event. It was a rough morning all the way
around yesterday. We did provide some preliminary information to all the media outlets that
asked.
We had at least one outlet that said we didn't provide a comment. We contacted them today and
said, we tried to reach you. You didn't call us back, or there was some misfire there. But we did
provide a statement to everyone that had asked.
That accident, of course, is under full investigation. Our internal investigation process is at work,
as well as the Aurora Police Department. The local police jurisdiction typically has the main
investigative authority on those kinds of accidents. And so they have their process, we have ours.
We're cooperating with them fully, including any information we can give them off of the train.
We do think that speed could have been a factor going into that curve. And we're looking at, of
course-- we're exhausting every item we can as we look at the investigation, including why the
doors would have been able to open. We don't know why, at this point in time, but we're looking
at all the different things, why that may have been a reason. In all my time here, I've never seen
anything like that happen, as far as somebody being able to come out of a car like that.
Also yesterday, as you're aware, it was a very challenging day for all of our bus operators, all of
our rail operators. There was a multitude of accidents, not just for us, but throughout the whole
region. The timing of that storm was probably the absolute worst. It's unfortunate, because it
makes an already hard job that our operators and supervisors have even that much more difficult

yesterday. But our team, as they always do, responded as best they could and did what they could
do, and they did well, considering the circumstances.
I also had some questions earlier today about some of our systems that provide information like
Next Ride and other real time information. I did check with our web team on that. They said that
those systems were functioning, but from time to time, we may lose communication with a
specific bus or a specific route. But system-wise, I asked them to look into that today, and they
did. And they said that there wasn't anything that they could see that had caused the system to go
down at all.
An interesting fact is that a normal day we receive about 48,000 visitors to the website.
Yesterday we had over 74,000 visitors on the website. So I think people were looking for ways
to take transit in the midst of that big storm.
And then the last item, and certainly not least that I want to mention, is that Pauletta Tonilas, our
new Assistant General Manager of Communications, is actually with us tonight. And I was
teasing her. I said, you report next week. But she's here. Pauletta, can you stand up so everybody
knows you? This is Pauletta.
[APPLAUSE]
Pauletta comes to us with great experience, over 30 years experience in the communications
realm, lots of leadership in the last 3 and 1/2 years. She was in the same position that she's
coming into here in Denver at Los Angeles Metro. So we're very eager to have her on board and
all that she brings. And you will hear directly from her next Tuesday night at the Government
Relations and Communications Committee. So she'll give you just a real high-level overview of
what she's thinking about and some of her plans.
So Mr. Chair, that concludes my report. I'm happy to answer any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. General Manager. Let me point out, for the sake
of the record, first, that relative to the Aurora Police Department investigation of that accident,
let me confirm and ratify, for the sake of the public and all, that RTD is fully and completely and
unqualifiedly cooperating with the Aurora Police Department in the investigation.
And also, concerning the PUC meeting that both Mr. Genova and I mentioned, all are welcome. I
indicated that the Executive Committee, essentially, is going to be there. All directors are more
than welcome to come, and I think it would make a great statement if you did.
Before turning to the speakers who have requested, because our Vice Chair was involved in that
meeting at FRA also, I do want to give her just a minute if she wanted to supplement any of the
conversation regarding that.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank, you Mr. Chair. I invited myself, basically, to attend, and General
Manager Genova graciously allowed me to come in. And I found it to be incredibly valuable.
Not only was I able to meet with Bob Lauby, with whom the staff has been working with, but I

also got to meet the Administrator, Ron Batory. And he also pledged his support for getting this
project done.
But you know, when you hear that things are going well and that we're right on track, you're kind
of reminded month after month of our former football coach, who always said, we had a great
week of practice. The proof is really in seeing the game. And I just was very, very pleased with
the way our staff and also DTP representatives were working with the FRA staff.
But more importantly, I was impressed with the way the FRA staff, not only Bob Lauby, but
Carolyn Hayward-Williams, who's the head of the Signal and PTC, and other staff, as well as
Steve Fender, who was on the phone from the regional FRA office-- everybody was really
working very, very diligently with action items and schedules and commitments. And it just
showed such commitment to progress that I was very, very encouraged and was just struck by
the commitments from all of the parties. And it was very reassuring that we're moving forward.
And the one line that I really appreciated from Deputy Administrator Lauby was that he really
liked the plan-- he really liked the plan-- and that he appreciated that from the previous iteration
of the plan, that all of the fluff had been taken out, and all of the politics had been taken out. And
it was just a meaningful way toward progress. So just witnessing firsthand that interaction is
always very positive. And I just can't thank you enough for sharing the opportunity with me, and
it was just very encouraging So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. We appreciate that
annotation to the meeting.
Let me go to the speakers in line now. And I have first, Director Folska. You are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Genova, can you speak to any, if at all,
impact the government shutdown has had on RTD receiving its full funding grant agreement?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you, Director Folska. Regarding the full funding grant agreement for
Eagle, it hasn't had any impact, because we have an amount to draw down yet. And that amount
is on hold until we have a suitable recovery plan for the G Line. And so the shutdown has not
impacted us, as far as that goes.
Interestingly enough, I did receive a call from Cindy Terwilliger, who is the Regional
Administrator for FTA for our region. And the point of her call to me today was, we're back in
the office, we're fully staffed. We have a few weeks, we know. Let me know what priorities you
need us to process while we know we're here for sure, just in case.
So the team is putting together what we may have, as far as other kinds of grant funding that we
received that are outside of the full funding grant process. I mean, so far, we haven't had any
negative impacts, in terms of the shutdown. But we'll certainly put together our list if we have
items that we need processed rapidly. So thanks for the question. I meant to talk about that
during my GM report. I'm glad you brought it up.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, thank you very much. And then further to that, has the government
shutdown impacted the process moving forward with FRA?
DAVE GENOVA: No. Fortunately, the team members that we have been working on a regular
basis with, the FRA, Mr. Lauby, and Carolyn have been available to us. They've been reviewing
documents. They've been participating in teleconference calls with us and phone calls. So they've
been working, and I don't think we've missed a beat, really, because of the shutdown, with the
FRA because of their diligence in working with us.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, that's really terrific. My final question has to do with the bulk
purchase of tickets. Can you talk about what constitutes a bulk purchase and what advantages an
agency or a company has with that? Do they get a discount?
DAVE GENOVA: There are no discounts for bulk purchases. So we don't offer that, as far as
any of our fare programs for bulk. In terms of someone like the Convention and Visitors Bureau
or other conventions or other groups that are traveling, it's simply a convenience to try to be able
to get them the media, the fare media ahead of time, so that when they get to Denver and hit the
ground, they're ready to go.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Director Cook, Madam Treasurer,
you are recognized.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you, Chair. Mr. Genova, I just wanted to double check. You were
talking about the status conference and planning to provide an overview. In listening to that
podcast, it was my sense that they, the Chair in particular, had a number of specific questions.
And I just wanted to make sure that we identified those and were planning to address them
specifically and not just sort of hope they're covered in the overview, is my hope. He seemed to
want those addressed one by one, even almost, and Francis Consiglio also.
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, thank you. We've had several internal meetings already this week. So we
have that list of items that the Commission wants to hear about and wants us to discuss with
them. So we are preparing specific information for each one of those. I am hoping in the
overview to try to hit as much of that in my introduction, as much as we can.
We're also hopeful to be presenting some data to them so that they can actually see the
functionality of the grade crossings, in terms of the high percentages, the 90-plus percentage of
the activations that do fall within the buffer time. So we are actively engaged, both with the RTD
team and the DTP team. We had a joint meeting this morning with DTP to help plan for Friday's
presentation, as well.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Treasurer. Director Williams, you're
recognized.

KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. General Manager Genova, I am a little more
mundane than my colleagues. I want to know, number one, we're going to have free rides on
May 18, the Saturday after the opening? Is that the right date?
DAVE GENOVA: That's correct.
KATE WILLIAMS: And is that only on trains, or is that on all of our system?
DAVE GENOVA: It's only on trains. That's what-KATE WILLIAMS: Trains only.
DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. That's been our practice and our custom, is we've opened rail projects
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I have more buses in District A, but that's all right. And then I wanted
to give you some information. Yesterday at DRMAC, we have an information and assistance
line. We had lots of people calling us, as well, due to the weather.
And we were steadfastly unable to get anything from the website. So it's possible that maybe
we're overwhelmed, and we have some kind of limits on there, because we're trying on an awful
day to do scheduling and routing that you can do on our website, and we weren't able to. So
thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: May I just ask a clarification, Mr. Chair?
DOUG TISDALE: Please.
DAVE GENOVA: Was that on the-- just the last comment you made, made me think, well, on
the DRMAC website or the RTD website?
KATE WILLIAMS: The RTD website.
DAVE GENOVA: I was just wondering if you had some kind of interface. OK, RTD website.
KATE WILLIAMS: No. We actually do it manually. So thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. We appreciate your bringing that to the General Manager's
attention. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you so much, Chair Tisdale. I was wondering, Dave, is there any update
on the quiet zones?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. Regarding the quiet zones, the main update there is the-- I probably
wasn't as descriptive as I could have been-- the waiver that we're anticipating for Constant

Warning Time on the University of Colorado A line crossings in Denver. So is we need to get
that Waiver for Constant Warning Time before we can get the quiet zone. So the next step will
be applying or filing the Notice of Establishment of Quiet Zones.
And we already have assembled all of that paperwork. It's over at City and County of Denver.
They're reviewing it. Hopefully, they'll be signing off on that and submitting it soon, because one
of the things that we did ask the FRA when we were at the last meeting is if we could submit the
Notice of Establishment in anticipation that we'd be receiving that constant warning time waiver,
because that Notice of Establishment has a 21-day time period on it, and we wanted to start to
get that clock ticking.
They said we could submit it, so we're hopefully going to get that submitted, I'm thinking any
day now. And so I think we're really very close towards getting the quiet zones on the University
of Colorado A line crossings, at least the ones in Denver.
Now, the two in Aurora, we're under a little bit of a different process, because they don't have
quad gates. It's a different kind of a setup. And so even though the comment period is closed on
that, FRA has not been specific about whether we'll get that waiver at the same time we get the
Denver crossings or not.
And I know that the FRA does have some questions around the Chambers crossing, so that might
slow down-- I'm just speculating-- that might slow down getting the quiet zones at the two
crossings in Aurora. But those are really kind of in industrial settings, and that's not where-- the
lion's share of concerns and complaints we get are from the residences and those in Denver.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. Is there a kind of estimate of a timeline?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, as soon as we file the Notice of Establishment, it's 21 days, assuming
the Constant Warning Time Waiver comes through.
JUDY LUBOW: So we're talking about maybe a month?
DAVE GENOVA: I don't want to speak before we get that Constant Warning Time Waiver in
hand, but we are getting very close. And we will have a big announcement. We'll have a big
celebration when we do.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, I bet you will. [LAUGHS]
DAVE GENOVA: Do you hear that? Trying to figure that out. I'm working with a marketing
team on how we can be clever about that.
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah.
DAVE GENOVA: The sound of silence or something.

JUDY LUBOW: Right. One more question, if you don't mind. I think you mentioned that
Chicago Metro and other places are very interested in following our lead with the-- is it the
wireless?
DAVE GENOVA: The wireless crossing technology.
JUDY LUBOW: Well, we've had such trouble. What are they wanting to follow?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, the advantages that that-- outside of the fact that it's taken a long time
to get our approvals, the advantages of the wireless system are-- there's a number of them. One
of them is it's a much less expensive infrastructure to put in than hard wired and other kinds of
things. And even the BNSF is very curious about this.
And they stated, hmm, this next project-- they talked about a big project coming up. And they
said, hmm. They said, I'm not quite sure we're ready to do that just yet. But they said, it's too bad,
because it would have been a big savings for them, and then also some of the safety features that
come from that. And one that I mentioned was that system really, essentially, guarantees you
won't get an early arrival at a grade crossing. And there's no other PTC system, is my
understanding, that does that, unless you have that wireless feature that Wabtech has designed as
part of ours.
So the other thing I just want to be clear on is that Wabtech has designed a-- Positive Train
Control Systems, a lot of the railroads are using Wabtech's software, same software we have, that
we're using. The difference is, we have that wireless feature that you can just add in or not.
JUDY LUBOW: OK. So I assume they are thinking that most of the bugs are gone so that-DAVE GENOVA: Yeah. We were, unfortunately, on the bleeding edge of this one.
JUDY LUBOW: Yes. OK. Thank you. Thank you very much.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Mr. Chair. General Manager, three items. The first
one is, I, too, had an issue with the website and Next Ride just disappearing on my phone.
Yesterday was not the first time that has occurred. It's happened to me several times. So I just
wanted to give you that, from my perspective.
The second thing is, I really want to commend our staff in the dispatch center. I called. I was on
hold for 10 minutes. They were extraordinarily busy. But they were so gracious when they were
on the phone.
And I had a constituent on one phone, them on another phone, and Next Ride on my third device,
trying to figure out what was happening with a particular bus route. But I just want to say thank

you to the dispatch staff, because I can't even imagine the chaos that was happening there. So
please extend my gratitude.
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. We will.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: And then finally, I would really like to just kind of get a brief
update of what's occurring with the key stakeholders in Affordable Fares Plan of Action. I know
that they're starting to meet. Can somebody tell me what they're doing and what the timeline
looks like?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, we did. We did an update some time ago on that timeline. I'm thinking
about maybe next week. I know that we've already pretty much prepared the packet. I'm looking
for either Heather or Bill.
BOARD MEMBER: It will be in the packet for the Finance Administration.
DAVE GENOVA: For Finance, we can do an update? OK. So not next week, but two weeks
from tonight, we'll bring an update on that as part of the Finance and Administration and Audit
Committee.
DOUG TISDALE: Then is that all, Madam Second Vice Chair? Thank you. Madam Vice Chair,
you're recognized.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just another brief observation. The question that came up with regard to the
quiet zones and the waivers-- the other good piece of news that I think we heard in Washington
DC at the FRA headquarters was that the Denver crossings were not going to be tied to the
Aurora crossing, so that we could go ahead and move on the Denver crossings without waiting
for the whole package. So that was a piece of good news
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Vice Chair. Director Broom, you are
recognized, sir.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. Has the person that was injured in the light rail incident in
Aurora-- have they been released from the hospital, or do we know what kind of condition
they're in?
DAVE GENOVA: Thank you. I know that there was a very, very serious to severe injury to one
of that person's limbs, I believe, leg injury. I don't know the extent. I heard a lot of different
information about that yesterday.
The HPPA rules around that really prevent us from getting that kind of information from the
hospital or the health care provider. And even the Aurora Police Department press release that
was put out yesterday that I did share with the Board in that email, they just said a serious,
serious injury. I suspect that that person is still in the hospital and will be for some time, just
based on what I've heard.

BOB BROOM: Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: But certainly, as we're able, we will provide updates.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Broom. Are there any other questions for the
General Manager? Long series of questions, but it's been a very active time. So thank you very
much, General Manager, for that.
We turn then to the unanimous consent portion of our agenda. We have one single item on the
unanimous consent agenda tonight that is noted for the sake of the record, as agenda item
number 11, action A, specifically a contract amendment authority for MCCi. That's Laserfiche
value added reseller.
First of all, are there any questions about this item that someone would like to pull it from the
unanimous consent agenda? Hearing no indication, may I have a motion to approve the
unanimous consent agenda? I have a motion by Director Williams.
TROY WHITMORE: I second.
DOUG TISDALE: And I have a second by Director Whitmore. And so we will now ask, is there
any discussion on the motion to approve the unanimous consent agenda? Hearing none, if you
would please proceed to vote electronically, Director Williams as the movant, Director
Whitmore as the second.
By a vote of 15 in favor and none opposed, the unanimous consent agenda is approved.
We turn then to the recommended action portion of our agenda. There are no recommended
actions that are on our agenda for this evening. And relative to the agenda 13 Executive Session,
that is always kept there as a stopgap, if you will, in the event that an Executive Session is
warranted during the meeting. And there is none that has been warranted this evening, and there
was none planned.
Is there any old business that any Director would like to bring forward at this time? Seeing none,
then relative to new business agenda item 15, this is the opportunity for us to bring new business
forward. The Chair has a couple of items that the Chair would like to bring to the attention of the
Board and the public. You're already aware of this.
By the end of this week, actually probably on Thursday, the directors will all receive yet another
copy of draft revised versions of the Board's operating guidelines and our committee charters for
the committees. The Board operating guidelines that are currently in effect for this Board, they
were approved by a resolution of the Board, adopted back in 2014. The draft revised operating
guidelines that you have received previously and will be receiving again, update that 2014
resolution, in order to reflect current best practices and to incorporate various other reasonable
guidelines that have been agreed to by the Board during the course of recent retreats, as well as
including in there some memoranda that have been drafted by our General Counsel, which are

there to help lend guidance to the Board's proper consideration of matters and the conduct of its
business.
The committee charters themselves were initially created as a result of the State performance
audit that was conducted back in 2010. The original charters were amended over time and at
different times, and new committees were created. In the process of doing that, certain elements
were added to some charters, but were not added to others. The draft revised charters are an
attempt to harmonize and to make reasonably consistent the provisions of all the charters going
across the boards.
And at least one ministerial bylaw amendment will have to be made. You've heard us refer
tonight to the Government Relations and Communications Committee. It's the Government
Relations Committee as it stands now. We need to amend the bylaw to make it the
Communications and Government Relations Committee. But that's the intention, and the charter
addresses that, but the bylaw would have to be changed.
The request of the Board-- and then I'll acknowledge the speakers here-- the request of the Board
office and the Board Chair is that if you would each please, once again, review these draft
documents. We started circulating them in November and then again in December and now again
in January. And we're going to bring them to the next Executive Committee meeting, which will
be held on Valentine's Day, February 14th. So I sincerely hope it will be a love fest as we go
through the discussion of the Board Operating Guidelines and the Committee Charters and any
proposed revisions that we need to make to the bylaws.
If you do have comments you'd like to make, please bring forward a considered amendment at
the Executive Committee meeting on February 14th. So let me now-- having said that, I
acknowledge first Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: Oh, yes. I'd forgotten. I was just listening to all the brilliant wordage, and I just
forgot. OK. I was basically talking about the Montbello proposal, and I don't know anything
about it, other than what was raised. But they certainly seemed to put a lot of effort and time and
commitment into it. So I would just urge us to as expeditiously as possible get them an answer so
they can move on. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Mr. General Manager, would you care to comment?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes, just quickly. So we did come to the Board-- I don't remember the exact
date, I'm going to say it was a couple of months ago-- and let the Board know that we had
received this unsolicited proposal and that we had reviewed it. And we received direction from
the Board to go back and do an analysis on the property, in terms of whether we thought is a sale
the best thing to do for this property, or is there a potential to lease it, because the proposal was
to buy the property.
And so we took that information, because we wanted to receive-- part of our unsolicited proposal
process is when we receive one, and we go through it, and we determine its viability. The other

course is to report to the Board and then to determine our next steps. So as part of our next steps,
we've been working through that analysis. It's just about done.
I understand that we will give a verbal kind of an update on where we are with that analysis next
week, on kind of, is that a good candidate-- that parcel of property, is it a good candidate for
purchase, or is it a better candidate for lease? What's best for the District? So we'll be able to
kind of give some preliminary information on where we are with that next week at the Planning
and FasTracks Committee.
JUDY LUBOW: All right. Thank you.
DAVE GENOVA: You're welcome.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director, for raising the question. Director Folska, you
are recognized.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I have two items. One is a question for Mr.
Genova, regarding the Montbello development. Regardless of whether we sell it or lease it, if we
said we wanted to lease it, they could still move forward. I mean, it should be generating enough.
So I mean, one way or another, they should be able to move forward on that development, I
would hope. It seems super solid and that the community needs it, and they're very supportive of
it. So I hope that they're able to be successful.
Mr. Chair, as an administrative note, because we will be changing the bylaws, that will be on the
agenda to change the bylaws, or even with the charter. So the bylaws require a super majority, so
that would be 10 votes. But the other changes that we would agree to would be a simple
majority. Can you confirm that?
DOUG TISDALE: I can explain that. The committee charters themselves, yes, would be a
majority vote of the Board, which presumably would be eight. The bylaws themselves, pursuant
to an amendment, I think in 2010 or so, does require 10 votes in favor.
It's not just a question of a super majority. It's specified as 10 votes. Because you could have, for
example, 12 people in the meeting, and a super majority at that point might be considered eight.
But the amendment language is specifically 10 votes to amend.
So yes, there is a difference for the bylaw. That's why the only thing we're looking at, of which I
am presently aware-- there may be some other ministerial ones that we have to address, but the
ministerial change is just to change the name of the Government Relations Committee to
Communications and Government Relations. Does that respond to your question?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Well, it's a little bit confusing. So if you could have someone maybe from
the Board office or perhaps Counsel could send out an email to everybody what that really is.
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely. We can certainly provide that.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yeah, just to have it in writing, so people can refer to it, if need be.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes. I thank you for the question, and we'll be happy to do that, Director
Menten, you are recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So just to let the Board know, you all received our proposed
service changes in the hearings. There's one that will be added on, and that is the City of Golden
has requested, since they have really one of the two substantial changes in here, to have a
meeting, which they've arranged. And that will be February 13th at 6:00 p.m. at Golden City
Hall. And so again, that's February 13, 6:00 p.m., Golden City Hall.
And they would like some special time-- let's call it that-- to talk about the move on the last
segment of the W line from Jefferson County Government Center to the Federal Center in the
reduction of headways. So everybody is invited, if you would like to attend that.
And I do have one question regarding the other document that we got for the mobile ticketing.
And what you'll see here-- and I wasn't aware of this, so I'm bringing out now-- is on the inside
of this brochure that I think we all got multiple copies of, it states that pre-purchased tickets for
RTD mobile tickets expire 45 days after purchase. And I don't recall seeing that before. I'm sure
it was in the documents that we saw.
But it seems to be a little bit inconsistent with what we do with our other media, in that people
even have a point in time well past even the expiration date that they can exchange it, say, if it
was a paper ticket or old media. So to have 45 days expiration, even though it's electronic media,
is there a reason?
And I've got a question. When you're buying this, does it tell the buyer that? Because 45 days
sounds like a lot, but I know in my life, that flies by-- boom-- like that. So-DOUG TISDALE: Let me recognize General Manager to respond to that, and if you need to
have our Chief Financial Officer also comment, if she would be available, on the microphone.
But let me start with General Manager
DAVE GENOVA: Yes. So the way the mobile ticketing app works is that there's a wallet
feature, so if a person wants to buy more than one ticket at a time, so they can have tickets in
their wallet. So every time they ride, they don't have to do a transaction. So they can buy a
number of tickets and put them in their wallet, and then just go to their wallet when they get
ready to jump on board and activate that particular fare media.
Regarding the 45-day, I will ask Heather if she could speak to that, if there's a technical reason
around that or not.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: There is a technical reason, which of course, I cannot recall right this
second, but we-DOUG TISDALE: I'm sorry. Hang on a second. Let me, just for the sake of the record identify--

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, sorry.
DOUG TISDALE: So our Chief Financial Officer, Heather McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So every month we do an update for you in the report. We can add that
to this next month's report, the 45-day issue. But yes, there is a technical reason for that, and I
can't recall it off the top of my head.
But we had much communication about that when we sent that up in the ticket wallet. And it
does notify you when you purchase a ticket for the ticket wallet that you don't activate, that it
will expire within that period of time. But I can get that information for you.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. I would be interested in finding out more about that, please.
And then I do want to go back to one of the issues that was brought up during public comment,
because I do have concerns about when we have what I consider warranty issues with some of
our contractors, subcontractors. Are we having issues with the PIDs, the public information
displays?
DAVE GENOVA: Well, to my knowledge, we're in the process of replacing and upgrading most
of those public information displays. So I'll talk to the team tomorrow and dig into whether we
have any warranty issues around anything that might be new. But I don't think that's the case.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. Thank you. That's all my questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. I believe that our Chief Financial Officer may have a
comment further on that. Ms. McKillop?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So I just want to make sure everybody's aware that the time on the
public information displays is scheduled time right now. As the General Manager mentioned, we
are working on putting real time information out there. But for right now, it's scheduled time.
So yes, there are discrepancies between the scheduled time and the actual time. If you get on
Next Ride or one of the other transit apps, you'll be able to see real time information, which is
designated by your wireless kind of symbol on there. And that will tell you if you're looking at
real time information or if you're looking at scheduled time information.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. So our final comment of the evening comes from
Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you very much, Chairman. Heather, if you don't mind, is the PID
audible?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: The new ones that we're working on a purchase, they will be. The
current ones, some are, but have not been activated, and some are not. But the new ones, we
specifically added that to the spec, I believe a couple of years ago when we went out with that
RFP.

CLAUDIA FOLSKA: That's the grooviest thing ever, when it works. I mean, I really love that.
But you know, some stations are louder than others, like, for example, the Englewood station.
Our light rail is right there with heavy rail freight. Is that BNSF that goes down there off Santa
Fe and Hampden?
DAVE GENOVA: Yes.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: You can't hear a thing. You can't even hear the train's ding ding. Forget
about it. That's really loud, and it goes on for a while. So I'm wondering if you could think a bit
about how to make the decibel level change according to the ambient noise, like we did on the
West Corridor. That's all. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much for the observation. And I lied. I guess that was the
penultimate comment. Now, the ultimate comment from Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Yeah, I've got a complaint, I guess, about the audible speaker systems. The one
at Nine Mile, and that's where I normally catch light rail, it's so noisy, because you're right in the
middle of 225. You can't hear anything. You just hear some mumbling in the background.
And particularly, that happens when there's a service problem, like that's going to come up on the
weekend, and they're trying to inform you about it. You can't understand a word it says. You just
know there's something you need to check on.
DAVE GENOVA: Thanks. We'll look into that.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Director Williams, the last word to you.
KATE WILLIAMS: I hope so. Speaking of how loud it is or how loud it isn't, I'd like to remind
us that we did some great work on resolving the sound issue with our mall buses. You remember
when we thought they were nicely quiet, but there were people who needed to be able to hear
them. And I was out at the Panasonic event today and had commented to me that we are looking
at the exact same issue with the autonomous vehicle, and that maybe we want to get ahead of
that one. That's all I have to say.
DOUG TISDALE: And I thank you for that observation, because I had the same conversation.
And I also pointed out, one important distinction is that the autonomous vehicle is smart enough
to stop on its own. So if it does see someone, even close, it knows to stop. But I think it's a valid
point.
All right, lastly, lastly, the Board would like to take a pause before we adjourn in order to
recognize our General Manager, Dave Genova, for his 25 years of service to RTD.
Congratulations on this milestone day!
[APPLAUSE]
DAVE GENOVA: That's half the age of the agency, I was just thinking about yesterday. So it's--

DOUG TISDALE: Half the age of the agency. That's right. Well, we would like to keep you
around until such point that you can be 2/3 the age of the agency. Think of the math.
All right. Any other matters to come before this Board? I will at this time entertain a motion to
adjourn the RTD Board Meeting of January 29, 2019. Is there a motion to adjourn?
BOARD MEMBER: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: There's a motion to adjourn. Is there a second? There's a second. Any
discussion? No discussion. All those in favor, indicate by saying aye.
BOARD MEMBERS: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. It passes unanimously. We stand
adjourned at 7:08.

