April 16, 2019
Board Meeting
DOUG TISDALE: The 2019 RTD Board Meeting. The record will reflect that we are convened
here as of 5:31 PM Mountain Daylight Time on Tuesday, April 16. I would respectfully request
everyone to please silence their phones. I would also note for the sake of the record and for the
benefit of the public that this meeting is being video and audio recorded.
The first thing that we do at our formal Board meetings when we start them is to recite the
Pledge of Allegiance to our flag. And this evening, we have a very special guest with us, Mr. Ian
Seitz will now come forward and will lead us in the Pledge of Allegiance. And please note Mr.
Seitz already is wearing his 50-year pin from the RTD. Mr. Seitz, when you're ready, please lead
us in the Pledge of Allegiance.
IAN SEITZ: I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States of America and to the republic
for which it stands, one nation under God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, sir
[APPLAUSE]
We very much appreciate your participation with us this evening. Ms McManus, if you would
now please call the roll.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Buzek?
VINCE BUZEK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Catlin?
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Cook?
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Folska?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Present.

BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Lubow?
JUDY LUBOW: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Mihalik?
KEN MIHALIK: I'm here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Rivera-Malpiede?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Walker?
JEFF WALKER: Here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Whitmore?
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
BARBARA MCMANUS: Chair Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
BARBARA MCMANUS: 15 present, zero absent with Director Folska on the telephone.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And thank you for joining us, Director Folska.
Director Folska understands that she is not in a position to vote because at the formal Board
Meetings, we do not take votes by telephone.

But she is available. And should the occasion arise, she certainly could speak. And in any event,
she will hear. At RTD, ladies and gentlemen, safety is our core value.
And so we always begin our meetings with a short safety briefing. If we have a medical
emergency in the room that necessitates a call to 911, I will ask our RTD General Counsel, Mr.
Rolf Asphaug, to make that telephone call.
Any medically-trained people who are present in the room are respectfully requested to assist
should that need arise. If needed, an automatic emergency defibrillator-- that's an AED device-is in a glass case located just outside this room. And that's on the wall to the right.
And in the event that we must evacuate this building for fire or other emergency, we ask you
please to calmly exit out the door you came in at the back of the room, go up the stairs to the first
floor, go around the security desk, and exit through the front door. Police and security officers
will be there to direct you to a safe meet up area. And if there is anyone who needs special
assistance in the event of an evacuation, then absolutely they will be assisted by RTD staff as
necessary.
On a related safety note, we want to bring to your attention that while every precaution is taken
by RTD to protect our passengers, our vehicles, our facilities, the agency nonetheless still relies
on both the public and everyone else on our staff to be aware of and alert to any suspicious or
dangerous activity on buses, and trains, and around stations, and stops, and platforms.
As such, we encourage all RTD employees and all of you in the public to communicate directly
and immediately with RTD Transit Security personnel on a real time basis through the simple
expedient of our Transit Watch app. That app is available on both the Google Play and the Apple
iStore-- Apple App Store. Excuse me. So remember, if you see something, say something. And
use Transit Watch to say it. Thank you.
There are two retirees for the month of April. And I believe we're fortunate to have both of them
with us here this evening. The first is Mr. Garry E Mahoney. He's an Equipment Maintenance
Supervisor. And Mr. Mahoney has been with us for 30 years. And I now recognize Fred Worthen
to acknowledge Mr. Mahoney's 30 years of service. Mr. Worthen, the floor is yours.
FRED WORTHEN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I was fortunate enough to meet Garry at District
Shop. Unfortunately, our paths crossed. I was incoming just as he was outgoing. But it was really
a pleasure talking with Garry. I got to hear a lot of stories about his past. I think he's worked at
every base but Boulder, right? Boulder is the only base that he's not worked at. He's retiring as
Equipment Supervisor, but he's also planning on doing some motorcycle trips and traveling
around the world. So we're really happy to have had you, Garry. Again, I always hate losing
good long term people, but we're really happy for the service that you gave us. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
GARRY MAHONEY: I'd like to thank you for the opportunity to serve RTD. My Lord and
Savior brought me here on the day my severance ended with Pepsi-Cola, and he's helped me

through here. And I just want to praise him. And thank you. I met a lot of good people here and a
lot of good employees. And I thank you for the opportunity. Thank you.
[APPLAUSE]
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, and God bless you, Mr. Mahoney. That's wonderful. Our next
speaker is Mr. Gavino Ramirez, who is an Information Specialist and has been with us for 15
years. And so I'm now pleased to introduce Linda Ober, our Customer Care Lead Supervisor, to
introduce Mr. Ramirez to us.
LINDA OBER: Thank you. Unfortunately, Gavino is not here with us tonight. He was a Bus
Operator, and he started at Platt in 2004 before moving to the Telephone Information Center. He
was always cheerful and friendly with our customers. And he plans to relax and enjoy his
retirement. He's talked about travel and potentially even relocating out of the country.
DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you very much for giving us that information about Mr. Ramirez.
And let's give it up for Mr. Ramirez.
[APPLAUSE]
We come now to our public participation period. And this is open to anyone who wants to
address the Board. It is our custom to allow any of our elected officials present to speak first so
they can get back to their own meetings and attend to their constituents' business. If you have
signed up to speak, I will call you in the order in which you signed up. If you have not signed up
and you would like to speak, there will be an opportunity at the end of the list where I will call
for additional speakers.
Each speaker is allowed up to three minutes. Let me repeat that-- three minutes. We respectfully
request that members of the audience refrain from any indications of support or opposition to a
speaker's comments, as such outbursts might reasonably have the effect of chilling the free
expression of thoughts by speakers.
Please also bear in mind that by appearing at the microphone up here, you are consenting to
being video and audio recorded so that these meetings are made available on the RTD website.
So if you do not wish to be recorded, then your comments will have to be submitted in writing.
Please come to the lectern when called. State your name and address. If you have documentation,
please feel free to share that with our Board Staff, and they will circulate it to the Board.
And we have a veritable who's who of electives with us this evening. And we are very honored
to welcome them here. The first one that I will recognize is the Mayor of the City of Longmont,
Mayor Brian Bagley. Mayor Bagley, if you would please come forward. And you will have up to
three minutes, sir.
BRIAN BAGLEY: Mr. Chairman, if you don't mind, we actually-- I understand that the last
thing you want is a full three minutes from all of us here. So if you don't mind, could we ask that

Commissioner Elise Jones start, followed by I believe it's Mayor Pro Tem Anita Seitz, and then
Mayor Bob Muckle, and then myself. Would that be OK?
DOUG TISDALE: Absolutely, Mr. Mayor. Happy to accommodate. So let's recognize first
Commissioner Elise Jones. Then we'll go to-- let's see-- Mayor Pro Tem Anita Seitz. And then I
think you said Matt Jones after that. But in any event, we'll work it out. But Commissioner Elise
Jones, a privilege to have you here. Please proceed.
ELISE JONES: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. And RTD Board Members, thanks for
accommodating us. As was said, my name is Elise Jones. I'm one of the Boulder County
Commissioners. And tonight, I'm joined by, as you've heard, a number of local elected officials
from the Northwest Corridor representing the communities in the US 36 Mayors &
Commissioners Coalition, or the MCC as we like to call ourselves.
And you've heard that several of us are going to speak. Other folks that are here to support us
include Longmont City Council Members Joan Peck and Polly Christensen, Westminster
Council Member David DeMott, and the folks that you've already heard who will be speaking.
And as background, the US 36 Mayors & Commissioners Coalition was formed 20 years ago,
back in 1999, to advocate for multi-modal transportation improvements along the Northwest
Corridor. And it's represented by the communities of Boulder, Superior, Louisville, Lafayette,
Erie, Westminster, Longmont, Boulder County, and Broomfield.
And we have been longstanding partners of RTD that entire time. And we are very proud of what
we have accomplished together with you through the US 36 Express Lanes Project, launching
the Flatiron Flyer BRT, and the first segment of the B line. And a signature feature of the MCC,
as you might have noticed, is speaking with one voice on behalf of the best interests of the entire
Corridor. And tonight, our presence here is evidence of that.
And I think Chairman Tisdale and RTD Board Members Guissinger and Lubow have also
experienced our culture of consensus and tendency to travel in packs when you've accompanied
us on our annual lobby trips to D.C. And it's always been a pleasure to have you with us. But we
are here tonight to collectively express our support for the approval of the resolution that you
soon will be considering regarding the RTD Board's commitment to finishing FasTracks and
supporting the Peak Service plan for Northwest Rail. So with that background, I'll turn it over to
the other MCC members mentioned so they can give additional detail on why that support is so
important to us. Thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Commissioner. We truly appreciate your
participation here and your kind words. And Madam Mayor Pro Tem Anita Seitz, City of
Westminster, please if you would, do state your name again and your address, which can just be
City Hall. And you'll have three minutes.
ANITA SEITZ: My name is Anita Seitz. I'm the Mayor Pro Tem of Westminster. My address is
3472 W 113th Avenue, Westminster, Colorado. I have with me my colleague, if you'd like to
introduce yourself.

DAVID DEMOTT: I'm City Council Member Dave DeMott from Westminster.
ANITA SEITZ: First off, I want to say thank you so much for including us tonight and allowing
us this venue to speak on behalf of the resolution we'd like to see you pass. The US 36 Coalition
would also like to congratulate RTD on the upcoming openings of the G Line and the Southeast
Rail Line Extension. Westminster, in particular, is very excited for the B Line to share two news
stations with the G line. So congratulations.
Completion of the unfinished FasTracks corridors is strongly supported by our coalition, but also
by our diverse residents. It will provide the mobility needs in all corners of the RTD District and
to serve the transit-oriented development our local governments have been planning and
constructing for since 2004. The completion of the Northwest Rail Corridor will ensure the
communities of Longmont, Boulder, Louisville, Broomfield, and Westminster the same
opportunities for multi-modal transport as our neighbors in other districts.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Mayor Pro Tem. We appreciate that. And I
see our next speaker is the distinguished Mayor of the City of Louisville, Mr. Mayor Bob
Muckle. Mayor Muckle, welcome this evening, sir.
BOB MUCKLE: Thank you, Chairman Tisdale. I am Bob Muckle, the Mayor of Louisville. I
live at 1101 Lincoln Avenue in Louisville, Colorado 80027, for the record.
So Chairman and Members of the Board, I really appreciate your listening to our comments this
evening. We are very, as you've heard, strongly supportive of this resolution you'll consider. It's
consistent with our policy agenda that we've developed as the MCC, where all members of the
group have agreed on the priorities that are all based on our Northwest Area Mobility Study,
which include further build out and completion of the 36 BRT and continuing to work on the
Northwest Rail. These things don't always benefit all of our communities the same way. And we
nevertheless have reached consensus on all these issues.
So we recognize the fiscal constraints in building the Northwest Rail as it was proposed in 2004
when the voters approved FasTracks. And we also recognize the difficulty of building a transit
system on a shared rail with Burlington Northern and the additional costs and constraints that
entails. And therefore, we suggested this idea of building Peak Rail service where we start
having a few trains to and from Union Station and Downtown Longmont, hoping that that would
be a more reasonable cost and could be begun sooner so that we could cover the travel shed that
US 36 Flatirons Flyer does not.
So we really encourage you to vote favorably on this resolution to both complete FasTracks
tracks generally and to encourage the staff to continue to work on the Peak Rail service. I
appreciate their very willing approach to working with us, and I appreciate all of your service to
the citizens of the region. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Mayor. I appreciate that. And now we turn to
Mayor Brian Bagley of the City of Longmont. Mayor Bagley, welcome back.

BRIAN BAGLEY: Thank you, Mr. Chairman, as well as the RTD Board. It's a pleasure to be
here tonight. We have our own Council meetings at 7:00 on Tuesdays. I am here. You'll hear
later from Mayor Pro Tem Polly Christensen and Council Member Joan Peck.
And I just point that out because there's a lot of things to do in Longmont. But tonight, nothing
was more important than coming and addressing you. And so first and foremost, we came
tonight to represent the elected leadership within our region.
Longmont, as has been mentioned, is part of the Mayors & Commissioners Committee. And our
residents, who have been patiently waiting for rail since the passage of FasTracks back in 2004.
The resolution before you tonight-- it's not often that I am able to turn to my fellow Council
Members, or staff, or anyone in the community and go, that's a pretty good resolution.
You know, you're actually directing staff. There's timelines. There's cohesiveness to it. It's a
good resolution. I'm proud of the effort and the work that this District Board has put in to
exploring a real compromise and a solution that will actually respect the voters, quiet the horde,
and also accomplish your goals.
So it truly does reaffirm RTD's commitment to the completion of FasTracks and your
willingness to continue to work with the local governments and communities to find interim
solutions that might expedite the implementation of Northwest Rail. The US 36 Mayors &
Commissioners Coalition respectfully requests the Board to provide an affirmative
recommendation for the proposed resolution that you will be discussing and voting on later this
evening. Thank you very much for your time and your consideration.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mayor Bagley. I appreciate your appearance here. We
all do. Are there others? I do have Councillor Peck and Councillor Christensen on the list as
well. Are you going to be coming forward? If so, I have Councillor Peck as first on the list, you'd
like to come forward. Name, address, and you have up to three minutes. And we appreciate your
being here.
JOAN PECK: Thank you. Joan Peck, Longmont City Council. 1935 Spruce Avenue in
Longmont. Good evening, Chair Tisdale and Board Members Thank you in advance for allowing
me to address the Board.
I'm here to add my voice in support of the resolution before you, which was drafted by Chair
Tisdale and Director Lubow. I echo Commissioner Jones' support for the Mayors &
Commissioners Coalition. Also supporting this resolution is the Tri-Chamber Alliance made up
of Longmont, Broomfield, and Boulder, the Longmont Chamber, the lobbying group Commuting
Solutions, and the Longmont Economic Development Partnership, along with the hundreds of
letters from our residents within the corridor.
But the strongest advocate for finishing the FasTracks corridors is our Governor, Jared Polis. A
group of elected officials, Representative Jonathan Singer, and RTD Directors met with the
Governor and his Fiscal Policy Advisor, Carrie Kennedy. Their support came in the matter of a
conversation with your Executive Director, Dave Genova, and Chair Tisdale.

As a background for the new Directors here, the Northern Area Mobility Study or NAMS, gave a
$1.4 billion cost projection for the full buildout of the Northwest Corridor. With the more
efficient Peak Service plan of six trains a day, a significantly lower estimate came from the RTD
Project Manager, Chris Quinn. RTD's very, very early analysis would be roughly $117 million
before the costs to BNSF.
Because of the strong probability of decreased cost estimates and the projected revenue increases
per the Leeds School of Business, I would ask the Board to move the completion date for the
start up service from the 2040s to the late 2020s or 2030s. The 2040 date referred to 55 trains a
day with a double track, not six trains a day with a single track.
I would also bring to mind the private equity firm that has approached us with an interest in
partnering on the Northwest Corridor Peak Service. The Mayors of the municipalities on the
Corridor, as well as RTD staff members, have met with the firm. And all are waiting for a cost
analysis from BNSF.
Longmont staff has a very good relationship with the Burlington Northern Railroad. Our City
Manager and staff have been in negotiations about the railroad bridge that suffered severe
damage in the 2013 flood. This bridge is in the FasTracks Northwest Corridor. The railroad has
turned over the entire bidding process to Longmont, which is unheard of. We're also working
with them on quiet zones.
And I only mention this to let RTD staff know that we are willing to work with you in
negotiations with BNSF on the Northwest Corridor on a cost analysis for the Peak Service. As
you can see, I am quite passionate about the Peak Service plan and what it means to our region
economically, environmentally and sustainably to our region. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Councillor. We appreciate your words as well. And
then Councillor Polly Christensen from Longmont. Welcome please.
POLLY CHRISTENSEN: Thank you. And thank you all for having us speak. I am also in
support of this resolution. It's a modest but a very creative and a critical thing for us to have at
this time for all the people on the Northwest Corridor. I am the less polite and crankier
Representative of the City of Longmont.
In 1985, a rapport of elders from the Wind River Reservation could take a trail-- I mean a rail
from Cheyenne, to Longmont, to Denver. That's no longer available. In 1973, I could take a
Greyhound bus from Denver to Meeker directly. Now the closest I can get is to Grand Junction
or Steamboat Springs. We have less transportation opportunities than we had in 1972 in
Colorado.
In the 1970s, Coloradans discussed east, west, north, south mass transit plans. But we just talked.
We did nothing. We're moving backwards.

Now we have wider roads that we cannot repair. And we discussed putting even more cars on the
road. Whether they're electric or self-driving, or whether they're buses, they will do nothing to
solve our traffic and road conditions, construction, maintenance, and the maintenance disaster.
Longmont doesn't agree about much, but one thing we agree on is our anger at the RTD Board,
who used the 2006 to 2008 economic meltdown to not develop the Corridor equally. That was
what we voted on. The people of Longmont have been paying for 15 years for rail FasTracks to
come to Longmont. Anyway, please pass this resolution. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Councillor. We appreciate your participation as well.
The next speaker I have is Commissioner Matt Jones from Boulder County. No relation. I hasten
to add, to Commissioner Elise Jones other than by being a Commissioner. Commissioner,
welcome.
MATT JONES: Thank you. Perhaps 500 years ago in Mobiles, Wales, but not here. My name is
Matt Jones. I'm at 265 Dahlia Drive in Louisville, Colorado. And thanks for the opportunity to
talk to you today.
Thanks for considering this resolution. Like was mentioned earlier, the area did a North Area
Mobility Study. We call it the NAMS. And this is one of the projects that came out as to be
pursued.
I want to acknowledge that it's not an easy corridor with the railroad and negotiations going on
with that. But it's also a real critical corridor, in my opinion. And I would like to appreciate you
doing a resolution to acknowledging that more needs to be done, instructing staff to pursue that,
the Peak Service.
And it's interesting. I'm newly elected to the commission. I served in the State Senate prior to
that. And I've heard for a long while, people were very anxious to get this corridor built and to be
able to ride into Denver or up to Longmont on the train.
So thank you for considering this resolution, and I encourage you to support it. And thank you to
staff for doing that. And anything we can do to help that along, please let us know.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Commissioner. We appreciate your participation in
this as well. Before I get to a non-elected, I will ask, are there any other elected officials in the
room who would like to speak at this time? Because I will take you out of order, should you
choose to do so.
If not, then let's turn to the next person who's signed up to speak. And that's Mr. Gary Van Dorn.
And Mr. Van Dorn, if you'd come forward, please.
And you know the drill. Give us your name and address. And then you will have up to three
minutes to address the Board.

GARY VAN DORN: Good evening. Gary Van Dorn, 625 Pennsylvania Street, Denver,
Colorado 80203. District A. My comments tonight do not reflect any opinions of the National
Federation of the Blind. They're my own personal comments.
I'm talking to you concerning the RTD Ticket app. Wonderful app, beautiful thing. Absolutely
great, easy to use. There's one issue with it. Your tickets expire after 45 days. That needs to be
changed.
When I buy a ticket, it should not expire. I can buy a paper media, and it will expire, of course,
after-- in January or February. I can't remember the exact date. But I have more time to use that
ticket than I do on a paperless app that does not pollute and does not take paper to create.
So I've heard in these meetings why there is a 45-day deadline. Let's get rid of it. We need to
direct staff to work to make sure that that ticket lasts as long as the paper media. Thank you. And
I was under three minutes.
DOUG TISDALE: And you were more than half under three minutes. That's wonderful. Thank
you very much, Mr. Van Dorn. We appreciate your participation as well.
Are there any other persons who have not spoken who would like to address the Board at this
time? Seeing none, then we turn to our Committee Reports. Next on our agenda is the review of
the Committee Reports for the Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks Committee chaired by
Director Lubow, and the Communications Government Relations Committee chaired by Director
Guissinger, the Civil Rights Committee chaired by Director Lewis, the Operations and Customer
Service Committee chaired by Director Williams, the Financial Administration Audit Committee
chaired by Director Mihalik, and the General Manager Oversight and Performance Management
Committee chaired by Director Broom.
The Committee Minutes were included in the Board Packet. Are there any questions as to the
Committee Minutes that have been submitted to you? Seeing none, then those Committee
Reports will stand as submitted, and they will become a part of the permanent record.
The last committee that I mentioned is the General Manager Oversight and Performance
Management Committee. We afford the Chair of that committee at this time, Director Broom,
the opportunity to share with us any comments that he may have regarding the General Manager
Oversight and Performance Management Committee. Are there any comments you would wish
to share with us, Director Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. We are about to start our journey this year with this
committee. We have nine meetings scheduled over the year. The first one will be held on May
7th at 3:30 in the afternoon, and I'm looking forward to getting this project off the ground this
year. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Chair Broom. We appreciate that. The next item on
our agenda is the Approval of the Board Meeting Minutes of March 26, 2019. May I please have
a motion to approve the minutes?

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Second Vice Chair, and there's a second by Director
Williams. Is there any discussion on that motion? Hearing none, all those in favor, please
indicate by saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Aye. Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously.
I think for the sake of the electronic record, I apologize. I got ahead of myself sometimes.
Second Vice Chair, if you'd-- OK, it's been canceled. Thank you. Thank you. It's just a
procedural vote.
So we have approved the minutes unanimously, and the record will so reflect. I hasten because I
know I have a long report, and I believe that the General Manager has a relatively long report.
And we want to get to our resolutions so that we can resolve those.
It is just simply put, Directors, a momentous time in the life of this organization. We all have,
and we wear proudly, our 50-year pins now that we are celebrating our 50th year. But I don't
know that we've had anything as exciting as the compressed excitement we have over a short
period coming up.
As General Manager Genova announced on April the 1st, the long-anticipated opening date for
the G Line is April 26th. And that was no April Fool's joke. Typically, the decorum in this
chamber prohibits expressions of support from the audience during our meetings. But I think we
can perhaps look the other way this time. Let's give it up for the G Line, folks!
[APPLAUSE]
Now, in the interest of keeping all the Directors and the Stakeholders apprised of all the events
surrounding the opening, allow me just summarize this week's activities. Do bear with me,
please. This is an extensive list.
On Monday, April 22nd at 3:00 PM, there will be an Elected Officials G Line tour commencing
at Denver Union Station. This is open for the entire Board and all other elected officials. Then on
Tuesday April 23 at 10:00 AM, there will be a Media train, where Treasurer Cook, and Director
Menten, and Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede will join me for the media train G Line tour.
Then on Thursday, April 25 from 10:00 AM to 2:00 PM, we have Get on Board Day an initiative
of the American Public Transportation Association, that will take place at Skyline Park at 1601
Arapahoe Street. Our General Manager, along with District Director Kate Williams, and I, will
be speaking at noon. All of the Directors are invited to that event.
On that same day, Thursday, April 25th at 5:00, there is a G Line VIP Reception that will be held
in a tent at the Wheat Ridge Ward parking lot. For your information, that's at 12,068 West 50th

Place in Wheat Ridge. The Senior Leadership Team and the Directors will have VIP passes to
and from this VIP event on the G Line for their trips originating at Denver Union Station.
Then on Friday, April 26, 2019 at 7:00 AM, we'll have a breakfast at Denver Union Station. And
then we will depart on a G Line train at 7:40 AM for ribbon cuttings along the way. We will stop
at 41st & Fox Station, the Clear Creek Federal Station, the Old Town Arvada Station, and the
Wheat Ridge Ward Station. And we'll have separate ribbon cuttings along the way.
Now, all of the Directors are invited to the G Line grand opening and the celebrations that will
follow at Wheat Ridge and Ward Station. The ribbon cuttings specifically, at 41st & Fox, our
Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede, and General Manager Joe Genova, and I will participate
with local dignitaries in the ribbon cutting. At the Clear Creek Federal Station, it will be Madam
Treasurer Cook, and the General Manager, myself, and again, local dignitaries cutting the ribbon
there.
Then in Old Town Arvada, we will have our Madam Treasurer Cook, General Manager Genova,
and I, along with local dignitaries, cutting the ribbon there. And then at the Wheat Ridge Ward
Station, we'll have General Manager Genova, Director Menten, and I who will cut the ribbon
there at that station. Everybody will disembark the G Line for the G Line Grand Opening Event
and Celebration.
At 9:00, we'll have the actual Grand Opening Ceremony and Celebration. And we have a list of
speakers that is slightly longer than the genealogy given in the first book of Genesis. That said,
they'll all be tight, I promise you. We will make sure of that. Everyone will take the G Line back
to Denver Union Station. And you will have VIP passes that get you on for that.
On Saturday April 27, there will be station parties, and art dedications, free rides on the entire
Light Rail System, not just on the G Line but on the entire system. But these parties and other
dedications are planned for between 10:00 AM and 2:00 PM approximately. So that's pretty
much the rundown.
Now, if you have not already done so, please be sure to contact the Board staff as soon as
possible if you're interested in attending all or some of these events. And as we all know, the
Grand Opening festivities for the Southeast Rail Extension-- that's the E, F, and R Lines-- will
take place next month. So please stay tuned for more information on those events as that May
17th Opening Day approaches.
So additional highlights to mention now since our last Board Meeting. Directors Catlin, Cook,
Guissinger, and Lewis participated in a Tour of District Facilities and Operations on Wednesday,
March 27th. For those Directors who did not have a chance to participate in that particular tour,
you will have another opportunity to participate in a District Tour in the coming months. More
details on that will be provided shortly.
RTD and our project partners celebrated the 15 15L Project Launch at the Carla Madison
Recreation Center on Thursday, March 28th. And Directors Lewis, and Williams, and I
participated in that very nice event. On Wednesday, April 3rd, Directors Guissinger and Lubow

attended the Transportation Expo hosted by CU Boulder. And then I'm happy to say that many of
the members of this Board were able to have a sneak peek of the G Line operations this past
Tuesday, April 9th.
In terms of upcoming events, we've addressed the items associated with the G Line. This coming
Friday, April 19th, Directors Broom and Catlin will attend the Transportation Symposium hosted
by Smart Commute Metro North at the Grand Hyatt here in Denver. And I understand that
several members of the RTD Planning Staff will also actually be speaking during the course of
that event.
And then, the Sheridan Station Apartments groundbreaking at-- wait for it-- Sheridan Station will
be on Monday, April 22nd at 10:45 AM. Vice Chair Catlin, 2nd Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
and I will attend that event.
Smart Commute Metro North will host its annual TransForum at the Den3 Amazon Distribution
Center in Thornton on Friday, April 26th. You will be blindfolded entering the building and
throughout your entire time there, I'm informed. And you will be signing a nondisclosure
agreement.
And I tease. I'm sorry. I shouldn't. And Directors Buzek, Catlin, Cook, Lubow, Williams, and I
will all hopefully be able to participate in that, if we can pass the security clearance.
The Thrive Awards hosted by DRCOG. And I neglected to note that Doug Rex from DRCOG
was here earlier.
SHELLEY COOK: He's still here.
DOUG TISDALE: Is still here, is still here. And we recognize the Executive Director of the
Denver Regional Council of Governments and thank him, and also thank him for scheduling the
Thrive Awards to Friday, May 3rd. They were postponed due to bomb cyclone two or bomb
cyclone junior, because it wasn't very big, I guess.
If you signed up to attend initially, please contact the Board Office to reconfirm your attendance,
if you have not already done so. The event is sold out. No additional tickets will be available.
The Denver Metro Chamber stated the state will be held at the Seawall Ballroom at the Denver
Center for Performing Arts on Friday, May 10th. Directors Lewis, Whitmore, Williams, and I
will all be there. And then speaking of all of these exciting events, well, that provides a natural
segue into a policy discussion that the Executive Committee had last week.
Your Executive Committee has reinstated and adopted a policy that going forward, the Resident
Director at each event held in their district will be acknowledged at that event, such that the
Resident Director may then come forward to the podium, or wherever, and publicly express a
formal welcome to all for such event. And in addition to that, your Executive Committee ratified
and reaffirmed the policy that the Board Office is instructed, and the individual Directors are
requested to provide timely notice to all of all.

In other words, if an event comes up, and it comes to your attention, please make sure that the
Board staff is aware. That's the "of all." And they will make sure that notice comes out to the
Directors.
You won't have to distribute to the Directors because of the constraints of open meetings and
how we cannot do that. But please get any information to the Board Office, and the Board Office
will similarly share all information with all of us. So please, timely notice to all of all.
Transparency, which is part of our 2020 Strategic Priorities, will at all times be the watchword
for this Board, along with communication, collaboration, and cooperation. Finally, the Board
SLT Retreat materials were circulated last week. These materials contain the Formal Statement
of our 2020 Strategic Priorities, which makes for great reading.
That concludes the Chair's Report. I'll now turn it over to our General Manager, Dave Genova,
and ask him if he would please share his report. If you have any questions for me, let's also
consolidate them with any questions you may have for General Manager Genova. Sir, the floor is
yours.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. Good evening, Board. A few things to update in the
report. I'll just carry through some highlights.
And, of course, Chair Tisdale covered a lot of items. So I won't repeat those, except for reading
through that list of events. No, I'm not. I'm not going to do that. No, I know I won't do that to
you.
First thing I wanted to talk about a little bit was we had another follow up meeting with Uber.
And I think the Board's aware of the collaboration we have going on with Uber where you can
see transit options on the Uber app. And then soon, we're going to hopefully have where you're
going to be able to pay for your RTD trip on the Uber app.
Of course, we're able to do that through our mobile ticketing provider, which is Masabi. So it's a
partnership between Masabi and Uber. So at the last meeting on Wednesday, March 27th, we
were able to get a look ahead at what that might look like on the Uber app and provide some
feedback to them on how that payment may work.
And I think they're going to be back to visit with us maybe later this week or next week. And
while we don't have a firm date yet, we're anticipating maybe sometime next month that payment
option might become available. So we're excited about that.
Also on March 27th, I met with Eulois Cleckley, who is Executive Director of Public Works.
And as the Board I think knows, we meet every month with his team and our team. It's our way
of collaborating, and coordinating, and keeping one another informed of what's happening in our
agency and for Denver to talk about what's happening with transportation there.
And, of course, one of the things we talked about at that meeting for the first time, really, was
Denver's announcement and desire to do a charter change and reorganize their Public Works

group into a more of a Department of Transportation and Infrastructure. So we had some
conversation around that before they made that announcement.
I also attended a-- many of you, I think you know Mike Fitzgerald from Denver South. He
retired recently, and I was able to attend and just make some comments to him. I think he's
everyone's number one fan. But he's been a huge supporter of this district and transit. And it was
good to just go there and wish him well.
The Chair mentioned the 15 15 L Project Launch. And we're getting a lot of good feedback, a lot
of good questions about that project, and a lot of eagerness for us to advance that project.
On April 3rd and April 4th, myself and Henry Stopplecamp, and a couple members from Denver
Transit Partners Team met in Washington, D.C. with the Federal Railroad Administration
Headquarters staff. The Regional Administrator was also there for those meetings as well as
some of the Positive Train Control Team members, as well. We actually had two meetings. One
was an impromptu, unscheduled meeting where we were able to talk about more detail on the
quiet zone process, which was very beneficial for us to have that meeting in person because
there's just lots of details and lots of red tape around that process. But we're working through that
well.
And then, of course, the next day, we had our regular monthly meeting where we give them an
update on the 90-day rolling plan or the monthly progress report. So our next scheduled meeting
with FRA Headquarters to go through the monthly report is May 30th, I believe. And that's a
little bit out because there are some things that are in the works that DTP wants to get in place
and then have us have some time to make some measurements, and analyze some data, and
hopefully have some good information to report. So rather than go without progress to report, we
wanted to have that information available. So May 30 is the next meeting.
Last week, we kicked off this year's Multi-Agency Exchange Program that we do with several
transit agencies. I believe it's year six or so of this program. And this program started out as a
cohort exchange between Denver RTD, Los Angeles Metro, and Dallas Area Rapid Transit. And
we each pick a cohort of about eight employees.
And it's, in our case, people that will be selected for our MAX Program-- Mulit-Agency
Exchange Program-- a prerequisite is they have to have been through our Leadership Academy.
So this is pretty high level as far as professional development goes. It's a great program and in
fact has expanded over the last few years. And now the Eno Foundation actually does the
administration of this program. And there's now eight transit agencies in this program.
So this year, we're in a cohort with L.A. Metro, Sound Transit from Seattle, and Valley Metro
out of Phoenix. And so we hosted the first week, the kickoff week, last week. It's always great.
First Vice Chair was able to come, and greet the group, and make some remarks to them. And
then I also met with them a few times.

And it's just a great way for us to learn from our peer agencies and exchange not only what
works well but also what you might not want to try. So it's a candid exchange, and it's very
exciting to kick it off. And I'm glad we have a little bit of a mix up in our participation this year.
On Monday, April 8th-- also the same day-- I attended the Metro Mayor's Transportation
Committee Meeting. And this was held in conjunction with the DRCOG Executive Committee.
And the purpose of this meeting was to really have some broader dialogue that the Metro Mayors
Caucus is engaging in on what the future of transportation funding could look like for the region.
So they're kicking around some regional ideas. And right now, it's just very preliminary. But I
was glad to be there, and listen in on the discussion, and then also respond to a couple of
questions that I received from RTD. So I appreciate the opportunity to participate in those.
I had a quarterly meeting with Doug Rex, who's still here in the room, back there on Tuesday,
April 9th. We meet every quarter to just make sure we're having good information exchange. We
usually have the CDOT Director, Shoshana Lew, at those meetings with us, but she couldn't
attend on that particular day.
Had a very interesting meeting with Will Toor, who's the Executive Director of the Colorado
Energy Office, on April 9th. Directors Guissinger and Lubow were in attendance in that meeting.
We talked. Predominantly, I wanted to go and talk to him about the demand charge rates that we
currently pay to Xcel for the charging of our electric mall shuttles.
And so this demand rate is something we really didn't anticipate. And when we look at it,
because of the demand structure, even though we charge the mall shuttles at a low demand
period, there's something to do with how the rates work now where we end up paying a higher
demand charge. When we look at it on a cost per mile for fuel, we're actually paying more for
electric than we do for diesel, and that should not be the case.
And Will Toor recognized that. And in fact, I think that Xcel is going to be working with the
Public Utilities Commission later this summer to try to address those demand rates and get some
good savings for us. And we just wanted to make sure that he was well aware and would be
supportive of this, and he is. And then we just had some good general discussion about
electrification and the future of that, and to definitely be keeping RTD in mind if there's any
possibility for funding that they hear about or any pilot projects and things like that, because we
are innovative and willing to work through anything.
So I had just a couple of things on the G Line that the Chair covered well. On Thursday, April
11th, we had our FTA-- Federal Transit Administration-- RTD quarterly meeting. This quarterly
meeting is mainly to go through our grant-related projects. And FTA has their Oversight
Contractor at that meeting. And we go through a lot of the different requirements on where we
are with the grant-funded projects, including schedules, and drawdowns, and things like that.
And I believe the FTA did say that now that we have a date to open the G Line, that we can start
making the drawdown on around 100-- Heather's not here. But Doug, do you know the number
on the drawdown that's left on the Eagle? $158 million, something like that?

So this month, that we've not been able to draw this down because since we haven't opened the G
Line, it's like a contract with the FTA. So they said, you can't draw down that money. But they
are now allowing us to start drawing down that $158 million. So that's great progress on that, and
we're happy that the FTA is now allowing that.
Then, of course, the other project that we talk about with them at this meeting is the Southeast
Rail Extension because it does have a federal grant on it as well. And that project's moving well.
I just came back from an APTA conference. The Transit CEO Seminar was held April 12th
through the 15th. And there's a chair that-- or I'm sorry. There's a committee that I'm Vice Chair
of. It's the Rail Transit CEO'S Committee.
And so we had that. We had that committee and a couple other committees in conjunction with
the conference, as well as a bunch of different sessions. But it was a good exchange, particularly
on what's happening with all the other commuter railroads on PTC and also a couple other
railroads that are working with Wabtec on the wireless grade crossing technology just like we
have. So I had a couple interesting sidebars with a couple of the GMs at that meeting as well.
But I also had the good fortune to participate on a panel on governance in terms of how
organizations are governed and the relationship between Board of Directors, and staff, and the
CEO, and the GM. And this panel was presented by Doug Eadie, who does a lot with Doug
Eadie and Company. And he's a facilitator and does lots of things with governance boards and
things like that.
And he recently wrote a book that is co-authored by David Stackrow, who's the current APTA
chair. He's a Board member from Albany, New York. And so they invited me to participate on
the panel, and we got a lot of good exchange.
And I was really able to talk about not just our structure in general, but talk about some of the
procedures and policies we have about setting our strategic priorities, and the retreats, and how
those turned into the goals for the agency, and then the whole GMOC process that we have,
because many agencies don't have those kinds of things in place. So they're very, very interested
in those. And we're going to probably get some requests for that.
Some really interesting sessions on where people are getting their media from. And so as we get
access to these slide decks, there'll be some things, I'll be sharing a little bit more information.
But very interesting. A couple of media, nationally-known-- not media reporters, but people that
study media and are involved in media presenting some demographics on that.
We also had some good demographic presentations on what's happening population-wise and
segment of population. So it was very interesting as we look towards how we plan to not only do
our own media production and communications, but also the demographics for future planning.
And then there's always a very good labor briefing at this particular seminar by a couple of
gentlemen that have been in the labor area for probably 30 plus years. And they actually provide

information on all the different collective bargaining agreements throughout the country. They
slice it a bunch of different ways.
And they actually profiled a summary of our last collective bargaining agreement negotiation.
One of the things they were interested in is we had one of the higher increases in our bargaining
agreement for wages than anyone else in the country. And so it was good.
He actually called on me and asked me some questions about it, because it was important to
understand the background about, as the Board well knows, that we had a long period of time,
over about a 17-year period, where we didn't have increases. So we got a little bit behind the
market and some other issues. And so we were really able to profile some of the things we're
doing for recruitment and retention. So it was a really, really good exchange.
Just this afternoon, I met with Kim Day, the CEO of DEN, and a couple of her key staff
members. And we had a good meeting, all things University of Colorado A Line related mostly.
One of the topics we talked about is, how can we get a broader use of EcoPass amongst the DEN
employees? And so we're working through ideas and some different modeling that we're talking
about there.
They want to increase the access to employees to have EcoPass at the airport, as well as we do.
And currently, about 40% of airport workers have access to EcoPass now. So while that's a
pretty significant number, we'd like to grow that number along with DEN. So good conversation.
She brought up fare zones. You know, we have a hard fare zone at the airport. And so Ms. Day's
not the first person to bring this up to me. I've had it brought up to me by others. So it's
something that we'll take a financial look at, especially as we go through T2.
She had some questions about train schedule in terms of the first train that departs in the
morning. They're interested in if we could possibly adjust that to be a little bit earlier to get
predominantly the people that work in concessions to be able to get to work at their report time.
And so what I asked them is, well, what about the last train, because could we just slide the
whole schedule?
So they're looking about whether that-- because I remember, we've adjusted schedules on the
University of Colorado A Line to try to accommodate airport workers as best we can. But as you
know, we have a very limited window for maintenance, and then we have our contract
requirements about the kinds of service that we run.
So I said we could look into that. They're looking on their end about whether we could just do a
wholesale slide or not. And of course this is brand new info to me. So I haven't had a chance to
talk to the team about it yet, but it was good conversation.
One of the things they're working on, interestingly enough, is putting in a sign at the airport that
has next train coming before you get down into the main part of the transit center. So a couple
options they're looking at is either at the top where the escalators are or right at the bottom when
you get off the escalator. So people have next train information, so they're not focused on

looking at a line at the ticket vending machine, or there's the train, and I got to catch it. And they
start running and have a slip, trip, or fall, or something like that.
So, of course, DEN controls all of the signage and everything at the airport, but also on the
station platform. So I think that's a great idea, and we're working with them on that. So we'll be
getting back to DEN on a lot of those things.
So next week, we have a lot of the G Line activities. The Board Chair summarized that very
well. And I think you have all of that in writing in an email from the Board Office. If you have
any questions, please reach out to the Board Office on those.
We still have a lot of details, and some letter agreements, and some things floating back and
forth that we're working on. I really, just again, want to acknowledge our team that's working on
the G Line, both the RTD team and the DTP team. We're getting there. We'll be opening on the
26th.
Regarding the quiet zones, we continue to work with all of the railroads involved. So that
includes the Burlington Northern, Union Pacific. And Amtrak actually goes over a couple of the
crossings. The plan is to establish the quiet zones, actually do the establishment, meaning we'll
no longer use the horns on a routine basis through the Arvada and Wheat Ridge section on April
19th. And so that's when that 21-day period is up.
And then in Adams County, that 21-day period is up at midnight on April 25th. So we won't
establish quiet zones on the Adams County crossings. And there's three crossings in Adams
County the impacts aren't as high or severe as they are in Wheat Ridge or Arvada. So those will
be established right after midnight on the 25th, so really into the morning of the 26th.
And we will publish this information. This is really hot off the press. I just got an email from Joe
Christie late this afternoon on these latest conversations and agreements with the railroads on
these dates. So we will be getting this information out to the public so everybody's aware.
And then Denver Transit Partners will start running the full schedule on April 22nd, so that they
have some time. The Board may recall that we were running the full schedule even as long ago
as last summer. And then we decided to bring that back to 7:00 AM to 7:00 PM because we had
enough of the testing complete. They were able to prove out the simulated schedule, and we
didn't need to run all those hours.
And so we pulled back the schedule. But they want to get back into practice on the full schedule
with some advanced timing. So that is what the schedule looks like for next week. I'm happy to
take any questions.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Genova. I just want to comment that on that book
that Doug Eadie and David Stackrow wrote, that our General Manager was talking about,
Secretary Walker is acknowledged in that book for his contributions in helping them put together
the book. So I thought that was very nice also. So Director Lubow, you are recognized for a
question.

JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair. Can you share what some of the conversations that you had
with the other transits that had the same Wi-Fi provider with the problems that we've had?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, the main conversation I had was with Caltrain. So that is a commuter
rail system that serves the Bay Area around San Francisco. And they're going through a project
where they're converting from diesel locomotives to electric. So they're electrifying their system.
And so just as our system's electric, now they need to go away from a conventional type of
technology to this wireless communication technology. And so they're in the early stages right
now of implementation. And they've, I think, just recently contracted with Wabtec. They actually
dismissed a previous firm, and I can't remember the name of the firm off the top of my head that
was doing their positive train control system. But they were not advancing, and they had to
terminate that contract.
And so they entered a contract with Wabtec to do the PTC and then also the wireless crossing
like we have. But we're much further down the road in implementation than they are. But we will
be keeping in touch and up to date on what's happening at each railroad.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Menten, you are
recognized.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. So the question regarding the charging of the shuttles and the
cost right now to run those and the comparison to diesel, how much more is it costing? What's
the charge rate that we're at?
DAVID GENOVA: Well, when we look at it on a per mileage basis-- I'll send that information
to the Board because it was information we did share with Will. Rather than me make a mistake
in what I'm visualizing is on those graphs, I'll send that out to you. But it's significant.
And especially when you look at if your cost per mile for fuel is more when it should be less,
that's one of the advantages along with your maintenance being less. But when you're also
paying more for the vehicle upfront for an electric vehicle than a diesel, it's concerning. So we
need to knock that electric cost down, the cost per mile.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And then since go into the DEN conversation with EcoPass,
since it seems like we just approved the new fares, and the EcoPass is going to be phased in at
that pricing that we had approved, are you potentially looking to amend the EcoPass pricing
before our three-year review period is present?
DAVID GENOVA: We are not looking at doing anything in terms of pricing with EcoPass. It
stands as it is. It'll be a utilization-based format and structure as the Board approved with the last
set of fare changes.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, all right. Thank you. That's all.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Menten. Director Williams, you're
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Mr. Genova, I recently happened to be around.
Chris Quinn was there at a meeting at CDOT. And one of the things that they were talking about
was the price of battery replacements in electric vehicles and the price of charging stations in
electric vehicles. I don't remember anybody talking about the price of the charging time, but I
wanted you to know that you're not the only one looking at that.
DAVID GENOVA: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Are there any other questions from
the Board members for General Manager Genova? And I ask it that way just because even
though she's on the phone and really not able to participate in the meeting, but I do just leave an
opening at this particular moment on this topic if Director Folska has any specific questions for
General Manager because we had so much information presented. Director Folska, if you do.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. At this time, I didn't. Although thank you,
Dave Genova, and your entire staff for this wonderful accomplishment that's coming up here real
soon. And I think it's an exciting time, and you guys can take a lot of pride in your good work.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate your participation there. We
turn now to our Unanimous Consent Agenda. We have one lone item on the Unanimous Consent
Agenda tonight, and that's noted as agenda item number 11, Action A. It is labeled Approval of
Contract Authority for BI Work Order. And it is found in your Board Packet.
If anyone has a change to or questions on this item, please feel free to advise me at this time.
And we will, of course, be happy to pull that item from the Unanimous Consent Agenda for
consideration under recommended action. So I will pause. Seeing none, may I have a motion
now to approve item A on the Consent Agenda.
PEGGY CATLIN: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from our Vice Chair and the second from our Second Vice
Chair. Is there any discussion on the motion? Hearing none, we may now proceed to a vote.
The movement is Vice Chair Catlin. The second is Second Vice Chair-- isn't that appropriate?
Second is second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. By a vote of 13 in favor and 2 absent, specifically
Director Williams is currently absent from the room and Director Folska who is not present, it
passes unanimously.
We then turn to the three Recommended Actions that we have on the agenda tonight. They are
noted in your packet as agenda item number Roman XII, Actions B through D. The first of these
is Board Commitment to FasTrack's Completion and Peak Service Plan. I'm going to read this,
and then I do have a comment to add because I know there may be questions about this. So bear
with me briefly, please.

It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors, Doug Tisdale, by the Chair of the
Planning Capital Programs and FasTracks, Manager Lubow, and by Directors Buzek,
Guissinger, Lewis, and Whitmore that the Board of Directors approve the attached resolution
number blank Series of 2019 Regarding RTD Board Commitment for Finishing FasTracks and
Supporting a Peak Service Plan for Northwest Rail, as presented to the Planning Capital
Programs and FasTracks Committee.
And then there is a statement of the goals that are congruent with that recommendation. Before I
ask for a motion, we mentioned this at the Executive Committee. I will at this time recognize any
Director who would like to be included and listed as a Co-Sponsor of this resolution. We would
ask you to please identify yourself at this time as a Co-Sponsor so that the permanent record will
reflect such Co-Sponsorship. So I note that Director Rivera-Malpiede, Madam Second Vice
Chair, that is an indication you wish to co-sponsor, correct?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: That's correct. Thank you, sir.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Anyone else wish to list
as a Co-Sponsor? Director Walker, you are recognized to list as a Co-Sponsor.
JEFF WALKER: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. That is confirmed. And is there anyone else? And
Director Whitmore, you're on the list already.
TROY WHITMORE: Oh, just being thorough.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. All right. Thank you. Boy, that's good. That's good. Got to admire that.
Madam Treasurer Cook, you wish to be listed as a Co-Sponsor?
SHELLEY COOK: Yes, please.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. So we have Director Second Vice Chair RiveraMalpiede, Secretary Walker, Treasurer Cook. And is there anyone else that I'm leaving out at
this?
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: I would like to be added to that list.
DOUG TISDALE: We can add our Director Folska to that list as well as a Co-Sponsor, such that
the permanent record of the resolution will reflect that. Now, may I please have a motion to
approve the Recommended Action?
LYNN GUISSINGER: So moved.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Second.

DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from Director Guissinger. I have a second from our Second
Vice Chair. Is there any discussion on the motion? Director Williams, you are recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. While I understand that RTD made a
commitment to FasTracks, and I understand that many of those in this room are representing
constituents who do not have a train, I feel obliged to mention that that program was initiated and
voted on in 2004, and that I think a lot of things have changed since then. And that I personally-here in district A, that there are not a lot of people who feel that that is the best use of their tax
dollars to put a train between Denver Union Station and Longmont.
I don't know what the average ridership is on our existing service, but I'm going to do some
investigating into what the average ridership is projected to be on this service that we are putting
ourselves toward. So although I completely understand, and I don't hold anybody to fault for
doing what supports their constituents, I feel that I have to do the same. And I cannot support this
resolution. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Williams. Director Mihalik, you are recognized.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I actually agree with much of the language, if not
the vast majority of it. My only issue is really the call for developing creative funding
mechanisms.
And I just wanted to-- my purpose last week was to carve out or exclude non-creative funding
mechanisms, and those would be tax increases. And so I'm hopeful, or I wanted to see creative or
funding that was as creative as the plan in the first place. And so without that exclusion, though,
of tax increases, or at least a policy of the Board not to put forth a tax increase as was the
precedent set in 2011, I can't be in support of this. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate that. Director-- I'm sorry.
Madam Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I agree with a number of points that Director-- the
previous Directors have said-- Director Williams and Director Mihalik, not being an area that is
represented by any existing or proposed rail. I, for the record, wanted to state that in the
resolution itself, when it talks about further addressing financial challenges, the resolution also
dictates that staff explore, fund, and facilitate construction and operation of a cost saving
measure. I just wanted to note that the staff can explore it, but the staff cannot fund it, and just
wanted to go on the record making that statement.
That being said, with some of the concerns, I do believe that for now, we still have a
commitment to the taxpayers. But I would also suggest that with the T2 initiative that we are
exploring, that some of those conditions may change, and ask that we be flexible enough to
recognize that as we move forward. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Director Menten, you are
recognized.

NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. I, again, will be a no vote on this, and for especially the
reasons at the last meeting was suggested by Director Mihalik, that we insert a line here that this
would not result in a tax increase. And he limited to a certain year, and I supported that, I would
say even beyond just that one year statement. And it is all about the creative funding
mechanisms. It could easily be that this could be something that, by those who spoke this
evening, they could have asked us to vote in support of this. And this could turn around and bite
them.
Could be pay for parking. Could be a variety of different things that will be falling under the
creative funding mechanisms. I could see that if this Senate itself as a basis for a tax increase,
which it certainly could because I heard at the last meeting multiple times saying, no, we don't
want to accept Director Mihalik's motion because we might tie staffs' hands.
As a matter of fact, one person stated that that seemed to be a "fantasmic"-- I'm not sure if I got
that right-- "statement." But I certainly know the record reflected that multiple Directors said
they didn't want to tie staffs' hands. Could you imagine how outraged Longmont would be to say,
"We're going to tax you some more on top of what you've been paying in for 15 years, just so we
make sure we get this done"?
So I wouldn't be able to support this and while I appreciate, really, the work that went into it.
Director Lubow, you will not be surprised if I vote no.
JUDY LUBOW: I am not surprised.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
TROY WHITMORE: She's crushed but not surprised.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Menten, for sharing your thoughts in such a
collaborative way, particularly with Director Lubow. Secretary Walker, you're recognized.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I was apprehensive about supporting this at all. I wasn't sure of the
necessity of it. But after hearing the folks speak on behalf of this during the public comment, the
folks speaking on behalf of this potential resolution, I had a much different view.
I think the tone of the conversation, or at least the comments today, are a lot different than what
I've heard for the majority of the seven years I've been on this Board. I think it's important that
we at least stand by the commitment that was made, the promise to investigate at least or the
promise to try to build this. And I think that this resolution does that.
I think all avenues should be explored. And I think it should be left to the people to decide on
how they want to pay for these things or if they want to pay for them at all. So whatever the staff
comes back with, whatever creative funding, or non-creative funding, or the same old, same old
funding, I think that's what we are asking staff to do.

Just so we all have a full understanding of what it would take, what it might take to fulfill this.
And if it's too big of a pill for us to swallow, then we don't have to do anything. We're just asking
them to provide us the information.
So I will be supporting this enthusiastically. So thanks to the folks from up North who came
down to speak to us because they certainly persuaded me. Thanks. That's it.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Secretary Walker. We appreciate that. Director Lewis, you're
recognized.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair. I have a few things. So in thinking about the financial
constraints that we've talked about quite a bit and the shortage of operators, I specifically would
like to know, as we're investigating and exploring, the trade-offs.
And so as we receive that document from staff, can you put it in language where it shows what
we are trading off for, different things that would be helpful for me? But I will be in support of
this. I just would like to have that because that's how my brain thinks. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Director Lubow, you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I, of course, am very supportive of this. And I
understand the position of folks who have different stances about it. Nobody's being
unreasonable, but I ran twice really-- some days I think, what was wrong with you? But
nonetheless, because I believe democracy owes it.
We owe it to our citizens not to take their money if we're not going to give them what we
promised them. It's very offensive to people to not do that. And I'm surrounded by people who
feel that way. So I think it's very important to keep our promises.
And I also feel the resolution is important because we owe it to these same people who have
been giving for 15 years a whole bunch of taxes for something that they're not getting. There's
something just really wrong with that. But we owe it to these people to take a new look at what
we could be doing instead of just saying, well, when the money comes, we'll spend it.
I've said for a long time, to not have a plan is not a plan. And I would urge staff if this resolution
is passed to think towards a plan about moving forward. And I think we owe it to the people in
the unfunded areas to do that. So that's it for me. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Then the Chair will acknowledge himself
and speak very briefly. The Governor's letter regarding this matter was in your packet, and I urge
that to your attention. The Commuting Solutions letter that we have received is on your dais and
has been circulated. Commissioner Elise Jones' email is also on the dais, and it's similar to the
comments that she made here this evening.

I want to emphasize this resolution does not anticipate, does not call for, does not encourage,
does not endorse, does not expect, does not mention, and does not require a tax increase. This
resolution is intended to be a beacon light to the region, to the state, and to the nation.
It is an important message of constancy from this Board, echoing and updating the message that
the Board sent seven years ago in the prior resolution. We have not forgotten that we made a
promise to the voters. We will not let it be forgotten, and we will, as and when appropriate and
reasonable, explore and undertake other actions to help facilitate the ultimate implementation of
that promise.
I do encourage you. I do ask you, and particularly for those of you who have said you do not
support the resolution, to give it further thought. And based upon that, to see if you can find your
way free to support the resolution and to vote yes. Director Guissinger, you are recognized.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. You made some of the points I was going to
make and made them much more eloquently. I would also point out that there's a letter in here
from Suzanne Jones, the sister of Elise Jones, who's the Mayor of Boulder, providing Boulder's
support.
I think what you heard tonight was sort of a unique group that comes in when the Mayors &
Commissioners Coalition from the Northwest Corridor comes in. And they've been able to help
find money for the 36 Project and help put that together. I think, I guess I would encourage us to
keep moving this forward and make this happen. Thanks very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Guissinger. Director Williams, you're
recognized. Never mind. Oh, well, I'm sorry. It flipped. I thought you had-KATE WILLIAMS: Go first.
DOUG TISDALE: --switched it off.
KATE WILLIAMS: He can go first. It's OK.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, yes. Actually, Director Buzek, you have not spoken. You may
proceed first.
VINCE BUZEK: Thank you very much, Chair Tisdale. And I would have to agree with some of
the comments of Director Walker and Director Guissinger. And the elected officials that came
here this evening spoke in support and, in a general sense, in a very positive fashion as well,
which is kind of a change.
And I know that I have, Director Lubow has, Director Whitmore has, Director Cook has,
Director Guissinger has worked very hard with these elected officials in the North to get them to
be our partners in getting things done for RTD, and not our combatants, which they have been
for quite some time. But as Director Guissinger says, we need to keep moving this forward
because that can change.

They could become our combatants once again. We don't want that. We want to help them out.
Thanks very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. Madam Second Vice Chair, you are recognized.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I just want to say as a Member of the
Board that voted in FasTracks or worked on that, that I continue to stay strong, united with the
community. And in Spanish, we call it "unidos estamos." So we are all united.
But Denver has changed dramatically since 2014. And a great number of my constituents have
been gentrified out. And I think that this service is going to provide a valuable service to those
community members who have to commute long distances to come back into the city to work
jobs.
And I think for the good of our community and our region, and as a world class city, it's our
responsibility to see it through. We did make a commitment, and I stand by that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Second Vice Chair. Any further discussion? I
think we've had a good discussion. And I'm sorry, Director Williams. I'm sorry. I apologize.
Director Williams?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just wondering if we have any idea, what is the annual tax cost per
person within the RTD district? Anybody know that answer?
DAVID GENOVA: Mr. Chair? I don't off the top of my head. I could ask staff if we know that.
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm just wondering, since we're talking about our constituents, and they
have been paying for taxes toward RTD for 15 years, I think if we had that cost per person, and
then we could look at how many people are actually affected by the lack of service to their area.
We might have some idea of what the actual financial impact was. And so I think I'd like to
know that. And then I'd be happy to share it with everybody else.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. I will just note, for the sake of the record,
that since the tax is a consumption tax, it is not one that can easily be broken out. Director
Folska, I will acknowledge your presence and ask if you have anything you'd like to say. You
will not be in a position to vote because you're not here. But Director Folska, if you'd like to
speak at this time, the record will reflect we're calling upon Director Claudia Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm in full support of this, although
unfortunately I cannot vote on it. I did vote on it in Committee. And so I really cross my fingers
and hope that it passes. Excuse me. With regard to the documents that are at our dais, if you
could direct our Board Staff to send me an electronic version of those items, I'd really appreciate
it. Thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Folska. Seeing no further discussion, we're in
a position to vote. Director Guissinger-- oh, I'm sorry. Director Menten, you have one last
comment to share with us.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes. I could just respond to Director Williams that I know I have got the
numbers in my past files about Longmont. And so it can't necessarily be nailed down to, how
much did Miss Jones pay in, and how much did Mr. White-- whatever-- pay in? But the
community themselves-- and Director Lubow is backing up these numbers-- that it might be
about $3.3 million a year. And Director Lubow stating is stating for the FasTracks portion.
So I will just leave you with that. I mean, I've done a breakout for Evergreen. And we can do
communities where days' sales taxes within that little circle. So I hope that will maybe help you
in some way.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. Any further discussion on the motion, on the
motion to approve the resolution? Hearing none, the movement was Director Guissinger. If you
would vote first.
And then the second was by Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede. If you would vote next. Then
the rest of us may vote.
By a vote of 11 in favor, and two opposed, and one abstention, we have the no votes are Director
Menten and Director Mihalik. The abstention is Director Williams. And, of course, we do not
have a vote from Director Folska, who has spoken but is not present, and therefore cannot speak.
Therefore, by a vote of 11 in favor of the resolution has passed.
The second Recommended Action is the Approval of the IGA between RTD and the State's
Office of Information Technology. It is recommended by the Financial Information and Audit
Committee that the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee to execute
all documents necessary to execute an IGA to develop and operate software to help manage
LiVE Eligibility Applications through the State PEAK software system, State Contract
Management System number 128691 for an amount not to exceed $1.8 million.
The IGA is for five years of development, operations, and maintenance, and is to support the
General Manager's Goals as listed. May I please have a motion to approve the Recommended
Action?
BOB BROOM: Move approval.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion that I see from Director Williams and the second from the
Second Vice Chair. Is there any discussion on that motion now? I see no speakers in the queue.
I have Director Williams as the movant and Madam Second Vice Chair Rivera-Malpiede as the
second. If you each would please vote, then the rest of you may vote. By a vote of 14 in favor,
and no Directors opposed, and no vote from Director Folska, that motion passes unanimously.

The third Recommended Action item is a Resolution Supporting Two Weeks of Free G Line
Service. It is recommended by the Chair of the Board of Directors, Doug Tisdale, that the Board
of Directors approve the attached Resolution number blank Series of 2019 regarding RTD
Board's Support for Two Weeks of Free Service for G Line Travel, as presented to the
Operations & Customer Service Committee. And the recommendation is, we assert, consistent
with the General Manager's 2019 Goals in four categories as enumerated in your packet. May I
have a motion to approve the Recommended action?
SHELLEY COOK: So moved.
DOUG TISDALE: I have a motion from the Treasurer, Director Cook. I have a second from the
Second Vice Chair. And is there any discussion on that motion? Director Lubow, you are
recognized for discussion.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. I'm going to be voting in favor of this because I
think it is a good thing to recognize impact on the community and to be kind to people who've
had some negative impact by the delay. But I urge the staff to think of two additional things.
And I'm not doing this as an amendment but just something as a recommendation, which is that I
know that there are people who live close to the A Line who have suffered a lot for years over
the horns. And I would just urge to staff to think, is there some way similar to what's being done
with the G line to show appreciation for those people who have been injured by having to listen
to the horns for so long? So that's one recommendation.
And the other recommendation is some kind of statement to the effect that we're doing good by
the people of the G Line, which is wonderful. And we're looking forward to doing something
similar for the unfunded corridors when they get their rail, so that they won't feel left out. That
being said, I will be voting for this. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lubow. Director Mihalik, you are
recognized, sir.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I'm going to abstain on this particular issue just
cause I don't want to overstep or cloud my authority and the General Manager's authority on this
issue. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director. We appreciate your comment. And if there
are no other comments, I will point out that there is, just for the sake of the record, first of all, the
comments of Director Lubow are amazingly prescient. Because it reflects a conversation that has
electronically occurred between Director Lewis, and General Manager Genova, and myself, and
similar conversations that others have had. So absolutely, it is part of the continuing dialogue.
But I do note that as I am informed, there is no constraint or prohibition in the DTP
Concessionaire Agreement regarding the proposed action. I know the question had been raised.
Moreover, General Manager reported this proposed action to the DTP Board last week. And the
DTP Board verbally expressed its strong support for this resolution.

Finally, I submit that it really is a good business decision for RTD, for the reasons that are stated
in the resolution and for the reason that the G Line will be opening between run boards. And this
really will help facilitate adaptive behaviors by our riders, old and new. Director Lewis,
something I said prompted you. Please go on ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. Thank you, Chair. I just actually wanted to say thank you. It's
very exciting to be a part of an agency that is addressing harm. And that is exciting for me as we
start talking about being compassionate with our neighbors and ensuring that we are taking care
of one another.
It's really exciting to be a part of folks who are so dedicated to ensuring that that is true. I don't
know if you all follow my campaign, but love and humanity were at the center of that. And so I
think this is what that looks like. So thanks.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Lewis. We appreciate that. Any further
discussion, any further comments?
SHELLEY COOK: Chair.
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, Treasurer Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: I just wanted to say thanks for comments, thoughtful remarks, and
suggestions. And I agree in major part with some of what you're talking about. And so would just
add my voice to those who were arguing for looking at other quarters as well for these kinds of
things. So thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much. And since you made the motion, it's only suitable that
you have the last word on it. So therefore, at this time, we are ready for a vote. The movant was
our Treasurer, Director Cook.
And the second was our Second Vice Chair, Director Rivera-Malpiede. If you would please vote.
Then the rest of you, please vote. And by a vote of 12 in favor, one negative vote, that being
Director Menten opposed, and one abstention, that being Director Mihalik abstaining, the
resolution is passed.
There is no Executive Session that is scheduled for this evening. Is there any old business that
any Director wishes to bring to the attention of the Board at this time? Hearing none, let us ask if
there is any new business from any Director. And you will recall, new business is an opportunity
if you have something that you just need to speak on that would be new business that you want
to bring to our attention. I will say that we have three Directors lined up. And so we're going to
recognize them now in the order listed. Director Menten, we begin with you.
NATALIE MENTEN: I clicked in time to get old business, by the way. I clicked in time to get
old business. So that-DOUG TISDALE: The Chair apologizes. I--

NATALIE MENTEN: No problem.
DOUG TISDALE: --didn't see it.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, no problem. Just making sure for the record, this is under old
business. This is for General Manager Genova. And since Henry is here, the question may go to
him.
Last week, we had a discussion about the North Line. And we kind of went in to-- I was asking
about dispatch and how that was proceeding with RTD intention to control dispatch for the North
Line. And at that time, you followed up and made a statement that, good news is we are going to
be using the same software for the PTC.
My question after thinking about that is that I'm especially interested in the dispatch software.
And wondering, what is the update on whether we're going to need to make upgrades? And if
you could give me some more information. And then as a follow up to that, are we still staying
within budget considering that also?
DAVID GENOVA: Mr. Chair, thank you. In regard to the software, so the same PTC software
and the same version of the software. So that's very important. And then the dispatching, that's
regarding software. I believe it is the same. But what I would like to do rather than give you a
brief out on that tonight is bring it back to the next time we have a FasTracks Committee. And
we'll give you a full inline update.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: And then regarding budget, my understanding is that we are on track for our
budget and within budget.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And the reason I ask about the dispatch is because even in the past,
it's been mentioned other areas of the country use dispatch to different entities, agencies,
departments, whatever it may be. It's really not setup like Denver Union Station, is my
understanding. And so I have a little bit of concern about where these trains are coming in to
gather, and how that is coordinated, and making sure that with two entities controlling dispatch
of heavy commuter rail that-- and this is brand new to us-- making sure of where we go with that.
So that's why I asked these questions.
DAVID GENOVA: OK. And those are good, valid questions. Again, we'll bring back a
presentation, and we'll address those issues. Again, on the systems basis, it's the systems. In a
good day in the control center, the systems are doing all the work. And the dispatchers are really
just monitoring and watching things. So since we are using the same software, same systems,
that should go pretty smoothly, and it should be very safe as well. But we'll come back with the
report.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thank you. That's all.

DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, General Manager, for providing that interim response
to Director Menten and for promising a further expanded response in the future. Director Lubow,
you are recognized.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you, Chair Tisdale. Very quickly on this, I get a daily computer list of
information from Streetsblog. And they have very interesting transportation information,
especially local but sometimes national. And I believe today they had an article called Uber
Finally Admits It's Directly Competing with Public Transportation. And it's just, I wanted to call
people's attention to it just because I feel it's an interesting subject that we all need to be aware of
whatever the interaction is between transit and these demand management organizations. So just
a heads up. Thank you very much.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you, Director Lubow, for sharing that. Director Williams, you are
recognized.
KATE WILLIAMS: Well, I have three things now. The rest of the quote from Streetsblog was,
"and RTD seems to be OK with that." So the whole headline was, "Uber admits that they are
stealing passengers from transit, and RTD seems to be OK with that." And you can find it on
Streetsblog, which anybody can access.
But that is not why I pushed the button to speak. I also am wondering, Mr. Genova-- this is two
of three-- if we're going to have further presentation about the North Line from our people, could
we get some input from DTP? Could we ask them to give us some of their input on how that's
going to go? Just think about it. You don't have to answer me now.
DAVID GENOVA: I'll consider it.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. That's all I wanted right there. The reason I really pushed to talk with
the green light on was because I want to remind everybody that coming up about a month from
now, in May, is the Colorado Association of State Transit Agencies, CASTA, which is helping
their Spring Conference here in Denver. We are the host transit agency.
A number of our people will be at the Paratransit Conference in Louisville-- not Louisville, but
someplace in Kentucky. But we have been invited. We are doing some presentations with them.
And I'd like for the rest of the Board of Directors to know that they are all welcome.
There is a fee. It's not free even to us, though we're the host agency. But they have a number of
good presentations. And so I just wanted to remind everybody about that. Thank you.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Director Williams. Are there any other Directors who
have any new business that they would like to bring before the Board? The Chair will note one
brief matter for reference. For those Directors who have not yet completed the required Cyber
Security Training, please be sure to do so by this Friday, April 19th.
Contact the Board Staff if you're having any difficulty in completing your training. I believe the
Chair has already given you some tips on how to get through it faster. We genuinely and

sincerely thank and applaud all those of you who have actually concluded your training. We
encourage the remaining holdouts, please complete it by Friday at the latest.
The only true sanction is that you'll ultimately be locked out of the system. So that is a sanction.
But we urge you just to do it because it's the right thing to do.
All right. Seeing no other business to come before this Board, I will at this time entertain a
motion to adjourn the RTD Board Meeting of April 16, 2019 as of 7:14 PM.
I have a motion from Director Williams. I have a second from Director Lubow. Any discussion?
None. All those in favor agree saying aye.
ALL: Aye.
DOUG TISDALE: Are there any opposed? There are none. That passes unanimously. We stand
adjourned. Thank you.

