1660 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2306

Regional Transportation District

Board of Directors
Chair – Vince Buzek, District J
First Vice Chair – Lynn Guissinger, District O
Second Vice Chair – Peggy Catlin, District N
Secretary – Marjorie Sloan, District M
Treasurer – Troy Whitmore, District K
Julien Bouquet, District G
Bob Broom, District F
Shelley Cook, District L
Erik Davidson, District I
Bobby Dishell, District D

Shontel M. Lewis, District B
Angie Rivera-Malpiede, District C
Paul Rosenthal, District E
Doug Tisdale, District H
Kate Williams, District A

AGENDA
Operations and Safety Committee
Wednesday, November 2, 2022
REMOTE MEETING
5:30 PM
To join the meeting Register Here
(connect using either Chrome or Firefox web browser)
Or listen by phone: 720-928-9299
Webinar ID: 858 3209 2586#
Passcode: 1660#
Public Comments can be emailed in advance to be
included in the record to
RTD.BoardOffice@rtd-denver.com

Operations and Safety Committee
Chaired by Paul Rosenthal

A. Call to Order
B. Public Comment
C. Information from External Entities
D. Recommended Actions

• Access-on-Demand
• Access-a-Ride/FlexRide Contract Extensions
• Contract Award for Welton Safety Improvements

E. Discussion Items
F. Other Matters
G. Next Meeting Date: January 2023
H. Adjourn

The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
• Language Interpreters
• Sign-language Interpreters
• Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

1.D.1

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Access-on-Demand

Committee Meeting Date:
November 1, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute
contracts with Lyft, Metro Transportation, Uber Transit and zTrip for the provision of Access-on-Demand
services. These contracts are for a duration of three years, at a not-to-exceed cost of $9,344,175.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
RTD has provided on-demand opt-in service through taxi companies since 2005; this service was
branded as Access-a-Cab. While this service presents an affordable alternative for paratransit customers,
the taxi industry has been unable to consistently provide a supply of resources to meet demand,
particularly for customers using wheelchairs or other similar mobility devices.
In October 2020, the paratransit department piloted an expansion of Access-a-Cab using transportation
network companies (TNC). This service allowed for an expanded service supply and a more responsive
service platform for paratransit customers opting in to RTD’s on-demand services.
In January 2022, the Uber pilot service area was expanded to the entire District to parallel the Access-aCab service area. These services provide a more convenient same-day alternative, which is more
affordable to customers and more cost-efficient for RTD and is responsive to all customers regardless of
their mobility aids.
DISCUSSION
On June 28, 2022, RTD issued a request for qualifications (RFQ) soliciting proposals for the provision of
Access-on-Demand services by taxi companies and TNCs. On October 17, 2022, four proposals meeting
the terms of the RFQ scope were received from Lyft, Metro Transportation, Uber Transit and zTrip. A
staff evaluation panel reviewed submittals to determine whether prospective service providers met predetermined objective qualifications outlined in the RFQ, including confirmation of good standing with the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission and compliance with insurance requirements. Based upon the
overall proposal evaluations, the panel recommends that contracts be awarded to Lyft, Metro
Transportation, Uber Transit and zTrip, in an amount not to exceed $9,344,175 over three years, for the
provision of Access-on-Demand service,

Packet Pg. 3

1.D.1

FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the provision of Access-on-Demand services effective January 1, 2023, is included in the
2023 Proposed Budget. Funding for future contract years is included in the 2023-2028 Mid-Term
Financial Plan and will be considered annually within each subsequent fiscal year’s respective budget.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 4

1.D.2

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Access-a-Ride/FlexRide Contract Extensions

Committee Meeting Date:
November 2, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to enter into a sixmonth contract extension with MV Transportation, Via Mobility Services, Transdev and Transdev on
Demand from January 1 through June 30, 2023, for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide
services. The not-to-exceed amount for the contracted services is $23,554,323. Additionally, the notto-exceed amount for fuel is $2,086,688. The total six-month not-to-exceed amount for the contracted
services with fuel is $25,641,011.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Michael Ford, Chief Operating Officer
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA) requires public entities operating a fixed route system to also
provide paratransit service to individuals with disabilities which is comparable to the level of service
provided to individuals without disabilities. RTD’s paratransit services are currently provided by four
service providers: MV Transportation, Via Mobility Services, Transdev and Transdev On-Demand.
RTD also operates FlexRide service in 23 service areas within the District, providing first-and-last mile
connections along with access to essential locations such as grocery stores, hospitals, medical facilities,
employment sites and schools. These services are currently provided by two service providers: MV
Transportation and Via Mobility Services.
Currently, approximately 65% of RTD’s paratransit customer base regularly uses the agency’s services,
and FlexRide ridership has been steadily increasing.
Considering that current contract extensions are set to expire December 31, 2022, RTD solicited
proposals for Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services, which were received on August 10, 2022. In
conference with Civil Rights, Procurement and Legal staff, it was determined that one of the proposers
was deemed non-responsive for their DBE plan and has subsequently filed an appeal with RTD. Given the
timeline of the appeal process, staff anticipates a need to extend agreements with current service
providers.
DISCUSSION

Packet Pg. 5

1.D.2

In adopting this recommended action, RTD seeks to meet the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities of
Community Value and Financial Success. In October 2022, RTD requested cost proposals from current
service providers to continue service through June 30, 2023.
Cost Analysis
An internal financial analysis indicated that the six-month estimated cost for RTD to provide similar
services internally would be $27,358,616, which is $1,717,605 higher than the six-month cost
proposed by the agency’s current service providers.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
Funding for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services effective, January 1 through June 30,
2023, is included in the 2023 Budget.

Prepared by:
Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager, Paratransit Services
Erin Vallejos, Senior Manager of Contracted Services
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 6

1.D.3

BOARD OF DIRECTORS REPORT
Contract Award for Welton Safety Improvements

Committee Meeting Date:
November 2, 2022
Board Meeting Date:
November 15, 2022

RECOMMENDED ACTION
For the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, the authority to
negotiate and execute all documents necessary to award contract No. 322FH0027 to Krische
Construction, Inc. (KCI), for an amount of $4,395,002 for Welton Street Safety Improvements.
STAFF REPRESENTATIVE
Henry J. Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager, Capital Programs
PRESENTATION LENGTH
5 minutes
BACKGROUND
The Welton Corridor portion of the Central Corridor (the L Line) in Denver opened for revenue service in
1994. The segment from 21st Street to 30th Street and Downing Street has experienced the highest
number of accidents of any corridor in the light rail system, with 63 accidents occurring between 2012
to 2021.
Blank-out signs are traffic signals designed to alert motorists or pedestrians to changing traffic patterns
in areas such as those located along light rail corridors running parallel to surface streets. To enhance
existing safety measures along the Welton Corridor, staff is engaging in a project to replace existing
blank-out signs and add new blank-out signs. The project also updates existing static signage, warning
devices, and associated train signaling system equipment that has not been updated since the opening
of the L Line in 1994. The equipment being replaced is past its useful life and is no longer serviceable,
with spare parts being difficult to obtain or no longer available. Due to compatibility issues, the existing,
outdated light rail relay-based signal system will be converted to a new microprocessor-based system
consistent with the new signal systems equipment being used throughout the light rail system.
Staff previously solicited requests for proposals for this project in Q3 2020. An engineer’s estimate for
the construction of this project was approximately $2.7 million. KCI was the only contractor to respond
to the request for proposals, with a proposed project cost of approximately $4.8 million. Negotiations
with the contractor were unsuccessful in closing the gap between the engineer’s estimate and the bid.
In discussions with the contractor, the major causes for the differences between the engineer’s estimate
and the bid was the risk associated with utilizing conduit systems that had been installed as part of the
original construction almost 30 years ago and the schedule impacts of working with the trains still
running.
To reduce project risk, an electrical contractor was retained by RTD to investigate the existing conduit
system. The existing conduits were determined to be available for this construction, and a shut-down of
the rail service was arranged.
The project was advertised for a second time as an invitation for bids on August 5, 2022. A single bid
was received from KCI and is valid for 60 days.

Packet Pg. 7

1.D.3

DISCUSSION
Adopting this recommended action aligns the agency with the 2021-2026 Strategic Plan priorities of
Community Value and Customer Excellence. The blank-out signs and static signage will better warn
motorists of train movements, reducing the potential of accidents and maintaining service schedules.
KCI has worked on several rail replacements and other projects for RTD previously. This project has
equipment and material needs with long lead times. The project has stakeholder support and
coordination in place. Denver has agreed to waive permit fees for the project. A shut down of the
service is planned for eight weeks in Q2 2023 to complete the work. As alternate bus service is
available on this route, no bus bridges are planned.
This project also requires specialty consultant support through construction and integration testing,
which will be procured separately.
FINANCIAL IMPACT
The total cost of the project, including contract award, specialty consultant services, and project
contingencies is $5,274,397, for which funding is allocated in the 2022 Budget.
The Colorado Public Utilities Commission was instrumental in securing Federal Highway Administration
Section 130 Rail Highway Crossings grant funds in the amount of $1.5 million for safety enhancements,
which funding will be utilized for this project.

Prepared by:
Jyotsna Vishwakarma, Chief Engineer
Paul von Fay, Manager, Engineering Design
Approved by:

Authorized by:

Packet Pg. 8

