2022-11-02
Operations and Safety Committee Meeting
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Let's start. Hi, everybody. Good evening. So the Operations and Safety Committee
will now come to order. We are convened as of 5:30 PM. I would respectfully ask everyone attending the
meeting to please mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak. Thank you all for joining us this
evening.
Please note that, under the current circumstances, official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are
being held remotely in the interest of public safety, health, and welfare. For the immediate future, the
official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors will be held via Zoom or Teams and will be audio and
video recorded. The meeting recordings, along with unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as
soon as practicable on the Board's website. Visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for
the link to the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you would like to be acknowledged during
tonight's proceedings, I'd ask you to please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Speaking out of turn will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their virtual hands to indicate that they would like
to speak by pressing star 9. To toggle your mute setting on the phone, press star 6.
I would like to now call the role for the committee members. Julien Bouquet.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Shontel Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Doug Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Kate Williams is excused and unavailable to make it tonight. She is traveling to a
conference. And myself, I am present. So that is four out of five of us. Of the record, I say we have four
Directors present. I'd like to open public comment to anyone who would like to address the committee
regarding any topic listed in the published meeting agenda for the current and immediately preceding
month. If you wish to speak and have not already done so, please either raise your virtual hand or press
star 9 on your phone. Staff will unmute you when it is your turn to speak. If you are dialed in, press star 6
to toggle your mute settings.
Please bear in mind that, by participating in this process, you are being recorded. If you do not wish to be
recorded, then your comments will need to be submitted in writing. If any speaker has documentation or
reference materials for the committee, or if any member of the public would like to submit written
comments, please email those materials to the Board Office at the following email, rtd.boardoffice@rtddenver.com.

During the public comment, the committee will not offer comments or responses. Directors or staff may
contact speakers following their comments if they raise matters that lend themselves to follow-up.
Speakers should begin the remarks by stating their names and each speaker will have three minutes to
speak. All righty, let's see. Do we have any speakers? All right, doesn't look like anybody is-- Barbara, do
you know if we have anybody? Looks like you're still muted.
DOUG TISDALE: Barbara's microphone is not working, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, my apologies. Director Bouquet?
JULIEN BOUQUET: I just wanted to state, for the record, apologies for mishearing. I did see Director
Broom is also on the call. I'm not sure if you said four Directors present, but four committee members are
present, with one Director as well.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I don't see him on my little list here. He's probably-- let's see, I see [INAUDIBLE] I
don't know. [INAUDIBLE] Becky. Oh, there he is. He just popped up. Yes, thank you very much Director
Bouquet. Looks like we also have Director Broom here. Any of the other Directors that I did not mention?
Director Tisdale, your hand is raised?
DOUG TISDALE: It is, and it's not to note any other Directors present, but I was going to make one
comment. We make this disclaimer at the beginning of each of the meetings now and say that, for
reasons of public health, safety, and welfare, we continue to meet remotely, and I suggest that it might be
appropriate for us, at some point in time, to change that because that's not the reason.
There is no health, safety, or welfare constraint upon our meeting in person. All other transit agencies
with which I am familiar are currently meeting in person for their transit agencies. So there's nothing from
the FTA or the FRA or anybody at that USDOT would constrain us from meeting in person.
However, we do have some continuing logistical issues with improvements that are being done to
conference rooms R, T, and D at the Blake Street facility that apparently will be resolved, hopefully, within
the next couple of months.
But I just don't want people to think that, oh, well, we're the only agency in the country that continues to
meet via Zoom as opposed to in-person because we are somehow better than others and are more
knowledgeable about health risks. And the answer is no, we have some technological issues, and that is
that reason. Oh, I'm hearing my echo too. That's impressive.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: That's another technical difficulty.
DOUG TISDALE: I'm the luckiest man in the world. Oh no, that was Lou Gehrig. Never mind. I just
wanted to note that for the record. Thank you, Mr. Chairman.
BARBARA MCMANUS: I'm sorry, Chair Rosenthal. I am dialed in on my phone now. I was having
challenges with Zoom audio earlier. We did a test and it worked at 4:30, but it's not working again, so I will
continue on my phone. We have no one in the queue to speak, and we also have no emails.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you very much Director Tisdale, and I agree with you on that. And
hopefully, we will be ameliorating our technical situation so that we can meet in person soon, and we are
looking into that. And I know the Board Office and RTD IT staff and other folks at RTD are working
feverishly to accomplish that, and I do appreciate that. I know, Barbara, you're also in a leadership

position, and Tai-Shrae, you as well are working on that. So I do appreciate that and acknowledge that.
So thank you, Director Tisdale, for bringing that up.
And thank you, Ms. McManus, for letting me know that we have nobody to pipe in tonight and give public
comment.
Given that, we will move on. Let's close the public comment period at this time. Let's go to the next
agenda item, information from external entities. There is no information from external entities this month.
Now moving on to recommended actions. There are three recommended actions on the agenda this
evening.
The first item addresses access-on-demand-- I was about to say Access-a-Ride-- access-on-demand for
the Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO or her designee to execute contracts
with Lyft, Metro Transportation, Uber Transit, and zTrip for the provision of access-on-demand services
these contracts are for a duration of three years at a not-to-exceed cost of $9,344,175. Do we have a
motion?
DOUG TISDALE: Tisdale, so moved.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Second, Director Lewis. So we have to flip a coin for Bouquet and Lewis.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
JULIEN BOUQUET: All yours. All yours, Director Lewis.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, in that case, it's Director Tisdale is moved and Director Lewis second.
Thank you very much for those. And so first, I would like to ask Michael Ford, Chief Operations Officer,
and Paul Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit Services, to present this item.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Chair-- Michael Ford, COO. Just to give a little background, RTD has
provided on-demand opt-in service through taxi companies since 2005. The service was branded as
Access-a-Cab. While the service presents an affordable alternative for paratransit customers, the taxi
industry has been unable to consistently provide a supply of resources to meet demand, particularly for
customers using wheelchairs and other similar mobility devices.
In October of 2020, the paratransit department piloted an expansion of Access-a-Cab using transportation
networks known as TNCs. These services allowed for the expanded service supply and more responsive
service platforms for paratransit customers opting into RTD's on-demand services. In January of this year,
the Uber pilot service area was expanded to the entire district to parallel the Access-a-Cab service area.
These services provided more convenient same-day alternative, which is more affordable to customers
and more cost-efficient for RTD and is responsive to all customers regardless of their mobility aid.
By way of discussion, on June 28 of this year, RTD issued a request for qualifications, known as an RFQ,
solicitation proposals for the provision of excess on-demand service by taxi companies and TNCs. In
October of this year, four proposals meeting the terms of the RFQ scope were received from Lyft, Metro
Transportation, Uber Transit, and zTrip.

A staff evaluation panel reviewed submittals to determine whether prospective service providers met
predetermined objective qualifications outlined in the RFQ, including confirmation of good standing with
the Colorado Public Utility Commission and compliance with insurance requirements. Based on the
overall proposal evaluation, the panel recommends the contract be awarded to Lyft, Metro Transportation,
Uber Transit, and zTrip in the amount, as was mentioned, $9,344,175, over three years for provisions of
access-on-demand services.
The financial impacts the funding of access-on-demand service is effective for January 1, 2023 is
included in the 2023 proposed budget. Funding for future contract years is also included in the 2023
through 2028 midterm financial plan, and will be considered annually within each subsequent financial
year's respective budget. So with that, that concludes my presentation. We ask for your support in
awarding these four contracts to provide this level of access-on-demand service. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you Mr. Ford. Mr. Hamilton, anything to add or subtract?
PAUL HAMILTON: Not particularly. I think CEO Michael Ford has done a great job of summarizing. The
thing I think I would add to that is we have seen great success since, as he noted, we expanded our pilot
for Uber to the entire RTD service area. During that period, we have actually added of our Access-a-Ride
customers, 1,500 of our customers that want to use the pilot and, during this pilot period, have taken
67,000 trips to date.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Wow, that's great. I'm very excited to hear this about this contract. And certainly,
that's some of the feedback we get from the community is about Access-a-Rides being a not sufficient
number and things like that, or being late, or what have you. So that's really awesome.
Great. Any Directors would like to have a question, comment-- ah, Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Just I wanted to verify one thing-- Metro
Transportation, that's Metro Taxi, right? So that's a taxi company that did step up and we're confident they
can continue providing those services? Is that correct.
PAUL HAMILTON: That is correct. They met the RFQ qualifications, and, actually, two companies-- zTrip
is another taxicab vendor.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, super. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I just wanted to get that on the
record.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Super. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to verify that the vehicles that are being used are all accessible, is that
correct?
PAUL HAMILTON: The system is accessible. Not all vehicles are accessible, but that's actually the case
as well with our Access-a-Ride service. We have three primary vendors that provide Access-a-Ride
service with our vehicles that are accessible. We have a fourth vendor, Transdev, for instance-- it's called
Transdev on Demand-- that provides on-demand or additional paratransit service using taxicabs. But
collectively, we are able to respond to people regardless of their mobility aid.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Would you-- and maybe you don't have this-- be able to tell me what percentage of
that fleet might be accessible?

PAUL HAMILTON: The percentage of the fleet from each of the vendors that are applying to be a part of
on-demand service?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes.
PAUL HAMILTON: Very small. We know that less than 10% of the vehicles, for instance, with Metro Taxi.
Probably the largest vendor that we had respond was zTrip, and they said that 40% of their fleet is
currently accessible.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, thank you so much. I appreciate it. Thank you, Director Lewis. Thank you,
Mr. Hamilton. Any other Directors-- any other comments? Fair enough. At this time, I would-- thank you.
Let's go to-- are there any no votes on this action? All right, seeing none, this measure passes. The
motion passes.
The next item is the Access-a-Ride contract extensions. For the Board of Directors to authorize the
General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to enter a six-month contract extension with MV
Transportation Via Mobility Services, Transdev, and Transdev on Demand from January 1 through June
30 of 2023 for the provision of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services.
The not-to-exceed amount for the contracted services is $23,554,323. Additionally, the not-to-exceed
amount for fuel is $2,086,688. The total six-month not-to-exceed amount for the contracted services with
fuel is $25,641,011. Do we have a motion?
JULIEN BOUQUET: So moved, Bouquet.
DOUG TISDALE: Second, Tisdale.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right Thank you Directors Bouquet and Tisdale, moved and seconded.
I'd like to ask Mr. Ford, Chief Operations Officer, and Mr. Hamilton, Senior Manager of Paratransit
Services again to present this item.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you. I just want to provide a little bit of background again. The Americans with
Disabilities Act, known as the ADA, requires public entities operating a fixed route system to also provide
paratransit service to individuals with disabilities which is comparable to the level of service provided to
individuals without disabilities. RTD paratransit services are currently provided by four service providers,
MV Transportation, Via Mobility Services, Transdev, and Transdev on Demand.
RTD also operates FlexRide service in 23 areas within the district, providing first and last mile
connections along with access to essential locations such as grocery stores, hospitals, medical facilities,
employment sites, and schools. These services are currently provided by two service providers, MV
Transportation and Via Mobility Services. Currently, approximately 65% of RTD's paratransit customer
base regularly use the agency's services, and FlexRide ridership has been steadily increasing.
Considering that the current contract extensions are due to expire at the end of next month, RTD solicited
proposals for Access-a-Ride FlexRide services, which were received on August 10 of this year. In
conference with the Civil Rights Division procurement and legal staff, it was determined that one of the
proposers was deemed nonresponsive for their DBE plan and has subsequently filed an appeal with
RTD. Given the timeline of the appeal process, staff anticipates a need to extend the agreements with the
current service providers.

In adopting this recommended action, RTD seeks to meet the 2021 through 2026 strategic plan priorities
of community values and financial success. In October 2022, RTD requested cost proposals from the
current service providers to continue service through June 30 of 2023. That cost analysis was an internal
financial analysis and indicated that a six-month estimated cost for RTD to provide similar services
internally would be $27,358,616, which is about 1,717,605 higher than the six-month cost proposed by
the agency's current service providers.
Again, the financial impact funding for the provisions of Access-a-Ride and FlexRide services, effective
January 1 through June 30, 2023, is included in the 2023 budget. And again, that concludes my report,
but we just need a little bit more time to sort out the issues that I just spoke about so we can bring this to
award sometime between January and June. Thank you.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Mr. Hamilton, anything to add?
PAUL HAMILTON: No, on this particular action, I think we'd both be ready to take questions if you have
any, but there's nothing else to add.
MICHAEL FORD: Sure.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Super. Let me just start off with one. In terms of the fuel price, with the fluctuation in
price of fuel, how do we know that they won't, I guess, take a loss on that fuel consumption? Or do they or
do they do a contract for that amount with a fuel provider that sets it at a certain rate? Go ahead, Mr. Ford
or Mr.-MICHAEL FORD: Paul, I can't here you. Go ahead, Paul. You're on mute.
PAUL HAMILTON: Thank you. If I may, the fuel prices are actually passed through costs, and two of our
three vendors have large storage tanks on their property. We don't use diesel, so we don't purchase off of
that contract as we do with a lot of our other buses, but the gasoline is purchased in quantity by our
vendors, and the pump price cost that they have to pay is passed directly to RTD.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough. Thank you, Mr. Hamilton. Director Tisdale, question?
DOUG TISDALE: Yes, thank you, Mr. Chairman. Because I think the matter could be somewhat
confusing to some people, let me just see if I can recast it a little bit in lay terms. We currently have these
four identified providers who provide the Access-a-Ride paratransit services to us.
Their contracts were all set to expire at the end of the year, so we offered everyone the opportunity to
rebid on a new contract that would start on January the 1st of next year. All four of those providers did
respond to the RFP, and one of them was deemed not to have been compliant with our DBE program for
Disability Business Enterprises, Disadvantaged Business Enterprises, and so forth.
And as a result of that, rather than risk having the entire program shut down and we would have to take
on those duties internally, we said, well, let's just extend everybody for six months while we're going
through this process to see if we can figure out on this fourth provider who didn't meet the DBE
requirements and who then appealed, whether it's going to work out. First of all, before I ask a question,
is that a fair statement of the circumstance?
MICHAEL FORD: That's a fair characterization, thank you.

DOUG TISDALE: All right, thank you. The question then arises as to the three who did meet our
requirements under the RFP, is there some reason that we chose not to enter into a longer-term contract
with them at this point and then just take the fourth provider who's under appeal and give them a sixmonth extension and look at conceivably putting them in, or was that too much in terms of the accounting
of how we do the routes, how we do the payments, and so forth.
MICHAEL FORD: I'll start off and maybe then I'll have-- maybe Paul will supplement. I think the
operational considerations and concerns, the facilities, the equipment, all that played into this issue, and
we also wanted to resolve the issue in its full complexity so we could move on and actually do the award
and knowing what we had. But, again, the operation, the vehicles, the facilities, all of those played into
part of that decision-making.
PAUL HAMILTON: Paul, would you like to add anything more to that? I don't think so because I think a lot
of the other content would have to be addressed by legal, but I think CEO Michael Ford has made the
most important point, which is if we were to have the remaining vendors that were compliant and did have
winning bids take on that service, we would have had to have moved a lot of our fleet around, and those
other contractors would then have had to reach out and hire those drivers from the noncompliant
contractor.
It would be a bridge too far. We would have a large problem on our hands in terms of being able to move
those assets around and those employees around to other contractors and still be able to provide the
service.
DOUG TISDALE: So if I can summarize that, the logistics presented simply dictated this was the best
solution to a challenging situation, correct?
PAUL HAMILTON: I would concur, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you. That's all that I have, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I have a question regarding Transdev and First Transit because
I did see an article in Mass Transit excuse me that says Transdev was looking to acquire First Transit,
and I'm curious if that has any bearing on the decisions that we are making, particularly the collective
bargaining agreements that we have in place.
MICHAEL FORD: Michael Ford, COO-- no. We would not have encountered that as a problem. That's
something that's outside our jurisdiction, but I don't see that being an issue for us. That is a transaction
that's happening that probably just affects the entire industry, but I wouldn't say that's germane just to us.
And I don't see that being a problem. There are obviously transitions that need to take place around that
transaction, but from what I see, I don't think that would be a factor and a problem for us to work with
whatever entity that is there because they do have the resources and the people power to deal with that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That's really helpful. And then you said one of the contractors were noncompliant. Is
there a reason that you all haven't mentioned which contractor is noncompliant? Is that information that
the Board is not privy to? You all knew that was coming, come on. I've been here for four years. Text me,
Michael. Text me.

MICHAEL FORD: I would rather-- given that we're into some delicate waters, I prefer not to bring that to
light.
SHONTEL LEWIS: All right, thank you so much. That's my only question.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough. Thank you for your questions, Director Lewis. Any other Directors have
any other questions? All right, seeing none, all in favor, and any no votes? No no votes. The motion
passes.
All righty, the third and final item is the contract award for Welton Safety Improvements. For the Board of
Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, the authority to negotiate and
execute all documents necessary to award contract number 322FH0027 to Krische Construction, Inc.,
KCI, for an amount of $4.395 million and-- let's just say $4,395,002 for Welton Street Safety
Improvements. Do we have a motion?
SHONTEL LEWIS: So moved, Director Lewis.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, Director Lewis and Bouquet, that's a motion and a second. Let's go to
Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant General Manager of Capital Programs, to present.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Well, thank you, Mr. Chair and Board members. Henry Stopplecamp, Assistant
General Manager of Capital Programs. And also with me today, I have Paul von Fay, who is the Design
Project Manager for this project.
So you've heard about the Welton Corridor blankout signs before. We've come to the Board a couple of
times over the last several years, and so this, hopefully, will be the last time in front of the Board. The
Welton Corridor is probably the number one area that we've got the most accidents-- 63 accidents since
2012.
And the blankout signs are basically train traffic interface signs to let pedestrians and vehicles know that,
hey, you've got a train coming, no right turn. They're the ones that normally are dark, and if a train's
coming, they light up with the circle with the line through it-- no right turn, left turn, or whichever. So the
system was put in 1994, and hasn't been updated since. It's getting obsolete. A lot of the equipment is
past its useful life. So we're going in to replace the blankout signs.
And as we started going into it, realized that a lot of the conduits, the cables, the communication devices
have seen better days. So the scope has increased as we've done our design work. We were out on the
street in 2020, and with the market and the unknowns, we got one bidder, and it was a little bit higher
than we thought it should be. Since then, we've canceled that procurement, and went back out there and
did a lot of due diligence, did more design work, verified all the conduits, and then the big one is we've got
a big window for construction.
And the Board report on the second page talks about an eight-week window. The eight-weeks is not just
for this project. We're going to go ahead and do some wire replacement. City and county of Denver are
going to get in there and do some curb and gutters and drainage. So we're coordinating with Denver and
Maintenance Way, trying to get as much work that needs be done in that area all at once.

So this project is not an eight-week project, but we're going to do an eight week shutdown that allows a lot
of things to happen on this corridor. This does address the strategic plan, priorities, community values,
and customer excellence. The blankout signs and static signs will make it better for the motors and train
movements.
So this is within the 2022 budget, and the overall project is a little bit over $5 million, and that takes care
of the award to Krische consultant services and project contingencies and staff oversight. And we did
receive $1.5 million through the PUC-- PUC helped us get it through the Federal Highways
Administration. So with that, I will open up for questions.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: I have a question for you, Henry. So in the eight weeks that it will be closed, that
line for the construction, will there be like a shuttle service or something so people can get around still?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: The nice thing-- there is a bus service in that same area. I will turn it over to
Mr. von Fay to go into a little bit more detail, but yes, we will be providing service for our patrons through
that area. Paul, you got anything you want to add to that?
PAUL VON FAY: Yeah, the bus service is immediately-- it's one block away from the Welton Corridor,
and it runs on the same headways and basically the same frequency, so that would provide the service
for the residents along Welton.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: And we'll have a-[INTERPOSING VOICES]-PAUL VON FAY: Yep.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: My bad, you were probably answering the question. So there'll be a sign or
something that says, hey, just go one block and you can take the bus?
PAUL VON FAY: Yes.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: OK, super. All right, thank you, Henry. Thank you, Paul. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. A couple of questions, actually, that I have based
upon the review of the discussion. I noticed that the original bid that we got from KCI was a proposed
project cost of approximately $4.8 million, and that was significantly higher, almost twice as high, more
than $2 million higher than what we had estimated the cost would be. And we're told that the major
differences, major causes for that difference, that gap of $2.1 million, was the fact that the conduit
systems had been installed 30 years ago and the schedule impacts of working with the trains still running.
Then we see the note that, well, we've assessed the conduits and the conduits are determined to be
available for construction, so that takes that out of the picture. And we're proposing that there will be a
shutdown of service, so we won't have the problem of schedule impacts of working with the trains still
running. And yet the bid that we are asked to approve is in excess of the $4.8 million that KCI originally
proposed and much more than the $2.7 million that we did.
I'm sure there's a reason for it, but just reading the report, I didn't see the reason, and I wanted to give
you the opportunity here on the record to explain that so we have some justification we can point to if

people ask, why did you take a job you thought was $2.7 million and then approve it for over $5 million
under your proposal?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: So if I may, Mr. Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Go on ahead, please.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I'll start for the first part and then get Paul to go into a little bit more detail. But
the contract is $4.395 and $2. And I don't know where the $2 came from. The overall project-- the original
$2.7, that was for the contract. That was not for the entire project. So if we knock $1,000,000 off, but yes,
we are a lot higher. So we have determined the contract the conduit is serviceable. We've done some
modifications to it. So we've had some other shutdowns. We've gone through and pulled additional wire.
We've also increased the scope of the work, so it's not just the few second "train coming" signs. It's
basically the whole thing, putting new wire, hardware, and some software in there. So the scope has
grown over the last two years. We've determined that if we're going to go in there and tear it up, why not
replace a lot of this 30-year-old technology. And actually, we're getting almost to the 40-year-- no, it's only
30 years. But Paul, would you like to add a few more things that are being added to this contract that was
not in back in 2020.
PAUL VON FAY: Well, we're adding second train functionality. We're replacing all of the original relaybased train signaling system with the new microprocessor system. We're replacing-- we're adding
software. We're just basically upgrading the system to make it match the existing new light rail corridors
out there.
So we're adding a lot of functionality that wasn't there before. We're replacing the traffic signal control
equipment at both of the signalized intersections along the corridor. We're also working with Denver to get
some TSP on there. So the train runs more smoothly or doesn't have any delay at the Park Avenue or the
Five Points intersection. So we're adding a lot of additional items to the project.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Which were above and beyond what we were looking for in 2020, so we
decided if we're going to go through it, we're going to do the whole thing.
PAUL VON FAY: There's additional scope, yes.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, and that's very helpful and I appreciate that because, again, we have to be
able to explain to people were asked the question. A follow-up question to that, at the bottom of packet
page 7, there is a reference that the single bid was received from KCI and it's valid for 60 days. It doesn't
say 60 days from when. As I understand it, the invitation for bid went out on August 5. Presumably it was
30 or 40 days or so later that we got that bid. But what's the deadline that we have for approval? You say
it's valid for 60 days.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: Paul, I think this came in the first week of October. Do you remember off the
top your head?
PAUL VON FAY: I don't remember off the top of my head. I believe that we're either very close or right at
the 60 days at this point. They have been notified that we wanted to move forward with them.
DOUG TISDALE: All right, and I appreciate that. I know that keeping all those dates in mind is not the
easiest thing. But it's good to know that. And then the final thing is a shout out to the PUC for working with

us and getting that $1.5 million from the Federal Highway Administration for purposes of some of the
safety enhancements. So I just wanted to go on the record and say thank you to the Colorado Public
Utilities Commission. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. That's all.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Tisdale. Director Lewis, did you have a question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I have a couple.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Go on ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair. What's the distance in blocks that the construction is
going to impact for the 6 to 8 weeks? How many blocks?
PAUL VON FAY: Director Lewis, it's from 21st to 30th will be impacted, so 10 blocks roughly-- 10
intersections.
SHONTEL LEWIS: And do you know how many people will be affected by this-- the construction?
PAUL VON FAY: I just saw ridership numbers. It was like 34,000 for the month of August, I believe, which
was the last ridership numbers we had that rode that line in that month.
SHONTEL LEWIS: 34-- is that in line with when the construction would be taking place, because it says
Q2 in 2023, or is that for a different quarter?
PAUL VON FAY: Those numbers-- those are the most recent numbers that I had heard just this
afternoon, and I would have to double check to make sure I'm remembering them correctly, but those
were for August, I believe, and we're talking about construction taking place earlier in the spring of next
year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, and I wonder if there's a difference with August versus the spring in terms of
ridership, and if the number of potential folks impacted increases or decreases.
PAUL VON FAY: I can check on that and let you know.
SHONTEL LEWIS: That would be helpful. And then I'm also curious, are we increasing the frequency or
capacity on the 43 to accommodate the additional folks who would not have access to the L line that
would then need to potentially access the 43? I'm assuming you're talking about the 43.
PAUL VON FAY: Yes, we are. We had not discussed that, but we can.
SHONTEL LEWIS: It would be-HENRY STOPPLECAMP: I think, if I may, Director Lewis, that this is more of a question for Michael Ford
or Fred Worthen, but typically, when we start seeing parallel service lagging behind, we ramp it up. But
we will follow up and get that information out to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: So essentially, Mr. Stopplecamp, you'll iterate as you all are seeing the impacts to the
individuals on the L line, is that what I'm hearing? I will validate that is the process. And I don't see Fred-maybe Michael can pipe up, but typically, if we do see-- we will put the extra loop in there if we're seeing
that we can't handle the capacity of a line.

And so if you think about it, it's 34,000 for the month. If you use basic Henry math, it's 1,000 a day, and
you look at the 10 to 12 hours window in there-- so the most you're going to have is an extra 100 people
per hour. So then, the question is, does that bus have the capacity? If it doesn't, we're going to have to
put more buses out there. Mr. Ford?
MICHAEL FORD: Just to reiterate what Henry just said-- Michael Ford, COO-- we would look at areas
where we are having trouble and where we need to allocate additional resources. Obviously, we have to
look at our resources to make sure we can do that, but we would try to accommodate those needs, not
just there but system-wide, where and when we can.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, and then my final question, as we're thinking about that the number of folks that
might potentially be impacted, I know you all-- I assume that you all have a robust communication plan on
how you're going to get folks to create some awareness around this change so that folks aren't surprised
by it, but also can plan for it. That's my assumption. Is that there?
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If I may, Mr. Chair.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Please, go ahead.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We do not have a robust communication plan as of to date. We do have the
Communications Department tied in with us. The big challenge now is once we award the contract-- we
were going to do this work earlier this year, but due to the procurement process and bringing on a
successful bidder, is going to be moved out to the second quarter of next year.
We will have a plan in place before we go out there, and this will be-- once again, it's not just this project.
There's a lot of work happening with the city and county of Denver out there. They've got some utility
work, they've got curb and gutter, we've got some wire work, so it's going to be one big packet teamed up
with the city and county of Denver, and we will share that word with everybody out there.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Do you know off the top of your head what the frequency of the 43 is currently? It's, as
Paul pointed out, the same as the L line. But Mr. Ford, do you know what the-- is it a 15-minute headway?
MICHAEL FORD: I would have to double-check. I believe it's 15-minute headways, but I can get back to
you on that. I also would just reiterate that service planning would be brought into the loop to help
address the service-related issues as well that you just brought up. So I just would add that to the
conversation. But I can find out, specifically, the headways for that particular route and get back to you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK, that would be really helpful, as well as an update on the engagement piece as
well. If I can do anything to get that information out to the constituents in that area, I'm happy to support in
that way. Those are my questions. I really appreciate it.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: We appreciate that, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Chair?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Lewis, and sort of building off on some of the questions Director
Lewis raised, is there going to be any outreach to business owners in that area, and to what extent do
you believe that this will be disruptive to both them and potentially motorists who are driving along Welton
Street?

Now, obviously, there's not just, as you mentioned, not just work done on the tracks and the wires, et
cetera, but also the city of Denver's going to be doing some construction as well. So what are your
thoughts on that? Thank you.
HENRY STOPPLECAMP: If I may, and I'll turn it over to Paul, but our work is not really that intrusive to
the business owners. So we are working at the intersections at our communication bungalows. The wire
work is typically done with a high rail bucket truck on the tracks and working directly up.
Now, when we get into the additional work that's planned out there with the city and county of Denver as it
moves through, yes, there will be impacts. But Paul, would you like to talk just real briefly about our
conversations with city and county of Denver and how we're going to advertise and minimize the impacts?
PAUL VON FAY: So the project will-- the city has plans, I believe, on storm sewer project. They also have
their intersection safety improvements that they're proposing along there. There's, I think, two bike paths,
or bike routes, they want to add as well. There's traffic signal work also, and that work will be coordinated
with our contractor to make sure that-- all that work is coordinated and the traffic control is coordinated
amongst all of the various contractors.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Wonderful. All right, thank you so much. Any other Directors have any other input?
All righty, are there any no votes? All right, the motion passes.
All right, discussion items. Are there any discussion items tonight? Seeing none. Oh, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I know I brought this up earlier about the potential acquisition with Transdev and First
Transit, and I would be curious if it's worth a discussion for this committee as we move forward, and how
that acquisition could potentially impact the services that we provide moving forward or our contract
negotiations moving forward. It doesn't have to be answered now, but I'd love for us to bring that back
potentially.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Fair enough. And so Mr. Ford and others, please do maybe bring that back to your
leadership team and see if you don't mind looking into that. That would be helpful. Thank you.
MICHAEL FORD: Will do. Director Broom, did you have any comment or question or discussion item?
BOB BROOM: I was trying to get my hand raised for other matters.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All righty, well then that will close the discussion items. Now other matters, Director
Broom?
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Chair. As most of you probably noticed, district F, which is my district, gets its
share or more of its share of derailments and major accidents. The R line has been shut down for an
inordinate amount of time, and I don't think we have the right policies in place to deal with major
accidents.
And so what I'd like to propose, and I know there'll be a new committee assigned for operations for next
year, but I want to get on the record that the operation committee should develop a set of policies next
year pertaining to service recovery following a derailment or other major accident. We need to put the
riders first and get service renewed.

If you look around and see, the highway department might shut, you know, I-70 down for a day or so for a
major accident, but they try to get the road back open and operating as soon as possible. And I just think
that we work so hard to get new riders to use our service, and then we shut it down for several months
and we cross all the T's and all the I's.
When the police departments go out, they take pictures and they do their investigation after the fact. They
don't shut the road down for an extended period of time. So I think we need some policies in place to
speed up the process of getting our facilities back open and operating for the benefit of our riders.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Tisdale?
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I want to second, in the strongest possible terms,
the remarks of Director Broom. I do understand the difference between a major accident on a highway
and what happened here is that there are infrastructure issues that are also implicated. And so we have
to respect and understand that.
But even with that, the amount of time that we have taken to have this rail line shut down-- what we
promote as a vital link, particularly through Aurora, where this particular incident occurred and where one
occurred three years ago. We recognize that that impact is significant on the community and our ability to
increase ridership is devastated when we show that we cannot recover more quickly from an accident. So
acknowledging the infrastructure issues that are presented, there are, I believe-- at least, I don't have any
information to the contrary-- there are no particular infrastructure impediments to running the trains.
There are precautionary steps we can take, and that would be great, but the amount of time taken is
something that causes concern, and we did have a public comment, which was then repeated in the
media reporting on our Board meeting, relative to other communities that have had accidents such as this
and have recovered more quickly. And to build our credibility and to provide service, I think it behooves us
to get service restored more quickly. And I appreciate the suggestion from Director Broom and would be
happy to see the Operations Committee address that next year. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Director-BOB BROOM: I'll hire you to do my press releases Thank you.
[LAUGHTER]
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Perhaps, do we have any update on that from Mr. Ford or Ms. Snyder to respond to
those at this time?
MICHAEL FORD: I know that we'll have another executive session to talk about this matter on the 15th,
so I think we'll be able to come back with some more information, and that's probably all I would probably
say at this point.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you Mr. Ford. Any other Directors would like to have a discussion
item? All righty, so this is actually our last meeting for the year. And I just have to say, thank you very
much to all the Directors who are on this committee, and certainly all of the leadership and staff on RTD
who have participated over the past year in order to support this committee and support RTD.
I may or may not be the Chair next year, we shall see. But needless to say, it's been an honor and a
pleasure to serve as your Chair. Thank you so much. And anybody else have any thoughts or

perspectives as our last meeting of this committee before we reform and meet with our new fellow Board
members starting in January when they are sworn in? Director Lewis?
SHONTEL LEWIS: As you all know, I am not running for re-election, and so it has been a great four
years. It's been a great time. Thank you for having me on this committee. This committee means a great
deal to me. And I really appreciate the opportunity to work alongside of each one of you, and so continue
the good fight. And Director Broom, I'm sure you'll get that R line up and running before the end of the
year. I'm going to hold you to it. You all take good care.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you for that comment, Director Lewis. And no matter where your road leads
you, certainly it's been an honor and a pleasure to work with you. Thank you for your service to RTD and
to your constituents as well. Any other thoughts? Any other comments?
All righty, so I see no other discussion-- oh, so first of all, our next Operation Safety Committee meeting is
going to be in January 2023, and seeing no other discussion, the meeting is adjourned at 6:25 PM. Thank
you, everybody, and have a great evening. Bye-bye, everybody. Thank you.

