Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 3,
2009
Page 1 of 4

Regional Transportation District
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Lisa Trujillo, Board Office Analyst

Date:

March 3, 2009

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on
Tuesday, March 3, 2009 at 7:39 p.m.
****
Board Members
Present:
Directors Brohl, Busck, Chacon, Cohen, Daly, James, Kemp, Martinez,
McMullen, O’Boyle, Pulliam, Tayer, and Tobiassen.
Board Members
Absent:
Kent Bagley and Bill Christopher
Subject:

Cal Marsella, Marla Lien, Rick Clarke, Daria Serna, Scott Reed, Stan
Szabelak, Bill Van Meter, John Shonsey, Dave Genova, Sherry Ellebracht,
Dean Shaklee, Bill Sirois, Bruce Abel, Cal Shankster, Terry Howerter, John
Tarbert, Joe Racosky, Phil Washington, Paula Perdue, Caitlin Magee and
Lisa Trujillo.

Staff Present:

Others Present:
****
Call to Order

Director Kemp called the meeting to order at 7:39 p.m.

Chair Christopher and Vice Chair Bagley were out of town. Chair Kemp chaired meeting on
their behalf.
I.

Update
• Economic Stimulus Projects Review and Plan
Bill Van Meter, Acting Assistant Manager, Planning provided an update via
PowerPoint presentation. Bill discussed the following:
Schedule
o RTD staff preliminary screening of eligible projects through March 3,
2009
o March 3 – Presentation of screened list of projects for Committee
review, prioritization and Recommendation for Action to Board of
Directors.
o DRCOG Public Hearing on March 4, 2009 regarding DRCOG, CDOT and
RTD list’s

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 3,
2009
Page 2 of 4

o
o
o
o
o

March 5 – Special DRCOG Regional Transportation Committee meeting
on ARRA allocations
March 12 – Financial/Administration Committee for action on
recommended list
March 17 – DRCOG RTP action on RTD projects for TIP
March 17 – RTD Board of Directors Action on list of Projects for
Implementation
March 18 – DRCOG Board action on RTD projects

Key Provisions for Transit – Projects must conform to these criteria:
o
o
o
o

No waiver of FTA program requirements (planning/NEPA/Buy
America/Labor Protections/etc.)
100% Federal share, except New Starts
Capital expenditures only are eligible
Funds not obligated with time frames will be taken back and reallocated

Transit Obligation Timetable
o
o

o

U.S. DOT has 21 days to Apportion Funds
Obligation Windows
ƒ 50% of funds must be obligated within 180 days
ƒ 100% of funds must be obligated within 1 year.
ƒ Funds apportioned and not obligated on this timetable will be
drawn.
Redistribution Provisions
ƒ Recovery and redistribution of funds withdrawn after 180 days
and 1-year only to those who did not have funds withdrawn

Process for Prioritization – Approximately $72 million to RTD in formula funds:
o Staff Recommendation: Allocation of funds according to the current
Sales Tax split:
ƒ 60 percent allocation for base system ($43.3 million)
ƒ 40 percent allocation for FasTracks ($28.8 million)
Process for Staff Recommendation
o

o
o

Eliminate lowest priority projects that:
ƒ Are below $90K
ƒ Cannot be obligated in 180 days
ƒ Are no longer needed
Allocate remaining list of projects to Base System or FasTracks
Determine highest priority, ready-to-go projects/Projects that best
address current financial challenges, to the extent feasible, for both Base
System and FasTracks

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 3,
2009
Page 3 of 4

After the PowerPoint Presentation, Bill then proceeded to go through the RTD Staff
Project Recommendation for Stimulus Funding.
Director Daly requested that the Pine Junction Pnr be moved up. It was suggested that
Director Daly look over the list and see if there is something he would like to move
down in exchange for adding the Pine Junction Pnr.
Director Tayer requested a ranking order be added to each item on the list to show
priority.
Director Brohl would like to see original plan to finance fareboxes and wants a savings
per cash versus borrowing money to pay. She also asked what other items could be
included in group.
Cal mentioned that they can count preventive maintenance as a reimbursable expense
under stimulus. This has not been captured before but it will be captured now and
apply 10 million to it and the 10 million will be new money that goes back into the
general fund that we can apply to service improvements and reduce cuts anticipated in
2010.
Bill Van Meter informed the Board that their direction is clear, he and his staff will
prioritize and come back and address varies points that were discussed. He also
mentioned that the new list would not be ready in time to be included in the Friday
packet.
Director Tobiassen asked that the board get a general feel for how many jobs would
be created.
Bill said they would need to report to the Federal Government on the number of
jobs retained and new jobs created.
II.

Other Matters
No other matters were discussed.

III.

Executive Session - 8:25 p.m.

Chair Kemp asked for a motion to move into Executive Session to discuss
C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) – Labor Contract Negotiations.
MOTION:

Director McMullen made a motion to
move into Executive Session to discuss

Summary of the Planning and Development Committee meeting held on Tuesday, March 3,
2009
Page 4 of 4

C.R.S. 24-6-402(4)(e) – Labor Contract
Negotiations.
SECOND:

Director Chacon seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

The motion passed unanimously.

IV.

Next Meeting Date
The next Planning and Development Committee will be held on Tuesday, April 7,
2009.

V.

Adjourn - Hearing no objections, Chair Kemp declared the meeting adjourned at
approximately 9:10 p.m.

