Operations & Customer Service Committee - 413-2021
KATE WILLIAMS: OK good evening. Welcome to the Operations and Customer Service Committee
meeting. We are convened as of 7:32 PM Mountain Daylight Time. I'll go through some part of what we
went through at the last committee meeting. I would ask that everyone please yourself unless you are
recognized to speak.
Please know that under current circumstances official meetings of the RTD Board of Directors are being
held remotely in the interest of public health, safety, and welfare. For the immediate future, the official
meetings of the Board will be held via Zoom, and will be audio and video recorded. Meeting recordings,
along with the unofficial minutes of the meetings, will be posted as soon as practicable-- love that word-on the Board's website. You can visit rtd-denver.com and scroll to the bottom of the page for the link to
the Board of Directors page.
Directors and members of staff, as you know, if you would like to be acknowledged during tonight's
proceedings, please raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call you before proceeding to speak.
Speaking out of turn or over each other will only add confusion to the record and to the proceedings.
Directors and staff participating by phone can also raise their hands by pressing star nine. To toggle your
mute setting on the phone, use star six.
Please note that we are not taking public commentary during this meeting. Members of the public who are
interested in speaking directly to the Board are encouraged to do so during the monthly Board meeting.
For future meeting dates, please refer to the Board's meeting portal, located at RTD.IQM2.com. We don't
need to read the safety briefing again, so we will go directly to our recommended actions for the evening,
soon as I find my way there, and all of my paperwork.
I believe we have two recommended actions this evening. The first recommended action I'll read is for the
Board of Directors to authorize the General Manager and CEO, or her designee, to execute all
documents necessary to enter into a funding agreement with the city of Boulder for financial support for
Hop Circulator Operations within the commercial areas of the city of Boulder, the University of Colorado at
Boulder, and adjacent business and residential areas for the calendar year 2021 for an amount not to
exceed $978,092. Do I have a motion?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: So moved, Rosenthal.
SHELLEY COOK: Second, Cook.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Rosenthal and Director Cook. We have staff representation to
speak to this? Mr. Worthen?
FRED WORTHEN: Good evening Madam Chair, honorable Board members. Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus
Operations. Just as a little bit of background, the RTD has a long standing history of partnering with local
governmental agencies, non-profits and other entities throughout a region to provide supplemental
services for RTD's services. These include local services, such as the Hop and the Inglewood trolley,
rural services such as Jeffco County, Boulder County, and Adams County. And then we have grants such
as the FlexRide services like the Wagon Road FlexRide, Broomfield FlexRide. Then we have alternative
services such as the DRCOG Van Pool program.

All in all, we have about a dozen different funding agreements, and we're requesting approval of the Hop
agreement for an amount not to exceed $978,092. Within the Board packet, there is a history of the
background on how we have partnered with the city of Boulder to provide funding services and
agreements for the Hop services. And also, the actions that we've taken to mitigate the COVID impact
included in the packet. We value these longstanding historical funding agreements and partnerships, and
we're requesting authorization to continue these valuable agreements. I'd be happy to answer any
questions you have at this point.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Worthen. Directors, if anybody has any questions on this action, please
raise your virtual hand now. Did I miss anybody? I don't see any hands up.
SHONTEL LEWIS: My hand's up.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. Go ahead. You have the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. Mr. Worthen, if you might, you mentioned that you all have
a number of funding agreements. And I'm curious as to what other funding agreements that we've made
this concession for.
FRED WORTHEN: When you say concession, can I ask for clarification what you mean?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, so in the language that was provided to us, it appears that we are going to
continue to fund the Hop. Maybe I'll ask a few questions. It appears that we're going to continue to fund
the Hop. And as I looked at this document, it shows that there's been a decrease in ridership. And so
we've been having discussions about decreases in ridership. We've really matched our services-- and
we'll talk more about that in June service changes-- we really matched our services to ridership. But this
seems to be a deviation from that. Am I misunderstanding?
FRED WORTHEN: Well, I would say that when we actually entered into the budget process going into
2021, we took a very hard look at both our financial ridership and the needs associated with our ability to
fund these services. After going through an extensive review process, we actually recommended that all
of our cost, share and funding agreements be reduced by 40%. So we actually reduced the funding to all
of these particular programs by the same amount.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you. I appreciate that. And so here, I guess I'm not following the justification to
continue to fund this if the ridership isn't there. Oh, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: May I add a point of clarity to this conversation, please? So recognizing when I came
on board that the budget was in the works and it was my understanding that conversations had ensued in
reference to our level of ridership. Back in January, I disseminated a memorandum to all Board members.
It was January 8th, 2021 in reference to the funding agreements of which Mr. Worthen referenced. Some
of those funding agreements fell within my auspices as a General Manager, and in an effort to be highly
communicative, I disseminated that to all of you all.
While working with our partners at the city of Boulder, recognizing that there is a large activity center
there being the University of Colorado, we had engaged in dialogue back in February, March timeframe.
And as we go forward, there was a stopgap measure that our partners in the city of Boulder had put
forward, relative of not recognizing where they would be in reference to people matriculating in person on
campus. So with that as a backdrop, I had gone ahead, with my authority, upon which I communicated in
that memorandum, that we were going to do this as related to the reduction, so it more or less is equitable
across the region relative to the level of service in which we're providing.

So what we're doing this evening, recognizing that there could be on campus classes and so forth, and
they are in the process of doing their budget, we're coming to you. Because this spans outside of the
auspices of my budgetary authority to bring this forward.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Understood. So I guess the question remains for me, and that does make sense for
the students of Boulder. But the question that comes up for me is, are the students that have reached out
to me who currently-- right, because we make we made changes based on schools closing and people
going into to doing online learning-- that the students who reached out to me recently who can't access
Northfield High School, I guess I'm trying to understand, if the students aren't there currently, why would
we continue this funding agreement?
It says here in the language of-- or at least what you all presented to me-- that it was a 78%? Hold on, let
me find those numbers for you. Let me see here. Oh. It went from 78% in 2013, a reduction of 78%. But
we're talking about a funding reduction of 60%, and the daily boardings of 468 versus what it was, which
was 2,140. And so I'm trying to better understand that because in my mind-- and you can correct me,
General Manager-- in my mind, if we are investing money in this way, then it's a disinvestment in another
community.
FRED WORTHEN: So, Madam Chair, if I may answer-- Fred Worthen, AGM of Bus Operations-- so back
in February, actually, the CU Boulder campus resumed hybrid operations, where some classes are inperson, versus others were done remotely online itself. So we have seen some level of increase with the
hybrid model. In March of this year, we actually saw an increase up to the average of 551 people. They
intend to increase, to continue this through the spring, into the summer, this hybrid model.
But in the fall semester, they have actually posted online that fall academic is projected to be back to
normal. Majority of courses will be in-person, residence halls will be at or near full capacity. But they do
say that they'll continue to monitor public health guidance and adjust our plans as needed based upon
health and safety. So there is an expectation by CU Boulder that they will return back to, basically, normal
operations and near capacity by August-- I believe August 13th is when they resume in-person
operations.
So we're, basically, recommending to support the hybrid operations with this funding. And then we'll
continue to monitor how ridership progresses with the staff as we meet with them regularly. But our hope
is that we will return to near-normal ridership by August of this year. And this funding agreement is for the
entire year, not just for this section or this portion of the year.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I understand that. I understand that. And I think I still I'm having a hard time
reconciling it. I guess it doesn't-- it makes sense to me. Right? Like the words that you are saying and the
way in which you strung them together do make sense. And I understand the hybrid model, right? That's
the model for a lot of our schools. But what we've told many other communities is because they are not
utilizing the services in this moment and in this time, that we've reduced it in some of those communities.
And so I don't understand why this would be an exception to that reduction. Because the 60% doesn't
make sense with the 78%, and even the numbers that you told me, and going back to the hybrid model.
Like, there would still be a reduction.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, and there were reductions in services last year. They did move from a 10 minute
frequency to a 15 minute frequency during peak hours. So there was a reduction in their operating
frequencies themselves. They basically, at the same time we transitioned to Saturday level service, they
also transitioned to a Saturday level service.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, no. Thank you. I appreciate that, and I respect it. I'll digress.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK. I see Director Guissinger has her hand up.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Thank you. I just wanted to mention I had a good conversation with Miss Johnson
about this afternoon. And as she was saying, this is one of a number of contracts with our partners. And
the reason it comes to us is it goes over-- somebody, Ms. Johnson or Mr. Worthen, correct me if I'm
wrong-- but this goes over the GM CEO'S authority for signing. But there are a number of these contracts.
They deal with all manner of things from paratransit into Elyria-Swansea and Globeville, to paratransit up
to Evergreen and services in Adams County and Brighton and Boulder. And really, I think in the list that
we saw before, there were 11 of our 15 districts that were affected.
But it's really important to keep in mind that these partnerships provide services that serve us. And we
want to keep them going. I think, as Mr. Worthen said, these are very valuable partnerships. They offer
services some of the paratransit. Some of those things that save us money. The Hop is a long-standing, I
think was it since the '70s? Where the city of Boulder pays a big portion of the cost, the University pays a
big portion of the cost. So it's a route that serves a lot of people, and RTD only has to pay a small portion.
And I think that this is a model for where we want to be going in the future.
So I certainly support this, and support us looking at building it back up. Thanks.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Guissinger. I see Director Dishell's hand up.
BOBBY DISHELL: Thank you, Director Williams. And this just might be a math issue on my end. At the
top, it says we're authorizing $978,000, roughly. Which I think is a combination of the $733,000 plus the
$244,000. But we didn't have to authorize the $244,000. So aren't we really only authorizing $733,000?
DEBRA JOHNSON: For all intents and purposes-- if I may, Mr. Worthen-- just as it relates to full
transparency and according to our procurement practices, in reference to my responsibility of my ethical
obligation, I put forth the entire contract, because it would be disingenuous if you did it only for that limited
amount. Because then I could go back, if I was that type of person, and double back where it wouldn't
meet that threshold.
BOBBY DISHELL: Got it. Thank you. That was my own math issue. Got it. Nothing further.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Dishell. Do I see any other hands? I do not.
SHONTEL LEWIS: You see one more. I'm sorry. My hand's here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just want to say, for the sake of the record, that I
appreciate having partnerships. And also, I am having a hard time swallowing this one, right? Because
we do have other funding agreements, and I don't know if those other agreements that we have currently
have had the opportunity to do something similar. One, it also sounds like to me-- and Mr. Worthen,
please correct me if I'm understanding this incorrectly-- is that we are offering bus frequency of services
for the sake of partnership. And it is my belief that we should be offering services not for the sake of
partnership, but for the sake of ridership, right? Demand. We talk about being demand responsive, and so
I'm having a hard time understanding why this would be the exception.
And I think about our other communities. I think about the Auraria campus, right? I think about the
Community College of Aurora. The Cherry Creek School District. Denver Public Schools. These are all
students who are accessing our services and are also in a hybrid model. But this contract is up before us,
and as it should be, as a Board.

And I have some trepidation about approving this contract because it feels a bit inequitable. And we've
had a lot of discussions about equity. And I don't know if I'm comfortable with moving a contract forward
simply because we want to maintain our partnerships. I think our partners should be just that, a
partnership. It should be mutual benefit. And it shouldn't be something that is taking away from one part of
our system to pour into another one, simply for the sake of partnership. Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Lewis. We appreciate your opinion. I think that all of the directors
have an opinion on this and every other item that we vote on. So if anybody else wants to express theirs,
please raise your hand. If not, we're going to move this item down the line. OK. Seeing no hands.
I'm going to take a vote now, noting that the motion was put forth by Director Rosenthal and seconded by
Director Cook. Are there any no votes? If there are no votes, please raise your hands. Director Lewis, are
you voting no?
SHONTEL LEWIS: My hand's up. Sorry.
KATE WILLIAMS: Don't say yes. No. No, yes. No. You're voting no. I got it. So with Director Broom
having joined us, I will move this forward with 14 yes votes and one no vote. OK. Thank you all very
much.
Let's go on to the next item. Hang on, I have to swap screens so that I can read it. The next
recommended action tonight is for the Board of Directors to approve the June 2021 service changes, and
to authorize the General Manager or her designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for
private operators. The services are impacted by these changes. Do I have a motion?
TROY WHITMORE: So moved, Madam Chair.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Second, Bouquet.
KATE WILLIAMS: That was Whitmore, Director Bouquet. And then I think we are going to have some
speech on this, started off by Mr. Ford.
MICHAEL FORD: Thank you, Madam Chair. Michael Ford, COO. Just briefly over the course of the last
several months, we've been actively engaged in the stakeholder outreach. Listening to folks,
understanding and garnering their focus on what is important to them. Going where the people are. That's
obviously something that we take very seriously and have continued, and we'll be continuing that process.
In addition, we will also work through the service planning process with our customers to solicit their input
for the June service change. We've made about 1,000 contacts via social media, emails, and other
communication protocols. Stakeholder engagement and our customer service process continues. As we
move forward in this process, we'll be starting up in September, or having those dialogues for September.
So this is a fluid process that's ongoing.
We're obviously still under COVID, and we're obviously adjusting and continuing to make those
adjustments based on the need at this point. So the service plan does reflect some changes that are
needed in service where the data supports that, or where it makes more sense because of improving ontime performance or other operational issues. Again, ridership maintains at the same level that it has, and
we want to continue to monitor that.
Another guiding principle or principles that we have utilized is the service performance evaluations based
on RTD service standards, the effects on the overall integrity of the transit network, and transit-dependent
markets. The availability of alternative services to affect customers, cost-effective distributions throughout
the district, and the Family Services and the ability to enhance service when possible. Obviously, Title VI
and Civil Rights Acts also play into the deliberation.

So I just cover these issues as part of the deliberation that goes on. But again, a heavy emphasis on
meeting with our stakeholders, meeting with our customers, and monitoring and trying to be positioned
when changes are. But there are other extenuating issues, like the CDC guidelines and social distancing,
that do affect what we can and can't do. So with that, I will turn it over to Jessie to provide any other
details or information that he thinks might be helpful for this discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Mr. Ford. Welcome, Mr. Carter. You have the floor.
JESSIE CARTER: Thank you, Madam Chair. Actually, Mr. Ford did such a thorough and great job in
going over the process, I only have a few details to add. And that is since the last time we came to the
Board to talk about the service change, there were a couple of things that were added to the proposal list.
Those included Route 8, where we're proposing to add additional peak frequency, and also to the 16th
Street mall ride, we're proposing to increase the AM frequency on that service as well as adding a later
night trip. Also added to the list were Broomfield and Wagon Road FlexRides. Those are grant funded,
and we are looking at adding weekend service to those services. So with that, that's kind of it in a
nutshell. And with that, I'd like to either open to questions or return to Mr. Ford.
KATE WILLIAMS: Directors, if you have any questions, please feel free to raise your hand. I'll wait. We'll
leave Mr. Ford and Mr. Carter here to answer any of those. I'm not seeing any hands. You guys are good
directors. Everybody did their homework. Read all this beforehand.
SHONTEL LEWIS: There's two hands.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh. I see Bob Broom and Mr. Rosenthal, Director Rosenthal. I'm going to go to the
Director Broom first. Thank you, Director Lewis. Dr. Broom, you're muted.
BOB BROOM: Now I should be unmuted. I had a general question. Did we get as much input into this
process as we normally did before, you know, the pandemic hit?
JESSIE CARTER: This is Jessie Carter, Acting Senior Manager of Service Development. Director Broom,
that's a great question. I would say, as far as the participation in the public meetings, we only had about
26 participants. However, as Michael Ford mentioned, we had over 700 phone calls and over 250 emails.
That's actually more than we received in the last service change. So we're actually getting a lot of input.
BOB BROOM: OK, thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Director Broom. Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I'm seeing on the proposed changes, the only two
reductions would be the Route 31 on federal and the L line. And everything else looks like an
improvement or service efficiency or what have you. So how does Title VI intersect with these proposed
changes? You mentioned it earlier, I'm sorry. Thank you.
JESSIE CARTER: No problem. Sorry, this is Jessie Carter again, Acting Senior Manager of Service
Development. In looking at the change, I should characterize, Route 31 is the elimination of one trip, and
the L line is an elimination of one trip. So a service change at that level wouldn't actually trigger a Title VI
review, because it's a lot less than the threshold that's required for a change to service to be reviewed. I
hope that answers your question.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you Director Rosenthal, Mr. Carter. Director Lewis, anybody else have their
hand up?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis does.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, thank you for your help.

SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks. I just have one quick question for you, Mr. Carter. Regarding the adding of
service that may have been eliminated during the pandemic, what information were you all essentially
using to determine if that was a route needed to be added back?
JESSIE CARTER: OK, that's an excellent question, Director Lewis. And looking at it, we are also
receiving constant information coming from-- I'm drawing a blank on the name of our new program that
we use. I believe it's SalesForce. But we actually looked at the total number of requests for services, and
we looked at some of the gaps in services that we currently had from a geographic standpoint. So when
you see lines like Route 169 L being added back, that service was number one on the list of services to
be added back.
And if you might recall, the Route 169 L provides access to Denver Airport, but it does it via a local
routing. So it has a local fare, which is different from Sky Ride. So there has been a request since the
beginning of the pandemic service plan for that route to come back. The same is true when you look at
some of the other routes that we were bringing back.
But when you look at the Route 483, which is in Parker, And provides service from Parker to Lincoln
station, and the Route 99, which provides service from Southwest Plaza to the Fed Center, those were
gaps in services. When we look at the map and the overall integrity of our system, those are gaps in
services that we wanted to fill. So it's a mix between customer requests and system integrity. I hope that
answers your question.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Phenomenally. Thank you so much. The last question, before you mute your mic, the
last question I have for you is I noticed that the Hop was included in our last action, but the Bolt is
included in this one. So I'm just curious, are those funded differently? Or, what's the difference, maybe?
JESSIE CARTER: Excellent question. I'm going to have to dial a friend on that one. So if I can get back to
you offline to give you an answer on whether or not they're funded differently. But I will say that the Bolt,
we were having some problems with capacity issues at its current level. And we need to go to that higher
frequency, back to the 15 minute frequency, to accommodate our social distancing standard.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Got it. OK.
JESSIE CARTER: But I will get back to you on the funding issue.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I guess the question is, why is one included in the June service changes, and one
included as a separate action item?
DEBRA JOHNSON: May I take that question, please? So as it relates to the last action, that had to do
with contracted service. What we're paying for service. This has to do with the level of service that we're
providing, relative to headways. So that's the different factor as it relates to that. Mr. Worthen is present,
and as relates to the Bolt and the Hop to address your question, I believe Mr. Worthen can do that.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thanks.
FRED WORTHEN: Yes, ma'am. Fred Worthen, AGM Bus Operations, happy to answer that question. So
Hop service is not actually an RTD service. That is a City of Boulder service that is actually contributed to
by us as a cost-share agreement, whereas the Jump is actually one that is directly operated by us.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I think the Bolt is actually-FRED WORTHEN: Sorry. Bolt. Yes.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Oh, OK. Cool. That's it. Director Williams, you have Mr. Tisdale after me.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you so much. Director Tisdale?

DOUG TISDALE: Well, thank you very much, Madam Chair. I appreciate it. I do want to take a moment to
make a special note about the restoration of service for Route 483. That is critical. It is a small step. It's
only part of what we need to do to address the situation in the southern part of the district, where we have
had some severe cuts on important service. The 483 is a critical part of the connectivity of Parker to the
rest of the RTD system. So I appreciate and applaud that.
It's, as I said, only one part. It's a small step, but it's much like what people say to me when they ask,
what do you call 500 lawyers at the bottom of the ocean? And the answer is, a good beginning.
KATE WILLIAMS: A good start. Thank you, Director Tisdale. We appreciate that. Director Bouquet, I do
see your hand raised.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Thank you, Madam Chair. That I was just piggybacking off of Director Tisdale of how
significant that-- I just want to make a statement, sorry-- of how significant that 483 will be to my
constituents. And I wanted to thank Mr. Carter and the entire team for having that added. Because I've
heard from so many constituents about how now, people in Parker have access to the entire transit
agency thanks to that route. So thank you, and thank you, Doug, for leading that discussion.
KATE WILLIAMS: All right. We appreciate you, gentlemen, for standing up for your districts. I do not see
any more hands raised now. Director Lewis, anybody else got their hand up that I missed? OK. In which
case, we're going to go to a vote on this action with Director Whitmore as the mover and Director Bouquet
as the second. If there are any no votes, please let me know now. OK. Seeing no no votes. This will pass
unanimously, with 15 votes in favor of. Thank you all very much.
Next thing on our agenda is discussion items. We do have one discussion item tonight. I think that I will
hand this directly to Mr. Meader, who I don't see, but I'm sure he's here someplace in all the people on my
screen.
MIKE MEADER: I'm here.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, sir. You have the floor.
MIKE MEADER: Thank you, Madam Chair, and good evening, honorable Board members. I want to take
just one minute to just clarify some of the regulations and acronyms you see in the discussion item prior
to us jumping into the presentation. The federal regulation you'll see, part 674, mandates that the rail
transit agencies develop a public transportation agency safety plan, or PTASP in an SMS framework. And
SMS is basically a formal organized set of processes and procedures that are driven by data that the
agency implements to manage risk and to meet the operational needs of the agency in a safe and
effective manner.
The part 674 regulation is the state safety oversight program regulation, which is administered by the
Colorado Public Utilities Commission, or CPUC. And this particular regulation basically outlines the
minimum standards of safety and expectations of our PTASP system. The CPUC is the organization that
audits our PTASP and SMS.
Regulations also require that the agency identify an accountable executive. And the accountable
executive's responsible for ensuring the implementation of the SMS. At RTD, that accountable executive
is our General Manager and CEO, Debra Johnson. The state safety oversight program also requires that
the RTD Board of Directors be the approval authority, and that you review and approve the PTASP
annually. It requires that regular briefings are given to the Board to ensure that the Board is fully aware of
the agency's safety performance and the SMS activities on an ongoing basis prior to your approval of the
PTASP each year.

As the accountable executive, General Manager Johnson has directed us to provide these briefings on a
quarterly basis, and ensure that the briefings include those performance targets, as well as our safety
performance and the SMS development activities. So without further ado, I'm going to introduce Dan
McClain, our Senior Manager of Safety and Environmental over the light rail system, and also the leader
of our RTD SMS development, to provide that briefing tonight. And this briefing will include safety
performance for the year 2020, as well as the first quarter of 2021. So Dan, I'll turn it over to you. And I
believe Dan's going to share his screen. So if you can provide that opportunity, Tai-Shrae, that'd be great.
DAN MCCLAIN: Thanks, Mike. I'm Dan McClain, Senior Manager for Safety and Environmental for RTD,
and have been here about two and a half years. Let me share my screen here. And as Mike did such
great introduction, this is what we're here today, is to update you on our performance for 2020, and year
to date, 2021. Last time I was here with you with the Board was last December. And at that time, we only
had safety data for 2020 up through October.
Little bit of definition so everybody kind of understands what we're going into. As we talk about report of
injuries, that's basically the first report of injury that's required. Any time an employee sustains a workrelated injury or illness, they're classified as three ways. Indemnity, medical only, report only, and further
classified into the type of injuries that happen to our employees.
I'd like to share with you, we talked a little bit back in December about the performance, and how we were
less than 2019. And we were, because 2019 was the worst year we had for a number of injuries in RTD.
But statistically, if you can see there, back to 2013, we're pretty flat in our performance in managing on
the job injuries.
Another chart here, this chart is to compare incident rates. And incident rates is how many injuries you
have per 100 employees. So for every 100 employees, our total case rate is, we have 18, almost 19,
injuries per 100 employees reported for year to date, 2021. For 2020, it was 14.37. So we're trending up
again this year in rates.
This also compares us year after year to how we perform, but it also, in the green bars here, it compares
us to the Occupational Safety and Health Administration's Bureau of Labor Statistics urban transportation
average, and the national average of all industries. So if we compare those rates, the OSHA rates, RTD's
OSHA rate for 2021 is 11.5. And that includes medical and lost time injuries. That's what an OSHA rate is.
And you can see the performance that we had in 2020, 9.18. And in 2019, we were at 12. The reason this
is important is to understand where we are in relation to where the national average is, and the
opportunity for improvement that we have within RTD to reduce these injuries further.
This chart shows us month after month, 2019 through 2021, through March. And again, you can see that
we're pretty static. We're not making a lot of headway either way. Again, you can see the two big months
that in 2019 that were high, were October and January. That made it the worst year.
Type of injuries we have in 2020. And 2020's pretty true to the past years that we've had. About 40% of
the injuries we have are lost time. That means that we're paying lost wages for the employees, and it
means the employee got injured bad enough to where they couldn't come to work. That's typically where
the most of our cost comes, in our self-insured workman's comp.
On the job injuries, we typically have costs of $2 to $3 million per year, just in our on the job injuries that
we have within RTD. It's a source that we can make improvement on, both in reducing the number of lost
time injuries, and reducing the number of total injuries. And we did so in 2020 compared to 2019 and I've
got a slide to cover our performance there.

What types of injuries? Again, these are the injury causes that we had for 2020. And the labels show the
number of injuries we had in each category, and the percent for each injury. And in 2020, strain and
injured by was our largest category, followed by slip and fall, and struck or injured by. 2021, we have kind
of an increase in percentage of slips and falls, and strains or injured. And we do have, as we go through
here, efforts ongoing to address these.
This was comparing how we did for our PTASP goals in 2020 in our performance, our safety
performance, for 2020. And our goals called for a 15% reduction of total injuries, and we actually reduced
total injuries by 29%. So from 473 to 367 on total injuries.
We had a lot of impact with COVID in the first part of 2020, from March through about November, all of
the safety resources were dedicated to addressing the COVID issues that were confronting us. Getting
the disinfectant, getting the PPE, getting the Respiratory Protection Program in place. So a lot of the
roadmap items we had in place to do to improve the safety management systems were delayed. And as
we go through what our 2021 roadmap is, you'll see that we are on the path in implementing this on the
job injury investigations and some of the others.
Last year, we reduced the lost time injury rates by 35% on a target of 25%. And it's important that we
maintain a reporting culture at RTD. We don't want people not to report when they get injured. So this is a
metric we're following, and is in part of our PTASP. And we did maintain the record only reports to 36%.
Again, below, we did we did have some progress on slip and falls. That's because we were able to get out
with a slip and fall awareness training early in January and February. So we were able to reduce the slip
and falls to meet our target. But the strains and injured, due to the restrictions of social and physical
distancing, we weren't ever to put the programs into place there.
Looking at everything by how we handle our luggage on our over the road coaches, to looking at the
normal tasks we do in every part of our business, whether it's FM or maintenance. How much are we
lifting? How are we lifting? Do we need to change the way we work? We really haven't been taking a
critical look at that yet, but that's part of our plan.
Quick update on the bus and rail performance. This is a bright spot, I think, for 2020. The bus accidents
are an indicator of how we're performing safely. Are we looking and avoiding accidents and reducing
that? This is year after year. You can see it's from 2017. To year, to date, 2021. Some of these numbers
don't add up, because we're still working on determining preventability. Preventability means, as the
definition says there, an accident which the operator driver failed to do everything reasonable to prevent
it.
So if they failed to do that, and that's in spite of the conditions of actions of others and adverse conditions.
So if they failed to prevent something that was preventable, it's a preventable accident, and it's
determined by our experienced drivers and our management in the bus group. But we did make
significant progress in 2020, in that the number of total accidents were reduced almost by half. The total
of non-preventable was reduced over half, and the total of preventable was reduced by over half. So a
shout out to them.
The bus, Fred's team, did enhanced operator training, focusing on the Smith system, which their five keys
are on the right there. And it really helps people manage their space. And we took some of that extra time
when we had reduced service to give some training on that. And we also had of campaigns focused on
sideswipes, mirror strikes, and accident-prone routes.

For light rail, again, clarity for definitions. The PUC, the Public Utilities Commission, and the Federal
Transit Agency, has a threshold where if an accident happens that's serious enough that requires twohour reporting, it's described here. A loss of life, serious injury, collision, runaway train, and evacuation or
derailment. And for those numbers, we track those in our metrics for light rail. And for the 2016, and
through March of this year, the statistics are here.
You notice that in 2020, we were down 20 reportable accidents. We did have reduced service of about
27%, 28%, which could have affected that. But we did have a great number of reduced reportables in
2020. Also in light rail, we're required by the 673 rule, the Safety Management Systems Rule, to conduct
internal safety reviews. And then the state safety oversight conducts their separate PUC safety oversight
audits.
We just wrapped up our internal safety review that we conducted January through March, we ended up
with three findings. The state safety oversight, we received that in January of this year for their fall audit.
And on the fall audit, we had 10 findings. Many of you have been involved in the investigations, or the
checklist meetings, that they go over the questions that they're asking us to do as part of the safety
management system oversight. And that will continue in each audit cycle. In fact, we've got another one
coming up.
One thing to note is that due to COVID, we had all of the 2020 internal safety reviews and audits were
compressed into the last five months of the year. It was quite a lift for all of our folks in light rail and
facilities and safety just to get those done. And because this is the first time that the Public Utilities
Commission is auditing us under 673, there were lots of findings. We had 33 corrective actions that come
out of those audits, and I'm going to go over the way that we're approaching those 33 corrective action
plans to make sure that we continually improve our safety system here at RTD.
Switch gears, and we'll go to commuter rail. Commuter rail has its own lists of definitions that are quite
long. And basically, it's what is a reportable FRA-- Federal Railroad Administration-- accident or incident?
So the key term here is reportable, and then the next slide is recordable. And again, I'll go back here.
Reportable is more severe, and recordable is less severe. It's more injuries and collisions, and not as
severe. And then two hour reportable for commuter rail is slightly different than what it is for light rail.
Statistics for commuter rail for 2020. A total of nine reportable and seven recordable events in 2020. And
year to date for 2021, we've had two recordable and three reportable events in commuter rail in 2021.
Just to note, in 2020, we had two trespasser fatalities in commuter rail. And in 2021, we've had one so far
this year.
Just an update of kind of what we're working on when it comes to safety management system. One of the
big things, the takeaway, I guess, for the slide that I showed you with a number of for an average of 400
injuries per year, none of those have been investigated as required by the new 673 rule. None of them
being investigated to find causal factors and to put preventative actions in place yet. We're currently
implementing our event notification and reporting process along with a software implementation that will
aid in collecting of the data, driving us to get all the data that we need to determine causal factors. And
then to also follow up and ensure the preventative and corrective actions have been put in place. So
action tracking.
This will be a huge step for RTD. And it's going to be a big lift, because we haven't asked our employees
or a safety group to do those investigations in the past. And this is a key stone, a bedrock, of a good
safety management system.

We talked about the 33 CAPs that resulted from the audits in the ISRs. It was a lot of work just to
determine what we thought we needed to do to put the CAP together, to get the CAP approved, and then
to get CAP to the PUC. But to do what we said we needed to do in the CAP was a magnitude greater. It's
much greater, it's much larger, than what we need to do. And many of the findings that we found could be
bucketed or could be categorized in the same way.
So we wanted to take this chance to, given the limited resources we have to get this done, to do it right
the first time and make the policies and procedures that come out of this something simple. Not just keep
adding bureaucracy to our system. And also, so we cover our whole agency with the safety management
system. Although the PUC audits and is responsible for the state safety oversight of our light rail, the 673
regulation, the safety management system regulation, covers all parts of our agency except commuter
rail.
So we put together a team and a process. The process is led by the senior leadership, the Steering and
Oversight Committee is the COO, AGM of Rail, AGM of CAP Programs and the Chief Safety and Security
Officer. We prioritized the CAPs and categorized them, bucketed them. We have a core process team
with continuous improvement with CAP programs, with light rail and with safety, and we're going to attack
these one at a time. Make these lean and executable, operationally validated.
We have the right people on the teams, and it's clearly defined what their time commitment is to do this.
And we train and execute. The end goal is that when we get these done, we get them done right. And
when they come back and audit us in three years on this, we're not going to have the big findings that we
have now.
The current timeline is set up here. And in your packet, you can see how we bucketed these. There were
two caps for emergency management. Seven for investigation, eight for risk management. And we have
some outside help to help us do this. We had the safety management systems consultants, which, some
of you were on the Board when we had them come and present. And we did the gap analysis back in
2019. We're going to engage them again around risk management, and we have another consultant on
risk management to get these done.
It is a big undertaking. As you see, the timeline goes clear out to the end of, it looks like, June of 2022
before we complete these. And they're flexible. This is also part and parcel of what's required by us as
RTD to report to the PUC on our progress closing these CAPs. And we have to report and provide an
update quarterly on what we're doing, what the actions we have, and the progress we're making. And we
did present this to the PUC this morning in our monthly meeting, and they agreed with it.
Part and parcel, one of the big components of the safety management system is safety risk management.
So it's part of one of the CAP resolution process, but it's a bigger part, a foundational part, of the safety
management system. So I wanted to call this out of what we're going to do. We're going to engage the
consultants, we're going to develop a risk management framework with a cross-functional team, train all
management in basic risk management, risk assessment principles and methodologies.
Focused on the ISO 31,000 standard, identify the risk owners. Build out the risk registry, and then
annually, we'll present the risk registry to the Board. And again, as Mike said earlier, the Board and the
accountable executive are responsible for ensuring the safety performance of the agency, and for
ensuring the maturity of the safety management system within the agency. And so knowing the risks is a
key step in understanding resources, and both capital and human resources needed to do this.

Quick look at some commuter rail projects these are all based to improve safety. 124th Roadway and
Penn crossing updates. If anybody's been up there, they know the bells keep ringing when the train's in
the station. It's an improvement for that. Speed smoothing is to minimize the amount of speed changes
along the alignment. Eliminate the express move through the stations. All these are based on safety, and
all our focus for 2021.
And just our final part here is what the road map is, and what we plan to do in 2021. The goals are much
the same as we had from last year, because we do have, still, a lot of room for improvement. The amount
that we can reduce when we're that far from average is greater than as we get closer to the six and the
three injuries per 100 people. So these are big, big numbers, but we think we can do them. And part of
that is by following what we have here on the road map, again, to find roles and responsibility.
What does everybody at RTD need to do to support the safety management system? What are my roles?
They are defined in the safety management systems in our PTASP, but I'm not sure everyone knows
them. And really, we're living by them. So we need to continue to work on that. The risk registry, the
enhanced investigation, developed processes and systems for high risk activities, such as working at
heights. Electrical lockout/tagout electrical safety. And continue with our internal safety reviews and look
at the jobs we're doing that we're lifting over 50 pounds that we have higher injury rates on, and see what
we can't do to modify the job to reduce the risk for exposure for injuries.
So at last, I'll be back in front of this group sometime to present the 2022 PTASP for approval. The
process begins in late June. We intend to take some of the content out of the PTASP and just reference,
such as our event notification investigation process, to try to slim that up and make that easier to digest
and easier to implement. This management cycle review that we do here that we look at it each year is
designed for continual improvement. And once we get that together, it will be presented in fall to this
Board for approval.
There's a lot to do. And this was a lot, and I went through it fast. And I'm open to take any questions, Mike
and I. I'll throw it back to Mike.
KATE WILLIAMS: Mr. Meader?
MIKE MEADER: Happy to. As Dan said, happy to take any questions or hear any comments from any
Board members at this time.
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'll try and see. I see that Director Davidson has his hand up. I've learned. You go
to the upper left hand corner when you raise your hand, so I got it now, Director Lewis. Thank you,
Director Davidson. The floor is yours.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Madam Chair. Thank you, Mr. Meader. And Mr. McClain, thank you
for a detailed presentation. And obviously, an incredibly important topic. So thank you for working on it,
and all of these corrective action plans. I just have a two part question here. So first of all, you mentioned
the limited resources of the team, and then also some concern that some of the timelines could be flexible
getting through all those corrective actions throughout 2022. How at risk is the timeline here in getting
through all of our corrective actions before the end of '22? In terms of resources, in terms of timing, et
cetera?
MIKE MEADER: So, that's a great question. Right now, we've got a good plan put together. The
requirements in the PTASP, or in the state safety oversight program, are that we put together a plan and
continuously brief the Colorado Public Utilities Commission on the progress. So they are in the loop,
continuously approving the steps that we're taking, as long as we're showing continuous improvement.

We have a pretty good plan here mapped out in order to achieve these things. As Dan said, although
there's 33 corrective actions, they're grouped into those seven or eight buckets, and so we're going to be
able to kind of knock out a number of those things with completion of each of these projects.
So right now, we're pretty confident in the timeline. We certainly do have some room for movement there.
The PUC is on board. They were very impressed with our plan. So I think we'll achieve those without too
much issue if we follow that plan.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. That's great to hear. Thank you very much-MIKE MEADER: Dan, did you want to add something?
DAN MCCLAIN: Yeah, I just, if I may, this is our first project. And RTD's very good at creating stuff, but
not very good at implementing things. So we're trying to implement this all the way down. Make it lean,
and then get it out there where we're acting on what we do. And so the reason we involve continuous
improvement, Rebecca Tate and Taylor Martynow is so that we could get the processes nailed down and
improve each time we did them one at a time.
So the hope is, Director Davidson, is that each time we do this, we've learned from the last one we've
done, and we continue to improve it. So we get faster as we go. Some of these are huge in scope, like
the inspection part of it, partly because we've got a lot of documentation that's got to go with that. But I
agree with Mike. I think we've got it.
The other is resources, where we are tight throughout the agency, because we just scaled back. So we're
asking clearly defined, hey, I need this resource for eight hours a week. Or I need this resource for four
hours a week for three months, from the different teams. So we do operationally validate these so that the
bus is represented, commuter rail's represented, facilities and capital programs are represented. So we
do have something that everybody can use.
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may, Director Davidson, I just want to add onto this. Because recognizing that
there is areas of opportunity, and recognizing that safety is top of mind for everyone as we look at what
needs to be done. Mr. Meader, Mr. McClain, both know we've had conversations relative to established
processes that are more comprehensive as we go forward. Recognizing that the PTASP that's put
forward is the iterative plan as we go forward. Recognizing that we're working with the state oversight
committee, I want everybody to know that we are pledged in optimizing this.
Whereby RTD may have been first in getting this forward, there is ample opportunity, and we are working
collectively. Because the safety team alone cannot do this as we look at our various operating arms and
the multiple modalities in which we operate. So this will be all encompassing and collective as we go
forward. And getting back to questions that were posed earlier as it relates to financial aspects and
preventative maintenance and things along those lines, there is clear cut intersectionality with all of this.
So I would have been remiss not to state that in this public forum. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. If I may follow up?
KATE WILLIAMS: Absolutely, Erik.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for all of those comments. Very helpful. I was just, I was concerned in
looking at the incident rate in particular, for example. And a 15% increase is a good increase, a 15%
increase, but we're 40% on the wrong side of the average from an OSHA standpoint for urban, and 200%
on the wrong side on the overall national. So one of my questions, and perhaps it's related to some of
those financial aspects that Miss Johnson, you just referred to with other aspects of the organization,
state of good repair, and so forth.

Is there anything that we can do to accelerate our path to recovering that 40%? Are there resources we
can put at this? Are there things that we can do-- financial considerations, whatever they need to be-- that
we would be able to consider as a Board to put more resources into this?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So Director Davidson, I will be very transparent in my comments, and I have shared
this with my team. Recognizing coming in here, it's hard to manage what you can't measure. And as I look
at performance metrics, it's incumbent upon us to look at things from a holistic viewpoint. So if we're
looking at a metric and we have a moving target each and every time, we have to determine what it is
we're trying to achieve.
So as I shared with the team, let's use this for an example. Say, for instance, we have 400 trips on rail a
day. Right? And we know what the industry standard is. And recognizing that there is a high propensity
that we may have a preventable accident. And say, for instance, we go from there, recognizing that that
could happen 15 times out of 400 trips. Well, as we look at that target, we need to have a stretch goal as
we go forward. And we can't just say, looking at these numbers, that one year I want it to be 25%
reduction, but I didn't meet that. And so then I changed the target again. It's always going to be moving.
So we have to be methodical in reference to what it is that we're going forward, as we do strategic goal
setting and planning, so that everybody has an understanding of what the playbook is. So in the course of
the game, you're not changing the rules of engagement. And so that's what I am working with the team on
currently.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much. Very much appreciate it. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Miss Johnson. I believe Director Rosenthal is next, and then Chair
Malpiede was third. So, Director Rosenthal?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: It's OK. I'll allow Madam Chair Rivera-Malpiede. First.
KATE WILLIAMS: Such a gentleman.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, my. Thank you, Director Rosenthal. You know, Mr. Meader, I continue
to be very concerned about the fatalities around our rail lines. And I am always thinking about the different
ways that we can work on that. A lot of them, as I recall, it happened right around Quebec on the Central
Park kind of area of it.
And I'm wondering, what kind of education or partnerships we can to do some education about, you're not
going to win if you go across the rail lines? And I've watched the videos with people with their
headphones on, or they're riding their bikes and think they're going to make it, or they're just not paying
attention. And it really is concerning to me about, how do we as a transit agency continue to send out that
dialogue to the community, keep yourself safe? Because I worry about our drivers, our operators who are
driving those trains, and the people who are in the trains at the time, as well as the families that are being
impacted by the loss of life.
And so do you guys have any strategies? Or are you partnering with anybody to talk about, are there
better methods of communicating with the community to get them educated to kind of keep themselves
safe?
MIKE MEADER: Yeah, this is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer. That's a great question.
We do have regular activities that go on, particularly around school time. Certainly, we'll be pushing it as
life comes back to work a little bit more, and there's more activity. We do, on a regular basis, try to
communicate with the communities. And when we see an area that does have, maybe, a higher

propensity. Keep in mind that these are trespassing events that occurred on the right of way. And so we
are trying to do that.
And RTD is also actively involved with Operation Lifesaver. So that is an organization that just talks about
railroad tracks in general, both from a freight perspective as well as commuter rail. Providing activities
around rail safety week, and some of those things to bring a little bit more notice to the problems that
exist there. It is one of those things, you're right, that when you're around the tracks, that you're really
paying attention. Trains ride on the tracks. They're not going to jump off the tracks, so really when you're
around the tracks, making sure that you're aware, and just continuing to push that communication out
there. I don't know if General Manager Johnson, or Dan, you'd like to add anything to that?
DEBRA JOHNSON: No, thank you, Mr. Meader. I think that's spot on in reference to Operation Lifesaver.
That's an entity, as you describe, that's been utilized. I'm very familiar with that, having used that at
former agencies as well. And it's really imperative as we point out the safety protocols and ensure that
people are taking responsibility. Recognizing that when we use the term trespasser, they are trespassing
on private property as a right of way, because there's no such thing as a pedestrian on railroad tracks,
right?
So with that as a backdrop as we go forward, it's important to be cognizant of what it is, and how we need
to educate. Because we can't stop a rail consist on a dime. So as we go out, Miss Tonilas' team, in
reference to the Communications engagement, they're involved in a myriad of activities as well as we
promote safety. So thank you very much for that, Mr. Meader.
MIKE MEADER: And Dave Jensen, I saw your hand up. Did you want to add something?
DAVE JENSEN: Just real quickly if I could. This is Dave Jensen, AGM of Rail Operations. One of the
things, as well, that we're very much aware of, is suicide is a factor in what we're talking about. Suicide
prevention, and all the efforts that we're making with the communities, the police, what we're doing with
security, to try and get that word out is helpful as well. So I just wanted to let you know that we're aware of
that, and we're working in that direction, also.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you.
MIKE MEADER: Madam Chair, I didn't mean to jump the gun and call on Dave. I apologize for that.
KATE WILLIAMS: Oh no, you're fine. We're not standing on that kind of formality. Chair Rivera-Malpiede,
are you finished?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I'm good. Thank you, Madam Chair.
KATE WILLIAMS: You are welcome. And Gentleman Rosenthal, would you like to speak now?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Thank you, Madam Chair. So I understand that everybody's trying to gather data at
this present time. But I'm curious about if it's been broken down by position. So for example, do we find
bus drivers have certain types of injuries? The train operators have certain types, mechanics have certain
types, and then, perhaps, sort of proportionally, who has more injuries? Do you have that broken down as
well, those statistics?
MIKE MEADER: This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security Officer. Dan McClain does do that. We
do have it broken down to some level of granularity. We have it broken down by department, so
effectively, the job position. So we do understand some of what those commonalities are. The key here is
that we really throw ourselves into the investigation of these injuries to determine causation so that we
can put the steps in place to mitigate or eliminate these injuries.

But there is a granularity down to the department level. So we know those job positions, and we are
continuing to mine that data, so that we can have better information and attack it that way.
PAUL ROSENTHAL: All right, thank you. And then, so, if you look at these types of injuries, some of them
are obviously more damaging than others. Is there a sense of how, on average, that the employee is out
on leave in order to recuperate from their injury?
MIKE MEADER: I think I understand your question. As Dan explained, we have those lost time injuries,
those record only injuries, those kinds of things. Obviously, the lost time ones are the ones where the
employee is out. Part of the notification and the investigation piece, and it includes that follow up with the
employees, to ensure that we're reaching out, to make sure the employees are doing OK, finding out what
they need.
What do they need to heal? What do we need to do to help them to come back to work, so that we can
eliminate some of those long term effects on people's lives? So we do have an indication based upon
some of those injuries, how long they're out. And again, this is data that we're going to continue, as
General Manager Johnson mentioned, to continue to understand from a historical perspective. So that we
can set those expectations and the processes in place to minimize and mitigate those. Does that answer
your question?
PAUL ROSENTHAL: Yeah. I guess I was looking for a number, but I do understand that you might not
have been prepared. And I apologize for not asking this question of you before this meeting. It was just
sort of the genesis was the presentation and other questioners. So perhaps in a future presentation you
can respond with that sort of data.
And then finally, what is your sense of, is this going to, so if you look at the number of injuries, and then
you look at, potentially, so, for example, employees who are on vacation. And then you sort of add those
numbers to people who are sort taken out of the pool of drivers and operators and mechanics. Anyone
else at RTD. So is this affecting our mission and our goal to restore service, expand service, and change
service?
DEBRA JOHNSON: So if I may take that question, Director Rosenthal, that's a very good question, and
it's paramount. Because basically, it enables us to have adequate number of employees to deliver the
service. So all of that factors in. Because basically, when you look at what you have available for service
deployment, relative to our folks in our operating divisions, we look to see who's readily available.
So when you say if you have somebody available to work, all of this is encapsulated. And it involves
people that are on approved leave. That could be vacation, it could be jury duty, it could be other
protected leave. So yes, that boils down to the number of people that we have readily available. And then
we would have to go the extra Board if we're talking about delivering service, i.e., with a front line
operator.
So getting to the point that I raised earlier with the onset of my comment, it's us looking collectively about
what we can do to mitigate that going forward. Because when we do have on the job injuries, it's
paramount to us to ensure that we're providing a wellness program whereby we can support our
employees. But also from a training perspective, if you have a lot of strains, or if you're basically securing
a mobility device, ensuring that people are bending with their knees and all those different aspects that
can mitigate the propensity for us to have workers compensation claims as we go forward. So all of this is
encompassing in what I was referencing early on. Thanks.

KATE WILLIAMS: OK, great discussion. Do I see any other hands raised? Am I missing anybody?
Director Lewis, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just have one question. Did we see any improvements
once we stopped the six day mandates, in terms of injuries?
MIKE MEADER: That's a good question, Director Lewis. This is Mike Meader, Chief Safety and Security
Officer. I would have to go back and look. Dan, I don't know if you have any information right off the bat.
But that's an excellent question, and it's something that will certainly take a look at. Dan, do you have
anything to add?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Well, if I can just really quickly, I would say, Director Lewis, that's a hard
conversation to have. Because from my vantage point, when we implemented the COVID-19 service
reductions, we were mandating people prior to. So basically, any type of conclusions that were drawn
would be, basically, pretty much speculative, in the sense that we never honed in and to discern what
would be the causal factors going forward.
Because those were a lot of questions I asked when I was meeting with the team as well. What is the
genesis for this reduction? But it's hard to discern, because we have all those different factors. So as we
go forward, once again, I'm one that likes to see where we are. We need to create a baseline, and then
basically put in a remediation as relates to see what's happening. So then we can go back and reflect
whether or not what we did basically caused an improvement relative to whatever our performance metric
is.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate that.
DEBRA JOHNSON: You're welcome.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you both. I'd really like to Thank Mr. McClain for a great presentation. Good
information, well presented. Thank you so much, Mr. Meader, you also. I don't see any other hands. So
unless somebody wants to jump in, I think we're going to end that discussion.
Are there any other matters that anybody wants to bring before this committee at this time? Oh, Director
Bouquet. Go ahead.
JULIEN BOUQUET: Sorry, I just wanted to bring this up real quick. Thank you, Madam Chair. And this is
kind of more of a discussion that was just kind of hinted at, and I am totally OK. I just want to kind of throw
it out into the zeitgeist. But I was just kind of curious. I have been getting questions regarding on the topic
of other matters, specifically of, are we as an agency-- sorry if I'm breaking up a little bit-- but are we as
an agency exploring free vaccination rides through our FlexRide?
KATE WILLIAMS: Miss Johnson, I would think that would fall to you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes. So thank you very much, Director Bouquet. It's interesting you posed that
question. I was intending to provide an update on our vaccination efforts as relates to us being a valued
member of the community next week during the course of my report. So as we looked at a myriad of
things going forward, while it seems straightforward that we could offer services relative to the
vaccinations, there's been a lot of willingness on our part and willingness on public health departments
and other entities. It's aligning those together.
One thing's for certain, is that we had embarked upon coordinating with the Federal Transit Administration
so we could utilize our Access-A-Ride service to provide that. And a lot of these instances, people don't
have established time frames in reference where we can identify a certain demographic that would need
that service. So as we've explored these things, they've been at the ready.

But outside of us transporting people where we've had a designated site that's been happening, the oneoffs haven't been as straightforward, because there's a lot of different moving pieces. And I know I sound
as if I'm being cryptic, because I'm not trying to place blame on anybody. It's just as we are trying to align
this collectively with the wait time, with people being in a higher category in reference to vulnerabilities,
they have to be observed. And so there's all these other nuances associated with us as a transit provider
leveraging that. Does that make sense? Did I answer your question?
JULIEN BOUQUET: Yes, that's perfect. And I appreciate that, the address too. Yeah, I just understand all
those factors. Yeah, it's perfect. I look forward to more of the discussion, more of the presentation.
KATE WILLIAMS: It's a work in progress. OK. I think we're winding up the end of this committee, unless I
see anybody else who has another matter to bring forward. If not, I'm going to head for adjournment. Our
next meeting of this committee will be May 4th. Again, I'm going to suggest that we have a break, I think
five minutes. It's 8:53 as we adjourn here. How about seven minutes? Do we want to come back, Director
Lewis, at 9 o'clock? That work for your committee? OK, everybody. I'll see you in seven minutes. Thank
you so much.

