Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 1 of 6
Memorandum
To:

All Board Members/Staff

From:

Paula Perdue, Executive Manager to the Board

Date:

August 14, 2007

Subject:

Minutes of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14,
2007 at 12:00 p.m. in the 3rd Floor Board Conference Room

Board Members Present:

Staff Present:
Call to Order:

I.

***
Chair Chris Martinez; Director Christopher, Vice-Chair;
Director Brohl, Secretary; Director Quinlan, Second Vice
–Chair, Director Kemp, Treasurer.
Directors Chacon, Busck and Yamrick
Cal Marsella, Paula Perdue
Chair Chris Martinez called the meeting to order at
12:00 p.m.

August Board Meeting Agenda Review
 Unanimous Consent
Cal Marsella, General Manager, discussed the items on the Unanimous
Consent.
A.

Extension of External Auditors’ Contract to BONDI & Co. LLC
The Financial Administration Committee Recommends that the Board
of Directors authorizes the General Manager to approve the extension
of the district’s contract with BONDI & Co. LLC for external audit
purposes for two one-year option periods of November 1, 2007
through October 31, 2009. The cost of the auditing services for the
fist year option is $90,000 and the cost for the second year option is
$91,000. Funding for the audit is included in the District’s 2007
Adopted Budget and funding for the 2008 portion of the contract will
be appropriated in the District’s 2008 Budget.

B.

Intergovernmental Agreement by and between The Colorado
Department of Transportation and The Regional Transportation
District Related to US 36 and Broomfield park-n-Ride and the 120th
Avenue Connection Project
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the Board of Directors authorize the General Manager or his designee
to negotiate and execute all documents necessary to formalize an
Intergovernmental Agreement (IGA) between RTD and the Colorado

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 2 of 6
Department of Transportation (CDOT) related to CDOT’s use of
RTD’s property (approximately 22 acres) for the SH121/SH128
Intersection Project, the 120 th Avenue Connection Project and RTD’s
use of CDOT property (approximately 3 acres) for bus slip ramps and
a pedestrian bridge at the re loca ted park-n-Ride facility at US 36
and 116th Avenue. The use of property by each agency will be
pursuant to an Occupancy and Use Agreement that will allow each
agency to use the property for highway and/or transit improvements
and will only terminate should the highway or transit use cease to
exist. The IGA will also include the extension of leases from CDOT
to RTD of land accommodating certain park-n-Rides.
C.

Recommendation for Legal Assistance – Denver Union Station Master
Developer Negotiations
It is recommended by the Executive Oversight Committee for Denver
Union Station that RTD Board of Directors authorize the General
Manager to award a contract to Hogan Hartson to assist RTD along
with the City and County of Denver (the City), the Colorado
Department of Transportation (CDOT), and the Denver negotiations
with Union Station Neighborhood Company (USNC) for the
development of public and private infrastructure at Denver union
Station (DUS) and to prepare necessary and related agreements with
USNC and among the parties. The contract will be for the not to
exceed amount of $750,000 (seven hundred fifty thousand dollars).
Chair Martinez raised a procedural issue related to the
appropriateness of the process in bring forth this item as
recommended by the Executive Oversight Committee. After
discussion, the following motion from the Executive Committee was
brought forth.

MOTION:

Director Christopher moved for
recommendation from the Executive
Committee for legal assistance-Denver
Union Station Master Development
Negotiations.
Director Brohl seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with
members in favor and 0 against.

five

Chair Martinez declared the motion
PASSED.
Director Chacon noted that this is an item which should normally be

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 3 of 6
recommended from the FasTracks Monitoring Committee. Director
Kemp also noted this should not be considered unanimous agreement
and subsequently this item will go before the full Board under
recommended action.

IX.

RECOMMENDED ACTION

D.

Proposed 2007 Amended Budget
The Financial Administration Committee recommends that the Board
of Directors adopt Resolution No.___, Series of 2007 to amend and
appropriate funds for the proposed 2007 Amended Budget, to
increase the appropriation by $9,929,082 to $735,024,388 as
detailed below in the overview of the 2007 Budget Amendment, and
to decrease the appropriation of Previously Approved Capital Funds
by -$63,155,830 to $269,675,811.
The 2007 Amended Appropriation includes the following amounts:
2007 Operating Expenditures
2007 Interest Expenditures
2007 New Capital
FasTracks Contingency Reserve
Transit Development Reserve
2007 Appropriation

$365,090,242
$ 68,379,053
$266,555,093
$ 30,000,000
$ 5,000,000
$735,024,388

E.

Recommendation for Contract Award for Management of RTD’s Small
Tier Subcontractor Bond Alternative Program
It is recommended by the DBE Committee that the RTD Board of
Directors authorize the General Manager to award to Marsh USA a
five year contract to provide Professional Services for RTD’s Small
Tier Subcontracting Bond Alternative Program. Work is anticipated
for the West Corridor only and based on success of the program RTD
will determine whether to apply it to other FasTracks Corridors.
Funds for the award will be included in the FasTracks budget
following budget transfers outlined herein. It is further recommended
that the Board of Directors authorize a transfer of $100,000 from the
FasTracks program management capital budget, $200,000 from the
self-insured workers’ compensation budget, and $45,000 from legal
services budget to the fund the contract expenditures for the first
year of the contract.

F.

West Corridor Value Engineering Proposals, Single Track from
Simms/Union to the Jefferson County Government Center
It is recommended by the Planning and Development Committee that
the RTD Board of Directors authorize the General Manager to

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 4 of 6
incorporate single track from Simms/Union to the Jefferson County
Government Center as proposed in the 2007 Value Engineering (VE)
process, thereby saving the project an estimate $36 million and to
accept the “triggers” that will continue to increase capacity of the
western end of the corridor alignment based on ridership demand.
G.

Security Services Contract
Please see confidential envelope.


Executive Session
Cal Marsella provided a precursory of the executive session
discussion items for the Board meeting on August 21, 2007.
o Contract Negotiations: Alameda/Santa Fe Development C.R.S.
24-6-402(4)(e)
o Contract Negotiations: University TOD Negotiations C.R.S. 246-402(4)(e)
Director Kemp inquired if the Alameda/Santa Fe site is now
environmental clean. Cal Marsella indicated that it was cleared for
development.
Director Brohl requested a written history of the issues associated
with the University TOD negotiations before the 8/21/7 Board
meeting.

Seeing no other changes, the Executive Committee moved to accept the
agenda for 8/21/07.
MOTION:
Director Brohl made the motion to accept
the agenda with the indicated changes.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with
members in favor and 0 against.
Chair Martinez declared
PASSED Unanimously.

II.

the

five

motion

In State Travel
Chair Martinez indicated that the issue of per diem for in-state travel has
been brought up and he wanted the Executive Committee to look at this
issue. Chair Martinez made the following motion:

MOTION:

Director Quinlan made the motion to use
the I.R.S. per diem for Colorado travel or
actual receipts for incurred expenses for

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 5 of 6
in-state travel requiring overnight lodging.
Director Kemp seconded the motion.
DISCUSSION:

Different opinions were shared
over whether to leave it as “either or” or
to define one method (either per diem or
receipts but not both). Also some
Directors expressed just leaving the per
diem as applicable for both in-state and
out of state.

FRIENDLY
AMENDMENT:
Director Kemp made a friendly
amendment to change the motion to
reflect only receipts for incurred
expenses. Director Quinlan accepted this
motion.

VOTE ON
MOTION:

A voice vote was taken with 3 in
favor (Kemp. Brohl, Martinez) and 1
against (Christopher)
Chair Martinez declared
PASSED Unanimously.

III.

the

motion

Order of Business for Board Agenda
After some discussion over how to appropriately handle committee
reports on the Board agenda, Chair Martinez held that the Committee
Reports section will remain with a notation “see minutes” but he would
only ask if there were questions. No Committee report will be given
during this time.

IV.

Joint Board Staff Retreat
Cal Marsella and Chris Martinez planned to meet with Carl Neu,
facilitator, to discuss plans and expectations for the retreat following this
Executive Committee meeting. Chris requested the members to hold
some of their discussions on committees and how to efficiently manage
time until this retreat. He indicated that at that time he would expect
both staff members and Board members to share their perspective on
what is working and what is not.
Cal Marsella shared observations and concerns on the current volume of
meetings and how this is creating a burnout situation.

Summary of the Executive Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2007, 12:00
p.m. Page 6 of 6

V.

Other Matters
Director Kemp provided a request to have the decision for North and
Northwest voted on at the same time. Director Kemp indicated he is in
the process of preparing an editorial about diesel in layman’s terms that
will be easy for the average constituent to understand.
Director Christopher shared that in a US 36 meeting this a.m. he had
heard of some concerns from Burlington Northern on the heights of the
catenary which could have some impacts (<=26 feet). He felt this
should be discussed as well.
Chair Martinez requested that these issues are brought up under other
matters in the FasTracks Monitoring Committee meeting later this
afternoon on 8/14/07.

VI.

Adjourn
The meeting adjourned from Executive Session at 1:12 p.m.

