2023-09-11
Performance Committee Meeting
ERIK DAVIDSON: Good morning, everyone. It is Monday, September 11, at 8:31 AM Mountain Daylight
Time. The Performance Committee will now come to order. I'd respectfully ask everyone attending this
meeting to mute yourself unless you are recognized to speak.
Thank you for joining us. Please note that the Committee meetings and the RD Board of Directors
meetings have been continued to be held remotely via Zoom and will be audio and video recorded. The
meeting recordings, along with the unofficial minutes, will be posted as soon as practicable to our Board's
website. And also a live stream of this meeting is available via RTD's YouTube page.
Directors and members of staff, for the sake of the record, if you'd like to be acknowledged during the
proceedings this morning, I would ask you to raise your virtual hand and wait for me to call on you before
proceeding to speak. Directors and staff participating by phone can raise their virtual hands, as we've
been doing, by pressing *9, and you can toggle your mute settings by pressing *6.
I will go ahead and call for the roll of the committee members. Director Buzek. Director Buzek let me know
he would not be able to attend this morning. Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Dr. Guissinger.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Here. Director Guzman.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I am here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Director Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Here.
ERIK DAVIDSON: And I am here. So we have five of our six Committee members present, for the sake of
the record. We'll now go ahead and open up the public comment section for anyone who would like to
address the Committee regarding any topics listed on this published meeting agenda, as well as the
immediately preceding month's agenda.
If you wish to speak and have not already done so, you may raise your virtual hand. I will go ahead and
ask our Board staff, do we have anybody in the queue or anybody who has submitted an email comment?
TAI-SHRAE PARISH: Hi, Dr. Davidson, there were no emails, and there are no attendees or hands
raised.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Wonderful. Thanks, Ms. Parish. Much appreciated. With that, we will go ahead and
move into our recommended action section. Our first recommended action is the General Manager and
Chief Executive Officer Compensation Philosophy. This is for the Board of Directors to approve the
Page 1 of 28

General Manager and CEO Compensation Philosophy. Before opening up for discussion, I would first like
to see, do we have a motion?
MARJORIE SLOAN: So moved.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Movement Director Sloan, the second Director Guissinger. Thank you very much. So
with this, I'd actually like to open the floor just very briefly and comment. Thank you, everybody, for
submitting comments, for all the discussion over the past few months on this compensation philosophy. A
huge thank-you to Chief People Officer Ms. Polege for helping us move this forward. Thank you, Ms.
Johnson, for your input. And certainly thank you to Mr. Kroll for helping us pull a lot of this together and
summarizing.
I think we've made great progress on putting together a compensation philosophy. Just as a reminder, I
think it took us all some time to find the previous compensation philosophy, which was I think maybe 13
years old. We don't need to let this one go for 13 years. It is meant to live and be updated and align with
the current state of the agency. So it doesn't have to be perfect, but I think there is an opportunity for us to
move this forward, bring this to the Board, and use this as our North Star to set all of our future
compensation discussions.
I'd particularly like to highlight that this is going to be the lens through which we can view the Gallagher
report. So we completed the compensation analysis with Gallagher last year, something this agency
needed to do to look at how our General Manager and CEO is compensated and how that compares to
market. But we did not have a philosophy that was passed as a policy at the policy level of this Board to
guide our view of that analysis.
So I'd like to-- I'd be remiss if I didn't thank the General Manager and CEO for her immense patience in
waiting for us to fully react to the compensation analysis. I think this is a very important step for us to pass
that, use this as a lens to guide that, and then, of course, to discuss our evaluation process in the years to
come.
With that, I'd like to open the floor now to our Chief People Officer Charlene Polege for any comments
she might want to make about this compensation philosophy and where we've arrived, as well as then if,
Mr. Kroll, you have anything to add, given that you have played a substantial role in listening to all Board
members, gathering feedback, and synthesizing them. So first of all, Ms. Polege, the floor is yours. And
thanks once again for all the work, hearing all of our priorities, and then capturing it and drafting it into
something that I think is very strong.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Thanks, Chair Davidson. So I'll keep this really short and sweet because you guys
have heard from me a few times now at these meetings. I think the key thing that I want to highlight is that
a compensation philosophy is a philosophy. It's a guidepost. It is a living document, as has been
communicated already by the Chair. It is a document that is foundational that supports the Gallagher
report or any other report that the Board wishes to engage in. And it is a guiding document for a contract,
but it is not the GM and CEO's contract.
I also want to just highlight there's a couple of key things there. This philosophy is for the GM and CEO. It
is only for this position. It is also, as written, as per the discussions of this Committee and feedback, it is

Page 2 of 28

market-- the intention is to be market aligned. But I also want to highlight that we also heard and put in
reference to it needs to address and respect the agency's fiscal reality.
So even if the market said we needed to pay x, If the agency's fiscal reality can't pay x, that clause allows
for that adjustment. And so that was to keep the check in balance that was, as I heard, critically important
to the Committee. So I just wanted to highlight those pieces. And I think I'll defer to Mr. Kroll if he has any
other input to add. But again, it is a guiding document, foundational in its purpose with principles, but it is
not a GM and CEO contract. It does not replace any Gallagher report or any other report. It's just
foundational to help guide some decisions.
JACK KROLL: The only thing I would add-- thank you, Charlene, for that. The only things I would add is
we received some feedback in advance, and I've shared that with Director Davidson and CPO Polege.
And I know that we're going to discuss some of that feedback momentarily in a discussion led by Director
Davidson.
We did have one change from the previous time we met, which was Director Guzman had suggested
adding in the mission statement to this document, and we've done that, and that's reflected in the red line
version on page 7 of your packet. The only other thing I would add here is all policies that come through
the Board-- Director Davidson made allusion to this earlier, that he hopes we don't put this on the shelf for
another decade-plus before revisiting.
As soon as the Board-- assuming the Board passes this at the September meeting, we will set this on a
standard three-year review cycle. The Board can always come back to it before then. In three years' time,
there may not be any changes that need to be made to this. But the Board Office, in endeavoring to keep
everything more constant, is going to take that approach with things like bylaws and policies that the
Board approves, just so that we're not letting things get too dusty before we take another look at them.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Ms. Polege. Thank you, Mr. Kroll. I think well summarized, and I
certainly love the idea of revisiting this on a frequent basis. It is a dynamic market.
So with that, we're going to open up the floor for some discussion. I would like to note that I believe there
are going to be some suggestions for adjustment. What I'd like to do is discuss those, see if we're aligned
around where we go. And then let's get organized and make sure we're all on the same page and
aligned.
And then if there are any amendments that we want to make, let's do them one at a time, not get them
embedded. And let's seek some alignment in the discussion before we go into that so we can just keep
things neat and tidy. And I'll do my best to help us in that process. So with that, Committee Vice Chair
Sloan, the floor is yours.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Thank you. I thought I'd pop in there really first because mine is so small. It only
involves three letters, and it comes at the very beginning of the compensation policy. And that is in the
second paragraph, it said that the overarching goal of the Board of Directors concerns attracting and
keeping a great GM/CEO, like the one we have now. And I believe it's certainly an important goal of the
Board of Directors, but I don't think it's the sole overarching goal.
So I would just suggest changing the word "the" to "and." That is my point. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, great. Thank you, Vice Chair Sloan, for that. Let's just briefly just-- is there any
discussion around that, any concern around that? OK, great. Let's consider that one for an amendment
Page 3 of 28

then. Let's tackle those-- let's go through the whole thing here and see how aligned we are on amending
the language. So let's continue the discussion. Thank you, Vice Chair Sloan. I think that's a good addition
and one we can certainly make here once we complete the discussion.
Other items from any other Directors? And I should note I'll open the floor to Committee members as well
as other Directors. And I do note for the sake of the record that Director Ruscha has joined us this
morning. Thank you for joining the Committee.
I did see some comments from Director Ruscha in email. Thank you. Go ahead, Director Ruscha. The
floor is yours.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Oh, thank you, Mr. Chair. I wasn't sure if other Directors who were on the Committee
wanted to speak first, so I was being cautious. Briefly, I had two suggestions I wanted to offer. The first
was just that the Committee consider removing the reference to reviewing compensation annually, simply
because, generally speaking, our GM/CEO contracts are multiyear contracts, and performance, COLA,
and adjustments are built in annually.
And related to that, there's also a reference to potentially starting our negotiations for another contract 18
months in advance, but we don't always know what the terms of our contracts will be. And so when
looking at that, I just felt those two things together would put us in a perpetual negotiation period. And
while some of those provisions might be appropriate on a case-by-case basis, I'm not sure it would be
appropriate for a general compensation philosophy.
So that was my feedback. Thank you for letting me speak, and also thank you to the Committee for your
hard work. I've been observing, and I just really appreciate all the work everyone's put in.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Dr. Ruscha. Thank you for the comments there. I think we'll open up the
floor for any reactions to those particular items, the two being the 18 months prior to expiration of the
contract's term discussion with the CEO and General Manager, as well as the annual compensation
evaluation annually.
Before opening the floor to Directors, I'd like to open the floor to Ms. Polege, if you wouldn't mind. I know
we had some discussion around some best practices in this compensation philosophy in addition to the
intent of the committee, so with you being the subject matter expert, I know these were some areas you
had weighed in. I'm wondering if you could do so again now here.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure, thank you. So first off, with respect to-- thanks for the suggestions, Director
Ruscha. I'll take them in order. So the first one being having the-- I think you said the compensation
reviewed. The compensation, I understand that there's some link here with respect to reviewing the
compensation philosophy annually. The key thing here is not-- again, it's not the contract. It's not a GM
and CEO contract. It is the philosophy.
So the intention would be that the Board would keep an eye, on an annual basis, on the philosophy. So
do you still want to be market competitive? Do you still want to be targeting private and public sector? Do
you still want to consider your fiscal restraints? That's what the review annually would be. It's solely of the
compensation philosophy, not of the contract, and not the GM and CEO's compensation.
That review is not intended to suggest that you would be reviewing and then potentially making changes
to the GM and CEO contract. That would, in fact, be directly managed through the contract. So the

Page 4 of 28

intention is to just keep reviewing the compensation philosophy. Does it still align, and does the Board still
feel that these principles fit the need of the agency? So that's one.
With respect to the 18 months, the 18 months is not-- it is not intended in the philosophy to indicate that
you would start negotiations with a GM and CEO 18 months prior. What it's intended to be is that the
Board would signal to a sitting GM and CEO that they intend to-- they would like to see that GM and CEO
be renewed. And then there would be a process that goes along.
The reason for the 18 months is if the Board's intention was not to have a sitting GM and CEO continue
into a second five-year or three-year, whatever contractual term the Board wished to engage, they would
be giving that GM and CEO effectively notice, and then the process would be-- the Board would be able
to start the process to find a replacement GM and CEO.
And that often takes, at this type of position, can take 12 months. So the idea would be the Board would
be able to move and potentially have a new GM and CEO in place before the expiry or at the expiry of the
sitting GM and CEO. So it is not to mean to engage in negotiations from a contract perspective. Those
could happen, but they don't need to happen at 18 months. And it could also be that the Board is simply
notifying that GM and CEO that they do not wish to enter into a second term.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege, for weighing in on that and providing that feedback. I see
Director Ruscha's hands up for some clarity. Let's do some discussion on this. I just want to make sure,
let's focus on the discussion on these two items raised by Director Ruscha here, being the annual basis
review of market competitiveness and compliance, and the other issue being the 18 months
communication.
So I'm going to go in order of the hands I see, but let's focus on that part of the discussion, then we'll
move on to something else after that. Board Chair Guissinger, please go ahead.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Actually, you just answered my question, which was I wanted to be sure, we're
looking at the final bullet that says "reviewed for market competitiveness and legislative regulatory
compliance on an annual basis." That's the issue that we're talking about, right?
ERIK DAVIDSON: Correct, that's my understanding. And just to be explicitly clear, Director Ruscha, your
hand's up next. I'll open the floor to you, but could you confirm that we are, in fact, talking about the final
bullet that says "be reviewed for market competitiveness and legislative/regulatory compliance, local,
state, and federal, on an annual basis."
JOYANN RUSCHA: Yes, sir, that was the bullet that I had flagged for consideration. And I wasn't sure if I
could maybe clarify or respond to Ms. Polege.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yes, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: That'd be great.
JOYANN RUSCHA: All right, thank you. So I thank you-- I apologize. I'm speaking directly. Thank you,
Ms. Polege, for your clarification. I understood what you were saying as you were explaining. For me
personally, I think I'm just reading-- I'm still reading this differently than what was described. So I guess I
would just suggest, then, perhaps the Committee could just be more clear on that last bullet.

Page 5 of 28

And I guess my clarifying question would be, when we say "review for market competitiveness," I know
part of the work this Committee is doing will be to suggest a compensation range for the job. Would that
be part of the compensation review for market competitiveness? Because as I read it, it looks like we
would be reviewing a specific contract every year for market competitiveness, similar to what we did with
the Gallagher study.
And then I also just wanted to completely recognize that it is both common practice and common courtesy
to have discussions about renewing a contract far in advance of the expiration of that contract. What
really jumped out at me was that this was very prescriptive. It's very specific. It says "no later than 18
months." And I know that traditionally, RTD has had five-year contracts, but we don't know in the future if
we will have five-year contracts.
So if it would still be standard to say 18 months, then I would respect that and understand that. But if it
depends on the length of the contract, I'm not sure if that language might need a second look. But those
are my thoughts and feedback. And again, just appreciate the Committee taking the time to hear them
and for Ms. Polege's time and her explanation of the context.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Director-ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Yeah, please go ahead, Ms. Polege.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry, so let me be pointed in clarity. So the compensation philosophy says that it
will be aligned to market. So if you're reviewing it for market competitiveness, they go hand in hand. So
you are checking to make sure that you're still within the market. But at the same time, if there was
something that changed, if you're reviewing it annually, the Board always has the ability to change the
compensation philosophy if it deems appropriate for the agency.
So they kind of go hand in hand. What they don't go hand in hand with is changing the compensation
annually. So one could set a market range but not change the compensation for a GM and CEO, one can
set the pay range and not change the compensation for the GM and CEO. That's why I want to just be
clear the contract's very different than the philosophy.
The philosophy is just your guiding principle as a Board that's going to help inform how you build out the
contract and you ensure that you are competitively compensating your GM and CEO within the confines
or constrictions of the agency-- so fiscal, what's happening in the agency. So yes, it does say "market
competitiveness," but that's always based on where the compensation philosophy wishes to be within the
market.
If you were wanting to be top of market, which this compensation philosophy is not, then you would
always want to check to see. Why is that important? Because if you were to be falling-- if you signed a
five-year contract, you did it in year one. Come year three or year four, if you don't look at it annually, it
doesn't mean you make the changes to a contract. But if you don't look at it annually, you may not know
what risk you may have of losing an existing GM and CEO or how the market has changed with respect
to if you have to recruit a new GM and CEO.
So it's really just to look at it. And you should be checking, does the comp-- does the philosophy still make
sense, yes or no? Is it still market competitive based on where we would like to be, yes or no, the
compensation philosophy? What you do with the contract is separate, and I do want to stress it doesn't

Page 6 of 28

automatically mean you have to make a change because there are other pieces in here, i.e., fiscal
constraints and specific language within an existing contract, whatever that might be.
With respect to the 18 months, certainly obviously I think that makes perfect sense if you only had a twoyear contract and you had 18 months that you had to give notice. The key thing is it's still going to take
you roughly 12 months to find another GM and CEO. So the intention of the 18 months was to put the
expectation on the Board to make sure that if they wanted to continue with a sitting GM and CEO, that
they should be thinking about that and having that discussion.
Additionally, for a sitting GM and CEO-- and I certainly would not speak for GM Johnson here. I'm just
speaking from a general looking-- if you're at a level of the GM, it does take roughly 12 months. You don't
start looking for another opportunity 12 months out. You start looking 24 to 18 months out. And so it's
important if a Board wishes to intent-- it's the intention to seek another term or what the right language is
of a GM and CEO to signal to that GM and CEO so as to have the best opportunity to retain, so they may
not be out entertaining other opportunities unbeknownst to the Board.
So that's really-- it's just-- you're right. It is a practice. It is common practice putting 18 months in there,
and that was a discussion I think that was had. That was the suggestion. It's up for the Committee if they
feel that 18 months is too prescribed, but that would be the rationale that I would provide for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Ms. Polege, and thank you, Director Ruscha, for the comments on
this and clarifying this. I think this has been helpful discussion on clarity. Let's continue the discussion on
these two items. I do want to be mindful of time. We'll need to discuss the discussion item as well. Just
with that in mind, I'd like to call on General Manager and CEO Johnson, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to speak. I just wanted to clarify. A
statement was made-- I believe Director Ruscha said that it was her understanding that a compensation
range would be adopted. I wanted to be clear that a salary range, from my understanding, is not a
compensation range because compensation includes more than just a salary. So I wanted to ensure that
we were using the appropriate terms to limit any further confusion. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for the clarity. And yes, that's right. We need to adopt a base
salary range for the position based on our compensation analysis using this compensation philosophy as
a lens, and then this compensation philosophy will also guide total compensation. So thank you for the
clarification there. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you. Ms. Polege, thank you for your clarification. And I'm satisfied with your
explanation and think that the bullet should stand. With respect to the 18-month lead time, I totally agree
that it takes time, and with Chair Guissinger and I having chaired and co-chaired the-- or vice chaired the
Search Committee last time, it takes a long time if we are put in that position.
So I think having those discussions 18 months in advance is certainly good practice and good planning.
So I'm satisfied with your explanation, Ms. Polege, and thank you for that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Director Guissinger?
LYNN GUISSINGER: Yeah, I just want to be sure-- as I understood what, Ms. Polege, what you were
saying, that last bullet, "be reviewed for market competitiveness and compliance" refers to the
compensation philosophy. The sentence really is "total compensation will be designed to be reviewed for
market competitiveness and legislative regulatory compliance." So are we talking about reviewing the
Page 7 of 28

existing compensation, or are we talking about reviewing the compensation philosophy? Because it
sounds like it's the compensation.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Dr. Guissinger. Ms. Polege, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sorry. So there's two things here. So first off, it is the compensation, but the
contract-- you could address this if you put it into a contract, frankly. The key thing is you have to be
legislatively and regulatorily compliant. We all know that.
So it's really to make sure that-- it's a signal that says, we are always going to do that again. This is the
philosophy. So it's the intent of action. So it's saying, we're always going to be reviewing to ensure that
we're legislatively and market compliant. We're not going to set a philosophy that says we're going to be
at 50 percentile, P50, and then ignore it for the rest of the time.
It's signaling your intentions. So it's showing, again, transparency. We're going to be transparent. We're
going to continue to make sure we're market competitive. But again, why I'm separating it from
compensation, I understand the connection, how it reads that it automatically means the compensation.
Because in a sense, it does. If it's legislative and regulatory, you have to make that change, regardless of
what your contract may or may not say.
But the market competitiveness, you wouldn't necessarily have to make the change because you have
other components in your compensation philosophy, i.e., fiscal. And I keep honing on that one because
it's an important one, given the makeup of the agency, that may preclude you from doing it. But the
incumbent, the Board, taxpayers, everyone who, when I say "transparent," everyone has an [? option, ?]
should know that-- what is the compensation philosophy, what is the intention of the philosophy.
So that's really signaling intention, that you are intending to-- you will review so that you're not selling
something in year one. By year five, who cares if we're out of market? We don't care. It's not of interest to
us. We did it in year one. We got the candidate we wanted, and then we're not bothered with it. It's
signaling that we're intending to stay market competitive.
But the other principles still also apply. It's not one more than the other. So I hope that helps, Chair
Guissinger. It's not about changing the compensation. It's about the intention that you will make sure
you're legislatively compliant, and you will ensure-- the intention is to ensure that you are market
competitive unless, of course, you can't be because of some other reason.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah. Thank you, Ms. Polege. And Chair Guissinger, if I may-- and Ms. Polege, please
correct me if I'm wrong in this-- maybe I think it might be helpful to put forward the example of Gallagher,
for example. I think by putting a bullet like this in our compensation philosophy, we give ourselves the
mechanism to react to information suggesting that we are no longer market competitive, or we are market
competitive, or the market has shifted.
And so if the intent-- regardless of what's in the contract, if the intent is for the compensation philosophy
to have an eye towards market competitiveness, this gives us the mechanism to react to that information.
And then when we do our annual-- in the current contract, which may be different in the future, with this
General Manager and CEO, if we were to extend the contract, or with a new General Manager and CEO,
but in the current contract as it stands right now, we have this annual process for looking at an adjusted
compensation.

Page 8 of 28

When we do that, if we had information with respect to market competitiveness, we would react to that is
what this compensation philosophy is allowing us to do. So I think maybe just the-- thank you, Ms.
Polege, for highlighting this. And please correct me if I'm wrong, but I think the Gallagher example
provides a good one that this gives us now-- the Board is saying, we will react to that new information
according to whatever the contract we have in place with our General Manager and CEO, which in this
case is on that annual review basis.
Is that a fair tie-in, Ms. Polege?
CHARLENE POLEGE: Yes. I do want to stress the caveat though-ERIK DAVIDSON: That it's-CHARLENE POLEGE: --in condition with the other principles that are within the philosophy. So it's not an
automatic. It's not that you review. Oh, it said that you're not market competitive anymore, so that
automatically equates, then, into an increase or a change in your yet to be set salary band. That's not the
intention of it. Because you have those other principles, it has to be looked at from a holistic perspective.
It's just getting the information, that you will have the information and to your point then be able to react
accordingly.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Just to follow up, if I may, that's super helpful. I think we should look at
market competitiveness. I do think that that should not be the only guide if our fiscal realities and the other
pieces there. So I appreciate the explanation. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Committee Vice Chair Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Right. I don't want to beat this to death, but I really appreciate the distinction
between the overarching compensation and salary range. And I think it is a good thing to have in our
compensation philosophy that we recognize that we do have duties under the law to change it as we go
along. And I think that can only help to have that in the compensation philosophy
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Sloan. Not seeing other hands on this side, and then we'll open up
for any further discussion. I'll just weigh in with my thoughts on this since we're gauging what we'll amend
and not amend. I personally am very comfortable, myself, with keeping that final bullet.
Director Ruscha, thank you for bringing this up. I think that actually helped us arrive at some increased
and better clarity. And Ms. Polege, thank you for providing that clarity. So for what it's worth, if we decide
to move forward with some type of amendment, I'm supportive of keeping the bullet as is.
I also wanted to touch on the 18 months. I think that's really quite critical that we do that. I think if we do
draw up a new contract with a CEO and General Manager in the future, the Board should consider
adjusting the timeline in the compensation philosophy. We can and should revisit this. Additionally, if
market dynamics change in terms of the timelines, we would react.
I certainly think it's reasonable to expect that we would have-- we're going to need time, as Ms. Polege
had highlighted, at least 12 months if we were to attempt to engage with a new CEO and General
Manager.
I would like to open the floor very briefly on the 18 month issue specifically to Ms. Johnson, if you have
any thoughts, to weigh in on how you think about that timeline, both yourself and your peers in the Transit
Page 9 of 28

Agency in terms of when people are looking for jobs, as Ms. Polege had touched on, given that you're the
expert on being a CEO and General Manager of a transit agency. So if you wouldn't mind weighing in on
that, I'd love to hear your input.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you so much, Mr. Chair, for the opportunity to offer my opinion regarding the
subject matter. I'll start my comments by saying with the most recent recruitment efforts by this agency, if
my memory serves me correctly, the individual that occupied this position left the organization in
December of 2019.
Recognizing that, I believe the endeavor to find a replacement for said position started in and around the
spring of the following year because I remember specifically when I submitted my materials and when I
was contacted by the recruiter. Recognizing there was a push from this Board to get somebody in place, I
couldn't reasonably leave my position recognizing the roles and responsibilities in which I have.
So anybody transitioning that is in an executive-level position would more than likely give their current
employer at least 30-- excuse me, I meant to say 3 months' notice. So with that as a backdrop, just
recently having my kitchen cabinet-- an individual was just renewed, it is commonplace because when
you look at things broad brushly, you do need to have an opportunity because in a position such as this,
one wouldn't wait until 4 years and 10 months to say, oh, I need to look for a new job. That's just not
feasible.
So going forward, it is common practice within the-- I would qualify it as an executive-level position, where
someone would know what was happening going forward well, in advance. 18 months is optimal because
with any recruitment efforts, it can take close to a year in and of itself just to have something teed up,
especially if an agency-- most agencies, in my experience, will use an executive recruiter.
And just to get that process into place can take an agency several months in which to do that. And then
you're talking about the time to meet with policy bodies, formulate an optimal candidate profile. Whether
you're using behavioral or cognitive assessments or outreach efforts within a community, that is going to
take some time in and of itself. So I will leave my comments there that anything less than that, you'll find
yourself in a precarious position with trying to identify a leader of your organization. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate the input on that. I think timelines make good
guideposts for us. Director Catlin, further comments on these items? I believe you're on mute.
PEGGY CATLIN: Whoops. So I completely agree with Ms. Johnson. And having gone through that
previously, I think it makes a lot of sense to have that lead time.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, agreed. Thank you, Director Catlin. And Mr. Kroll please.
JACK KROLL: Yeah, Director Davidson, I have a comment on a different topic, but it's contained within
this compensation philosophy. There had been some conversations around the phrase-- this is in the
second paragraph-- "The Board further acknowledges that competition to attract a GM and CEO with the
required suite of competencies, knowledge, and experience is extremely challenging, given the highly
specialized transit environment and tight labor market."
I think saw some conversation there around potentially removing reference to a tight labor market since
those might not always be the prevailing conditions. So I just wanted to raise that for your consideration.

Page 10 of 28

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Mr Kroll. I'd like to go ahead and first just make sure we're closing out the
discussion on-- so what I'd like to do, we'll finish discussion on each item. Then we'll go through
amendments as necessary or as people would like based on the nature of the discussion. So just to make
sure before we move on to that. And thank you for raising that. I believe, Director Ruscha, you had some
helpful thoughts about that as well. So just quickly before raising that, any additional comments on the
final bullet of the principles and the 18 months timeline?
OK, not seeing any further discussion on that, let's go ahead and discuss that item Mr. Kroll had brought
up. And again, Director Ruscha, thank you for-- I know there was some consideration around how market
dynamics might be changing. And Mr. Kroll, thank you for raising that. Let's go ahead and discuss that
item.
So this is feedback from the Board here that perhaps a tight labor market may be a temporary market
dynamic and maybe one that we wouldn't have in the compensation philosophy. So Ms. Johnson, I saw
your hand go up. Please, go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you very kindly, Mr. Chair. I would just add further clarification to that
statement. Recognizing when you talk about a tight labor market, especially for one running a public
transit agency, the pool isn't vastly wide. And so perhaps there could be some wording that further
addresses that as you go forward because looking for a specialized position in which the one I hold or
looking for talent for that specialized position can be tight.
And so I think when we talk about a labor market, it's more reflective of the talent that's available for this
specific position, recognizing one needs to be well versed, in my humble opinion, with transit service
delivery, aspects of government relations. It's a myriad of different things, not just being able to
understand how to put a bus or a train on the street. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you very much, Ms. Johnson. I appreciate that. Ms. Polege, please.
CHARLENE POLEGE: So I just want to just address this one specifically. So I'll come to what you just
commented on, GM Johnson. But I would say the second last bullet says "adapt nimbly to changing
external"-- so for example, labor market-- "and internal circumstances"-- fiscal restraints. That in itself
could capture the tight labor market reference. You would be-- it says you have to be able to adapt.
But to what GM Johnson was just saying, the sentence says "required suite of competencies, knowledge,
and experience is extremely challenging given the highly specialized transit environment." Maybe it would
be "transit environment and this position," like something that kind of fleshes out a little bit more that the
position of GM and CEO is a highly specialized and complex position.
I know we're kind of catching it, but there could be a small edit there. But I would say I think the reference
to a tight labor market is very specific. And were the committee-- should the committee decide to remove
that, you would still be capturing, in the second to last bullet, the labor market. The compensation
philosophy is always telling you you need to be considering the labor market or any other external
variable that would be relevant.
So you could, but I do think the tight labor market, from the discussions, was more, as GM Johnson was
describing it, more about the position of GM and CEO and less about our current circumstances as a
whole across the country, frankly, when it comes to labor and being a tight labor market. So if that helps, I
think you can capture the labor market as a whole, but potentially some wordsmithing to capture the

Page 11 of 28

intent was more about the highly specialized nature of the position. So it's the position and the transit
environment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Thank you, Ms. Polege. And thank you, Ms. Johnson. I have one or two
thoughts on that, but first, anybody else have any other comments or discussion on the tight labor market
reference? Chair Guissinger, please.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Just that I appreciate both of their comments, and I think we could be more artful in
how we say it and just referring to this position. I think that's good. The highly specialized transit
environment also sort of captures it.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Chair Guissinger. Committee Vice Chair Sloan.
MARJORIE SLOAN: And I would agree with all these comments. And I think a simple deletion of the "and
tight labor market" would do the job.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Vice Chair Sloan. Yeah, I completely agree. Words really matter, and
adjectives, sometimes they get thrown around. But they're very meaningful in a document like this. And
the two words that jump out to me are "extremely challenging" and "highly specialized."
So we say, "The Board further acknowledges that competition to attract a GM/CEO with the required suite
of competencies, knowledge, and experience is extremely challenging, given the highly specialized transit
environment." So I think we've very well captured the difficulty of the position and how hard it is to find
someone as competent as our current General Manager Johnson is.
Additionally, Yeah, Ms. Polege, thank you for highlighting that we have the "adapt nimbly to changing
external and internal circumstances," which I think also give us the ability to make those industry specific,
given some of the other bullets. But as was pointed out, the tight labor market, given the no adjective and
not being bounded, generally has a broader macroeconomic reference.
So I think a simple deletion would make for a good amendment, and it's sounding like that would be fairly
supported. Any further discussion on that item? Or then, having not seen a whole lot on that, any other
additional items on the compensation philosophy?
OK, so to summarize, we just had a discussion around some potential changes. Ah, thank you, Director
Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I apologize. I couldn't find the hand up button.
ERIK DAVIDSON: No problem.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I have a question, and it's just more clarification. We are a public agency, but we
reference public and private sectors, which I know goes back to the Gallagher statement. I just want to
understand why we are including that in terms of doing this work, this philosophy, and how that is related
to running a public agency if we're looking at private compensation because the funding sources are
different.
I'm just seeking clarification on that, and I would love to get everybody's opinion on that. I don't feel one
way or the other to it. I just am curious because it makes a difference. Like you're saying with words,
we're talking about a public institution, not a private business. Thank you.
Page 12 of 28

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. I think it's an excellent question, and it will be some
good discussion here. And I saw, Ms. Johnson, your hand went up right away. I'm thinking you have
some comments on this. So please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I do. Thank you so much. Thank you, Director Guzman. One thing that's really
important to take into consideration when you're looking at the market holistically-- I'll use a clear-cut
example that I'm sure everyone's familiar with. RTD contracts out 50% of its transit services currently. So
why wouldn't someone be looking at the compensation for somebody who's doing a job very analogous to
mine on the private sector side more specifically?
Then you have the engineering realm, where you have individuals that oftentimes-- I worked at the
beginning of my career in a engineering and architectural firm, and working in conjunction with public
sector clients as you partnership. So that's the breadth of experience relative. It's not necessarily when
you look at a global engineering and architectural firm where you're looking at the CEO.
The titles are different. You could be looking at somebody who is the transit leader for North America, for
instance, which would be analogous to a position of running a transit agency per se. So that's why it's
germane. But I just wanted to offer that up because oftentimes the joke is that's the General
Manager/CEO graveyard when people leave the public sector and then people go to that side and come
back.
I say that in jest but just wanted to-- well, not really. It is. But anyway, I wanted to offer that up just from
my perspective. But I will yield to our Chief People Officer to further clarify. But I wanted you to know that
that is a common practice with people that have positions such as mine that may go to the private sector,
then come back to the public and split between the two. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson, for weighing in on that. You mentioned, Chief People Officer
Polege, so-- Director Catlin, I see your hand, but I'll open up to Ms. Polege to see if there's anything you'd
like to add to that.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. First off, great question. I think, so number one, it's wherever you may be
looking for talent. And so that's really the key. Where could the talent lie? And certainly it's likely going to
be in another transit agency. But as GM Johnson said, it could be in another transit organization that is
private.
And we don't know what's going to happen across year over year, what's going to happen with different
agencies, how they're built. So it does give the flexibility, but it's really where you find your talent. But I
also want to just add, it doesn't mean, though, that when the Board commissioned Gallagher for the
Gallagher report or a future report-- I was given an example of the compensation for the CEO of HP. How
would that be relevant to the GM and CEO position at RTD?
It's not. And in this instance because it's private doesn't mean that it gets pooled in it. It's not a
comparator. It would be a comparable private or public agency if you were studying compensation. And
why say that is HP I think has 60,000 employees. They have a $3.31 billion budget. It's not in the same
realm, so we would never be looking, nor would we expect to find a CEO from HP who would be willing to
come to RTD.
But we don't want to exclude the potential for comparable private or public organizations where you might
find the talent. You need to still be competitive.

Page 13 of 28

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Ms. Polege, for weighing in on that. Very helpful points there, and Ms.
Johnson as well. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Ms. Polege. And actually that was going to be my point. That's well stated.
You're looking for talent. We're looking at C-suite executives, for the most part. And the other thing I
would like to point out is that it's not an apples to apples comparison typically with compensation. But
when you look at the overall compensation philosophy that includes benefits and the other things more
than just salary, then maybe you can have a pretty good way to put together a package that could attract
high-level talent. That's all I wanted to say.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Not seeing other hands at the moment, I'd like to offer one
thing. Director Guzman I think has a great question. One thing that keeps me up at night when I think
about leaders of an organization is this is a really high-stress environment right now with transit. I think we
all know that hearing from the General Manager, certainly don't live it the way she does.
Also, any industry report we read in transit, it's very clear this is a high-stress environment. And that
makes burnout very real. And one thing that happens in burnout, there's all these large consulting firms
that make a habit of taking on CEOs that are looking to maybe not have the operational teams, at least
for a period of time, and have very high billable rates as industry experts to a variety of organizations.
So I'm not trying to open any ideas or suggestions, but when the market gets tough, it definitely is on my
mind. So just offering that from some of my industry experience that consulting firms is another thing that I
think we may need to keep an eye on as the environment remains stressful. Director Ruscha, I see your
hand up, so please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I just wanted to point out that in the red line document, in the
first bullet, it's not in red, but it does say "related public and private sectors." And I wasn't sure if Director
Guzman was referring to that version or the original version simply because the red line version doesn't
have the word "related" in red, although I think it was supposed to be in red.
And to that end, I guess I just wanted to note that-- or offer, I should say-- I think we all agree that the
market for a transit CEO is highly specialized and maybe a bit smaller. And so I could certainly see the
perspective that if we weren't very clear in that first bullet what "related" means, it could be construed to
mean that we are referencing nonrelated markets.
So I heard different feedback on that from my colleagues, and I'm actually a little bit confused where the
Committee stands. Are we talking about a compensation philosophy that's very generalized to C-suite
executives? Will a future RTD Board pull completely from the private sector from an unrelated sector? Or
are we still focused on the transit sector? Is that where our compensation philosophy lies?
So I hope I didn't throw us off, but just as an outsider observing this committee, I'm actually a bit confused
as to where we've landed.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Ruscha. Director Guzman, please go ahead. It seems like you
might have a reaction. You are on mute.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: I thought I unmuted myself. The public and private sectors appears in two places.
So it makes sense to me in the second paragraph where it talks about North American scale in both
public and private sectors when considering talent acquisition and retention. Got that part. Thank you. It's
the first bullet point. I guess I should have been more clear.
Page 14 of 28

But it is that word "related." And as you said, apples to oranges. And I understand generally what we're
talking about. I just want to make sure that we're not going to get slapped back by the public for
comparing private compensation. I guess as long as it's comparable and related to transit, then that
makes a lot of sense. I just wanted to make sure that that's what we're saying and everybody reads it the
same way because we have to defend our policy, once we make a decision to move this forward.
Or if we pass this as a Board, then the Board is held to that account. And so I just want to make sure that
I'm understanding correctly what we're talking about here. So thank you for the information, Ms. Johnson
and Ms. Polege. And Director Catlin, I appreciate you weighing in on that one too because I have never
been a CEO, and I don't know what that feels like. So I appreciate the knowledge share.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. Thank you, Director Ruscha. I do think that word
"related" is a key part of that first bullet that helps guide us. And Ms. Polege, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: Sure. So that call out on that specific bullet is purely around determining
compensation. And so it really is saying-- here when you're thinking, now I'm going to put on the HR hat.
When Gallagher went out, when the Board comes to Gallagher or a future agency and says, we'd like you
to do a market comparison for our GM and CEO role, this bullet here that says, "we want to be 50th
percentile to comparable public transit agencies and related public and private sectors where executive
talent may reside," that, then, is for the Board, at that time, to be giving the direction to that-- we'll use
Gallagher-- to say, here's what makes a comparable agency.
And it might change as the market changes, but it's going to look at the size of the agency. What's their
annual budget? This is the comp side. What's the annual budget? How many employees do they have?
What type of regulated environments do they work in? So now that you're looking, that's the questions
that would come from Gallagher to this Board to say, who do you want us to compare you to? Who do
you want to be competitive with?
And here's how you're going to set your 50th percentile. And that would be a discussion. So this is very
specific compensation language that you would need, the Board would provide. And then even in that
process, Gallagher would come back and would show you, here's who we've grabbed, who we think
might be comparable. It still gives the Board the opportunity to, whoever is working on leading that
engagement, if it was the Performance Committee, if they included something that you went, could say,
no, we're not going to consider that for our 50 percentile benchmarking because we don't consider them
to be comparable, and here's why, whatever those reasons would be.
So the first one, they are two separate statements. This one is very specific to how you would determine
your 50th percentile.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege. And thank you, Director Guzman, for the question. Again,
helpful clarity. I'm a little concerned about our timeline. I would like for us to get to that discussion item.
I'm going to go ahead and just suggest that we summarize where we are here. Thank you for the
discussion. And we need to consider a few amendments, I believe.
Some of the things that we have discussed is what would look like an amendment for the second
paragraph, changing "the" to "an." We had a discussion around-- I'm just going not in order of our
discussion but order of the document-- we had a discussion around striking "and tight labor market" from
the second paragraph.

Page 15 of 28

We did have a discussion around the final bullet, the "be reviewed for market competitiveness and
legislative regulatory compliance on an annual basis," and whether or not that should remain. We did
have a discussion around whether to maintain the timeline, the explicit timeline of 18 months. We did
have some discussion around the clarity on public and private sectors but understood that, Director
Guzman, you were asking a question of clarity on that one.
So with all of that in mind, let's do this with amendments. Let's do this quickly, and let's be organized with
it. I would like to go one at a time so that we don't get embedded, embedded here. And I think we can do
this quickly and move on to our discussion item. Before we move on to that-- and I know we're working on
a procedural process here-- Mr. Kroll, do you have any further comments?
JACK KROLL: I was just going to offer that I could share my screen, and I've got the two changes here
reflected in a red line version that I think have garnered support. So if that would be helpful, I can do that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Please, go ahead and do that. And actually as you're saying that, it's probably a good
idea for efficiency's sake since there seems to be strong support for both of the changes to the second
paragraph. Let's go ahead and do that.
So first of all, thank you for sharing that. We can see the screen. There are the two red line changes to
the second paragraph of "an" and then striking "and tight labor market." We do need an amendment for
this and a second. I know Director Sloan and I believe Director Ruscha, you had comments around the
tight labor market. But let me just go ahead and open the floor. Is there an amendment to be made?
Director Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Yes, and thank you, Jack, for helping us out here. So I would like to incorporate two
changes in one amendment if that is acceptable. And that is in the second paragraph of the
compensation policy that the word "the" be deleted and substituted with the word "an" in the first
sentence. And in the next sentence the words "and tight labor market" be struck from the document.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you. Do we have a second to that amendment?
LYNN GUISSINGER: I'll second.
ERIK DAVIDSON: That's a second from Director Geissinger. Having heard some strong support on this,
are there any no votes. So if everyone could lower their hands. Are there any no votes to the amendment
as shown on the screen, which replaces the word "the" with "an" in the first sentence of the first
paragraph and deletes "and tight labor market" from the second paragraph. Any no votes?
OK, seeing and hearing none, the amendment will move forward with five yes and one absent from the
Committee. A thank you to everybody for that. Now we are back to the main motion. We are discussing
the compensation philosophy as amended.
Are there further amendments to be made? Director Ruscha raised points at the end of the document,
that final bullet as well as the 18 months. However, this-- and thank you, Director Ruscha, for coming and
sharing that. I would be looking for a Committee member at this time to make any further amendments if
there are to be any to the document. Any other amendments?
OK, seeing and hearing none, thank you, Mr. Kroll, for helping us with this. Thank you for sharing the
screen. Thanks for taking that down there. Mr. Kroll, great. Hands up. I was just about to ask. Great.
Thank you to everybody for helping with this. I think we are in a really excellent spot. And just again a
Page 16 of 28

massive thank-you to Ms. Polege and Mr. Kroll for the help in moving this forward. And thank you to
everybody, especially General Manager Johnson, for the patience in the process here.
With that, on the main motion, as amended, are there any no votes on adopting the compensation
philosophy for the General Manager and CEO?
Seeing none, the motion will pass with five yes votes and one absent. Thank you very much, everybody.
Very much appreciated.
OK, at this time, we have no further recommended actions, but we do have a very important discussion
item. This is with regards to the General Manager and CEO performance appraisal process and timeline. I
will be presenting this item but would also invite Ms. Polege and Mr. Kroll to provide some input, Ms.
Polege being the subject matter expert who has helped to synthesize a lot of what is here. Thank you for
working with the big, large, messy document with embedded comments now to help summarize this into
the form that we have in the PowerPoint. And Mr. Kroll, thank you, as always for helping us gather all of
the feedback from directors.
So I'd like to-- forgive me here. I'm looking around my screen. I'm going to provide a little bit of additional
context to some in this timeline. I'm going to go ahead and ask, would either Mr. Kroll or Ms. Polege be
able to screen share the slides that then I could speak to? Thank you, Mr. Kroll.
JACK KROLL: I can do so.
ERIK DAVIDSON: So we'll share those. And just as a backdrop while that's coming up on the screen,
what we need to do here, as we discussed last time that we met, is frame up a 2023 process and a 2024
process and beyond, for that matter, for performance evaluation of the CEO and General Manager. When
we started this discussion at the beginning of the year, we had identified that this was very important for
us to improve and that there were opportunities to improve the process.
We did have a discussion-- it's actually two different discussions on this-- to gather feedback. I have had
the opportunity to now work directly with Ms. Polege as well as then from a procedural standpoint with Mr.
Kroll after several important meetings directly with the General Manager and CEO about what is important
to her as well.
And I have done my best with that team to compile together a process. And Ms. Johnson and I went as
far as working on some dates that now we are working on with Mr. Kroll and the Board Office, to which we
will need to make some adjustments. On each of these two slides, I'd like to just touch on what we're
doing in each phase, discuss where we have to get some input here today, and then set-- basically we're
looking for somewhat of a head nod on the process, and then we can proceed forward with the work to
frame all of this up.
So with 2023, things that we need to accomplish in October from a very high level, and we have some
draft dates here. Again, I think there's some flexibility in these dates at this time. We need to make sure
that all Committee members are available, and we also need to make sure that we're well aligning with
the availability of all documents.
In October, the proposal for how we proceed here is not too dissimilar to last year. There are some
changes, however. In October, the Performance Committee will receive the results of the Employee
Ownership Survey, as well as the Community Survey, Community Values Survey, and the Customer

Page 17 of 28

Survey. This would then be provided to the Performance Committee, and the Directors will receive those
strategic priority outcomes for 2023.
And they will also receive an assessment form. I'll talk about that more in the November time frame, but
we would receive a General Manager and CEO performance assessment form that we will use for our
assessments of the General Manager. In November, the CEO and General Manager, as she did last
year, will submit to the Performance Committee her self-assessment to the Committee.
Following the receipt of that assessment, all Directors on the Board of Directors will be invited to complete
not yet for the written record or to turn in, but for their own purposes to guide discussion, to complete the
General Manager and CEO Performance Assessment Form that they received from the Board Office.
This assessment form will contain-- and I would suggest, and this is an area we need to have some
discussion around what this should look like.
My recommendation would be that it has three major components to it. One is with regards to the
objective criteria, did we meet the success outcomes? I would recommend that we make this more of a
binary yes or no rather than the sliding scale we had last year. And I would recommend that we have one
field for comments on how that came out. That should be a relatively easy section. It will be very
objective.
The second section would then be on the organizational values. This is the subjective criteria. This is
where we weigh in on the General Manager's-- whether she has exhibited passion, respect, diversity,
trustworthiness, collaboration, and ownership. Those are our organizational values as adopted in our
strategic plan. What we would do-- my recommendation would be we move these again to a binary, that
either she successfully exhibited or did not exhibit each of those organizational values.
This will be much easier in 2024, which we'll talk about. But we can then provide for each of those at least
two written concrete examples of where we have observed the General Manager and CEO exhibiting or
not exhibiting each of those organizational values. The final section of the evaluation form would give us
an open area for additional comments, if relevant, to share with the General Manager and CEO.
All Board members would complete a draft of that assessment form, having had been delivered the
CEO's self-assessment, as well as the success outcome results that will have been provided to us.
Immediately following that-- November 14 is the proposed date here. Again, I think there's flexibility in
these dates-- we would have an Executive Session, at which the General Manager and CEO would have
an opportunity to directly present her self-assessment to the Committee and to all attending Board
members at that Executive Session and present her self-assessment.
Following that, each Board member would then have the opportunity to verbally and directly, in that
meeting, provide the results of their self-assessment form to the General Manager. This would be going
through the objective criteria. Yes, I agree or disagree that it was met or not met. And then going into that
subjective criteria of here's what we have to share, and then any additional comments to the General
Manager, which, by the way, might help guide the goal setting for next year of here's things that I'd like to
dialogue about with the agency that we think could be better or are going very well.
We'd have a two-way dialogue, the General Manager with Board members. I think that would help
eliminate all the anonymity and lack of clarity that we had last year. We'd have a very open discussion as
to how this relates to the contract and seek alignment on where we all stand with the CEO and General
Manager's performance.

Page 18 of 28

Then moving into phase four, a final calibration, what would then happen is three days-- or very quickly
after the Executive Session would be held, Board members would have the opportunity to revise and edit
their forms. The forms should be done coming into the Executive session. But if the General Manager, for
example, is not understanding a comment that was made-- if, for example, I made something that was
very unclear, and Ms. Johnson were asking a number of questions of me, it would be clear to me I had
given difficult to interpret feedback. I could then clarify that, improve that for the sake of the record.
Then all Board members would hand in their forms, their assessment forms, and the Board Office would
work together with myself as Chair of the Committee to assemble a final report. That final report would
include the narrative of our findings on the General Manager performance. It would include any
recommended compensation increase that is a result as per the contract that we currently have. It would
have the CEO and General Manager self-evaluation or self-assessment form. And it would also contain
the performance evaluation forms from all Directors.
That report would be synthesized and developed to then be brought forward to this Committee, which
gets into phase five, where the Performance Committee would meet in Executive Session to review the
report. And then we can ultimately move that forward to the Board.
This is the recommended process for 2023. I think the challenge we have, as we've already stated from
the beginning, is we have objective criteria that we have not felt has well served the CEO in evaluating
her performance, which I believe we need to address in 2024, which is captured on the next slide.
However, I think that the main problem that had been highlighted from last year was the lack of clarity in
the delivery, the anonymity, and lack of direct communication.
So I think we can address that this year and help create the framework for the following year. I'm going to
move to the next year and cruise through that. I know we're moving very quickly. But then we can have a
discussion about all of this and come up with how we'll garner feedback before we move this forward.
In 2024, there's a major change, really two major changes. I think one is that in 2023-- and you'll see in
November 2023, in phase one, we do annual goal setting. I think we absolutely must revisit our annual
goals and ensure that while we will align with our net promoter score metrics that we have been using,
that we will come up with near-term, measurable, very specific goals aligned with the CEO that we will be
able to dialogue about throughout the year next year and use as our objective criteria.
This will also make our subjective criteria better because, as I mentioned, in 2023, instead of coming up
with miscellaneous examples, we can say, great, here's a concrete example of how trustworthiness was
exhibited or not exhibited in the accomplishment or nonaccomplishment of a particular goal. So if we
missed a goal, was it still done with our organizational values? If we achieved a goal, was it done with our
organizational values?
The example that's always been given to me in performance evaluations is you can set a goal of, I want
to lose weight. Well, if you do that with smoking, sure, you accomplished. You lost weight. That's great.
But maybe that wasn't the healthiest decision and the intent. If you do it with diet and exercise, you've
done it with intent. Those would be the "did we accomplish it" and "what were our goals."
So we would work together in 2023 to be very well aligned around those goals. Then in 2024, we would
maintain ongoing dialogues. On at least a quarterly basis, we will have Performance Committee
Executive Sessions to discuss with the General Manager progress against our annual goals. Additionally,
on a monthly basis, the Executive Committee will have the opportunity to maintain a continual dialogue

Page 19 of 28

with the General Manager and CEO about achievement of goals and how things are moving to open up
more frequent dialogue.
That goal setting is one major change, and that frequent check in on our goals is also a major change.
The second major change is the addition of a 360 review. And this would be to help improve the
performance review process itself. So starting in October into November, we would begin the assessment
of the CEO and General Manager, go through a customized 360 review process that would involve many
stakeholders being able to provide feedback. Ideas submitted to me by the General Manager and CEO
were awesome about external stakeholders.
DRCOG and other entities may be a great place for us to get feedback that help us improve the
performance evaluation of the CEO and General Manager. Then everything else will be very similar. We
would receive the 360 review. We would receive the attainment nonattainment of objective criteria. We
would receive assessment forms and participate in 360 review, have the opportunity to weigh all of these
things together in a more high-quality form than we'll have in 2023, and then again would have an
Executive Session to review all of this with the General Manager in a very direct way.
And then in phase five, we would adopt a report that would include the self-assessment form of the CEO,
the forms of Directors, and that feedback, the narrative, the compensation increase, as well as then, in
that case, the 360 review. So I know we said a lot, but 2023, similar to last year but adding more direct
feedback. And I would recommend changing the form to better capture what we'd like to. And then 2024,
we introduce 360 review, and we go in with a stronger set of goals. We all feel better about being an
annual assessment.
So with that, I'll conclude the presentation. Thank you very much. CEO and General Manager Johnson,
we've had the chance to speak about this. I know there's been some moving things in here, so I'd like to
call on you first. And I thank you for your collaboration in working on this. Please go ahead.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Thank you very much, Mr. Chair. Just wanted to offer some clarification as it relates
to a customized 360 review. I don't know how many people that are assembled in this venue right now
are familiar with this or have ever been a part or had one performed as it related to their overarching
performance, but wanted to offer up some clarity. When we talk about it being customized, that would be
relative to what the goals are specifically.
So when you used the example, Mr. Chair, DRCOG, more or less it would probably be specifically the
Executive Director of DRCOG because that's whom I engage with. And so if, in fact, we were having a
specific goal-- let's use hypothetically zero fare for use-- there are certain-- say there was a goal that was
SMART in the sense of being Specific, Measurable, Attainable Realistic, and Time bound, and it was
stated that it would be the goal of the CEO to deliver the program and ensure it was implemented
permanently by January 1 of 2025.
With that as a backdrop, recognizing that there needs to be identifiable funding source and things of the
like, we might ask the question of people within a specific school district that could opine on how I
engage, how I work with them. I don't know if the FTA would be amenable to doing this, but potentially the
FTA relative to us getting a waiver so we could garner feedback.
So I just wanted to provide some parameters. So it's not as if we would just be picking people arbitrarily
out of an organization. It needs to be specific and direct, someone whom I coordinate with because with

Page 20 of 28

the 360 review, it could be peers and subordinates. And quite naturally, I think it would be advisable that
there would be people on my leadership team or those that report directly to me.
One, for instance, like Government Relations, for instance. While it's not qualified as a member of the
leadership team, said position, but that is a position that an individual occupies that works in tandem with
me quite naturally as we look at legislative programs and things of the like. So I just wanted to provide
that clarification.
And then another point, recognizing that contractually it states that my goal setting needs to occur on
November 1, that I submit something to you all, we did talk about that the discussion that happens in
2023 could inform said goals. I could present something to you, but then that wouldn't be approved, and
that could be modified because that would be taken to you for your consideration in a formalized fashion.
So I want to provide clarity around that as well. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Johnson. Very much appreciated. And yeah, thank you for that clarity
around the goal setting. I think another great thing about having an Executive Session to directly deliver
feedback is we can have dialogue around how our assessment informs our goals and better understand
what's pressing. And then also, again, your point about the customized 360 review, thank you for the
clarity and dialing in on that.
All the more reason that goals that we're all very aligned around, it will be very helpful since that will guide
that assessment. So thank you very much. Forgive me, Director Catlin. I'm going to jump to Board Chair
Guissinger. She's communicated a time frame constraint to me here, so I just would like to call on you,
Director Guissinger, before you need to depart.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. Thanks so much. And I've had some of this conversation with both Chair
Davidson and separately with Mr. Kroll. And I think this is really great. I appreciate all the work you all
have done and Ms. Polege has done in advising. I think it's important. I know we're not approving this, but
I think there are pieces that are missing and pieces that we haven't approved.
So it's important to recognize this as a timeline but not comprehensive. For instance, we don't talk about
when we're going to have a discussion of compensation for this year, and certainly that needs to be part
of it. The Committee and potentially the Board have not approved the 360. I think it's a good idea, but
approving that and what it looks like I don't think is part of just looking at this timeline.
I appreciate the changes you're talking about with the assessment, and I appreciate the fact that this year
we're really tied into what we did last year in terms of the values. I've been clear with everyone that I did
not like that process. I think we're moving better, but I think moving to real concrete goals for next year
really makes a huge difference in giving feedback along the way.
And the other thing that I think is missing here that we need to discuss is the surveys. Do we continue
with those? What is their role? All of those things. So with that, I appreciate all the work that's been done,
and I think there's some great changes here. Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guissinger. And before you have to depart, I'll just-LYNN GUISSINGER: I apologize. I am apologize. I do have to leave in five minutes. Sorry.
ERIK DAVIDSON: OK, no problem. I know we're coming to a top of the scheduled time, so thank you.
And just to react before you have the hard stop, thank you for all of that. I do think that important point
Page 21 of 28

about where we discuss the compensation increase, which will need to happen after we've garnered all
that feedback and set that to bring to the Board for the December approval in 2023. I do think we need to
spend some time on that.
I also did just want to say that if we have a general head nod and the Performance Committee is feeling
good about this direction, we can do some breakout work. I know, for example, Director Sloan, you have
some thoughts around assessment form. One of the things we need to do is create the assessment form.
And another thing that we need to do that, Director Guissinger, you had touched on, is that 360 review.
What we could do is frame up a high-level scope that would be used to guide what an outside firm might
be able to do for us.
So if everyone's feeling generally comfortable, each of these will need their own-- we need to drill into
them and complete what needs to be completed. And I'm happy to take the lead on that with each
Director that would like to help, as well as the members of staff that will assist.
Thank you, Director Guissinger. I'll continue the discussion, although I did just see, Ms. Johnson, your
hand went up. Any item of clarity that you were seeking or wanted to provide?
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yes, thank you so much, Mr. Chair. I appreciate Chair Guissinger's remarks, and I
would be remiss not to state this, recognizing within the tenets of my employment contract that we both
agree to what the performance appraisal process entails. So I just wanted to ensure because in the
conversation I heard everyone's name mentioned but mine and recognized that this is guarding my
performance.
I want to state clearly for the record that conversations need to ensue with me. As I stated before, I am
not inclined to use an intermediary. So when we're discussing about scoping out what something may
look like for a consultant, I think first there needs to be determining factors that are made with me as the
incumbent relative to my performance, and then that information is shared with the Board by the
appropriate designated individuals that will be guiding this process so there's no confusion about what it is
we agree to relative to my performance, as I am the General Manager and CEO. So thank you very much
for the opportunity to express that.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Ms. Johnson. And my apologies for not explicitly stating that I would
like to very much continue the one-on-one dialogues that we've had about all of these processes and
revisiting that. And so certainly, as myself as the Chair of this committee and you as the General Manager
would like to continue that, as for each of the items that we may ensure that we are 100% aligned before
moving forward with those since this is about our assessment and your performance review.
So thank you for that additional clarity. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Mr. Chair. I think this timeline is an excellent start and very thorough. I
agree with Chair Guissinger that we do need to add a few things to the timeline.
Since I've been on this Board for five years, I have long advocated for a 360 review for the GM/CEO, and
I'm really pleased to see that this concept is being entertained. Having experienced 360 reviews in my
career, I think it's really, really important to get those perspectives.
And Ms. Johnson, you clarified some of the questions I had. And I think a really thorough engagement
with external stakeholders and the agency itself is really important. So thank you for moving that forward.

Page 22 of 28

And I will-- if this comes to the Committee and ultimately the Board for approval, I will be a hearty
supporter of that addition to this process. Thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Catlin. Appreciate that. Committee Vice Chair Sloan, please.
MARJORIE SLOAN: Oh, yes, thank you. This is an amazing document, and I really appreciate all the
work that went into clarifying the timeline. It relieves my anxiety greatly about accomplishing both this
year's evaluation and next year's assessment.
And as you've noted, now that something is so clear, it's now very open to change, addition, modification.
So going forward, if we have concerns about that, how do you want to address those? Do you want
individual Board member-- or Committee members to send emails, and you and the Board Office can
collect the proposed changes, additions, modifications?
Because now that it is so apparent about what we have to do, these changes also rise to the fore.
Thanks.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, thank you, Vice Chair Sloan. Great question, great input on this. Yeah, by
having something like this, we can react to it, absolutely. What I would, yeah, suggest is that any
Directors, Committee members or not, submit feedback to the Board Office with myself on copy.
Director Sloan, I think we can-- we'll be mindful of how we communicate everything. But I'd like to look at
how we combine some of this feedback for the sake of the Committee moving into next year. So let's lean
on the Board Office to collect all of these. Everyone can copy me on that. Much of this doesn't have to be
approved or brought forward as a recommended action. Some of it does, like moving forward with a 360
review.
And I'll also say that as we consider 2024, with the passing of the compensation philosophy, we now
need to react to the Gallagher through that lens with the base salary. Also, if 18 months is our guideline,
it's almost upon us. So as we consider 2024, we're going to need to weave in our discussions around
base salary adoption and engagement with General Manager and CEO Johnson about her contract.
So with respect to that as well as what's already documented here, please submit any feedback to the
Board Office. Copy me. We'll pull them together, and those of us that need to dialogue and breakouts can
do so to move each item forward and accomplish these goals. Thank you.
Director Ruscha, again, thank you for participating in the Committee here. Please go ahead.
JOYANN RUSCHA: Thank you, sir. I'll be brief. I just wanted to offer a thought for the Committee's
consideration. In looking at the timeline and understanding that we also have a Board of 15 and we will
have new Board members coming-- elected next November for inauguration in December-- or excuse me,
January of 2025, I just wanted to flag that new Board member piece because a solid Board and a good
manager is going to be thinking about performance and feedback and support the whole year, that whole
period of time that you're evaluating a person, and not just the few weeks or month before it happens.
So I would just encourage this Committee to think about how we'll onboard our new Board members so
that they can be effective in this new process because they won't have the history that this current Board
has or will have.

Page 23 of 28

And the other thing I just wanted to say-- and this is, again, completely up to this committee or you, Chair
Davidson, is that it might help when you send an email to the whole Board for some feedback or thoughts
to maybe put in a couple of guiding questions. I think I heard-- I don't want to misinterpret, but I think I
heard that there were still some outstanding questions that this Committee will work on. And so maybe
just getting a preliminary thoughts that are more specific to the questions that have been posed will help
this Committee kind of anticipate the whole Board's needs without putting 15 cooks in the kitchen.
So just wanted to offer those thoughts, but I-- and thank you also for letting me speak. I know I'm not part
of this Committee. I've been following it, and I just really appreciate everyone's work, and so thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Great. Yeah, thank you, Director Ruscha. Great point about the onboarding, especially
given that this is such an important part of the-- and overarching goal of this Board. And again, I think one
thing that we need to do-- and in many ways I've brought this analogy up before, but it does remind me of
the work we had to do on our Audit Committee-- we need to create processes, cadences, and
consistency where there currently are none.
And by doing so, then there's an opportunity to also train on that and on board on that. And I think that's a
really important thing to be mindful of. And thank you for raising that. I know we're having discussions
around onboarding in the future, and absolutely I think this goes on the list, given all the reasons you
stated. Thank you. Director Guzman, please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: So I guess my question is more for Debra. Are you feeling confident with where we
are at right now? Because I know that that was a concern that was brought up before. Relative to
watching last year's performance review, reading through materials, I want to make sure that you are
feeling comfortable as our employee and somebody that we work with closely. That's one question.
The second question is-- and I really want to be clear about this process and make sure that I didn't
misunderstand what you said, Chair-- that the expectation going into this is clear that we will be putting
our names with our comments, and that it's not going to be anonymous.
I don't want any confusion around that because I will not do mine anonymously. Debra's going to know
what I say and that I said it, and I want to make sure that that's clearly understood by all Directors prior to
engaging in a process of review so that there's no confusion with what occurred last year and that this is a
new year, and we're all here to do that work. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman. I'll turn to Ms. Johnson first.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Yeah, so thank you very much, Mr. Chair and Director Guzman for the question. You
all know I'm a straight shooter. I don't have a high level of confidence that we're going to be able to align
around what's proposed here just by the tenor of the discussion that's ensued relative to the dates and
how we need to move 15 individuals along relative to what it is that we have before us. I know there were
comments made about the dates that we have as well.
I think this is just something that's problematic with the structure of our organization relative to timelines,
how we utilize a calendar year as a fiscal year, because inevitably there's always some conflicts in
reference to scheduling and things of the like. So I want to be clear that I'm not saying that the Board
members aren't committed, but relative to getting everybody assembled in this time frame will be
immensely difficult regarding where we are currently.

Page 24 of 28

Also with the alignment around where we are with specific goal development going forward, I just think
there's a lot of competing priorities relative to budget development and things along those lines. My
request is to have an in-person Executive Session so we can have conversations so people can be in the
moment and be in a space where we can have dialogue so there's nothing left to interpretation when
we're on this screen and one may misconstrue body language or tonality because folks could be engaged
in something else and not be fully engaged in the discussion in which we're having.
So that's where I am currently. And as we talked about getting comments back and forth, I know that's
going to take some time. So I really am not optimistic that we're going to be able to do things as the Chair
and I have discussed. So thank you, and just wanted to stand in my truth. So I appreciate the question.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Thank you for your honesty, and I know it's a difficult conversation to have. That's
why I'm asking because I think it's really important to know the amount of pressure or work that we have
to do as Directors and what we can expect of ourselves and from others as well. And so, as I said, I
fought to get on this Committee, and I want to make sure that we do all of the work that we can for you
the way that we are supposed to and in alignment with one another.
So thank you for that opportunity to weigh in and to speak with us about it with candor.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Director Guzman, and thank you, Ms. Johnson, for the candor. I'd like to
react to that, and then, Director Guzman, I'll react to the second point that you asked about, just clarifying
the anonymity.
So first of all, Ms. Johnson, thank you for the direct feedback. I think we have no choice but to move the
15 Board members along. I'd like people to submit comments at will, but we do need to move forward with
the work product. There's two things I'd like to turn to the Board Office on, Mr. Kroll, which is, number one,
getting a firm schedule of calendars in place.
There are a few key dates that we're going to need to make sure we have near full participation at least
from the Performance Committee on, especially thinking of things like the Executive Session that we are
delivering the performance evaluation. But ultimately, given the time frame of the year-- and totally agree,
Ms. Johnson, on the difficulties of a calendar year, fiscal year-- just given the reality, there will be
meetings that not everyone will be able to make. And that's going to have to be OK.
But we need to make sure to have a quorum. And if Directors, as part of the full Board, miss out on the
opportunity to provide feedback, in my view, that is not as bad as not delivering the feedback at all. So
we'll need to move that forward. And Ms. Johnson, you have my commitment to move this forward as
expeditiously as possible. And Mr. Kroll, we need to work together on those dates.
Second, we'll need the Board Office's help to work on the work product that's going to be required for all
of this, the assessment form. Also, if we're are going to do a customized 360 review next year, which I'm
hearing general consensus on, we need to work on at least a strawman of what a scope might look like
so this Committee can move that forward for next year.
Ms, Johnson your comments around goal setting, heard loud and clear. Mr. Kroll, if you wouldn't mind
taking a note that we should consider an Executive Session prior to the delivery of the-- I'm sorry, delivery
of the performance evaluation, given that that's in mid-November rather than when goals would be set in
early November.

Page 25 of 28

There may be an opportunity to do that if we work with Chair Guissinger at an Executive Committee in
October, whereby we could make sure it's well communicated to the Performance Committee and to
everybody that we would be seeking full participation. That may be productive. Let's make that
suggestion. I know we're a little tight on time.
And I do want to react to, Director Guzman, your point about anonymity. Yes, absolutely, the full intent, as
you stated-- and thank you for firmly stating it and clearly stating it-- is that this will not be anonymous.
With having an in-person evaluation, which I view to be the most high quality, and I thank Vice Chair
Sloan for really pushing that early this year, that we need to move to that type of structure-- it provides an
opportunity to give that direct feedback.
And not everything that you provide in a verbal session and discuss in a session may necessarily be in
your written document that goes into the record, or all of it may be. That will be up to the nature of each
Director. So yes, absolutely, direct feedback. So thank you for that. Again, apologies that we've gone over
on this meeting. I really do try to keep these things within the time frame. But this is such an important
topic here that I thank everybody for the dialogue.
Director Guzman, you raised two very important, very critical issues. Is there anything you wanted to react
to on that? OK, thank you very much for that. Director Catlin, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Just in light of the fact that we have gone over on this meeting, which I think the
dialogue was good. I just want to make sure that we plan for those Executive Sessions and those other
meetings as we go forward, that we plan enough time. I know it's kind of an imposition on people's
schedules, but as you stated, it's very, very important for us to get this semi right this year, and then
moving forward in 2024 get it nailed down and get it right.
So I just think that we need to make sure that we devote ample time. That's my only comment.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Duly noted. Yeah, I don't like going over on meetings, but these were important items,
and some took a little longer than expected. So just planning a longer meeting may be the answer here.
And along those lines, Mr. Kroll, I know you had reached out to me and we communicated about meeting
after this meeting and convening in person to really start to sketch out what we need to do next, and
when, and how we organize the Board in doing so.
So if we could do that over the next week, that would be great. I'm happy to come into the office, where
we can meet and discuss that. We'll touch base about schedules. Other items with respect to the
performance assessment process?
Great. I've heard some general support for what we're trying to accomplish here and do. Like I said, not
much of this requires recommended action. Some of it might. We'll explore that. We'll move that forward.
We'll start proceeding.
But to Director Sloan's point, any feedback that anyone has and would like to submit, please do that. We'll
have to be doing this in flight a little bit to meet our timelines, but please go ahead and send that to the
Board Office with myself on copy.
Seeing no other discussion on this, we will move to other matters. Are there any other matters to discuss?
I do just want to emphasize as another matter that we did not adopt a base salary yet from the Gallagher
compensation analysis. We cannot lose sight of that. But we are approaching the 18-month mark. If this
Page 26 of 28

compensation philosophy moves forward-- even if it doesn't-- we're approaching an 18-month mark with
our current General Manager and CEO's contract.
We are also going to be revisiting goals and success outcomes and how we measure compensation. I
think we need to take a holistic-- and I'll use our General Manager's favorite term, which I also love-- a
holistic approach to compensation when we now view that analysis through the lens of this compensation
philosophy. So I want to be very clear that we cannot lose sight of that.
Let's get this compensation philosophy moved forward with our colleagues at the Board. Please,
Performance Committee members, help me in answering any questions our colleagues might have
around this so that we can move forward with reacting to that analysis. That was the other matter I
wanted to raise, and Ms. Polege, please go ahead.
CHARLENE POLEGE: I just want to-- and I know we're pressed for time, but I just also want to highlight
for the Committee that the work will need to be done around setting a salary range because you are not
required to post the salary range because legislation came into effect January 1 of 2021. The agency is
required to post a salary range if you-- and to demonstrate a salary range if you proceed, if you're going
out to market, plus also to have the benefits package.
So I just wanted to highlight that we do have requirements that you were not required to meet the last
time that you were recruiting for a GM and CEO. I'm not suggesting that you're going to be going out and
recruiting, but for that purpose and then as well as transparency within the compensation philosophy, it's
reasonable that a range be posted. And a range being set does not mean a change in compensation. I
want to make that really clear, that they're two separate things.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you, Ms. Polege. Very helpful clarity, very much appreciated. Director Guzman,
please.
MICHAEL GUZMAN: Super quick while we're on this, how do we do that? Are three of us getting
together? Is this Committee creating a document? Is it coming as an action item from the agency? How
do we move that forward to the Board so we get it done efficiently?
ERIK DAVIDSON: What we can do-- Director Guzman, great question-- is adopt one of the recommended
base salary ranges from the Gallagher report. And actually the way, in the very beginning of the process
of working on compensation philosophy, Ms. Polege presented us with those tables of where we're
aligned, not aligned, and summarizing Gallagher, which I think was a very helpful lens.
I think we need to now, once we pass this compensation philosophy, take that look, and we can frame a
recommended action to adopt a base salary range. I'd like to take the opportunity to speak directly with
Ms. Johnson about her compensation, her total compensation with respect to that analysis. I'd like to be
able to dialogue with Ms. Polege about that as well. And then I can certainly frame up something that
could become a recommended action as we proceed.
Great question. Any other-- on this or any other matters? All right. And again, I'll just conclude-DEBRA JOHNSON: [INAUDIBLE]
ERIK DAVIDSON: Yeah, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: Ms. Polege's hand is up.
Page 27 of 28

ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you.
DEBRA JOHNSON: No? Oh, OK, that's inadvertent.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Thank you for pointing that out. I was looking over here. So thank you. And again, I
just want to conclude with thank you, Ms. Johnson, for the direct communication about a lot of this. And
please let us continue that. I know schedules are difficult, and especially as we get to this time of year.
But I thank you for all the input and direct feedback, and we'll certainly be continuing that.
Not seeing any other matters, we will move forward. The next date is to be determined. We have a
placeholder out there. We will quickly communicate that out. I will work with Mr. Kroll to work on those set
dates.
What I would like to do is set all dates through the remainder of the year, set them in stone, put them
there, and folks will commit to those. We need to get some gauge of how people will be there. The next
meeting that had been scheduled was Monday, October 2, followed by Monday, November 6. I think
we're going to need to make a little bit of adoption-- adopt-- change those dates. So I'll be in touch about
those, along with Mr. Kroll.
With that, seeing no other discussion, we will adjourn this meeting, as-DEBRA JOHNSON: If I may, Mr. Chair-ERIK DAVIDSON: Oh, please.
DEBRA JOHNSON: I'm not trying to prolong the meeting, but once again, let's ensure that we coordinate
with my schedule. I posted those dates. There's Thanksgiving week and things of the like. Because if all
the Board can make it and I can't, then the meeting's for naught. So thank you.
ERIK DAVIDSON: Absolutely. Yeah, absolutely. We will ensure that necessary staff and necessary
Committee members are available, especially including yourself, Ms. Johnson. So thank you.
Without seeing no further discussion, we will adjourn this meeting as of 10:20 AM Mountain Daylight
Time. Again, Thank you very much for everybody for moving over. And Jack will be in touch. Have a great
day, everybody.

Page 28 of 28

