Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 1 of 8

Regional Transportation District
Memorandum
To:

Board Members/Staff

From:

Erin Klaas, Senior Board Office Assistant

Date:

August 17, 2012

Subject:

Summary of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee held
August 14, 2012 in Rooms R, T & D
****

Board Members
Present:

Committee Chair James, Chair Kemp; Directors Anderson, Bagley,
Cohen, Daly, Deadwyler, Gore, Hoy, Malpiede, McMullen, O’Boyle,
Tayer, Tobiassen, and Walker.

Board Members
Absent:
Staff Present:

L. Skip Brown, Carolyn Conover, David Genova, Mike Gil, Bill Holmes,
Austin Jenkins, Marla Lien, Barbara McManus, Brian Matthews, Tony
McCaulay, Doug MacLeod, Paula Perdue, Trent Ratcliff, Scott Reed,
Jannette Scarpino, Bill Sirois, Walt Stringer, John Tarbert, Phil
Washington, Richard Rost, Robin McIntosh Jr, Libby Cox, Kevin Parker,
Nate’ Malone, Michael Washington, James Cook, Gary Googins, Eric
Farrington

Others Present:

Melanie Asmar, Ferd Belz, Dana Crawford, Claudia Folska, Stan
Gronek, Jim Johnson, Brian Lewandowski, Robert McNown, Rich
Wobbekind
****

Call to Order:

I.

Committee Chair Kemp initiated an update from the United Station
Alliance Group at 5:30 p.m. Committee Chair James called the
Financial Administration and Audit Committee meeting to order at 5:48
p.m.

Denver Union Station – United Station Alliance Group Update
Chair Kemp initiated an update from the Union Station Alliance Group on the approval
from the National Park Service for the plans of the Denver Union Station Hotel.
General Manager Washington stated that the Board had received an email sharing
that the Union Station Alliance received a formal response from the Park Service on

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 2 of 8

August 7th that the hotel plans would not be approved as submitted.
Ferd Belz began by asked for a Mea Culpa for not getting the information to the
Board sooner. He explained they received correspondence last week and the team is
working through the issues that the Park Service brought up. He assured the Board
that USA is committed to getting through the approval process with the Park Service.
He stated that this is just a routine part of the process. He explained that they were
encouraged by the response because normally the Park Service does not explain the
issues and invite a dialog. They are usually more black and white.
Dana Crawford shared that several years ago she was working on the EDRA building
which was the first warehouse to loft conversion. She stated that they were dealing
with the Park Service and waiting for a response in that situation too. One of her
colleagues asked why she did this type of work. Dana stated that when the lights go
on it is always worth it. Dana said that this has been quite a long wait and trying on
the patience. She expressed that she has a high level of respect for the National
Park Service because of an experience she had when she was working on the Oxford
Hotel. She and her partner wanted to move the cruise room because they thought it
would be better in another location. The Park Service said no. Dana explained that
they has been upset but realized the Park Service had been right when the hotel
opened. She stated that you have to appreciate what they bring in terms of
suggestions. Dana explained that USA was in the process of responding to their
suggestions. She informed the Board that some of the suggestions they would be
able to work with and some they would not but in the past the Park Service has been
extremely reasonable in working toward solutions for projects. She believes this
process is a tool to help save historical buildings.
Jim Johnson stated that this is the tenth historical hotel his firm has worked on. He
views this letter as a routine part of the process with the National Park Service. He
stated that USA has been working feverishly on the issues or concerns presented by
the Park Service. He believes the most important statement from the letter is:
“In conclusion, recognizing that time is of the essence as you continue your
rehabilitation project, we would be willing to continue our review of the project upon
receipt of substantive new information that addresses the issues raised in this letter.
We appreciate the importance of the project and significance of the Denver Union
Station and believe that if revised to address these issues, the project can meet the
program requirements.”
Jim explained that by program requirements the NPS meant the Secretary of the
Interior standards that need to be met in order to qualify for the tax credits. He
stated that their plan is to meet with the Park Service very soon to show them the
modifications. He does not believe the modifications will have material impact on the
project. Jim expressed his thanks to the Park Service for the information they
provided.
Dana Crawford mentioned an article in ULI magazine that talked about the Union
Station Project and praised RTD and USA. She stated that the ULI meeting will be in

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 3 of 8

Denver in the fall and she believes there will be many people watching the Union
Station Project. Dana also shared that on Sept 15th Historic Denver will be running a
tour from Union Station and then taking a bus to DIA to see the tremendous things
that have been happening.
Chair Kemp stated that the Board received a letter from the Union Station
Neighborhood Company in regards to their proposal. He also stated that they had
received a letter from the USA group in regards to the meeting on the 20th and being
able to address the letter. Chair explained that there is a process the Board is
following in having USA come to the meeting to demonstrate that by no means are
there any show stoppers as of yet.
Director James asked if the issue was the dormers. Jim Johnson stated that there
are multiple uses. He stated the issues are the dormers, retention of existing historic
stairs, careful treatment of the interior historic fabric and treatment of the Mezzanine
insertion on the first floor.
Director James stated that USA seems confident they can resolve the issues. He
asked if the worst case would be a denial of the dormer issue. He asked if that was
an issue that would affect the number of rooms and economic feasibility of the
project. Ferd Belz explained if that happened USA could still appeal the Park Service
decision. He said that they preferred not to have to appeal. He stated that they are
looking at several options, one of which would include reducing the rooms. He
stated that USA is confident however it comes out that they will be able to continue
with the project. Jim James added that there are also 10 existing dormers that can
be used for guest rooms.
Director James asked what the process would be if delays are extended. Ferd
explained that in the short term, USA will know if they need to appeal by the end of
next week. He stated that the Park Service appeal process is a 30 day process from
when the letter was received.
Director Deadwyler asked how USA would address the issue of people not being able
to look out the windows of the dormers currently in the attic. Jim Johnson explained
that in the plan presented they would raise the floors in the attic to allow people to
look out.
Director McMullen stated that he is not alarmed by the letter from the Park Service.
Director Malpiede also expressed that she is not alarmed. She believes this one of
the bumps that we always go through in great visions. She thanked the USA team
for coming and sharing with the Board. Director Walker echoed Director McMullen
and Director Malpiede’s sentiments. He stated that it is the Park Service’s job to
protect the properties that belong to all of us.
Chair Kemp thanked the USA team for reaching our and making sure the Board is
kept abreast. He expressed that this shows that USA is deeply involved in ensuring
the success of this project.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 4 of 8

General Manager Washington informed the Board that staff is in close contact with
USA group and will keep the Board appraised as developments occur.
II.

Updates
 CU Leeds Sales and Use Tax Forecast Update
Doug MacLeod began by informing the Board that RTD contracted with CU
Leeds about one and a half years ago to provide sales tax forecasts. Robert
McNown and Brian Lewandowski from CU Leeds provided the Board with a
Power Point presentation on the RTD Sales and Use Tax Forecasting Model.
Robert McNown pointed out in the graph on Page 8. There was strong
growth in retail sales except at the end of the year. Retail sales actually
recorded a downturn. He stated that at first this seemed unexplainable but
through cooperation with the Colorado Department of Revenue they learned
that in 2011 there was a change in the requirements for retail sales filings.
This meant that many filers who had been filing on an annual basis now were
required to file monthly or quarterly so compared to 2010 there were higher
filings from January to November and then December had a really sharp
decline. Robert explained that they were unaware of the requirement change
when CU Leeds produced their forecasts for 2012. This lead them to believe
that based on December’s decline, the first quarter sales were going to be
very weak but that was incorrect.
Robert McNown pointed out a similar trend in the graph on Page 9. He noted
that in December there was an abrupt downturn again in collections by RTD
and then a huge spike in January. He stated that the Colorado Department of
Revenue explained that there were some irregularities in the timing of
collections which lead to the downturn and spike. Robert shared with the
Board that this type of situation is a forecasting nightmare. He explained that
they were using December’s data to predict the first quarter of 2012 and
completely missed predicting the January spike.
Director Bagley expressed that he was very excited that the CU Leads team
came and gave this presentation. He believes it is very useful for the Board.
Director Bagley thanked the team for their excellent presentation and stated
that he was happy to see this in more detail than had been presented before.
Director Tayer stated that he is so thankful to have CU Leads as part of the
team. He believes we are so far ahead of where we were in the past.
Director Tayer thanked staff for continuing our relationship with Leads.
Director O’Boyle asked how the expected unemployment rate of 5% by 2015
compared to the national index. Robert McNown explained that the Colorado
economy seems to be recovering a little more strongly than the national
economy. He stated that the national level continues to come down but by
2015 it will be at about 6%, 5.5% in 2016 and then remain at 5.5% for

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 5 of 8

2017.
Director Daly stated that he was glad we hired CU Leads to do our
projections. Committee Chair James stated that he know a lot of work goes
into preparing the presentations. He expressed that he thought the level of
detail was perfect. Robert McNown complimented his staff for their work on
the presentations and thanked the RTD staff for their assistance.


Second Quarter 2012 Internal Audit Report
Bill Holmes began by thanking the Board for the opportunity to meet with
them. He stated that his team was on course for completing their audits this
year. Bill provided audit summaries covering Spreadsheet Usage and Control,
IGA CAM Charge Review, Lockbox Procedures and Control, Travel Advanced,
Revised Salaried Payroll Policies and Procedures, Goldman Sachs & Co.
Contract Review.
Director Daly stated that he understood that when the audit team complete
the salary payroll change controls the conclusion as that a salary adjustment
be performed. He asked if there were any salary decreases as a result. Bill
Holmes stated that he believed there were no salary decreases as a result.
Director Daly commended the team for the thorough job that they do.
Director Tobiassen noted that in the Spreadsheet Usage and Control report it
was mentioned that the team was trying to have the agency move away from
spreadsheets and was monitoring their use. Director Tobiassen asked how
this was being done. Bill Holmes explained that this was something presented
to the Board and Senior Leadership so that Senior Leadership could address
the use of spreadsheets. The goal is to get a more standard methodology
implemented in their creation. He also explained that this was related to the
changes in Oracle by implementing R-12. He believes that this change will
allow the spreadsheets to come directly from Oracle, making them more
consistent. Bill Holmes explained that there have not been any methodologies
that he has identified at this point other than conducting audits and reviewing
the spreadsheets to determine if they provide accurate information.
Director Tobiassen stated that he also worked for a government organization
where everyone had spreadsheets. He asked if the audit team was looking at
this from more of a process perspective rather than a way to automate the
spreadsheets.
Director Tobiassen also mentioned that when we were audited by the State
Legislature’s Audit Committee they looked at the modeling we were using.
They were comparing the contracted services versus in-house services. There
were some issues with that modeling. He thought that whole process was
going to be automated through the Oracle system. Director Tobiassen asked
if that had been done. Bill Holmes stated that in terms of spreadsheet use he
hopes there will be a process change to standardize the spreadsheets

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 6 of 8

throughout the District. Bill Holmes stated that he has spoken with the staff
that develops Oracle. He explained that it has been updated and there are
new processes in place as a result of the State’s audit.
Committee Chair James asked for clarification on what is broken with the
spreadsheets and what the audit team is trying to fix. Bill Holmes explained
that nothing is broken. There is just the risk of spreadsheets becoming too
pervasive within the organization. Bill stated that right now everyone is
creating their own information using spreadsheets. He explained that in some
of the audits they have seen two or three spreadsheets purportedly providing
the same information but they do not. Bill Holmes stated that their needs to
be a more consistent procedure. Committee Chair James asked if that would
be easier to audit. Bill Holmes stated that it would but his preference that the
District find methods to make the procedures benefit the District. Bill
explained that he hoped the District can come up with procedures where
anyone looking at a spreadsheet can determine where the information came
from and interpret it.
Committee Chair James asked why RTD has a travel allowance. It was
explained that policy does allow it. Some employees may not be of the
financial stature to have several thousand dollars available to pay for hotels
and meals. It could be possible for an employee to place the expenses on
their credit card and not have been reimbursed by the time it comes in as a
bill.


Second Quarter 2012 Investment Report
Doug MacLeod and Jannette Scarpino provided the Board with a report on the
status of the investments for the second quarter of 2012.



Bond Counsel Contract Update
Doug MacLeod explained that this is just an information item for the Board.
He explained that Bond Counsel provides advisory, legal and tax services for
issuing debt. He stated that these are provided on a fee for service basis.
Doug went on to explain that RTD had a Bond Counsel contract that expired
in August. He stated that an RFP was issued and there were seven
respondents. Doug shared that Sherman & Howard was our previous Bond
Counsel and they were selected again. He stated that they are very familiar
with our bond structure and this will lend some continuity to our processes.
Doug also mentioned that there is a Bond Disclosure contract that will be
expiring soon.
Director Deadwyler asked what the comparison was between firms when
Sherman & Howard were selected. She wanted to ensure that there was
consideration given to all firms that responded to the RFP. She also asked
why this was not brought to the Board as a recommendation as she thought it
would be something the Board would vote on. Marla Lien explained that since
the anticipated costs would be within $250,000, which is within the General

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 7 of 8

Manager’s authority, this item was being brought to the Board as an
information item. She said that the RFP was sent out with four criteria:
experience of the firm, knowledge of counsel, cost, and general approach to
RTD debt. Marla explained that there was a three person panel that gave
each firm a numeric point score for each category. The selection went to the
firm with the highest score. General Manager Washington stated that while
this contract falls within his authority, he thought it was important to still
present it to the Board as an information item.


June 2012 Monthly Fiscal Status Report
Doug MacLeod and Jannette Scarpino reviewed the June 2012 Monthly Fiscal
Status Report with the Board. Doug stated that there was some red this
month in the report related to total ridership. He explained that total ridership
includes the Mall Shuttle. Doug informed the Board that if the Mall Shuttle
was excluded ridership actually would have increased. Doug also explained
that there was a decrease in fare revenue. This mostly had to do with the
monthly pass sales and how RTD counts that revenue; revenue is recognized
over the term of the pass. He stated that this was really just a timing issue.
Doug pointed out that RTD’s sales and use tax came in strong at 8.2% for
May and 8.3% year-to-date. He stated that halfway through the year we are
on track with the forecasts from CU Leads. Doug MacLeod informed the
board that last year we received a 3.3% vendor allowance and this year it is
1.1%. He explained that if we take that into account we are essentially up
about 10% over last year.
Doug MacLeod shared that at the end of the year RTD would owe about $70
million in a loan payment. He mentioned this because it will impact the endof-year unrestricted fund balance. He also reminded the Board that we have
forecasted an unrestricted fund balance of $24.7 million at the end of the
year, not the $13 million currently available. Doug explained this decrease is
due to a delay in drawing some funds from bond proceeds. These are
currently included in restricted funds but should soon be moved over.
Doug explained that year-to-date we had a net income loss of $158,231,000
versus the $9,728,000 forecasted for the Base Systems. He stated that staff
believes this is a timing issue. In the operating grants the report shows we
are $10.7 million under budget. This is money that we will receive but have
not yet been able to recognize since Congress just approved the
Transportation Bill in July. He stated that once those funds are recognized we
will actually be ahead of budget.
Doug MacLeod pointed out that year-to-date we are $43 million better than
budget for FasTracks. He explained that we have $30 million budgeted for US
36 that has not been recognized as we have not been billed by CDOT yet. He
stated that this is also a timing issue.

Minutes of the Financial Administration and Audit Committee Meeting held on August 14, 2012
Page 8 of 8

Director Hoy asked if the disparity of the $10.7 million on the Base System
budget would go away with the receipt of the delayed grant monies. Doug
stated that was correct.
Director Bagley asked if the extension of the Mall Shuttle and the timing of the
traffic signals was the reason why ridership had decreased. Committee Chair
James asked if those were the only factors attributed to the decrease.
General Manager explained that it was a combination of factors. He stated
that with the warmer weather more people were deciding to walk and it was
also because of the longer distance and frequency of traffic lights.
Director Malpiede asked how long it would take to receive the grant money
from the Federal Government. Jeannette Scarpino stated that it takes about
30 days from the time we submit to receive the funds.
III.

Other Matters
There were no other matters.

IV.
V.
VI.

Next Meeting Date – September 11, 2012
Adjourn
Committee Chair James adjourned the meeting at 6:47 p.m. to the DBE Committee
meeting.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 hours in advance of a RTD
meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307

