RTD Study Session Zoom Recording 10-13-20_Trim
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, great. Here we go. Good evening, everybody. I will
now call the study session for Tuesday, October 13, 2020 to order. We are convened as of 5:32
PM Mountain Daylight Time. And I would respectfully ask everyone in the meeting to ensure
that your phones are set to silent and your ringers are off.
As is our custom, I'll begin the meeting with a brief safety moment. Frequently and thoroughly
wash your hands. Monitor your health and the health of those close to you. Be particularly alert
to the most prevalent symptoms of COVID-19-- fever, coughing, and shortness of breath.
Minimize the time spent in poorly ventilated indoor public areas, especially when a large number
of people are present. And wear a mask at all times in public spaces whether inside or outdoors
when you are unable to maintain physical distancing of at least six feet. At this point, what I'd
like to do is call the Board members who are here, and I think I have you all. Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Folska. She may need a minute to unmute.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Sorry about that. Yeah, it was not going. [LAUGHS]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Yep, I'm here. Sorry about that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Guissinger. I see you. You can't unmute. That's OK. I
see you. Director Lewis, I see you as well.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I'm here. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lubow. I know you're on the call. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: I am here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Great. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Present.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Present.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Good evening. I am here.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And myself. Is Director Buzek on the phone or on
the Zoom call?
VINCE BUZEK: I'm on the Zoom. Can you see me?
KATE WILLIAMS: We see you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: I don't see you, but OK.
KATE WILLIAMS: I see him.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, great.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
VINCE BUZEK: It's a live shot of me on the train.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Ooh. Director Menten, are you on the call or on Zoom?
NATALIE MENTEN: I'm on the call right now.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Director Walker. I do not see him on either.
So I'm going to go ahead and call it 14 Board members present with Director Walker absent, but
I'm sure he'll join in soon.
What I'd like to do this evening is talk about the 2021 budget overview. During this presentation,
we're going to be hearing from our CFO, Heather McKillop. And she's going to be talking about
our 2021 budget. For those directors who've signed into the meeting via website browser, please
note that if you click on the Hand Raise icon, I'll call on you at the appropriate time. But what I
will really do and what seems to work for us quite nicely is I'll just go for a roll call and ask if
anybody has any questions, OK? So with that, what I'd like to do is turn it over to Ms. McKillop.
The floor is yours, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. This is Heather McKillop. Currently, Susan
Cohen is going to share her screen so you can start seeing the presentation. We are going to skip
over, in the essence of time, the introductory slides because I want to get right to the heart of the
matter and do about a 30-minute presentation max and then open it up for questions.

Really what we're trying to accomplish today is bring together all the pieces that we've been
reviewing with you since March and April of this year, all the discussions we've had around the
2020 budget, and then ultimately leading into the 2021 budget that we're asking the Board to
adopt on November 17. So with that, we're going to try to bring all the pieces together.
We've also updated it for the revenue forecast for changes in fare revenue, some additional
changes that we've made in positions being added and subtracted, errors that we found. All of
those types of things we've tried to reconcile. We do have additional work to do on reconciling
some of these. It's a major undertaking. So there probably will be additional adjustments between
now and November.
And then we're also-- our main goal tonight is to get feedback from you on everything we're
presenting so we can incorporate that and present a final presentation to you with adoption of a
budget in November. So that's really our goal. So with that, Susan, if you could go to the sales
and use tax forecast comparison, which is packet page eight and slide six for those that are
viewing on the slide deck, that packet page 8.
So I just wanted to update you. We did receive an updated forecast from Leeds School of
Business. And what I have compared for you on this screen is the 2020 forecast, so finishing up
this current year. In the amended budget, which is on the left-hand side, we used the May
forecast. We didn't have a lot of information at that time, if you'll remember. We had March
actuals, so not a lot of data as it related to COVID. And the Board gave us direction to use the
low forecast at that time. And so that's what we've continued to use for 2020 moving forward.
We just recently received the September forecast, which had July actuals, so through July. That
forecast was updated to $602.7 million for the low forecast. And if you see on the far right-hand
chart, that's a difference of $101.8 million, so quite a large swing. So back when we were
originally dealing with this in May, we had seen upwards of $150 to $200 million swing one way
down. Now we're seeing another swing of $100 million the other direction. So as you can still-we're still seeing some volatility in these forecasts.
I did want to point out, though, I did get the August actuals. Those are going to be included in
your packet for October 20. They are fairly close to these numbers that we're seeing here in this
forecast of 602. They were about a million dollars under if I projected out this number through
the end of the year, which is pretty close when you're talking about $50 to $55 million. So we
seem to be on track for this number, at least with August actuals. What's coming the rest of the
year is still to be seen.
So I took this information, this $101 million. And if you go to the next slide, which is packet
page nine, you can see that we-- well, I'm sorry. You'll see it in a minute. I've incorporated it. But
right now, I want to go to 2021 through 2026.
So on the far left side, we actually use the July forecast, which was through May actuals. We
used that for the draft Mid-Term Financial Plan that we had shown you over the last couple
months. We then took the September forecast we got for 2021 through 2026, again, using the
medium forecast because that's what the Board projection had been for the mid-term, and

compared that. And you can see on the far right-hand side that we're looking at about an $84
million difference for 2021, not quite as good as 2020 numbers, but definitely much better than
where we were before.
And the reasoning for that is there's an expectation of a small slowdown at the end of this year
into early next year. But there is no kind of re-entrenchment out of COVID shutdowns included
in these forecasts. You will have an opportunity to have those conversations with the Leeds
School of Business on the 20. They'll be presenting their forecast, and it will be in your Board
packet. So we can go into a lot more detail then. But I just wanted to show you what the numbers
are that we'll be using for 2021 and 2022 unless the Board objects to that.
So next slide. So this is where we reconciled both Base and FasTracks reserves. So on the far left
side, you can see that we have the Board adopted a budget for the Base System in the top part.
We then added the increase due to the September 2020 Leeds forecast. That was $61 million for
the Base. We then had to deduct the represented furloughs because those were never taken by the
represented staff, and that was equivalent to $4.2 million.
We then had additional decreases to fare box revenues for 2020. They're coming in much lower
than we expected. We then had to fund the TABOR reserves by another $1.5 million. You had
also agreed after the amended budget was adopted to fund the Accountability Committee. And
then we have the total amended changes, which would result in a positive addition to your
reserve of $43.5 million. So going into 2021, we have $125 million in reserves between all of
your different line items there.
On FasTracks, again, we have the Board-adopted amended budget. We have the forecast due to
the Leeds. We then have a line for decrease due to represented furloughs. That wasn't accounted
for on FasTracks, so there's no changes there. We had a slight change due to fare box revenue, a
change in the TABOR reserve, and no decrease due to Accountability Committee. So you can
see the Board changes there. So we were able to add some additional funds to FasTracks, which
is good because, as you'll see later, FasTracks still have issues in the long term.
Next slide. So this is what our current 2021 Base cash flow looks like right now with the changes
that we've made, and I'll walk through those. So the first one is fare revenue. So we had an
additional decrease in fare revenue on the Base System of about $6 million. And that was due to,
again, lowering the forecast from 60% down to 55% for the year for 2021.
The next item in green is 0.6% sales tax. We had about $50 million increase in that number. And
then down below in the green changes, these are the things that have been adjusted since we
showed it to you on September 15. We had a lower amount of savings in administrative, other
administrative reductions, and service reductions. Basically, one-time personnel costs stayed
pretty much the same, but they did go down a little bit. In the numbers above, we kept more
represented staff, and I can have Bruce talk about that a little bit more in a second.
And then we had some reconciliation that we had to do on the administrative personnel changes,
things that didn't match what was budgeted versus what was actually filled, and that caused a

change there. One-time personnel costs went down a little bit just because we don't have to pay
unemployment and severance on those positions that are now retained.
Another big area was reserves. We had a considerable amount of reserves being used on the Base
System in 2021. Because of the higher forecast, we no longer have to use those reserves, so we
were able to take that use down considerably. We still have the one project, electric vehicles.
And in yellow is now our new ending balance, which is a positive number when before we had
negative numbers.
The overall change to the debt shortfall in the Base System originally, overall, we had $165
million that we were trying to solve for. That number went to 215 on September 15. And now it's
$140 million. So between Base and FasTracks, we're solving for $140 million. Those reductions
solve for that with a $13 million balance in the Base System. The Base shortfall itself was $75
million, and FasTracks' shortfall is $65 million now with all of the changes we made here.
Next slide. Under FasTracks, same issue. Fare revenue went down about $1.9 million when we
adjusted it from 60% to 55%. Sales tax went up in the case of this, around $33.4 million due to
the new forecast. We had some adjustments on the bonds in COPs. We were able to decrease
debt service because we had left out the Build America Bond's subsidy, which is about $8
million. So that helps significantly on FasTracks.
Then we had some adjustments to administrative personnel, other administrative reductions, and
service reduction savings, the biggest being service reduction savings. We, as I mentioned
before, have retained more represented employees, and we changed the allocations between Base
And FasTracks so some more of those costs are the--], the Base System than they are FasTracks.
Then the biggest changes here was we did not have to use the internal savings accounts, the
FISA, to fund FasTracks in 2021. But the amount that we pulled from reserves was almost the
same, about a million dollar difference than what we've had before. So we still have a significant
sum of money coming out of reserves, but we did not have to use the $17.6 million from the
FISA.
With those changes, we were able to balance FasTracks in 2021. When I show you the numbers
coming up in the long term, that is not necessarily the case in FasTracks. But for 2021, with
these additional forecasts, we were able to balance FasTracks.
In both the Base case and the FasTracks cash flows, we did return reserves to three months each.
So we did assume that reserves would stay at three months, and we were able to accomplish that
by those beginning balances that were available from 2020. Now in FasTracks going forward, we
have to start taking money out of that reserves and take it down to one month by the end. But at
least in 2021 and 2022, we are able to maintain three months.
And that's one thing we want feedback from the Board on, if we still want to keep the three
months. Our recommendation is since we have the opportunity to do that and things are so fluid
right now with forecasting, that we would recommend we stay at that three months because that's
not a lot of flexibility. But it's sure better than where we were a couple weeks ago.

Next slide. Just wanted to show you where we were with the estimated reserves at the end of
2021. So this is where we started 2021 and then what we're going to be able to add and subtract
to reserves. And so we do end up with slightly more reserves in Base System than we need for
the three months. And in FasTracks, we had to draw down quite a bit of reserves just to balance
FasTracks.
But we were able to put more money into the FISA. Remember we started the year with 119.6.
Instead of using the contribution of 17.6 to balance the Base and FasTracks, we were able to put
that into the FISA. So that had a positive impact on FasTracks.
Next slide. This is just a recap of what we talked about before. So I'm going to skip this slide.
And I think the next one also, Susan. So if we can go to slide-- packet page 16.
NATALIE MENTEN: Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
NATALIE MENTEN: Heather. There seems to be a lot of like extra noise. I don't know if
anybody else is hearing it.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Oh, I think that's because we're turning pages here. Sorry, we'll be
quieter.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, thank you.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Susan, can you go back a little bit to slide 14, packet page 16? That
one, right there. So on this particular one, I wanted to point out we had talked about at the last
meeting adjustments to the salary personnel for 2021. This is the staff's recent proposal. No
furlough days for $0 to $60,000. From $60,000 to $120,000, six furlough days and no pay
reduction. That's equivalent to 2-and-1/2%.
$120,000 to $180,000 is six furlough days plus 3-and-1/2% pay reduction. That is equivalent to
6% total pay reduction. And then $180,000-plus is six furlough days plus 7-and-1/2% pay
reduction. That's equivalent to 10% pay reduction. So I did want to point that out. We still have
no increases in the contribution to the Salary Defined Benefit Pension Plan. And we're
recommending a reduction, a temporary reduction from 9% to 7% in the Salary Defined
Contribution Plan.
Next slide. So on packet page 17, just wanted to point out here that we did have in previous
versions 635 full- and part-time filled positions that we were eliminating. With the change in
forecast and other things, we were able to take that down to 504 separations of both part-time
and full-time, and that includes both represented and salaried staff. A few of those positions were
due to new vacancies that came up. So they're now vacant positions that we can eliminate versus
filled positions. But there were quite a few operators and mechanics and two salaried staff that
we adjusted also in those numbers.

As I mentioned previously, we're still doing work in reconciling this and meeting Bruce and his
task force, meeting with the AGM. So we may see a few more reductions, and I'm assuming
that's one of the conversations we're going to have tonight is about the reduction. What? Yeah,
actually, Bruce said he can address that now, and then we don't have to come back to it. So
Bruce, do you want to go ahead and talk about that a little bit now?
BRUCE ABEL: Yeah. I think, as Heather pointed out, when we started this conversation, we
were talking about 635 filled divisions in both part- and full-time, both salaried and represented.
That have been reduced to 504. And actually, as of today, that is reduced to 484.
Several things have led to those changes. We did keep an additional, I believe, 45, 46 operators
in order to provide for a more robust extra-board as we move into the January service change.
We did keep another couple dozen mechanics from previously anticipated numbers for two
reasons. One, we wanted to be sure that we adequately maintained what I refer to as the mothball
fleet given that we will have a number of vehicles that will not be in service. That does not mean
that they do not need to be maintained. So that was we rebuild service. Everything is in tip top
shape and ready to go.
And part of this, as Heather alluded to as well, is that a number of folks, especially on the salary
side, are reading the tea leaves. And they have taken other positions in the community, and so a
number of filled positions are now vacant positions. So the number of filled positions that will be
separated moving forward is reducing as people are self-selecting and seeking alternative
employment.
So as of today, we are at 484 filled positions that would be separated via either the layoff process
via the CBA on the represented side or salaried employees. As Heather said, these numbers are
going to continue to change. One of the things that we have done is throughout this process, we
have been attempting to reconcile our organization chart, our staffing charts, our budget in terms
of filled and unfilled positions. And so that has been a rather volatile process.
For example, administrative- and personnel-related savings on the cash flows that Heather has
alluded to, those appear that we have added positions back in. But in many cases, it also relates
to the fact that as we have been reconciling various staffing models, filled positions, budgeted
positions, et cetera, that is also reflected in that change in numbers. So with that, I would turn it
back over to Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Susan, if we can go to the next screen, which is packet page 18.
On this one and the next one, I just want to show you what we have planned in costs. We talked
about that we have deferred $114 million worth of the capital projects. These are listed on this
page, which is the Base System, and the next page, which is FasTracks. If you add the two
numbers up, it's slightly less than $140 million, and that's because these are in 2019 dollars, not
2021 dollars. So we had to inflate them.
Why I wanted to show you this is because this is an extensive list of projects and repairs that
need to be done but because of our budget situation cannot be done at this time. Our asset
management folks, we met yesterday with them. They are going to go back and look at

prioritizing this list of deferred 2021 projects so that if funds become available in 2021, which
they may-- as you can see from what I presented, there may be some-- we may want to consider
moving some of these projects forward due to either compliance issues, safety issues, whatever it
might be. So that group will be working on that.
In addition, as you know, we have taken this 2021 list and spread 70% of it across 2022 through
2026, the funding for that. They now have to go back and reprioritize these lists for 2022 through
2026. And then in the spring, they'll be adding 2027 because we will be doing-- the next six-year
plan will be 2022 through 2027. But I wanted to let you know which projects.
So this page is-- Base is done. The next page, Susan, is FasTracks. And so you can see what we
have deferred there in FasTracks. I have also attached the full '21 through '26 lift in the back of
the documents that I sent you for the presentation tonight. So you have the full list there if you
want to look at it.
Next slide. In a minute, I'm going to walk you through the 2021 through 2026 cash flow just so
you can see what it looks like. But in the meantime, we mentioned that we have in '25 and '26 a
shortfall of $23 million still in FasTracks. The good news is this was $200 million two weeks
ago, three weeks ago, whenever that was on the 15th of September. So we have made
considerable strides in this area. One reason has been the projected additional revenues from the
forecast. But we also have the $8 million a year in the subsidy for the Build America Bond that
made a big difference.
I am still requesting as projects close on this list or we get the return of the credit risk premium
that we be allowed to put that in the FasTracks fund balance, the reserves, versus putting it in the
FISA, which is the current policy. And the reason for that is now we are able to make the rubber
tire service contribution to FasTracks. I still ultimately have shortfalls in FasTracks and are
eating up our reserve balances pretty quickly there.
So I would like the Board to agree, and I will be putting this in the approval of the '21 through
'22 modified Mid-Term Financial Plan. Not sure what we're calling that. But I will be asking you
to make this approval at that time. So we're not asking for approval tonight, but I wanted to set
the expectation that I'm still going to be asking for that for the '21-'22. So as these projects close
and we get funding back, we can use it to offset future shortfalls in FasTracks without having to
go back to the FISA potentially.
So next slide just talks about our next steps. We have this study session tonight. We then are
posting the draft 2021 budget on the 15th. That is on Thursday. On October 23, we have a
Finance Committee to review this information again. It will probably not change much since it is
due in Minute Traq tomorrow.
We then have Operations Committee on the 20th where we have the approval of the January
RunBoard. At least that's the request. We have the Board meeting where we'll have the adoption
of the January RunBoard. November 10, we'll have the Finance Committee where we'll
discussing any modifications from today to the 2021 budget and the modified Mid-Term

Financial Plan. And then on November 17, we'll be asking you to adopt both the 2021 budget
and the modified Mid-Term Financial Plan.
I do not have this up on the screen, but I did want to point you to packet page 30 in your packet
that was sent. And I want to talk a little bit about the Mid-Term Financial Plan. I think I have
about five minutes left. So with that five minutes, I want to point out a few things.
We did provide a cash flow for the mid-term for '21 to '26, understanding that the Board only
wanted to adopt '21 and '22. So we drew a line down there so you can kind of see where that
ends. On the Base System, which is packet page 30, you can see at the bottom the $13.4 million I
discussed earlier that I showed you in the PowerPoint. And we have $492,000 positive balance in
2022. Again, in both years, I did bring the balances to three months for both Base and FasTracks.
What you can see in '23 through '26, if these numbers materialize, we will actually in 2023 start
having accumulating balances, which we're estimating to accumulate to $310 million if they're
not spent by 2026. Our expectation is there will be discussion in the future about service and
other items that we might want to do, such as advancing more projects that we've had to defer.
One thing is people have asked me, well, can we start using a little bit of the money we have now
from this forecast to start adding things back? That is a possibility. However, if you look at 2022,
there is not money to sustain those increases in service into the future unless you were to reduce
the amount of reserves that you have available below the three months. So I just wanted to point
that out, that although it appears that we have money in 2021, even with the new forecast, it's
really, really tight in 2022.
The other thing I wanted to point out is now in FasTracks, which is packet page 31. We are able
to maintain the FISA. So lines 21 and 22, we don't use the FISA balance or the contribution to
that FISA balance until 2025. And then we have to use the rubber tire service contribution. But
in the meantime, that FISA balance has gone up to about $200 million from the 119 during that
time frame.
But we do use all of our reserves. And by 2025, we're down to two months of reserves. Then by
2026, we're down to one month of reserves. So we have a systematic problem that we have to fix
in FasTracks. Because after 2026, it only gets worse. We start having to do replacement of rail
and vehicles and other things that we cannot afford with this current plan that we have. And that
is even with some reductions in the current year in 2021.
So just to give you a flavor of what those balances are in 2021. So a monthly operating-- one
month of operating reserves for FasTracks is $30 million, and that changes over time based on
where we are. And then for the Base System is $29.1 million, I believe, or 39.1. Hold on, let me
double check. $39.1 million. So just to give you an idea of what those balances are.
So with that, I will ask Bruce if he has anything else to add before we turn it over the Chair for
question and answer. So, Bruce, do you have anything you want to--

BRUCE ABEL: I think just one thing that I would add, reinforcing your point on the reserves, is
you show the Base System that it was $13 million added to reserves in 2021. And if I heard you
correctly earlier, since we received the new forecast, we also received the August actuals. And
the August actuals were about a million dollars below the new, more optimistic forecast. And so
that if that trend continued, a million a month below-- actuals being below the forecast, that's
almost the entirety of the $13 million that's projected to be the surplus in 2021. So small margins
of error.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah, it's just really tight. I mean, the great news is our numbers are so
much better than they were just a few weeks ago before we got the new forecast. But the margin
for error is extremely low in the next couple years. And so we just have to be very cognizant of
that. So I think I took my 35 minutes. So with that, Chair, I'm going to turn it back to you, and
we would be glad to take questions and find out how the Board is feeling about this proposal.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Heather, and thank you for much, Bruce. I'd like to
start before I call on the Board members to have you talk a little bit about why there's such a
great fluctuation in the CU School of Leeds numbers.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So, Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop. Well, I think that'd be a
good opportunity to ask the Leeds that in a couple of weeks. But from my conversations with
them, I think it's just been all based in the past on certainty. So when we first went into the
pandemic and we only had March actuals and we used that for-- because of the timing, used that
for our amended budget, it looked pretty bleak as to everything was shut down.
So how were people going to spend money? Were they going to actually go get fast food? Where
are they going to go online and order things? Which it turns out they ended up doing, and they
continued to spend money. I think Leeds feels that a lot of that spending has been propped up by
what they call the transfers that were done. That means the additional $600 per week in
unemployment or $2,400 a month that people received through the end of July.
I think there was some expectation that would continue into the future. But since it has not, they
have taken that into consideration to some extent. I think there's still some belief in those
numbers that there will be some type of additional-- not necessarily for transit, but maybe for
individuals and for people that receive unemployment, that that still might come in the future.
I do think as we started getting more actuals, they were fluctuating. That's why we got one
forecast that was up and one forecast that was down. And then we got the September forecast
that they do in more detail for us because it's their normal forecast. They had actuals then
through July. So I think they felt more comfortable with those numbers because they at least had
a couple months of actual. I think they'll share with you this is the best forecast with the
information that's available now and that as they continue to get more actuals, that number could
change.
Now I did want to mention that this is the last forecast we'll be getting from Leeds at this time.
Their contract expires this year, and they are not obligated to provide us monthly forecasts going
forward, and I don't know that we want them since we're going to be adopting at 2021 budget.

The forecast is what it is. But we will continue to monitor the actuals and report to the Board
how those actuals stack up against what this recent forecast is so you have a good idea of how
things are progressing.
Our next forecast is scheduled to be received in May of 2021. We use that forecast for the next
Mid-Term Financial Plan and the Long Range Plan that we will need to adopt sometime next
year. And we don't know if Leeds will be providing that forecast or not because we are going out
to bid, and that will be a competitive process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I do want to just say for the record that we have
been on this discussion item since-- I don't know-- April or May, and the swing has just been
extraordinary from the very low to the very high to the very low and really understanding that
this is such a fluid process that we're in the middle of, and I keep saying unprecedented. So thank
you, Heather.
With that, I'd like to start with the Board to see if they have any questions or comments for either
Ms. McKillop or Bruce. So Director Broom.
BOB BROOM: Thank you, Madam Chair. I do have one question. The 484 number now that we
have as far as the number of layoffs, what is the breakdown between represented and nonrepresented?
BRUCE ABEL: This is Bruce. In terms of salaried, there are 98 filled and 63 vacant for a total of
161 positions on the salary side. The vast majority of those are full-time positions. On the
represented size, it is 386 filled positions, broken down approximately nearly-- well, just over a
half being full-time and just under a half being part-time.
BOB BROOM: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you, sir. Secretary Buzek.
VINCE BUZEK: Thanks, Madam Chair. And thank you, Heather and Bruce, for the
presentation. Bob Broom just asked my question. I had that very question. But I do just have a
couple of comments. It's kind of bittersweet news that we hear that we're able to reduce the
number of personnel that will be losing their jobs right before Christmas. But I guess we'll take it
where we can get it. We've saved 151 positions with this new forecast. But we still have people
that are going to be unemployed pretty soon, and that's not a happy thing.
There are some people that will say, well, why not just use all your reserves? And then you could
save all these jobs or a bunch of these jobs. But we've discussed that many, many times and have
determined that is an unworkable and untenable position. Our rating agencies look at our
reserves and our reserve balances to determine how well they're going to rate us. That impacts
our potential and ability to finance and all kinds of things down the road. And so saying to spend
your reserves is really not a responsible move.

On the represented, we've all been getting a bunch of emails, and I appreciate all those emails
that we've received. And although it's the same email over and over, I have kept track of all the
names of all the people. And I appreciate you sending those out.
But it's just untenable to keep 100% of your staff when you're providing 60% of your service.
And I know that's, again, another bitter pill to swallow. But those are my comments. I appreciate
your work. And moving forward, I'm eager to speak to the Leeds School people as well. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. Yeah, much of what Director Buzek said, I have
considered as well. I'm very concerned about the slim margin, particularly in light of the very
volatile swings we've seen in the forecasts.
I am concerned about going into the future, particularly years '23 through '26. And my question
is, why would we contribute $17 million to the FISA reserves this year if we're going to have to
dip into those reserves in later years? It just, to me, just doesn't seem like a financially
responsible thing to do.
And I agree with Director Buzek that we're improving in the staff reductions, and it's my hope
that perhaps by the end of the year as things change or that we might get a stimulus infusion, that
we could quickly regroup and not have to reduce. The fact of the matter is we're only at 60% of
our operating, and we have people who, I am told, are sitting idle in the break rooms. And I think
it's fiscally irresponsible to pay people full salaries for not doing anything.
And I know that probably will not be met with favor from anybody who may risk losing their
jobs. But I still think that we have to be fiscally responsible, and we need to be efficient and
effective in our operations and be mindful of the taxpayer dollars that we're spending. So those
are my thoughts. And thank you, Heather and Bruce, for putting this together. And it's my hope
that next month, that we'll see even more of an improvement and that we can make some
adjustments accordingly. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair Cook.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. Can I respond to the FISA question just
to give our philosophy on that?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So the thought process behind that was that when we took things
away, the FISA was a hot button, and we had to dip into that every single year and drain that
every single year before. Now we didn't touch the corpus, but we touched all the contributions.
We try to restore things in reverse order, so make sure we filled up the reserves, and then we
tried not to touch the FISA going forward.

Now as you see in the future for FasTracks, we do have to use some of those contributions. One
of my ways of hoping to address not going to the FISA but still providing funding for issues
going forward on FasTracks is that list I presented in your packet that talked about project
closures coming up, the return of the credit risk premium, those type of things.
I would like Board approval to not put those in the FISA and instead put those in the fund
balance so those funds will be available in the future to offset those shortfalls going forward.
And then maybe we don't have to have the FISA discussion on an annual basis. I'm not sure if
that's going to be the case or not. I'm just trying to figure out a way, kind of a middle ground for
both the way people feel on both sides, the one being able not to touch the FISA when I don't
have to, but also things that might have gone into the FISA I now-- instead of putting them in the
FISA, we just put them in the fund balance to be used to offset those shortfalls.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK.
PEGGY CATLIN: Madam Chair, if I might?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, and I appreciate that. I just am concerned. I would not even
suggest trying to dip into the existing FISA account at this point. I'm just worried about the
contribution before facing shortfalls later. But Heather brought up another point that I forgot to
make.
And that's I am really concerned about deferring all of our maintenance and our asset
management and kicking the can down the road for that and if there are some critical issues we
might be facing where we would have to take more extreme measures to tap into some of those
reserves in order to cover some of our deferred maintenance and some of our critical assets that
we're trying to maintain. So that's just a point I wanted to make. But I appreciate your
explanation, Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. All right. Second Vice Chair Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Yeah, thank you. And I'll kind of piggyback on this a little bit. Would bring
up the fact that those outyears don't actually-- we are adopting a two-year plan in part because
things are so volatile and changing right now. It makes sense that we would focus on the nearterm, which is a little bit more knowable. So that's another thing to think about in terms of that
FISA in the outer years.
And then secondly, the next week's package will include fiscal policies with a red line set of
changes that relate to how we build back after the COVID period ends. And I think the staff have
done a good job of both reflecting the Board's direction with regard to the FISA, for example,
and also incorporating their own recommendations for, for example, using this one-time money
that we have going into 2021 to build up our reserves and, secondly, to begin identifying the
assets, the critical assets that we may need to do sooner than later, but also thinking about
services.

So I just wanted to highlight that piece and ask people to take a good hard look at that because
we'll be taking them up in the next few weeks and starting with Tuesday's session. It's the end of
the packet, so I just wanted to highlight that.
I do have a couple of questions or requests. For the breakdown on packet page 11 and 12, when
you look at the effect of the updated forecasts and the changes that have happened recently, it
looks like the benefit mainly accrues or, at least at the $7 million range, to admin versus services.
And you mentioned that you're still reconciling that. Would you please-- would you be able to
give us a more detailed breakdown of why the greater swing on admin versus services? Because
we had wanted to minimize that, as you know, in terms of making our response to the COVID
impacts. Would that be OK, first of all?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
SHELLEY COOK: Not necessarily, but going forward is my request. I know you don't have it
right now.
BRUCE ABEL: Well, I did have an opportunity, and Heather and I and Susan Cohen had an
opportunity to take a look at this. I mentioned earlier that part of the process of the task force has
been reconciling internal data sources, data sources such as we have org charts. We have staffing
plans. We have budgets which are driven by staffing plans and org charts and budget documents.
As we have been going through, we have used the task force process as an opportunity to try to
reconcile all of those. And it has been a challenging and time-consuming process as we have
found a number of situations where we have to reconcile-- give you examples. If there are people
on salary that are not in an org chart or in a budget document, they need it to be added back in.
So that is, for example, one circumstance that led to an appearance of people being added back
in.
But in reality, they were people who were on payroll who were on the org chart but were not in
the budget document. So in putting them back into the document so that we had internal
reconciliation between each of these documents, we see swings such as this. So they're sort of
data cleansing as opposed to any actual real changes taking place.
And, for example, in the administrative cost line item, that was the major element of those costs
where we found people who were on staff not on an org chart, not in a budget, and we needed to
put back into our data. So when we're done with this, we're using this as an exercise to really
clean things up so that as we move forward, we have much more internal consistency in our data
sources than we had at the beginning of this project.
SHELLEY COOK: OK. But it's still $4 million on Base and another three on FasTracks. Would
you mind just providing a bit more detail once you're able to? That would be my request. It's just
a pretty significant amount.

And then the last thing I wanted to focus on-- this isn't my thought. It's Lynn Guissinger's. But I
won't have a chance maybe to second it after she's talked about it. She, I believe-- and I don't
want to-- I'll paraphrase what I understand where she is coming from. But the thought was
maybe take a sliver of that that we currently are planning to put into the fund balance and use it
or conceptualize ways to recover some of our ridership once the pandemic subsides or we have a
vaccine or people get callbacks to work or something.
So maybe it's funding for a buydown of passes for a year or other fare reductions or some kind of
a program that includes the marketing piece, just including some money for that, and/or to try out
some ideas that we may see with Debra onboarding or that come from the Accountability
Committee that relate to recovery. So I thought that was worth exploring. And to the extent
we've been able to restore our fund balance above and beyond where we were previously at goal,
maybe take a sliver of that and use it as an investment to make sure that we continue to grow
looking forward. So with that, I'll wrap up my comments. Thank you, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Second Vice Chair, Cook, could you define for me
what sliver means?
SHELLEY COOK: Well, somewhere between-- like, if we are built to three months of reserves,
which is good and I support that, and I support the policies that the staff is putting forward, but
half to one quarter of that, of a month, one half month or one quarter to one half months,
somewhere in there. That's a lot of money. And that's what I'm putting out there.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, thank you, ma'am.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you, Madam Chair. If it would be all right, I'd like to wait until the
end.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Absolutely.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Can you call on me last?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yeah, I will. Treasurer Guissinger.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK. Thank you, Heather and Bruce, for the presentation. I'm still trying
to figure out some of the pieces that go into all of this. But I can ask those questions during the
week. Page 11, it says, "Operating and maintenance costs were adjusted based on the most recent
information available." Is that just changes in what those things are costing us? Or what are those
changes?

HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So yeah, those relate to what Bruce was describing, that we found
some errors. We found things that were in one place that should have been another. In addition to
that, as Bruce also mentioned, we added back positions on the represented side I think to the tune
of 60 or 60-ish. And then on the salaried side, we had two positions. So those are the type of
things that he discussed that make up those changes.
LYNN GUISSINGER: Great. And I'm going to borrow an idea that Director Lubow suggested
and ask about it because this is my chance. But when we're deciding our service at this point, our
service reductions, and therefore deciding our layoffs on the represented side, as I understand it-well, I guess there's two questions.
The layoffs are really driven by the amount of manpower, person power that we need rather than
the financials is one question. And are our service plans changed at all? Or there's some, as Judy
says, that are sort of on the bubble that we should go back to looking at keeping more service.
Where are we on that [INAUDIBLE], please?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: So yes, Director Lubow did have the opportunity, and I did have the opportunity
to talk this afternoon. And I subsequently chatted with Jessie Carter. The way I posed the
question to him were several fold because when I used the term on the bubble, which Director
Lubow and I were using in our conversation, I reframed the question. I said, are there any service
suspensions that are driven by funding non-availability as opposed to lack of ridership? And his
answer was no, that all of the service recommendations are based on ridership, not based on lack
of funding availability.
So that would be another way of saying-- so I asked him. I said, are there any routes that run the
bubble? That would mean that if you had all of the money in the world, would you be
recommending reinstating any of them, is how I characterized that. And his answer was no. So
while I don't want to speak for Jessie, I'll speak for Jessie. But he represented to me that the
recommendations were based on ridership, not on funding lack of availability, but rather on
demand that manifests itself. And he could not think of anything when asked that he would
reinstate if he had a pot of money with which to do so.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thanks. And I guess that brings me to the thought that we really need
to start focusing on what we do-- and it may be a few months out-- to bring back ridership
because that's the best way to bring back our employees and get people back to work. That is
what led me to sort of the thought that Director Cook laid out, which is we need to potentially
look at some real out of the box options for bringing back our riders.

And that may be expanding our pass program, again, into whole new areas, whole new groups
potentially. It may be some sort of other loyalty program, something like that. But it may be a lot
of different things. There was an interesting idea that came up in the Accountability Committee
last week. There's just a lot of things to do. But I think one of the best things we can do, as I say,
to get our employees back to work is just bring ridership back up.
And I would like to see some piece-- I can't define sliver tonight. But I can say that some piece
of money going into reserves may be well used. And it doesn't sound like it needs to be much,
but to start thinking about bringing back our ridership. I think it's hard for all of us to read these
letters and think about laying off employees, and anything we can do. I also-- I don't know where
we have gotten with it, but we had a good idea to use some of our current employees as the
second person on the train if we could. Is that moving forward?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce. If I might address the first and last question. I think
the middle was comment. The first question, I think-- and I'm interpreting many of the questions
regarding service as really being questions regarding, how do we retain our employee base?
And so I mentioned earlier that two of the things that we have done over the past weeks is we
have reinstated a number of drivers-- or not reinstated, but reduced the number of drivers for
separation in order to keep a more robust extra-board. So that is a means by which we can keep
some of our operators while not providing service on the street and increasing our expenses for
no real ridership return. It also provides the foundation for us to respond as conditions do merit.
And similarly, on the maintenance side, again, to retain additional mechanics to provide useful
services and maintaining the mothball fleet, but, again, to make sure that we have a foundation
upon which to build as things return. So we are looking at non-service related ways of keeping
operators to the extent that it makes sense for us-- to keeping our represented employees to the
extent that it does make sense and provide some additional buffer. Now what was the last
question?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Conductor.
BRUCE ABEL: Yes, we have-- we're continuing to move that process forward. But that is going
to be a slow process because there are negotiations involved with DTP, as I understand it, as it
relates to the contract for the Eagle and certain elements that are in that contract. So that does
need to be undertaken, and that's going to be a long-term as opposed to a short-term solution.
LYNN GUISSINGER: OK, thank you. And I appreciate all the efforts to keep people that we
can that make sense. I recognize that keeping people when we don't have work for them is
difficult. It's hard to do. But looking at what the extra-board needs to be, we're not changing
service until January. Who knows what the world will look like in the time shortly after that? So
I applaud those efforts. That's all I have. Thanks.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.

BRUCE ABEL: We will-- after the Board adopt the January Runboard service changes,
obviously we will be reassessing how the run cut is structured and what our final needs will be.
And so these numbers will continue to change as conditions change. So just wanted to remind
the Board of that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Bruce. Treasurer Guissinger, I cannot agree with
you more about the fluidity of where we're at currently. And I would caution the Board to take a
deep breath and understand that the numbers of COVID rising again are pretty concerning. And
so I think that-- I don't know what's going to happen. I don't have the crystal ball either.
But I do think that this is our chance to really take a look at the mid-term budget, talk back and
forth about how we want to move forward. But I would just say we also need to realize that we
need to be very fluid as we move forward based on what may or may not happen. Director
Lewis, do you have any comments or questions?
SHONTEL LEWIS: I do. I have a few comments and a few questions. So Director Guissinger
brought up a really good point, and I wanted to speak about it actually. So the last time we had
this discussion, I asked about if we were seeing a 60% reduction in service, if we had looked at
our contracts to see if there might be some cost savings there. And Director Guissinger brought
up the second position on our trains, and that was one of the things I had proposed in terms of
cost savings. And so I'm curious as to what research has been conducted for our contractors if
we're seeing decreases and where we might be able to save money.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that your first question?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yes, and I'll get to a few more.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Do you want that answered first, or do you want to do all of
them at once?
SHONTEL LEWIS: No, go ahead. I'll get that one answered first.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: So I'm going to turn it over to Bruce. But I would just say to you
that the General Manager, Mr. Ballard, and I had a conversation where he thought about this like
in May. So this has been on the burner for quite some time. But then I'll turn it over to you,
Bruce.
PAUL BALLARD: Yeah, Madam Chair, Paul Ballard, CEO.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
PAUL BALLARD: Yes. Those conversations and those plans are moving along. As you know,
when we started the N Line service, we switched from armed guards to to unarmed guards, and
we're calling them transportation safety associates-SEVERAL DIRECTORS: Ambassadors.

PAUL BALLARD: OK, ambassadors. Thank you, team. And so we're in a position, I think, very
quickly, once the budget is adopted and the service level is established for January, we'll know
what our surplus of employees will be. And then we'll be in a position to move rather quickly I
think on the North line as far as shifting some of those employees over to North Line. There'll be
a training program, of course, a paid training program. And then we would shift some over.
I think we're looking at 28 potential-- 28 potential just on the North Line. So our hope is that
we'll accomplish that by the end of the calendar year or very, very close to that. What Bruce Abel
referred to is that we have specific agreements with Denver Transit Partnership and Denver
Transit Operations. as far as that second person is concerned, there's no reason why we can't also
concern them-- excuse me-- convert those positions.
And that is my recommendation to the management team and to the Board is that we continue.
That will take a little longer. Those are approximately a hundred additional positions that operate
on the three commuter rail lines operated by the Eagle Partnership.
But I believe that we should move expeditiously as 2021 evolves and, once again, shift as many
folks who have been laid off into those positions as we steadily reduce the contract with Allied
Universal. So I think it's a very, very reasonable plan. We fully intend to implement the North
Line rather quickly. And we should stick to the plan in 2021 for the rest of the lines. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis, I'll go back to you for additional
questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah, I do have a follow-up to that. So yeah. So Mr. Ballard and I did speak
quite some time ago about the transit ambassadors. And I guess my question more specifically is
if we've seen-- if we are offering 60% of our services, have we looked at contracts where we
might be able to save money as it pertains to the operation of 60% of our services?
To me, I'm trying to reconcile how we tell some of our staff that because we are only operating
60% of our services, that they are going to have to expect furloughs or layoffs. But we aren't
looking at our contracted services, specifically as to the example that you provided with Allied
Security who would be present on our services. And so if we need 60%-- or 40% less operators,
would that not be true for our security personnel?
BRUCE ABEL: So this is Bruce, Madam Chair. And I'd like to sort of split that question in two,
if I may, because we may be talking about two sets of contractors, so to speak. On the bus side of
the house, we are actively involved with negotiations with our private contractors relative to the
services that they provide and the cost structure of their contracts with us to reduce our service
levels and our costs with our private contractors on the bus side of the house. Those negotiations
are ongoing and was involved in some conversations with our staff on that count earlier today.
As it relates to Allied Universal, it becomes a contract management issue that we just need to
make sure that, yes-- well, on the one hand, as we reduced levels of service or as we operate
reduced levels of service, we need to ensure that our contractors are similarly-- our security
contractors are similarly reducing the numbers of employees that we are billed for because there

will be fewer trains that they need to provide second crew member services for. So yes, that is
also part of the ongoing management process.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. That's helpful. I appreciate that, and I hope that we go
in that direction. I think it would send a pretty strong message to our operators, our frontline staff
generally. It just seems a bit unbalanced.
One of the suggestions that I provided the last time we had this conversation was increasing
cleaning and sanitation because I thought there would be an opportunity for us to really get back
our riders. And I've heard that a few times on this call thus far. And in a way to do that in terms
of public trust is to show that we are taking care of our-- taking care of the cleaning and
sanitation needs. And we might be able to retain some of our operators in those positions as well.
And so I'm curious as what the exploration look like around that suggestion from the last time we
have discussion.
MICHAEL FORD: This is Michael Ford, COO. And there are considerations that we can look
into to look at existing resources to see if we can enhance our cleaning opportunities on bus and
rail. So we're considering what we can do in that effort to improve or enhance the cleaning and
the confidence of our public, our riding public so we can make sure that people are feeling more
safe and secure. We're discussing that now, and we'll see what we can do.
SHONTEL LEWIS: OK. I would love to see the results of those discussions prior to us deeming
to approve that final budget because that's definitely going to influence my decision making. So I
appreciate that Mr. Ford. The second-- or third at this point-- request that I had was around the
demographic breakdown for the race, gender, age, position, and pay for folks who are going to
be impacted by layoffs. And I still haven't received that, again, another piece that is important in
my own decision making as I'm looking towards adopting this.
MELANIE SNYDER: Madam Chair, this is Melanie Snyder.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, General Counsel. You have the floor.
MELANIE SNYDER: Thank you. And, Director Lewis, I think last time you raised that, I
offered to have an offline conversation with you about that, and I'm still willing to do that. I'll
reach out to you directly.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Yeah. Thank you. I appreciate that. I was actually told that that information
wouldn't be available yet and you all would let me know when it was available. But I'm happy to
have that offline conversation with you as well.
MELANIE SNYDER: Great. Thank you.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Sure. And then I have to share a general concern about the FISA account
and our reserves. I think we should be pulling from our reserves first. Excuse me. I think we

should be building up our reserves and pulling from the FISA account. I'm not changing on that
position. I think it's a strong message that we send to folks who aren't at the North, obviously,
that we care about folks and that we're willing to do the right thing, and we're not just going to
hold on to millions of dollars while we watch projects, as we saw earlier in the presentation, be
deferred. And so I would feel strongly about us using our FISA dollars and building up our
reserves. Thank you. No further questions.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Lewis. One of the things that I would like
to share with you is at the beginning of this whole COVID issue when we eliminated the fares,
we took the fare collector counters. And, Heather, you can correct me on this number. But
somewhere about 20 to 25 folks who worked in that division were pulled from that since we
were not collecting fares to actually work on sanitizing and working on the buses and trains to
make sure that they were still in employed, same hours and just like a $0.10 differentiation.
That's what I recollect. Is that correct, Heather?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, yeah, that is correct. And they actually got paid the
same amount of money that they were being paid before. But yes, they were redeployed during
that period of time. We worked with the union to redeploy them to service in cleaning.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. So Director Lewis, this is something that has been
consistently looked at as we've moved forward during this whole process, just so you know that
we're really working at trying to make sure that we can keep as many people employed as
possible. So thank you for those questions.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you, Chair Rivera-Malpiede. I appreciate you reading that.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow, do you have any questions or
comments?
JUDY LUBOW: Yeah, I have comments.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
JUDY LUBOW: Thank you. I wanted to thank everybody, Heather and Bruce and their team, for
this incredibly thankless task that never seems to end of trying to create a viable budget for us.
So thank you all very much. I myself am not at all happy, and I'm sure none of us are, with the
idea of laying off lots of people. It's very distressing. And I'm very glad that that number keeps
going down. Unfortunately, not far enough as far as I'm concerned.
But we've heard that one of the ways we've been able to keep people employed is basically who
aren't doing much. And that does not seem like a good way forward either. So it seems to me that
it would be great to be able to reduce that number of people that need to be let go in a realistic
manner, if that is possible, that's fiscally sound. And I don't know. There may not be much left to
do in that regard, or there may be a lot.

I liked the suggestion of Director Guissinger, the idea of putting some effort into increasing our
ridership. Because not only is it necessary for our own sustainability. Apparently now I'm seeing
that it's really necessary to keep our employees to go together, ridership and having employees
for us. So I would urge staff to look at-- to take a fresh look at what we can do, what we can do,
what new ideas we can [INAUDIBLE] increase riderships so that we can save our staff as much
as we can. That's it for me. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes, thank you. I am still putting together a list of questions. And it
assists when I'm hearing some other Board directors. So would you mind if I could ask for the
courtesy of also going at the end, please?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes. OK, got it. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: HI. Can you hear me?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes.
KEN MIHALIK: Yeah, I'm just impressed with the level of thought and care that has gone into
this. It's just really encouraging to hear just all the things that have been considered. You guys
are turning over every stone to try to minimize the layoff impact whilst building up reserves.
And you're trying to do all these things.
And it just seems-- I don't know how you're able to do it all. There's all these competing
interests. So I'm impressed with how you're able to do this, and you're responding to all this
changing information. I'm just hoping that next month it isn't the drop in the roller coaster again.
It seems that-- a lot of so much uncertainty, and we're certainly not through it yet.
But I say, yeah, Heather, keep building up the reserves, particularly if they're already anticipated
on being drawn down after next year. And then who knows? Maybe some more people will selfselect, as Bruce said, and further reducing the amount of layoffs as well in the next couple of
weeks. But that's all I got. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. First, I have a question, and then I have
a comment following that. The question is to both Ms. McKillop and Mr. Abel. Do we have a
fair estimate of how much in terms of dollar savings will be generated by the net of 444 layoffs
that we're proposing? What's the dollar rate equivalent to that?
BRUCE ABEL: Chair Malpiede, this is Bruce, if I may.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: Approximately 18? The position reduction and vacancy saving.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: So if I can point you towards packet page 11 and 12 in the
PowerPoint, we have details under the administrative personnel savings and the service reduction
savings. Those are almost all personnel with all the associated benefits, et cetera, that are in
green. So those would be the savings related to those adjustments.
DOUG TISDALE: All right. And I looked at that because I thought that might be the answer.
First question is, is that both salaried and represented savings-HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes.
DOUG TISDALE: --or it's just a salary? So that's both, right?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct, that is both.
DOUG TISDALE: OK. And I think my rough math was that's in the neighborhood of $16
million or so that's associated with that reduction of 404 employees laid off.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No. Chair, this is Heather. No, it's at much higher than that. So on that
Base side, it's $76 million plus the $14.3 million are the Freedom Personnel savings. And then on
that FasTracks side, it's the 1.2 plus the million.
DOUG TISDALE: Got you. OK, so I looked at only part of the numbers when I was doing that
math. Thank you. The observation is this. Back on I think it was-- where's my note? Where's my
note? July the 28th. At our study session on July the 28th, you asked, should we use the low
forecast, the medium forecast, or the high forecast going forward?
I argued at that time that I thought we should use the medium forecast because it was always
tempting to sound like the fiscal conservative and be supremely cautious and use the low. Well, I
thought we should use the medium. And ultimately, that did not prevail, and we used the low.
Now we look at the revised forecasts. And the low that we had projected at that time has gone up
significantly. But notice also that the medium forecast is $20 million larger than the low, $20
million-plus in additional revenues that are not accounted for in the low forecast. That's a big
spread. And that actually relates to jobs. It relates to people's jobs and their continuing
employment. We're talking about 484 layoffs, $20 million. Just by the simple and rational and
justifiable expedient of saying, let's use the medium forecast, would put $20 million back in there
to retain employees.
And I'm just wondering if we have considered whether, in fact, it wouldn't be more appropriate
to look at that. And I know that the comment has been made that, oh, well, this is a very moving
target, and there are, after all, these changes. The unemployment benefits went away. The
additional cash infusion that we got with the credit cards and things that people were set out are
no longer there.
That's not a surprise to the Leeds School of Business at the University of Colorado. They know
all that. They understand all of that. They get it. So their medium forecast is not a prediction of

what things would be like if we had that all in place. They understand it's not currently in place,
even though the prospect remains that it might well, to some extent, be restored within the next
several weeks.
But all that said, the simple expedient of saying, let's use the medium forecast from the Leeds
School of Business at the University of Colorado, puts $20 million back into that. And that $20
million represents, more or less, about a 20% increase in the funds available out of the funds that
are being saved by the layoffs that are proposed. So that 484 number probably drops down to
under 400 should that be the case.
Now that's an observation. I'm not an economist. I just like to pretend that I'm one in Zoom calls.
So the question is whether in fact there's any support for that analysis that I just provided. Ms.
McKillop, I would turn it back to you for that response.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather McKillop.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please, Heather.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So we did look at the differences between the low and the medium
forecast. And in the analysis that I've done, which is completely different way of doing it than
the very sophisticated way that they do it, I do think that we're probably closer to the lower
forecast than we are the medium right now just based on actuals. Now that could change if we
have a really, really strong November, December, higher than what we've anticipated.
But for right now, I think we're probably somewhere closer to the lower. We might get a few
million dollars out of that in the November, December time frame. [CLEARS THROAT] Excuse
me. And even if we got closer to the higher number, I guess my recommendation would still be,
because of the volatility that we may see in the wintertime, early spring next year, that we
continue to set that money aside. And then after the first quarter of next year when we have a few
months of actual, then we can revisit whether we'd put the money into projects, whether we can
start resuming service if ridership calls for that.
And basically looking at the COVID policy that Director Cook was discussing that are going to
be available, we kind of outline how that restoration might occur in 2021. So I guess at this time,
I would not advise that-- I mean, we could go with the medium forecast. And even if we did that
for 2020, I would advise that money be set aside at this time. That way, if it does come in closer
to the 608, we don't have to cut anything further to address that.
DOUG TISDALE: And thank you very much for that response. It's very helpful. The only
observation that I make is that to say, for example, let's wait until after the first quarter of 2021,
when we're talking about making these layoffs, we're not talking about making a map of the first
quarter of 2021. We're talking about making that decision before then. And as we make that
decision, those are people's lives that are impacted by virtue of the action that we take.
And you make an exceptional case, and it's a very prudent one. But I make an observation that
we are dealing with human lives and jobs. And I'd like to be as careful as possible before making

that determination in terms of the actual amount of layoffs. So I leave that as an observation. I
thank you very much for going on too long, Madam Chair. But I thought it was worthy of being
put on the table for consideration by the other Directors. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you Director Tisdale. Is Director Walker on the call?
DOUG TISDALE: Madam Chair, I believe he is. It may take him a moment to get off of mute.
He did to confirm to me that he was on the call.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, because I don't see him on any of my list here. So, Director
Walker, you have the floor. OK, I may give you a moment to get on. I'll go ahead and go to
Director Whitmore.
JEFF WALKER: Can you hear me now?
TROY WHITMORE: There we go. Go ahead. Go ahead, Director Walker.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Go ahead, Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: Yeah, sorry about that. I was having tech issues. I thought I was-- I don't know
what happened, but I'm here now. So thanks for your patience. Yeah, so, Ms. McKillop, great
presentation full of information. Part of it I wasn't at my desk, so I didn't get the full effect of it.
But what I was able to hear was pretty substantive and some good news, too.
And like our presentation-- regarding ridership, like our presentation presenters last week said,
we're looking at a different employment market for the next couple years probably as employees
have-- I'm sorry-- as employers have figured out that their employees don't need to be in a central
location. They can be pretty much anywhere in the country and then fly in or maybe you have
little hubs. And that that ridership that we're used to, that Monday through Friday with the two
humps in the morning and evening, is going to flatten out and spread out over some time and
might be condensed into three days instead of four or five.
So anyway, the short of what I'm trying to get at is ridership is a tricky issue. We don't make
money on our riders. Every ride is subsidized. There might be some segment of the 15 that
makes money. But every ride is subsidized, and pretty much every ride is subsidized. So just
growing ridership is, for me, a tough proposition. If that effort is targeted, strategic in the areas
that need additional service and ridership in there, and in those areas on those routes and those
submarkets of the district, that's something I could really support. But just growing ridership, I
don't know.
To that effect, because we don't know what the ridership will be, I know that we always have
some number of operators on standby at the shop hoping that they don't get called. Because if
they get called in, that means something went wrong somewhere. Or maybe there was an event
that required more ridership. So I would like to see some way to retain as many ride operators as
possible and also the commensurate number of mechanics and other support just because we
don't know.

I guess I can get behind what Mr. Tisdale was saying, what Director Tisdale was saying about
retaining as many as we can, number one, because it is people's lives, but, number two, because
that ridership might come back to some degree pretty quickly. We've seen how the numbers on
spending, on how the revenues numbers have fluctuated, and hopefully they'll stay pretty high. I
know some folks that are going back to work to some degree, back to their offices. So I'm hoping
that will continue. But because we don't know, I understand the predicament staff is in.
Let's see. One thing I also-- also regarding ridership is I support if there is an opportunity to
bring forward some of those deferred projects. There are lots of systems that we could point to
that had problems with old, unmaintained infrastructure that cost a lot more to replace than it
does-- replace after something went wrong, a structural failure, than it does to maintain and do
the scheduled maintenance and replacement, end-of-life replacements on those.
So if there's an opportunity, if there's a choice between trying to increase ridership for the sake of
ridership or else making firm structural changes and improvements, infrastructure improvements,
I would definitely support that option, the latter, making the infrastructure improvements.
I also support returning those savings that Ms. McKillop mentioned. I don't remember what the
page number was. But there were a list of items and then the savings of those was-- the
recommendation was to return those to the FasTracks fund balance. I support that over sending
those to the FISA.
I have one question, and I'm not sure how to ask it. But when Mr. Abel was speaking about his
conversation with Mr. Carter about if there were any services, any routes that he would bring
back, and the answer was no, I'm wondering if there are any routes where he would-- where Mr.
Carter would see more or an increase in service. Or have those all been taken care of in the
proposed January service changes?
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I may. Director Walker, that's a very good point.
That was not part of Jessie's and my conversation earlier today. And I will make a point to make
that part of a conversation with Jessie tomorrow.
JEFF WALKER: Thank you. I'm not sure I asked that-- well, I guess if you understood what I'm
talking about, that's good enough. But I'm not sure I asked it the way was clear. And like I said
before, I'm fine with using the FISA to support whatever the demand is, wherever that demand
is. Right now, it seems pretty concentrated in central Denver and some other areas. If it were to
pop up in one of the farther flung suburbs, I'd support that increase, too.
But it just doesn't seem right to have that money sitting there. And I understand its effect on bond
ratings. But service or lack of service or poor service, unreliable service also has an effect with
our riders. And that's what we really, really-- that's the audience that I feel that we really have to
support. Thank you again for the presentation. I'm sorry I wasn't there for the whole time. I
apologize for the technical difficulties. That's all I have.
BRUCE ABEL: Madam Chair. Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I may.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
BRUCE ABEL: Director Walker, if I might restate your question to make sure I understood it
properly. I understood you to be asking, while Jessie did not have routes that were suspended
that he would put back in the service, that your question was, do we feel that we adequately
beefed up those routes that are in service? Or are there routes that still need to be beefed up
further? Is that accurate?
JEFF WALKER: Yes. Yes, it is. Thank you.
BRUCE ABEL: Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Whitmore, you have the floor, sir.
TROY WHITMORE: Thank you, Madam Chair. I'll be brief. I appreciate the presentation. And
most of what I was curious about has been queried by my fellow Board members, and I'm sure
there are some more good questions coming. I do appreciate the last clarification made by
Director Walker.
I still feel strongly that we need to look at the innovation component, that sliver, to quote
Director Cook, that goes with recruitment of riders and increasing ridership because we know
that does justify more jobs, especially when you get down to operators and mechanics, which is
certainly a big concern to all of us.
I had one clarifying question to Bruce. You went a little quickly there on the breakdown on the
non-represented layoff numbers. We have some filled positions and some unfilled. Could you
give that to me real quickly?
BRUCE ABEL: Certainly. Madam Chair, this is Bruce, if I may. The salaried positions were 98
filled positions that were identified, as well as another 63 unfilled positions for a total of 161. We
do generate savings by eliminating vacancies because they are included in the budget as an
expense. So we look at both filled and unfilled. But it was 98 filled positions on the salary side.
TROY WHITMORE: Very good. That's all I have for this evening, at least for right now. Thank
you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right, thank you. Director Williams.
KATE WILLIAMS: Thank you, Madam Chair. I have a couple of questions and a couple of
statements. How often are we going to review this-- I know right now we do three times a year.
We do service plan changes. But I'm wondering if we have any plans to review that more often
because ridership cannot go back up on routes that are cut. There will never be any ridership on
those routes.
So I'm wondering how-- and I don't need an answer right now-- how we're planning on looking
at that. And is it possible that we could put some kind of a portal or some place that people could

go to state that they are interested in writing so that we could have some kind of tally that might
lead us to reinstate routes? Those are just a couple of ideas.
And then I really think that-- along with what we're now calling the sliver concept from Director
Cook, I think that we really, really need to get out of the box and partner with municipalities and
alternative transportation providers like vanpool. We do have Uber and Lyft that we are working
on some pilots with.
But an example that comes to my mind is Access-A-Cab, which is really outside of the box of
normal paratransit and has been a real life saver in a number of times. I know that Director
Folska has been an Access-A-Cab user herself. So I feel like we need to move away from a 40foot bus bringing one person from Evergreen and look at some more smaller, more flexible
options. Those are my questions that I would like to have somebody get back to me with later
and my comments. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Williams. Now I go back to Director
Menten.
NATALIE MENTEN: Yeah, thank you. So let me go back to the numbers that Director Tisdale
had asked about and just go to-- we're talking about page 11 and 12. And the total on the
personnel, the line items-- let's say that first. The line items that we're looking at are the
administrative personnel related savings and service reduction savings. Was that correct?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, that is correct. And then I did get a text from Susan Cohen who
said that the dollar amount in personnel savings is around $40 million. The rest is related to fuel,
ADA, other fixed route contracts, not just employees. So between those two line items, it's about
$40 million in actual personnel savings.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So let me go this way. When I added up those lines within FasTracks
and Base, I came up with $92,946,000. So I'm supposed to subtract out what from that total that
is not directly personnel?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: I'll have to give you-- I can send the Board that specific information. I
don't have the details handy right this second.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And then what I would look at for what is the parts of what's left
over, that actual personnel related savings. That, then, is the layoffs, the furloughs, the pay
reductions, the health benefit, and also the pension. Is that what the pieces of the pie are there?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yes, those are definitely pieces of the pie on the people side. Yes.

BRUCE ABEL: Director Menten, if I may, on the people side, the elements in the personnel
savings are position reductions and vacancy savings, salary reductions associated, furloughs,
reductions in pension, elimination of overtime, and then there are also obviously adds the back in
relate to unemployment costs and cashing out vacation and sick leave and severance. So those
are the elements that make up the personnel changes.
The non-personnel changes relate to things such as savings and Access-A-Ride, savings in
FlexRide, because those are contracted services as opposed to direct personnel related services,
contracted fixed route services, fuel savings, savings in the security contracts, and other sort of
general administrative savings.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. So I would like to get what that total is and, Heather, that you
described you could send me to take out of that total of the $92,946,000 to end up with that
number. And then I would like to know one specific part of that proposal that I haven't gotten a
number-- I haven't gotten a number [? forever ?] that I know. And last time I asked, we were
very early in this process. So I understand why it wasn't available. But what was vacation and the
sick time buyback? So if I could get-- I don't know that you have that right now, and you can get
that to me later.
BRUCE ABEL: Vacation and sick time buyback is just under a million dollars.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: We'll get the whole Board-BRUCE ABEL: We'll get the whole Board the whole breakdown of everything we just reflected.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Yeah.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, good. OK. Then moving on to-- I found it interesting the discussion
about the organizational chart. And what I got out of it-- and I could be wrong-- is that we have
employees that are within the RTD-- are RTD employees but were not present on the org chart or
in the budget. You say that that is changing, let's say, day by day or quite quickly. Do we have an
idea of how many people were not? A rough idea? Are we talking 100, 200?
HEATHER MCKILLOP: No, no. We're-BRUCE ABEL: Oh, no.
NATALIE MENTEN: 10?
BRUCE ABEL: It's more in the vicinity of a couple of dozen minutes. Just, again, getting
different data sets to reconcile with each other.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK.

HEATHER MCKILLOP: And typically-- Madam Chair, this is Heather. Typically what happens
is they're on the org chart, but they weren't in the budget. Or they're in the budget, they weren't
on the org chart. So we're trying to reconcile those to get one complete picture.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. And so the last org chart that I pulled from the hub was July 2020.
When would we have a pretty solid feel for a updated org chart?
BRUCE ABEL: That is the last org chart that has been published. We will be in a position to
publish a new org chart. I cannot speak for Racel, but we will be able to publish one at the end of
this process.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Correct. So what we're doing is we're using this process to-- we just
went to Workday, which is a much more efficient process than doing it manually, which is how
it's been done for the last 50-something years that this organization has been in existence. So we
just went live with Workday. The intent is now that we get it reconciled for the end of this
budget process, that we will be entering all that data into Workday.
Workday will now be our official way that we track all positions because we have internal
controls to make sure positions are not budgeted that aren't on the org chart and positions aren't
on the org chart that aren't budgeted. So that's one of the huge benefits of this new system that
we have available to us. The problem is we have to get the accurate information into the system
for it to properly track that going forward. So as soon as this process is wrapped up and the
budget's adopted, we will be working with HR to get that-- and IT-- to get that into Workday,
and we'll be able to produce a very detailed org chart.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, good. Going to page 10 in the packet, which is the 2020 year-end
reserves with the September forecast. And, again, that's page 10 in the packet. Just curious with
two of the columns and where we saw a change. And that was the decrease due to the
represented furloughs, which did not occur, and also the funding of the Accountability
Committee. Why those were not in some way separated-- put both into Base and also into
FasTracks.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So Madam Chair, this is Heather.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: So when we originally budgeted all the reductions to furloughs,
whether they be represented or non-represented employees, because we didn't know exactly how
that would break out between FasTracks and Base, we put all of those costs into-- those
reductions into the Base System. So when those reductions for furloughs represented did not
materialize, I took them back out of the Base where they originally were accounted for. If I had
taken out of both, it would have not represented that properly.
On the Accountability Committee, we funded that all out of the Base. We have no idea what
questions they're going to ask about FasTracks. And so to keep track of what things were
FasTracks related and what not is close to impossible since most of their inquiries are about RTD

as a whole, not individually. So it makes more sense, especially for that small dollar amount, to
just track it out of the Base System.
NATALIE MENTEN: All right. And I can see as a small dollar amount, it's a minor question.
But when I look at the Accountability Committee, I would say a healthy part of it-- whether it's
budget issues or completion of the FasTracks system, I would say a healthy amount of their
inquiries could be related to FasTracks. So, again, it is a minor dollar. It was more I was
wondering about both those categories. So I can see where it was easier to just put it all into one,
one change versus two. Just was a question of curiosity, I guess.
Next is-- while I try to think there's anything else, I will answer the two questions that you posed,
which you said we didn't have to answer tonight. But you were trying to get a heads up is the
way I took it. And without a doubt, increasing to the three month reserve is a priority.
Second, the access or the savings-- I think excess might be a better term-- from the FasTracks
and whether that should go to the FasTracks fund balance versus FISA, it should go to the
FasTracks fund balance. My preference would actually be somewhere else. But if you're only
giving me those two options, that's my answer.
And one last item. At a previous meeting, I had asked for clarification. This goes to Ms. Snyder
and Legal. So I'm just putting a reminder out that I would like to find out and confirm in CRS all
the pieces of CRS that would apply to deannexation from the RTD district.
MELANIE SNYDER: Director Menten, this is Melanie.
NATALIE MENTEN: If I could get that information.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, it is-ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: General Counsel, please.
MELANIE SNYDER: Yes, that is still on the list. I will get back with you.
NATALIE MENTEN: OK. I can tell you that was asked by at least one-- at least one person
during our public hearings, maybe two. But I know also when I went out and did visual rider
accounts over the last two weeks-- and I'm talking about two routes specifically-- that was also a
question that came up during those one-on-one encounters with the very limited riders, very
limited riders that were on those routes, that if the service-- what's the option for deannexation?
So it's not just me with this wild question. OK. I think that answers-- that's all the questions I've
got. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. And last, we have Director Folska.
CLAUDIA FOLSKA: Thank you so much, Madam Chair. I really appreciate it. And Heather,
Paul, Bruce, and all of your staff and team, I really want to thank you and let how much I
appreciate your responsiveness to both myself and the Board. It was really great to hear all the

things that you've accomplished and how far we've come in this process from finding out that we
needed to clean up our org chart to filling the three months reserves and so forth.
And when I think about it, it seems to me that what we're really getting back to is the
fundamentals of building the strong foundation for a building. And you start that with the
foundation, and I think that's what we're really getting back to. And it gives me great confidence
that after this is done and we're moving forward in '21 and beyond, that RTD is going to be
stronger for having gone through this process, even though it's terribly painful. And I do
appreciate how painful it is to those employees who are going to be laid off. That's terrible. But
at the same time, when we come back stronger, if individuals want to return to work for RTD, I
think that's promising.
There's so much I've heard tonight that I really appreciate from so many different Directors. And
really, I'm going to start with Director Guissinger and Director Cook. I think the idea-- and it
resonated with many other Directors, too. But this idea of building up ideas now to restore
riderships when it's possible is going to be critical. And that's part of this foundation building, I
think.
And in thinking of that, I came up with several different kind of ideas to just throw out for future
consideration, really. When companies want more customers-- and we'll call them customers.
We have a customer care center-- they do something called sales and advertising. And I mean
sales and advertising in a big way. That little sliver Director Cook is referring to could be
invested in sales and advertising again and again and again.
And I think-- I don't know if I was dreaming or if it was Director Tisdale talking about being on
an airplane and Mr. Wrigley, I don't know-- advertising. He must have said this. But I mean,
there's just a lot being said that's all. It's not a derogatory remark by any means. But you never
stop doing sales and advertising, and I don't think we ever really started. So I'd like to see that.
And speaking of sales and advertising, it makes me think of when Mr. Reed said that our
Communications Department was an end-to-end advertising agency. And subsequently, I've
heard that it's silly to-- Pauletta Tonilas. Sorry, Pauletta Tonilas-- say the same thing. And it's a
significant department. It's somewhere about 145 people, and this was before a pandemic and all
these layoffs. So I don't know what that would be like now.
But I don't see why we couldn't spin that whole department off and have it as a standalone
agency that is a for-profit and RTD contracts with them. And they're free to also provide that
end-to-end advertising agency solution to anybody and really take off in that way. And it might
be a little crazy sounding, but we're a transportation company, not an advertising agency. And
that would include the call center. People outsource the call centers all the time.
And then that makes me think about our office space, and we talked about that last week. It was
referred to tonight by Director Walker and others. The way people are going to do business in the
near future, and I mean near like next two or three years, imagine that we're not going to be
everybody coming into the office. And I imagine that the Blake Street building is a ghost town

compared to what it used to be. And what is going on with all of that real estate that we have
there?
So I think is taking a hard look at that and maybe doing some kind of contract with a great, really
great developer who knows how to turn dirt into gold. And we've got a lot of that. And a lot of it
is totally unused, and it has been for over a decade.
Then there's underneath the dirt. These developers may be able to lease underground for fiber
optics or that sort of thing. Then there's the above ground. What about big data? What about
partnering with big data companies that want data and want to share it?
Now what about pricing? What about-- I don't know what the ridership now is for the A Line.
But I've always said this. I don't think we're pricing aggressively enough for visitors on the A
Line. And it's really the bread and butter, which could help subsidize that sliver Director Cook
was talking about.
And so when people visit our great state of Colorado, I don't think they're visiting-- I mean, a lot
of them are here for conventions now, again, pre-pandemic. So this is something that when
things go back to normal, I would hope the new Board and our new General Manager really
consider pricing appropriately for folks coming here for business and conventions. It's a business
write-off. You think about what it costs to go from Heathrow into central London. And it's far
more than what it is here.
And maintain the local price for local people based on your zip code. If the GrowHaus can do it
in the Swansea neighborhood for their organic food that they sell at cost to their local people
based on their zip code and at a regular fair market price for anybody else to underwrite that
lower cost to the local community, well, then it can work for us. And it just takes some
ingenuity.
And as far as increasing ridership, another thing that wouldn't really take anything other than-let those people who are 18 and under ride the system free. The younger people will bring their
parents, and they can pay the regular price. Or family members that are older than 18 or friends
or whatever. So we're really not making any money on that. And like Director Walker said, every
ride is subsidized.
It's really a question of how much subsidy. We're not going to get a lot of money from that. But
we can find money elsewhere. Like I said, with increasing the fares for out-of-towners,
conventioneers, and I mean out-of-staters, let's say, and doing the sales and advertising, not just
marketing. I mean sales. So that's it. And I think you guys just did a phenomenal job. And thank
you again so much. I know it's very difficult work. That's all, Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, Director Folska. Listen. This is such an important
issue for us as a Board. I would just like to add a couple of things. This has been quite an
amazing conversation again, and I want to thank all of you. And when I think about the amount
of hours that have gone in from the staff side, it's incredible. When I think about the number of
hours that this Board has dealt with this issue, it is overwhelming. We've all been working very

hard. And when I think about our staff waiting to hear what's going to happen, it's been
unbearable.
So one of the things I'd like to throw out on the equation is Colorado is probably one of the most
amazing places to live, work, and play. And it has been for quite some time. We can see it
through the building of what's happening in our communities and the businesses who want to
come and live in Colorado with their employees. And what we need is a robust transit system
that is successful for the entire region.
So I'd like to throw on the table the idea of forming a linkage fee for businesses who want to
come to Colorado and move here to help build up our infrastructure. I think that we are at a
crossroads where we need everybody to pitch, not just the Regional Transportation District.
But because this is such an incredible discussion item, what I'd like to do right now is very
quickly go back through everybody to see if there's one last comment or question before I turn it
over to Ms. McKillop. So, Director Broom, do you have anything additional to add?
BOB BROOM: The only thing I might add is that if we do have some extra money, I'd like to
see, where we can, restore 15-minute service. It's having good service that's going to attract
ridership. It's not having-- I don't know-- some kinds of bells and whistles and more discounts.
Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Secretary Buzek. OK. First Vice Chair Catlin.
PEGGY CATLIN: Thank you, Madam Chair. And there are some disadvantages being at the
front of the alphabet here. But there are so many moving parts to this, as you said. And I, too,
appreciate all of this, as well as many of my other Directors comments.
And one of the things that I had meant to say and I didn't say earlier was the really creative
outside of the box thinking in terms of repurposing-- that sounds like a clinical term-- but seeing
if they're willing, for some of our operators who might be facing layoffs, to do other things such
as the ambassadors in lieu of the contracted security officers. I think that is such a positive step,
and it really might provide some security for some of those folks who might otherwise face
layoffs.
And I completely agree with Director Folska that we might really want to look at ways to
outsource different business units, which could be more scalable in times like these. And I had
mentioned that last month, that we might want to look at our customer service and some of our
advertising and communications as something that we could outsource over time.
So I appreciate all of the creative comments that my other Directors presented and really would
like to see ways that we could save as many jobs as possible with both our represented and nonrepresented employees. So thank you, Madam Chair, for allowing us to have another bite at the
apple.

ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Oh, you're welcome. Secretary Buzek, I see that you're on. Did
you have any additional comments or questions? OK. I'm going to move on. Second Vice Chair
Cook.
SHELLEY COOK: Thank you. I agree with Director Catlin's comments and would like to find
out more in that regard about your linkage fee. So I don't know what that means or how that
works. But I'm all for finding out more and for exploring creative ways to keep our jobs. And, in
fact, there was a suggestion that had come up in the Accountability Committee Subcommittee
that was intriguing as well. So I agree with the comments that have been made. Thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Treasurer Guissinger. You're muted, Lynn.
LYNN GUISSINGER: There we go. Sorry. Having a little trouble there. Yeah, no. I think there's
some interesting ideas that came out tonight. I don't know much about your linkage fee. But
bravo for thinking about potential ways to raise money. And I think Director Folska had some
really interesting ideas. And I think it's raising a good conversation about how we start to come
back out of this process.
And I'll just mention the Accountability Subcommittee that Director Cook was mentioning was
an idea from Rhett Bridges about how we might be able to participate with buses and drivers and
all in getting people vaccinated once we get to that point. And I think there's a lot to be looked at
to see if that's viable or feasible. But it's creative. It's a good way to start thinking about how we
move ourselves out of this predicament that we're in. Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. I also would like to thank Mr. Bridges for being on
this call this evening. Thank you for joining us.
KATE WILLIAMS: Madam Chair. Madam Chair. Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Williams, if I could, I want to go alphabetically. Is that
OK?
KATE WILLIAMS: OK, I'll be gone. By the time you get to the Ws, I'll be gone because my
internet is going to kick me off.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, go ahead.
SHONTEL LEWIS: She can go.
KATE WILLIAMS: I just wanted you to know-- thank you, Director Lubow. Appreciate it. I do
not have anything else to say. I just wanted you all to know when you got to me, don't call me
because at 41 minutes past the hour, my internet's going to kick me off. And then I'll be back as
fast as I can get here. So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lewis.

SHONTEL LEWIS: If Director Williams would like to speak, I'm totally OK with that. I'm not
impatient at all.
KATE WILLIAMS: No, I'm good. I'm good. I just wanted you all to know that I didn't go away
by choice.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. All right. Director Lewis, you have the floor.
SHONTEL LEWIS: Thank you so much. I appreciate the innovation that other Directors have
presented, and I hope that we explore some of those things. I think it would be wonderful to do
so. and really with an emphasis on keeping our staff and keeping our service more importantly.
So thank you.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Lubow.
JUDY LUBOW: I'm tired. I have nothing more to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: All right. Director Menten, anything additionally?
NATALIE MENTEN: No.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Mihalik.
KEN MIHALIK: Thank you. Oh, nothing additional from me.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Tisdale.
DOUG TISDALE: Thank you very much, Madam Chair. Just noticing that the refined numbers
on what 484 layoffs equal now as clarified is about $40 million. And using the medium forecast
range is $20 million. So that could potentially have the impact of cutting the layoffs in half. In
any event, I appreciate all the conversation and some very creative ideas, all of which I hope we
can explore.
[INTERPOSING VOICES]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, sir. Director Walker.
JEFF WALKER: [AUDIO OUT]
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: You're muted. Jeff, you're muted. OK.
JEFF WALKER: OK, all right. Thank you. Sorry about that. There is one question I forgot to ask
Mr. Abel earlier. Of the number of vacant positions, currently vacant positions, how many of
those need to be filled? How many of those positions need to be filled?

BRUCE ABEL: None. The number that I provided was the number of vacant positions that will
be eliminated and thus generating vacancy savings. Because they are budgeted, when we
eliminate them, we generate savings. So none of the vacant positions will be filled.
JEFF WALKER: OK, I didn't know if the responsibility still had to be performed. But they are
just vacant now. OK. That is it. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you. Director Whitmore.
TROY WHITMORE: Nothing more from me this evening. Thank you very much.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Director Williams, are you back on?
KATE WILLIAMS: I'm here, but, believe it or not, I have nothing further to say.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. And I don't have anything further to say other than thank
you for this amazing conversation. I'm going to turn it over to Ms. McKillop.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Thank you, Madam Chair. I just thought I'd take a quick opportunity
to summarize what we think we heard this evening because this will drive our final preparations
for the 2021 budget and our final proposal to you in November. So what I heard is overall, the
staff's proposal is OK, our approach. I know and I heard loud and clear, and I think staff feels the
same that have been working on this, that we would prefer not to be in this position and not have
to go through the things we're having to go through. But overall, the approach is good.
That if it's possible, we'd like a sliver, further to be defined, for funds to-- for innovative ways
that we can look at increasing ridership. And also, we heard that if there's a possible way for us
to look at keeping any more employees, that we need to sharpen our pencils and look at that as a
possibility over the next couple weeks.
So with that, we will go back and continue to do some work. And the presentation that we make
on the 20th will not differ very much from this, other than we might have some updated
information on these items that we just discussed this evening.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Thank you, ma'am. Are there any-NATALIE MENTEN: Madam Chair.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Is that you, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: Yes.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Yes, please.
NATALIE MENTEN: So with dedicating-- all right, so I'm glad to have the recap. Because with
this talk of a sliver going towards increasing ridership when we already have a marketing

department, how many people spoke of dedicating further money, additional money than what
we already have going to marketing to doing this task, that task that was mentioned?
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Director Menten, there were several Board members who talked
about innovation. And I do think-- I'm looking at Director Tisdale. There were about three or
four. And-- I'm sorry. Go ahead.
HEATHER MCKILLOP: Madam Chair, this is Heather. I had five or six that mentioned it in
some way, shape, or form. So that's what I took as something that we could look at. I didn't say
we were going to be able to pull it off. But we will look at that while still maintaining our
reserves. We have a few million dollars available, as is presented on packet page 11.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Does that answer your question, Director Menten?
NATALIE MENTEN: OK, so I guess I want to go on the record then and say, no, we've already
got money going to marketing. And now we're taking more money when we've been pushing off
capital repairs and some other things. So I would be opposed to that. I did not hear a majority of
the Board speak in favor of additional money going to marketing. That's where I was confused
where that came out in part of the summary.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK. Thank you. Part of the record.
NATALIE MENTEN: Thanks.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Are there any other matters to come before the Board this
evening?
SHONTEL LEWIS: Director Lewis.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: Please, Director Lewis.
SHONTEL LEWIS: I just wanted to comment on Director Menten's point. When I spoke about
innovations, I was specifically speaking about-- well, I'd love to see additional innovations-- but
specifically speaking about cleaning and sanitation. And so I just wanted to make that clear that
that was my hope for if we were to find extra money in our budget, that we would prioritize that
money to go towards extra cleaning and sanitation in the hopes that we might be able to retain
some of our front-line staff.
ANGIE RIVERA-MALPIEDE: OK, noted. Any other matters to come before the Board? OK,
hearing none, the study session is adjourned. It is 7:45 PM. And I'd like to thank all of you for
taking this valuable time out of your lives to participate. So good night, everybody.
SPEAKER 1: Goodnight.
SPEAKER 2: Thank you, Chair.

