Regional Transportation District

1600 Blake Street
Denver, CO 80202-1399
303-299-2303

Board of Directors
Chair – Chuck Sisk, District 0
First Vice Chair – Tom Tobiassen, District F
Second Vice Chair – Natalie Menten, District M
Secretary – Jeff Walker, District D
Treasurer – Larry Hoy, District J
Lorraine Anderson, District L
Ernest Archuleta, District C
Kent Bagley, District H
Barbara Deadwyler, District B
Dr. Claudia Folska, District E

Tina Francone, District N
Bill James, District A
Gary Lasater, District G
Judy Lubow, District I
Paul Daniel Solano, District K

MINUTES
Operations & Customer Service Committee
Tuesday, June 9, 2015
Rooms R, T, & D
5:30 PM
Conference Dial-in # 303-299-2663
Conference ID: 15120

Operations and Customer Service Committee
Chaired by Lorraine Anderson

A. Call to Order
Committee Chair Anderson called the meeting to order at 7:37 p.m.
Attendee Name
Title
Status
Lorraine Anderson
Committee Chair
Present

Arrived
7:35 PM

Ernest Archuleta

Director, District C

Present

7:41 PM

Kent Bagley
Barbara Deadwyler

Director, District H
Committee Vice-Chair

Remote
Present

7:42 PM

Claudia Folska
Tina Francone

Director, District E
Director, District N

Absent
Absent

Larry Hoy
Bill James
Gary Lasater

Director, District J
Director, District A
Director, District G

Present
Present
Present

Judy Lubow

Director, District I

Absent

Natalie Menten

Director, District M

Present

7:41 PM

Chuck Sisk

Director, District O

Present

7:37 PM

Paul Solano

Director, District K

Present

7:37 PM

7:37 PM
7:35 PM
7:36 PM

Tom Tobiassen
Jeff Walker

Director, District F
Director, District D

Absent
Present

7:36 PM

Director Bagley participated via phone. Director Lasater left early. Director Folska,
Director Francone, Director Lubow, and Director Tobiassen were absent.
Staff Present:

Bruce Abel, Jessie Carter, Garrett Christnacht, Susan Cohen, Heather
Deckard, Nate Diaz, Sherry Ellebracht, Terry Emmons, Eric Farrington,
David Genova, Mike Gil, Kim Heldman, George Hovey, Erin Klaas,
Nadine Lee, Marla Lien, Adrian Mabry, Doug MacLeod, Barbara
MacManus, Judy McMurphy, Vivian Morales, Ed Neuberg, Paula
Perdue, Scott Reed, Jannette Scarpino, Zamy Silva, John Tarbert,
Brian Thye, Bill Van Meter

Others Present:

Kevin Boland, Jenn Masak, Joe Triplett, Gary Van Dorn

B. Recommended Actions

• August 2015 Service Changes
It is recommended by the Operations and Customer Services Committee that
the Board of Directors approve the August 2015 Service Change package as
revised and summarized in Attachment A resulting in an annualized cost of
approximately $279,000 and, further, to authorize the General Manager or
his designee to execute contract amendments as necessary for private
operators whose service is impacted by these changes.
Motion:

Director Lasater made the motion to move this
item to the full Board at the June 16, 2015
Board Meeting.
Chair Sisk seconded the motion.

Discussion:

Bruce Abel, Assistant General Manager of Bus Operations,
reminded the Board that staff presented their initial set of
recommendations last month prior to taking them out to public
comment. He asked Jessie Carter, Manager of Service
Planning and Scheduling, to review the proposed changes with
the Board which were highlighted in yellow in their packet.
Jessie Carter noted that there were 7 public hearings, but
there was not a large number of attendees. He said this is
largely due to the nature of the proposed service changes as
there were not many that were controversial. He shared that
there were 76 comments through the website, about 40 of
which regarded proposed changes to the 16/16L.

Jessie Carter noted that these changes come not only from
public input but continued analysis done by staff. He
reviewed the following changes to the initial recommendation:
 Route 9 – West 10th Avenue: extend selected morning
peak trips to 31st and Brighton to relieve overloads
currently affecting Route 48.
 Route 15 – East Colfax: originally staff was proposing
eliminate the deviation into the Anschutz-Fitzsimons
campus off Colfax, but due to public comment staff is
proposing deviation remain for weekday trips.
 Route 21 – Evans Avenue: staff originally proposed a
reroute onto Jewell Avenue but has since rescinded the
change. When staff went out and physically looked at
the route they realized there was not enough time in
the schedule.
 Route 80 – service change has been rescinded. Staff
needs to evaluate this entire route as ridership is not as
strong as they would like.
 Route 120X – Thornton/Wagon Road Express: add
2:20 p.m. trip due to overloads.
 Route Stampede – CU East Campus: additional midday
trips
 Highlands Ranch Call-n-Ride: this proposal slightly
reduces the Call-n-Ride service area
 South Jeffco Call-n-Ride: one Call-n-Ride trip to be
provided in each peak period
Jessie Carter stated that even with changes to the initial
recommendation the cost would remain the same at
approximately $279,000 annually.
Director Deadwyler expressed her appreciation in working with
Anschutz-Fitzsimons on Route 15. She said that even though
there are not a large number of riders, there was a strong
reaction to the change. She thinks once the I-225 Line is
running we might be able to discontinue the deviation at that
time. Jessie Carter believes that is right on-point. Staff had a
great meeting with them, not only about Route 15 but also
about the shuttle they plan to open with the I-225 Line. He
hopes that RTD and Anschutz-Fitzsimons can develop some
synergy between the two.

Director Solano asked if staff proposed to extend any routes
to the new St. Anthony’s Hospital. Jessie Carter said not at
this time but it is one staff’s radar. They just recently had a
meeting with Adams County Economic Development as it is
something ACED would like to see as well.
RESULT:
PASSED COMMITTEE [UNANIMOUS]
MOVER:
Gary Lasater, Director, District G
SECONDER: Chuck Sisk, Director, District O
AYES: Anderson, Archuleta, Bagley, Deadwyler, Hoy, James, Lasater,
Menten, Sisk, Solano, Walker
ABSENT:
Claudia Folska, Tina Francone, Judy Lubow, Tom Tobiassen
Committee Chair Anderson declared the motion PASSED unanimously.

C. Updates

• US 36 Service Plan
Bruce Abel introduced Nate Diaz, Service Planning and Scheduler on the
North team, who has been heavily involved in the development of the
service plan and outreach process. He said that staff would like to provide a
recap with the process along with feedback staff has received as well as
some of the adjustments made as a result of that feedback. He noted that it
was a slightly different timetable as originally staff wanted to seek Board
approval in June; however, staff wanted the Board to have ample time to
review prior to the request for approval. Since there was not an opportunity
to present the Service Plan at a study session in May staff now plans to
bring the recommendation back to the Board for approval in July. Bruce
Abel reiterated that there had been extensive public outreach throughout the
process.
Nate Diaz reviewed a Power Point Presentation with the Board that is
available in the June 9, 2015 Operations and Customer Service Committee
Agenda Packet. He reminded the Board that the Service Plan Guiding
Principals were:
 Consolidate routes
o Easier for customers to select their bus (less need to consult
timetables)
o Provide regular and spontaneous service frequencies
throughout the day
o More cost-effective service delivery
o Provide frequent, bi-directional service that supports intracorridor travel
 Utilize roadway improvements
o Increase operating speeds

o

Increase reliability

Nate Diaz said there were 5 public hearings hosted along the US 36 Corridor
having over 200 attendees. Staff received 77 verbal comments, 189
written/email comments and several petitions. This feedback was
incorporated into the service plan if it made sense but there were some
requests that were either not warranted at this time or staff was unable to
do due to costs.
Nate Diaz pointed out that the current proposal recommends Express
frequency of 10-minitue intervals as opposed to the consultant
recommendation of 15-minute. The current proposal also eliminates the
initial consultant recommendations to reduce local service. He explained
that the service plan represents a 10.5% increase in service hours over
existing service, and, due to taking advantage of roadway improvements,
will actually result in a 16.6% increase in the number of trips. Nate Diaz
also noted that the frequencies proposed meet or exceed those outlined in
the US 36 Mayors and Commissioners Coalition memo.
Nate Diaz explained that the staff recommendations exceed the initial
funding identified for the US 36 BRT Corridor but are warranted. Staff
recommends closely monitoring service needs in the corridor as service
begins and making changes as warranted.
Bruce Abel stated that as staff looked at the transportation needs of the
corridor, they have moved forward with developing a recommendation that
exceeds the budget in the early years. He said the next steps are to come
back to the Board at the July 7, 2015 Operations and Customer Service
Committee before asking the Board for final approval at the July 28, 2015
Board Meeting.
Director Menten inquired if staff anticipated any more changes before the
service plan was brought back to the Board. Bruce Abel stated that this is
staff’s recommendation as it sits today but they do not anticipate any
additional changes. Staff has addressed the feedback that feels warranted
and responded accordingly.
Director Menten asked if increased speed was simply a guiding principle or if
RTD had actually done anything to make the service run faster. Nate Diaz
explained that the roadway improvement in the corridor would allow for
increased speed and more reliable buses. Bruce Abel noted that when staff
references roadway improvements everyone thinks of the managed lanes;
however, part of the roadway improvements allow for bus-on-shoulder
operation for the all stop buses. This allows the buses to bypass traffic in

highly congested periods when they could not weave in and out of traffic to
the stops and back to the managed lanes.
Director Menten expressed confusion about Route 209. Originally staff
proposed eliminating the route due to poor ridership of about 5 boardings per
day; however, now staff is recommending the route remains in service.
Nate Diaz said that Boulder objected to the route elimination because it
provides service to a retirement community. Bruce Abel explained that staff
is taking a more systematic approach to Route 209. He stated that on its
own it is not a strong route but perhaps with the increased connectivity
from BRT the service will grow. Staff feels it is a route that needs to be
monitored but it was not the appropriate time to recommend the reduction.
Director Menten expressed that she does not agree. Looking at ridership in
2013 Route 209 had 13.5 boardings per hour and now it is down to 5 per
day. Nate Diaz explained that the 5 boardings per day is simply on the
portion of Route 209 that was proposed to be eliminated, which was south
of Baseline Road. Jessie Carter stated that overall performance for the route
is still at around 13 boardings per day.
Director Deadwyler said this recommendation makes her heart flutter. In her
opinion it is quite a wish list. She knows that those in her District would
sure like additional service as their buses come at a very low frequency.
She asked for a breakdown of how much this exceeds the allocated budget.
Bruce Abel said he would really use the term front loaded. Initially the
budget would grow more slowly in the beginning years with a later growth
spurt. Staff has recommended front loading it $300K in 2017, $120K in
2018 and in 2019 the cost will be back in sync with the established budget.
Director Deadwyler wondered where the increase in funding was coming
from. She understands that the budget comes out of FasTracks but when
staff is talking about increasing service so much she wonders if it must
come out of our operating budget. Bruce Abel stated that FasTracks has
both a capital and operating budget; all funding for US 36 BRT would come
from the FasTracks operating budget. Director Deadwyler said that she is
very concerned about this being over budget. She asked if the rest of the
system would suffer because of this. Bruce Abel stated no. Director
Deadwyler wondered if the budgets were exceeded for any of the other lines
opening in 2016. Bruce Abel explained that the service plans for those lines
had not yet been developed.
Chair Sisk thanked the staff for all their hard work. He really appreciates the
time they have spent on this plan. He reminded the Directors that this is
really the only FasTracks line that serves the Northwest area. He
remembers shortly after the West Line opened when the Board was then
asked to approve over $1 million on service increases. He believes this is a

commitment to the entire District. RTD promised a robust BRT system and
it is critical that we deliver. He said this is not a wish list so much as about
creating a successful BRT for this area and RTD. He noted that not
everyone is getting what they wanted as is evident from the letter the
Directors received from the University of Colorado but the plan as is really
makes good sense. He thanked staff again for the work they had done.
Director Hoy commented that this is a dynamic plan that keeps changing
subtly; however we are coming down to the wire and at some point staff
just needs to say this is the plan. He recognized the plan keep Route AB
service for a short period of time. He noted that staff said only 75 people
take that bus but to him that seems like a lot of people. He said that to
those that ride the route it is their universe. He asked staff to keep that in
mind.
Director Hoy expressed his concern over increasing the express buses
because every time a bus leaves from Boulder and blows right through
Westminster people cannot get on or off; however, he recognizes that the
challenge then is really the budget. Director Hoy thinks that staff is
recommending a plan that is really workable. Bruce Abel pointed out that
service planning is not a science but an art. He said Director Hoy really
articulated the balance that staff is trying to achieve. Staff feels very
comfortable with the balance that has been struck.
Committee Chair Anderson thanked staff. She believes they have struck a
fine balance. She recognized that every Director wants more service for
their area; no one would ever say they had too much service. She thinks
staff has done a good job in responding to the concerns for Chair Sisk’s
community.

D. Other Matters
There were no other matters.

E. Next Meeting Date - July 7, 2015
F. Adjourn
Committee Chair Anderson adjourned the meeting at 8:39 p.m.
The following communication assistance is available for public meetings:
 Language Interpreters
 Sign-language Interpreters
 Assisted listening devices
Please notify RTD of the communication assistance you require at least 48 business hours in advance of a
RTD meeting you wish to attend by calling 303.299.2307
THE CHAIR REQUESTS THAT ALL PAGERS AND CELL PHONES BE SILENCED DURING THE BOARD OF
DIRECTORS MEETING FOR THE REGIONAL TRANSPORTATION DISTRICT.

